What Do You Want The New Year To Bring? Would you have PEACE? Then have your own souk be peacetul. Create in. Your home a haven of serenity, free from confusion.. And disorder. "My peace | give unto you," the Savior said. Accept his gift and do his will in order to receive it. Would you have JOY? Then let the happiness of goodness, of living the commandments, permeate the atmosphere areund you. "Man is that he might have joy." Accept this gift with the understanding of your part in making your life joyful. Would you have LOVE? Then be loving and lovable. Do not be afraid to express your love by word -and deed. Enlarge your capacity to love by service to others. Accept this gift of love from: God who is love.: Would you have TIME? Then learn to use the valuable hours, minutes, even seconds, more wisely. "Time to-do all of the things of which we dream is of our own making. Accept » this gift of time. - Would your have OPPORTUNITY? Then open your eyes to the possibilities closest to you. If you desire to make personal progress, enlarge your vision, make your own opportunities to study, to observe, to grow. Accept this gift of opportunity and work to fulfill. Your desires. Dear Sisters, it is our prayer that what you want for your own good, the new year will bring to you. We hope that peace, joy, love, time, and opportunity, together with all the righteous desires of your hearts, will. Come to you in: is ka YEAR. May. The blessings of our Father in heaven - attend you. General Presidency gst gE "The Cover: Winter in Monument Valley, Utah — Transparency by Lucien Bown Frontispiece: Cedars of Lebanon... Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes — IHustrations: Mary Scopes | want to thank you for printing Birthday Congratulations to President McKay (September 1967). His words on motherhood and the home, and the editorial ''Hold Up Your Light,'' by Marianne C. Sharp helped me to make up my mind regarding a problem in my home. | have been trying to stop working outside the home, and stay at home with my five-year-old daughter, but these offerings in the Magazine helped to ~ show me the light—that my daughter should be brought up by her mother and not be placed in a nursery or put under the direction of a baby-sitter. Van Nuys, California May | take this opportunity to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We feel a great need for spiritual uplift here in Japan, and the literature of the Church keeps us in contact spiritually with the saints in Zion. We certainly feel that the Relief Society organization was inspired. How wonderful it is for us to share in the gospel with those not of our faith through lending our Magazines around the neighTokyo, Japan The reason for my letter is to express my deep gratitude to you for sending me your beautiful Magazine. Although we are not of your faith—we are very strong in the Jewish faith—it is my duty to tell you that your Magazine and its lovely articles, advice, homemaking etc. Are full of high ideals, sweetness, charity. My sincere congratulations. Mary C. De Bensadon Tangier, Morocco My October issue of The Relief Society Magazine arrived today, and | am satisfied that" it is even more wonderful than usual. The Magazine is one of the wonderful birthday gifts from my daughter in Phoenix. | sent it to her on her birthday, and this year she ~ wanted to send it to me, as | enjoy it so much. | then pass it on to my daughter-inlaw, so that she can study the spiritual living lessons, as well as the wonderful stories: and clip the delicious recipes. My daughter and son-in-law are L. D. S. Members, but | am not. Yet | truly want to say that | enjoy the spiritual living lessons, the homemaking discussions, and the messages of your fine leaders. Lydia M. Leeds Greer, Arizona A word of appreciation for our outstanding Magazine—especially the March 1967 issue. | keep it handy to glance through and admire the splendid color photos—and read a bit of poetry. My teenage daughters enjoy the Magazine as much as | do. My fourteenyear-old daughter expressed delight over the lovely story of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967). Grace S. Olsson High Level Alberta, Canada | enjoyed the September (1967) issue of The Relief Society Magazine very much—the poems: ''Wide Autumn,"' by Dorothy J. Roberts; ''Remembering'' (frontispiece) by Christie Lund Coles; and the article ''A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star'' (by Vesta P. Crawford), which gave us a broadened look at those otherwise ''dim and distant days" from the time of the Relief Society organization in Nauvoo until its time of growth in the mountain valleys. Maude 0. Cook Salt Lake City, Utah i Mrs. Anna Goldberger — borhood. Shana Anderson The Reli¢f SOcCICty LET Magazine Volume 55 January 1968 Number 1 ' Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 1 What Do You Want the New Year to Bring? General Presidency 4 The Virtue of Obedience Joseph Fielding Smith 7 Woman's Glorious Purpose Harold B. Lee 14. In Memoriam—President Antoine R. Ivins 15 von W. Peterson Appointed General Secretary-Treasurer Belle S. Spafford 16 Hulda P. Young Resigns as General Secretary-Treasurer Marianne C. Sharp 17. Award Winners—Relief Society Poem Contest 18 In Heaven's Spring—First Prize Poem Gay N. Blanchard 20 One Gold Morning—Second Prize Poem Clara Laster 22 'And Thou, Bethlehem..."'—Third Prize Poem Mabel Jones Gabbott 24 Award Winners—Relief Society Short Story Contest 25 'A Partridge in a Pear Tree''—First Prize Story Emma Lou W. Thayne 34 Josie B. Bay Resigns as a Member of the General Board 36 Birth Defects—The Great Destroyer George P. Voss 37 Transcript of a Conversation Between Suzanne and Her Father Fiction 43 Mrs. Pleasant Nelda Pierson Litchfield 46 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 5 Janet W. Breeze General Features 2 From Near and Far 32 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 33 Editorial—Modesty in Dress 35 Notes to the Field—Song Practices, Bound Volumes of 1967 Magazines 51 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 80 ——- Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 38 Make a Hangabout Apron — Shirley Thulin 40 Recipes From Harrogate Norma Sepp 42 Ribbons for her Work Lesson Department 59 Spiritual Living—''Be Thou Humble'' Roy W. Doxey 64 Visiting Teacher Message—Courage and Love Alice Colton Smith 66 Homemaking—The Bedrooms—Wake Up Smiling Celestia J. Taylor 68 Social Relations—Home and the School Alberta H. Christensen 73 ~=Cultural Refinement—''The Substance of Faith'' Robert K. Thomas Poetry The Harvest, Linnie Fisher Robinson 13; Love Reaffirmed, Carol P. Feltch 35; Silver Rhythm, Iva Lou Nebeker 36; Perspective, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 37; A Poem, Caroline Atterton 45; Poet, Dorothy J. Roberts 50; To the New Owner, Ruth G. Rothe 65. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once — giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. "a —_ - -_ ' Tare ie a aw Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency J {Address delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] # My dear sisters, brethren, too, as we have a few of them among us. It is a pleasure to stand before you this morning, and I ask that the Lord will bless me that I may give to you the things that you desire. I wouid like to speak on obedience. I would like all the Latter-day Saints to feel in their hearts that the work in which they are engaged is not only the work that God has instituted in these latter days, but that it is a work in which each individual member is deeply and vitally interested. Every man and woman should feel a deep and abiding interest in the work of the Lord. It is only the possession and observance of the truth that can make us free, and all those who do not possess and obey the _ gospel are slaves and are not free. God has established all things in their order. The house of God is a house of order, not a house of confusion. We must walk in his paths, and observe his pre- cepts to do them, or we will be cut off. It is only by observance to the laws of God that men and women can rise above the petty weaknesses of mortality and exercise that breadth of affection, that charity and love, that should actuate the hearts and the motives of men. It requires no special bravery on the part of men and women to swim with the currents of the world. When men or women make up their minds to forsake the world and its follies and identify themselves with the Lord's people, it takes courage, character, and superior intelligence. The man or woman in this Church who desires to enrich his or her faith in the highest possible degree will desire to observe every rite and ordinance in the Church in conformity to the law of obedience to the will of God. In these things, and through them, we gain a more perfect knowledge of our Maker, and enriched faith means an enlarged power, and though we may not have in this life an occasion to exercise all the powers that come to us through the enrichment of our faith, those powers may be enriched in their fulness in eternity, if not in time. The man and woman, therefore, among the Latter-day Saints, who does not see the necessity for the ordinances in the House of God, who does not respond to the requirements of the gospel in all its rites and ordinances, can have no proper conception of the great work which the Latter-day Saints have been called upon to perform in this age, nor can we The Virtue of Obedience enjoy the blessings that come from the virtue of obedience to a law higher than that of man. The gospel is very simple when we understand it properly. It teaches us to forgive, to overcome selfishness, anger, wrath, faultfinding, complaining, and the spirit of contention and strife. It also teaches us to do here just what we would be required to do in the heavens, with God and his angels. If we would listen to its teachings and obey them, and put them into practice, there would be no desire to covet in the hearts of the children of men. They would possess the Spirit of Jesus Christ and understand the precepts of the gospel as he taught and admonished all men to observe them. I would like to quote you the following: Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. (James 1:17.) To please him, that is the Lord, we must not only worship him with thanksgiving and praise, but render willing obedience to his commandments. By so doing, he is bound to bestow his blessings; for it is upon this principle (obedience to law) that all things are predicated. So you see, sisters, just what obedience can do for us if we will follow the teachings of the Lord. Now I want to say to Relief Society, and to all the rest of the organizations in the Church, for that matter, that not one of them is independent of the Priesthood of the Son of God; no one of them can exist a moment in the acceptance of the 5 January 1968 Lord, when they withdraw from the voice, from the counsel of those who hold the Priesthood and preside over them. They are subject to the powers and authority of the Church, and they are not independent of them; nor can they exercise any rights in their organizations independently of the Priesthood and of the Church. Furthermore, the officers of these organizations are duly presented at the general or local conferences, as the case may be, and are sustained by the vote of the people of the Church, and, as such, the officers should be respected in their callings and given' recognition and support in the performance of their duties in all that relates to the organizations which they represent. I would like to say to Relief Society, that it is the one great organization in the Church, whose duty it is to look after the interests of the women in Zion. And I shall repeat, it was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and I expect to see the day when this organization will become one of the most perfect, most efficient and perfected organizations for good in the Church, but that day will be when we shall have women not only imbued with the spirit and testimony of Jesus Christ in their hearts, but also with youth, vigor, and intelligence to enable, them to discharge the great duties and responsibilities that rest upon them. We realize that it is impossible for women possessing physical weaknesses on account of age or infirmities to meet every requirement; but we expect every woman entrusted with responsibility in the Church to do her duty to the utmost of her ability. That we look «for; that we pray for; and for that we labor to the best of our ability and strength we possess, and we trust that from this time forth, that you good sisters will go back to your wards and stakes with renewed energy, judgment and wisdom, and perform the duties that are assigned to you, even those who are called to take the oversight of the great work, the Relief Society organization. May we be obedient to the commandments that the Lord has given us. If we are, he will bless us and magnify us in our callings. President McKay has asked me to give to you sisters, his love and to let you know how much he appreciates the work you are doing in this great organization, and he also expressed a desire to leave with you his blessing. I would like to commend you on the wonderful work you are doing in this great cause, and pray the Lord will bless you with every blessing needed, and I leave my blessing with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. Ce ie i ee PE SpA me Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve ay [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] » Thank you, President Smith, for that excellent message which we were able to hear. I am always delighted to be in the company of President Smith. I have occasion, frequently, to read from the Doctrine and Covenants where the Lord told Hyrum Smith that his name would be held in honorable remembrance through all the generations of time because of his faithfulness and devotion and his loyalty to the work of God. When I think that Hyrum Smith's son was the President of the Church and that his grandson is now President of the Twelve, I am seeing the beginning of the fulfillment of the Lord's promise to the posterity of Hyrum Smith. President Smith, we honor you for what you are and whom you represent in the great council of the Priesthood today. Now, if the spirit is willing and I can follow along where, unfortunately, I haven't caught the theme of your whole meeting, v7; January 1968 excepting President Smith's remarks, but I commend them all to you with a full understanding because his message on obedience should ring true in the hearts of all of us. The sisters have asked me to talk to the subject, "The Mother's Place in a Gospel-Centered Home Teaching." I announce that so that you will know what I was supposed to talk about if I miss the mark. Dr. David Sarnoff, who is called the father of television and radio, is quoted as having said: The happiest people I have known have not been the men of great wordly achievements, or accomplishments of wealth. They have been the simple people who are happily married, enjoying good health and good family life. (Wisdom Magazine 22nd issue.) TEACH THE CHILDREN In an epistle to the Church, addressed to the Church by President Brigham Young and his Counselors, John W. Young and Daniel H. Wells, just six weeks prior to his death, in 1877, he said some important things. Among the many duties which devolve upon us, there is none that should receive more careful and constant attention than the education of our children. They are numerous, and if properly trained will become a great blessing to the inhabitants of the earth. Parents should take time—if not every day, at least as often as they can and not allow many days to elapse—to call their families together and interrogate them respecting their associations, their words, actions, etc., and teach them the principles of the gospel. They should send them regularly to day and Sunday schools and furnish them every possible facility for gaining a sound and thorough education, and especially in the principles of the gospel and in the history of the church. The teachers to whom we 8 entrust our children for education should be faithful Latter-day Saints, sound in doctrine and thoroughly imbued with a love of Zion. In this way we can rear up a generation of men and women who shall love and maintain truth and righteousness in the earth. President Joseph F. Smith, after quoting the Lord's requirement to teach the children, which you find in Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, said: And if parents fail to do this and the children go astray and turn from the truth, then the Lord has said the sin shall be upon the heads of the parents. The loss of the children will be charged to the parents and they will be responsible for their apostasy and darkness. I came to the conclusion, after reflection upon this subject... I do not believe that it would be possible for me to be admitted into exaltation and glory in the Kingdom of God, if through my neglect of duty my children should become the children of darkness in this regard... My children must not and will not turn away with my consent. I will plead with my children; I will endeavor with all the power I possess to have them as true and faithful to this gospel as it is possible for me to be; because, without all of them in the Kingdom of God I would feel that my household was not perfect. (Conference Report, April 1898.) The Lord, in expressing his displeasure with Eli, you will remember the story when the boy Samuel heard the call three different times and was told by Eli this time to listen, he said, in criticizing Eli and in harmony with what President Smith has said:... Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth.... Now notice what he says the iniquity was, ... Because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. (1 Sam., 3:11, 13.) That was the thing that caused Eli's downfall. THE MOTHER'S ROLE Now, the importance of the teaching of the gospel in the family was expressed in_ this revelation in the first Section of the Doctrine and Covenants and four important purposes of gospel restoration as they apply particularly to the home, were expressed: 1. That faith also might increase in the earth;... And inasmuch as they erred that it might be made known; (D&C 1:21, 25.) 2. And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed; (D&C 1:26.) 3. And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent; (D&C 1:27.) 4. And inasmuch as they were humble they' might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time. (D&C 1:28.) Now, the mother's role in this vital, home-centered, gospel teaching is very clear, and I just speak in headlines now with four or five of what I conceive to be the mother's prime responsibilities. The first I would say to mothers, don't give up on the boy or girl in that insufferable state of super-egotism through which some teen-agers go. I plead with you for those boys and those girls. Don't give up on the boy or girl in that impossible stage of independence and disregard of family discipline. Don't give up on him or her when they show a shocking display of irresponsibility. The know-it-all, self-suffiWoman's Glorious Purpose cient want-nothing-of-counsel, which to him is just a preachment of an old-timer who has lost step with youth. Knowing is not enough—we must apply. Willingness is not enough—we must do. Nothing is more terrible than ignorance in action. Fools and wise. Men are equally harmless. It is the halffools and the half-wise who are dangerous. (Goethe) A university professor is quoted as having said, Isn't it wonderful that the Lord has made young people so handsome and good-looking, else how in this world could we put up with their nonsense? A harassed mother was called by a friend who asked her "What do you think of all these riots going on in all the cities in the country? And this mother answered, "I'm so busy putting down all the little riots in my own home that I don't have time to worry about riots elsewhere." We have a missionary grandson in the North British Mission. He hadn't been there very long until he wrote back an interesting letter in which he said the advice of his parents now comes back to him with great force. It is like a book on a shelf that has been there for nineteen years and he has just begun to take it down and start to read it for the first time. That is your son and your daughter. You may think they are not listening. They may think they are not listening, but one time yours may be the book that they will take down and read again when they need it most. OPPOSING FORCES There are forces that come into play after parents have January 1968 done all they can to teach their children. Such a force influenced the younger Alma who, with the sons of Mosiah, set out to destroy the work of their great fathers. The angel, you remember, was sent and he knocked him down and hit him right between the eyes, I suppose, and he lay as though he were dead for three days and nights and the angel said,.. Behold, the Lord hath heard the prayers of his people, and also the prayers of his servant, Alma, who is thy father; for he has prayed with much faith concerning thee that thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the truth; therefore, for this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith. (Mosiah 27:14.) It was so with Nephi, whom his unruly brothers sought to destroy, and when the angel said, Ye are swift to do iniquity but slow to remember the Lord your God. Ye have seen an angel, and he spake unto you; yea, ye have heard his voice from time to time; and he hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feel'ng, that ye could not feel his words; wherefore, he has spoken unto you like unto the voice of thunder, which did cause the earth to shake as if it were to divide asunder. (1 Nephi, 17:45.) And then Nephi, after he said that, continued:..-In the name of the Almighty God, I command you that ye touch me not, for I am filled with the power of God, even unto the consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay his hands upon me shall wither even as a dried reed; and he shall be as naught before the power of God, for God shall smite him. (1 Nephi, 17:48.) I am remembering now a dramatic time when, at a funeral sermon an unruly son of a mother in whose honor wer were 10 meeting in that service, asked if he might speak at his mother's funeral service. And there, in great detail, with more boldness than I would have dared to have talked about him, because I knew his life, he told how, as a boy growing up, he had disregarded wholly the admonitions of his little German father and mother and how, finally, the father and mother gone, he was beginning to read, as it were, that Book which had been unread for all these years and he bore witness to the influence the mother and father had had upon him even while he was transgressing about every law in the Book. PUT FATHER AT THE HEAD OF THE HOUSE The second role I would say in the responsibility of the mother is to put father at the head of the house. That is a statement from the famous judge who said he thought it was that which lay at the root of many of the problems in a delinquent home. How does mother do it? Someone said that little children soon outgrow their need for affection, but fathers never do. Now that is the first way to put father at the head of the house. Even when he doesn't deserve it. When he does deserve it, kiss him, and if he gets angry, ignore him. Give him the silent treatment. But never, never let him feel that you don't understand him. Put father at the head of the house. President Brigham Young said: I know that you good women get annoyed and provoked and out of patience many times with your husbands, and at times justly so. They are not always as considerate of you as they ought to be; but if they provide for you and they are kind to you and otherwise treat you right, stay with them. I think it has been taught by some that as we lay down our bodies they will so rise in the resurrection with all the impediments and imperfections that they have here; and that if a wife does not love her husband in this estate, she cannot love him in the next. This is not so. Those who attain to the blessings of the first or celestial resurrection will be pure and perfect, perfect in body. Every man and woman that reaches to this unspeakable attainment will be as beautiful as the angels that surround the throne of God. (Journal of Discourses, Volume 10, page 24.) Now, you sisters, polish your husbands as best you can while you have them here, and then hope that the Lord will continue the process beyond the veil. PROVOKING HUSBANDS TO HONOR THEIR PRIESTHOOD Another role of the mother is to provoke her husband to honor his Priesthood. Now, that is a partial quote from the Prophet Joseph's statement, you remember, to the early Relief Society. Your husband has the key to the effectual door to a celestial home in the eternities for you and your children, and unless you honor and magnify the Priesthood you and the family will suffer thereby, even to being deprived of that celestial home with your family without him. Have your family prayers, even when you must take the lead. See that your husband takes the lead in that if you can. See that he attends his Priesthood meeting, see that he responds to the call to do home teaching, and then you do everything you can, lovingly and patiently to help him to perform so that one day you, with Woman's Glorious Purpose him and the children, can go through the temple. ENLIST THE AID OF THE PRIESTHOOD Next, I would say, enlist the aid of the Priesthood in meeting what to you may be insurmountable problems. There is a tendency to bypass the bishop— they say he is too close to us or he is too young and inexperienced, they fear he will not keep their confidence—which may be just an escape. I had a call from Meridian, Idaho, I guess I shouldn't have said that, but it is out, early in the morning, and the telephone operator said it was a collect call. I am always suspicious of a collect call and, in fact, I don't always have the money to pay it if that were done, but the operator said "She says she belongs to your Church and she is in need of help." And all I said was "Well tell her to look across the street and her bishop may be there, the stake president may be there, that is a fully organized stake, and there is nothing that can be done from this distance that couldn't be done by the officers and leaders right there at her elbow." The bishop has at his command all the forces of the Priesthood, as well as the auxiliaries, to set in motion and, if we were to attempt to legislate, we would have to get in touch with the bishop through the stake president. So, we are just wasting time to come to the General Authorities and leap-frog over the bishop and the stake president. I had a letter from a sweet girl whose marriage I performed 11 January 1968 some years before, and it started out about the problems, and I thought, here is a temple marriage that has failed. Immediately we began to have problems. We tried then and have tried since to figure out just why. There was no particular thing that consistently precipitated our difficulties. We were active in the Church and attended our meetings; we prayed; we paid our tithing; we returned to the temple regularly. We loved each other so and had such expectations for our marriage. Then we were expecting a baby and, in spite of our very great happiness in anticipating this child, things seemed to go so bad as to seem insolvable. Almost a year after we began, we knew we couldn't continue together any longer under such conditions, and I called the bishop, who was also our friend, and we went over. The three of us talked—a little. You know, I don't recall anything particular that was spoken except the questionable encouragement he offered by saying that he and his wife had had a difficult time after awhile when they were married. The inference was, we solved our problems, why can't you? But when we left the bishop's office we knew we _ had reached the turning point somehow. We had touched the bottom and we were on our way up. I can't explain why or what happened, but we did start up and we've been on our way up ever since. Because they followed the route of the bishop. FAMILY HOME EVENINGS I asked a mother in a family if they were having Family Home Evening, and she wrote back and said: I mentioned a serious illness. I hope this doesn't seem vain, but for the first time I realized how important I was to my children. As I lay helpless to care for any of their needs, and knowing that— except for my Heavenly Father's intervention—my influence upon them in this life was ended, how desirable and precious seemed the hours in the weeks and months and years ahead. I deter- 12 mined many things then concerning how to use that time, were it granted to me. One was to spend time nightly reading and talking to the children. I fall short, but we usually spend an hour five evenings a week together. Besides the other things they have been interested in, I have read most of The Book of Mormon to them from the children's volumes. It was my idea at first, but not for long. I have no doubt that it is meaningful to them when I hear my eight-year-old offer thanks in his prayers for the prophets who kept the records, or when my five-year-old son is thankful that Nephi got away safely into the wilderness with the faithful when Laman and Lemuel sought to kill him. Our experience has been that any time we have an opportunity to help our children expand in their love and understanding of the gospel and the Father who created them, our love for one another also increases, and our family solidarity is influenced in the most significant way. For this reason, the Family Home Evening is of paramount importance to us. Now, you mothers, over the Church, we are preparing some of the finest lessons that have ever been prepared for families to be taught by fathers and mothers in every home. We have printed 650,000 manuals to be placed in every home in the Church. You are missing a great opportunity in every home where that Family Home Evening Manual is not being studied. MOTHERS STAY AT CROSS ROADS OF THE HOME Finally, the last that I shall mention, keep the mother of your home at the "cross roads" of the home. There is a great danger today of homes breaking down because of allurements to entice mothers to neglect their being at home as the family are coming or going from the home. Now I recognize the necessity of some mothers being required to earn sustenance for their family. I am recognizing that, but even here Relief Society presidents and bishops should take care lest they fail to lend all aid possible to permit the mother of small children to be with them, if possible, in planning the nature of work or the schedule of time. All this hes within the province of the Relief Society working with the home. HOME-—A ROOF OVER A GOOD WOMAN Well, just a few simple suggestions of the mother's role in the home. If we were to define the home as I know it to be so true, I would say, a home is a roof over a good woman. God grant to the mothers of this Church the powerful influence to be Woman's Glorious Purpose wielded fully to say as the old patriots, oh, if you remember, "T am only one, but I am one. I can not do everything, but I can do something, and what I can do, by the grace of God I will do." And someone put it in these words, "Give what you have to give, you mothers. It may be better than even you dare to think that it is at the time." That the Lord may help you so to do and rise to your great opportunity as the mothers of men; the creators of the atmosphere in the home that will go far to their strengthening when sons and daughters are all too soon taken away from your influence. May you build on that strong foundation and teach the mothers under your influence to do likewise, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Sa THE HARVEST Linnie Fisher Robinson The years blow, burn, at the day's long turning To excellence or ill, and void of sound; The slow pulse measures in silent churning, And the dark hair whitens a circle round. But, oh, the wrecked hopes, the songs long stilled, The flame's quintessence beyond human eyes. The soul expands as it fashions and gleans And the heart rejects all that dust implies. In silent chambers, visitless, unseen, Small cherished dreams are nourished more Than the dawn of day or the spring's new green; More than the strong loves beyond the door. The heart holds all, even as it must, And the harvest of age is the heart's long trust. 13 In Memoriam President Antoine R. Ivins of the First Council of Seventy May 11, 1881—October 18, 1967 = President Antoine Ridgeway Ivins, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, passed away October 18, 1967 at the eighty-six. He succeeded President Levi Edgar Young, as the senior president in 1963. President Ivins has been a member of the First Council of Seventy for thirty-six years. During that time he spent three years as head of the Mexican Mission and thirty years as a member of the Church missionary committee. A native of St. George, Utah, he was the son of Anthony Woodward and Ehzabeth Ashby Snow Ivins. His father was a member of the Quorum of the Twelve and a Counselor in the First Presidency to President Heber J. Grant. Most of President Ivins' early life was spent in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico. He obtained his early education in Colonia Dublan, and was graduated from the Juarez Academy and studied law at the School of Jurisprudence in Mexico City. He also studied at the University of Michigan, then returned to Utah and was graduated from the University of Utah. He was a fluent 14 age of speaker and a thorough scholar of Spanish. In 1920 he helped build the Lund Home for Boys at Centerville, Utah. He served six years as treasurer of the Great Salt Lake Boy Scout Council andorganized — several Scout troops. Before his appointment to the First Council of Seventy, President Ivins was manager of the Churchowned sugar plantation in Hawaii. Throughout his life, he was dedicated to the gospel, and an active supporter of the youth. In 1957, he received the "All-Church" Honorary Master M-Man award for "outstanding service to the youth of the Church." He married Vilate Ellen Romney in the Salt Lake Temple, June 26, 1912. Sister Ivins passed away in 1964, two years after they celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to President Ivins' family and his many friends. He has left a heritage resplendent in faith and good works, and an excellent example of devotion to the Church for all to follow. President Belle S. Spafford = The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment by the First Presidency of Sister Evon Waspe Peterson as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society on November 15, 1967. Sister Peterson has served as a member of the General Board since June 1945, during which time she has made a significant contribution to the advancement of the work of Relief Society as a General Board member, and has endeared herself to the women of Relief Society through her thoughtful consideration of them and through her capable service in working with them. In April 1952, she was named Administrative Assistant to the General Presidency, a_ position which involves responsible managerial duties, which she has met with competency and in a spirit of dedicated service. Through training and experience in both Relief Society work and in the field of business, Sister Peterson is eminently qualified to hold the important office of General Secretary-Treasurer. Prior to her call to the General Board, she held responsible positions with the Red Cross, was secretary for the Community Chest drive for several years, and for ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of the Granite School District. Since her childhood, she has consistently worked in the auxiliaries of the Church, serving the Relief Society in both ward and stake capacities, generally holding secretary-treasurer or presidency offices. Sister Peterson is by nature modest and unassuming. She is loyal to those who preside over her and is trustworthy in every assignment given her. She is a prodigious as well as a_ highly competent worker. She is the wife of John Vernon Peterson and the mother of two children—a daughter, Carolee Peterson Kempton, and a son, Ronald E. Peterson—all of whom devotedly support her in her Church callings. She is the grandmother of six children. Sister Peterson's parental homethe home of Brother and Sister Willam Waspe, converts to the Church from England—was a home where service to the Church was a way of life. In her new appointment, she has the love and confidence of the General Presidency and her associates on the General Board. Her future service will be a blessing to the sisters and to the Relief Society just as her past service has been. We all wish for her much happiness in her new calling. IS Hulda P. Young Resigns as General Secretary lreasurer Counselor Marianne C. Sharp =" The nearly eleven years of devoted service which Hulda Parker Young has. Given to the office of General Secretary-Treasurer terminated on November 15, 1967. Many life experiences have come to Sister Young in these busy and fruitful years. She married Elder S. Dilworth Young in 1965, and is now resigning from the General Board in order to devote her time to her husband and home duties. She served from January 2, 1957. Sister Young has given full devotion to her calling. She has always been eager to undertake any activity or attend any meetings which would better qualify her for her position. She felt the same desire for the secretaries who have worked with her and was always ready to advise and train them and to give them Opportunity for advancement and progress. The trust reposed in Sister Young regarding the General Board minutes and Relief Society Annual General Conference minutes has been fulfilled, and she leaves the office with all matters for which she has been responsible up-to-date. She has always been enthusiastic in her work with a perception of what 2 16 should be included in the report of proceedings. Her secretary-treasurer departments at the Relief Society Annual General Conferences have been of great help to the stake and mission secretary-treasurers. Sister Young has also fulfilled every assignment given to her as a General Board member, accepting assignments throughout the world where stakes are organized. She has evidenced a high regard and loyalty to the General Presidency, and has always been ready to carry out their wishes. She has had a clear insight into her position and anticipated needed changes, keeping abreast in her records with the phenomenal growth of the Church. Sister Young will be greatly missed by her associates of the General Board. Her cheery temperament, her friendly interest in people, her desire to do good, and her strong testimony of the gospel have all endeared her to those with whom she has worked. Relief Society workers throughout the world will wish happiness and satisfaction to Hulda Parker Young as she. Relinquishes her special calling in Relief Society. The Relief Society General Board is proud to announce the names of the three winners in the 1967 Relief Society Poem Contest. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Gay N. Blanchard, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "In Heaven's Spring." Second prize of thirty dollars is given to Clara Laster, Tulsa, Oklahoma, for "One Gold Morning." Twenty dollars is awarded to the third place winner, Mabel Jones Gabbott, Bountiful, Utah, for her poem, "And Thou, Bethlehem." The poem contest, has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Award winners | Mrs. Blanchard is a first-time winner in the poem contest, and the poem will mark the first time-she has been represented in the Magazine. Mrs. Laster is well known to Magazine readers, but this is her first time as a contest winner. Mrs. Gabbott, likewise, has appeared many times in the Magazine, but never before as a winner. Three hundred and seventy-nine poems were entered in. The contest, including thirty representing countries other than the United States. They were: England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, and Scotland. Utah led the United States entries with one hundred twenty entries, followed by California with sixty-five. Entries came from forty states. Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, Washington, Ohio, Texas, Wyoming, and Michigan all had a large representation in the contest. The General Board is pleased with the response to the contest and the wide geographical distribution of entries. The winners are to be congratulated by the General Board, and appreciation is expressed to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The services of the judges and members of the General Board on the contest committee are also much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning entrants, are published in this issue. 17 IN HEAVEN'S SPRING Gay N. Blanchard Somewhere heaven's spring has lost A misty orchard of old apple trees Wildly spilling fragrance From its vagrant boughs. Seeking solitude for prayer, | chanced upon its pale pink banks Piled recklessly upon the green, All drenched in sweet spring rain— And held suspended there Before a white-iced mountain, Palely mist-miraged With one low strip of cloud. Breathless | stood As quietly The hallowed hush enveloped me. My solemn prayer that you would find All joy, all truth, all peace of mind Ascended with the lifting mist, Potent with faith, Irrevocable. Gay N. Blanchard First Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest 18 th One burning brea t in fear, My heart cried ou Because \ knew That sorrow, searching, The price of such eterna Was also what I'd asked, My dear. For you. E and hair and wet struggle. Pain, \ gain, lashed eyes: ce, \ways would be tuned We would gai In heaven's spring. Ntest, is a newcomer to elson Blanchard, first Prize winner in the poem CO s of The Relief Society Magazine. Ga mission been chosen 4 dina college with her nd honored to have received s in co have six children, in New Zealand. Sister Blanchar winner in t she is grateful a d says tha ublished poem nd inspired f the original keen awareness of nity Hospital. G testimony of the gospel, 2 g this fascinating world, and 4 fervent appreciation 19 Then gently 'bes her poem. _ had to put! I ing rain ing," as an actual experience "This is the Way instilled in her by he parents. Her ONE GOLD MORNING Clara Laster | That morning when | felt the sheet-metal Season move over me like a half breath, Rushing moth-wing thoughts into turning A spring green, | shouted, 'But there are still oily clouds And white water standing hard against The morning; Icy patches of winter to suck my steamy breath Where | walk through low meadows. Mountains facing me, blue in their bones, Brimming spider webs of stone Like frozen statues caught in cement." Silent as the core of snowflakes falling, God spread his creation before me, Earth and aeons spoke a language Of work and trust. That morning, | found my soul's Limpid-longings. \| There in that place, that hour, We found a marble pool piercing the frigid Land like a silver dove in a cove of agate. It beckoned with the speech of Law. Clara Laster Second Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Nerves and skin surrendered As | cried, ''Baptize me now. So |, too, Can brush shadows from the teeth of time, Until with faith our world Will shine." Ill Standing there where sacred moments Had burned with the fires of birth, | stood, sharpened against the wind And water, viewing the images Of the spoken word, spreading Upward, outward, inward, Endless and spaceless, Yet centered enough to fit into one Small capsule, Love. IV That morning when we left the heaven place, Still wet with willowy wings of faith, | was content. And as the sun of noon galloped in To stop the hours in print, | walked away and knew The strength of steel that now was mine, Would be a binding thing. | would not forget that it was First tasted On a morning tucked behind the curve Of a golden winter. Clara Laster was born in Alabama, the last of nine children. Her literary career began after she married and settled in Oklahoma. She has had over 500 items published, including appearances in The Relief Society Magazine and the Improvement Era. She is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. Her book of love poems, "House on Halfway Hill," won a publication award and will be published by South and West, Inc., in 1968. Recently, she has been appointed to the staff of South and West Inc. And will serve in 1968 as award book publication chairman. She will also be editor of their literary magazine, The Tulsa Poetry Quarterly. She is also regional vicepresident of the Oklahoma Poetry Society, chairman of Tulsa Poets, belongs to many writing groups, and won awards in ten contests in 1967. Her daughter and son are married and live in Tulsa and she has three grandchildren. She is stake cultural refinement leader and the teacher training instructor in Sunday School. 21 Mabel Jones Gabbott Third Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Mabel Jones Gabbott, author of the third prize poem, "And Thou, Bethlehem," is a versatile and gifted writer. She has been represented many times in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as in other Church publications and national magazines. This is the first time she has appeared as a winner in a Relief Society literary contest. Mrs. Gabbott was born in Malad City, Idaho. She received her higher education at the Southern Branch of the University of Idaho, now Idaho State University, at Pocatello, and at the University of Utah. 22 "AND THOU, BETHLEHEM..." Mabel Jones Gabbott "And thou, Bethlehem, art not the least In Judah..."" The ancient words return And stir our memories of other feasts In Israel; how longingly did Rachel yearn To come again to Bethlehem to rest? Here Ruth gleaned for Naomi in the field Of kinsman Boaz and was greatly blessed; Young David, son of Jesse, would not yield To beast nor giant.... "And thou, Bethlehem... To whom we turn for pattern and for strength, Reserved for yet the sweetest diadem, Fulfills the prophecy, and at length Becomes the birthplace of our Savior, Lord; The fountainhead of truth: his life, his word. Sister Gabbott is the busy wife of J. Donald Gabbott, and the mother of two daughters who are both in college, and three boys who are in high school and junior high school. The family resides in Bountiful, Utah. Sister Gabbott is currently serving as an editorial associate on the Improvement Era. She is a member of the Utah State Poetry Society, Bountiful Poetry Society, and Jessamine Literature Group of Bountiful, and is past president of the Salt Lake City Chapter of the League of American Penwomen. On winning, Sister Gabbott commented, 'This is to me a great and beloved surprise." 23 The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the winners in the 1967 Relief Society Short Story Contest. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Emma Lou Warner Thayne, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "A Partridge in a Pear Tree." Second place winner is Mickey Goodwin, Vandenburg Air Force Base, California, for her story entitled ''Eddie." Her prize is sixty dollars. Third prize of fifty dollars went to Sara Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, for her story "More Than a Game." 0 The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial Observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine in 1968, along with photographs and highlights of the lives of the contestants. None of the winners has ever placed in a story contest previously, nor have they been represented in the Magazine. Award winners | The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Seventy-nine stories were entered in the 1967 contest, making it the largest number ever submitted. They came from several countries outside the United States, and from many States of the Union. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except by the written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any story submitted to the contest, paying upon publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first prize two years consecutively must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Gratitude is extended to members of the General Board and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries. The General Board congratulates the prize-winners on their fine stories. 24 Emma Lou W. Thayne First Prize Winner The Relief Society Short Story Contest (up Partridge ) In A pewter Harrow." # "I hate Christmas! I hate going home, but it would be worse to stay here." Jenny Harrow brushed a straggle of untinted, almost brown hair off her forehead and sank onto the familiar hardness of her desk chair. "But here we go again. Vacation, and another ordeal at home. If only I could just black out for two weeks and be right back here starting a new year." She whisked a stack of papers into a drawer, closed it deliberately, and stared unseeing at the suddenly very empty room. "After twelve years of teaching, you'd think I'd be used to it— going home, that is." She knew that in seven hours Miss Harrow, the good school teacher, would be plain Jenny Harrow, unmarried daughter, home for Christmas. The tree by her desk, which moments before had been gay with tinsel and packages, drooped straggly and ill-shaped. The floor and the children's desks were littered with party leftovers. The sun, through the arduously tinted windows, fingerprinted the third grade efforts of seventytwo sticky hands that had glued and painted them. Jenny was tired, but more than just "threethirty tired." Far down the hall she heard him coming. The clomp and skid were unmistakable. It had to be Widdy. What had he forgotten now? Wondering, she shook her head and smiled. Two days ago it had been a stocking. Now, who in the world could lose a stocking—with his shoe still on? When the class colored, Widdy never could find a black. "I don't 25 January 1968 like dark things anyhow, Miss Harrow." When they sang he never followed the words. "It's more fun to look up, Miss Harrow." In reading group he raced ahead and could never locate his place when his turn came to read. "I can't wait to find out what happens, Miss Harrow." Widdy could not wait for anything. Life was an urgent magnet, drawing him eagerly into its dynamic flow. And, with a wistful expectancy, he ran to it unimpeded by trivia such as socks and crayons, words and turns. And now he panted into the doorway, his husky shoulders raised in a huge sigh. "Hey, Miss Harrow, I brought you something." He slammed a bedraggled package into her hands as if passing a stick in a relay. Then he slid, turned, and airplaned around the corner of the door. He caught the jam with his arm just before disappearing and thrust his matted blond head back into the room, smiling so hard his eyes almost closed. "Oh, and listen, Miss Harrow," his voice was out-of-breathy. "I made that so you'd have it to hang on your tree when you go _home. It's just like one we used to have that I liked a lot. But it got broke. And...." He was suddenly sober. "And merry Christmas. You sure are a good teacher, Miss Harrow." He tipped his head pensively, then smiled again and was gone. The clomp and skid down the hall echoed his hurry. Jenny looked at the box, its tissue clinging perilously to the misshapened container. It was easy enough to open. Inside, 26 resting on a lumpy piece of incongruous cotton, was a tiny bird cage. It had been built of toothpicks, glued tenuously to key rings of three different sizes to create a kind of Japanese lantern. Except for a tiny gold ring at the top, it was painted green, with some of the excess paint oozing at the intersections. Inside the cage hung a battered little bell, suspended from the gold ring by a wire from a plastic bread wrapper. And glued onto the bell, its wispy feet one glob of goo, was a canary, cut out of a magazine, yellow on one side, a printed ad on the other. Its edges were irregular and it drooped a touch, but its identity was sure. What a job for an eight-yearold! Thought Jenny, especially Widdy! She could picture his stubby fingers working with those toothpicks. How tedious. It must have taken him hours. She rested an elbow on the desk and dangled the cage by its Christ- mas 'ornament wire. It would make any tree. She stared dimly through the green bars, past the yellow canary and began hearing the only bird song she could associate with Christmas. "And a partridge in a pear tree..." yes "... Four calling birds, my true love gave to me... And a partridge in a pear tree." The first day of Christmas. Jenny peered into a long-ago living room. How long ago was it? Twenty-five years? Impossible. But there' was the tree outlined against the window, the dark heaps of awesome newness silhouetted at its base. Oh, how she had wanted that rubber doll—a real Dy-Dee-Doll! No one had ever had such a rubber doll before. You could really bathe it, and put powder on it and hug it hard. And it would feel so real. Corinne was asking for one, too. Then they could play with them together, maybe in Corinne's house trailer by the garage. She could let her new doll sleep in the special pink bed with the drawer under it for clothes, the one she had painted with Mother, the one they had made out of the "lug" the peaches came in. Corinne said hers would be named "Geraldine." Jenny's would be "Florence" or "David," depending on whether it was a boy or girl. She always had to see what color the eyes were before she knew for sure. On Christmas morning Father made them eat breakfast first and then line up according to age to march in to the tree. She always felt sick with anticipation. They began their march, four brothers and Jenny, laugh- "A Partridge In A Pear Tree" ing a little hysterically. Three times around. Each time they spied a new treasure. A basketball for the boys. A wagon, almost like new, for the littlest. A doll house, full of rooms and furniture, of course for her. She was the only girl. But where? Where was her Dy-Dee-Doll? Father turned on the lights and they sprang at their surprises from Santa. Ignoring the doll house, she searched frantically around the tree, upsetting gifts and even moving chairs. "What are you looking for, Jenny?" Mother laughed. "Santa wanted to surprise you with this playhouse. See, it has lamps and rugs and curtains." "But, Mother, where's my doll?" She had been so sure. They must have known how important it was. "Oh, Jenny, those dolls—you wouldn't want one. They're poorly made and terribly expensive. Look, come and_ see how much fun you can have with this little house. You have other dolls." Sometimes that winter Corinne let Jenny bathe her rubber doll. She was a good friend and she said she would let her tend her baby any time she wanted. Jenny caught the bird cage in her hand. So now, Jenny, she thought, it's time to go home again. She laid it tenderly back on its lumpy bed and smiled at the thought of Widdy. She would take it home all night, and hang it in a place of honor. She locked her room and walked toward the office for a final check of her mailbox. The halls were deserted and sounded of the eerie quiet of a silent 27 January 1968 school, unnatural and uncomfortable. The office door was open, across from the display case that still flaunted its Christmas joys. Principals, she thought, must also be the last to leave the ship. But voices from the inner room meant that Miss Riley was not alone. Stepping gingerly through the outer door, Jenny headed for the mail slots. She heard the ordinarily calm Miss Riley almost shouting, "T'm aware that you have a problem, Mr. Reynolds, but you can't just accuse without proof." "Without proof! Good grief, what does it take?" The man's voice was excited, but not belligerent. "I saw this kid in the back yard by the pen. The gate's locked and nobody would just be walking through. What was he doing in there, if not stealing my bird?" "Maybe he just wanted to look, Mr. Reynolds. This boy is full of curiosity—about everything. And he likes birds." "Yes, I guess he likes birds! And he took my best pigeon. Every kid on the street saw him with it, and I haven't seen it since." "Well, what's his story? Have you talked to him about it? Don't you think it would be fair to hear his side before you come charging in here accusing him? Why didn't you ask...?" "T would have," the man interrupted. "I tried to find him, but no one was home at his house, as usual, and I figured the only place I would get any satisfaction short of calling the police was to come here. Most of the kids say you're fair and tough—well, that's a_ funny 28 thing to call a lady, but I need you to do something." He paused and softened a little. "I don't want to hurt the boy, but those pigeons are about the only thing I have that mean much to me." "T understand your wanting to get the bird back all right, and I would like to help, but if you knew Widdy better...." Jenny started. Widdy! Widdy in trouble? Widdy a thief! Oh, who would have the nerve to accuse him of anything malicious! She set her jaw to quiet her turbulent anger and strode uninvited into the inner office. She looked into the dark eyes of Widdy's accuser, nicer eyes than she had _ expected, and blurted, "Why, Widdy Turner wouldn't hurt a fly." Had anything ever sounded so trite? The man looked to Miss Riley for explanation. She gestured a quick, "Mr. Reynolds, this is Miss Harrow, Widdy's teacher." 'Then to Jenny she said, "Miss Harrow, Mr. Reynolds thinks Widdy stole his prize pigeon this afternoon." "Think? I know. I saw him." He was firm. Everything about him was firm, his forehead that ledged deep eyes, his jaw that worked, even when he wasn't talking, his hands that nudged a crease in and out of the hat he held. Jenny thought, That crease doesn't have a chance. "What makes you think—or as you. Claim—know _ this?" Against her will, Jenny's voice mellowed. "I know this boy like the back of my hand (trite again —sure sign of distress) and I know he's incapable of willful malice." "Well, let me tell you about it then, since you're so sure. No thanks, I don't want to sit," he said to Miss Riley's sudden attempt to play hostess. He half Sat on her desk and looked directly at Jenny, appraising her tailored good grooming, though his eyes never left her face. She shifted her weight, suddenly aware of a stray hair and of ankles never quite slim enough. "This afternoon | came home early," he started. "I'm going on a new shift tomorrow. Nobody is ever home at my place in the daytime since my wife died, so I was surprised to see someone moving around in the yard. I was in the bedroom and it took a minute to get to the back door. By the time [| did, he was gone." "And it was Widdy you saw?" asked Miss Riley. "Are you sure?" "Sure I am. I know all the kids on the street. Sometimes | play football or baseball on the lawn with them. Keeps me in shape. Most of them are pretty good kids. Wish we'd had some. But, anyhow, this Turner boy seems sort of strange—never really part of the gang. He'l] play for a while and then wander off without Saying anything, not even 'so long.' But I know him.". "Oh, know him, Mr. Reynolds?" injected Jenny. "From just watching him? From never having talked to him? Nobody knows Widdy that Way." He glanced at her but went on, "Well, anyway, a couple of minutes later | went out to feed the birds, and Blossom was missing. She couldn't have got out of the pen by herself. I knew that. So I walked out front to talk to "A Partridge In A Pear Tree'' the kids. They were standing around that big elm tree as they always do after school, when it's almost freezing like today. There were tracks in the snow and I could see where Someone had jumped the fence. I asked the kids, 'Have you seen anybody with My pigeon?' They all nodded and One of them said, 'Yeah, Widdy Turner just went down the street with it.' So, as I told you, I went to his house. Nobody there. I didn't know what to do, but I figured you would. So here J am." He shrugged as if his case were closed. A present, all at about the same time? Schoo] had_ been out—what—an hour and twenty minutes? He had been a busy boy. But what did he want with a pigeon—someone else's? And where was he he only thing to do is find have any idea be, Miss Harrow? Did he Say anything at "AS a matter of fact, he was here, not ten minutes ago. He came back to bring me a gift. Come to think of it, I'd like you to see it." She found herself saying it much more to Mr. Reynolds than to the principal. "It would help you to know Widdy." She opened her large bag and drew out the crumpled box. Carefully she removed the lid and held up the curious cage, "He made this and gave it to me 29 January 1968 for my tree." She handed it to the man. He took it gently and fingered its fragile props. "Look at that bird," he said after intricate scrutiny. "The glue on its feet Js still wet. He must have placed it on the bel] and put the top on sometime since school, 'Maybe even since I saw him in the yard. So what did he do with the pigeon in the meantime?" "Why don't we go back to your street and look," Jenny proposed, unconscious of a poised ease that had never been hers around men before. Iss Riley walked back to r desk and plumped into a chair. "You two go hunting and rll get on the Phone. If he's not home, someone will have seen him." Despite windows twinkling with Christmas tree lights, the neighborhood was cold and deserted as the ear]v dusk turned the gray slush on the walks into crackling mounds and valleys. Jenny even found herself clutching Mr. Reynold's arm as her three-inch heels wobbled for footing. "There's where he climbed the fence." He pointed, outwardly unmindful of her hand under his arm, but ho ding both hands and arm close in an unspoken welcome. "Come through the gate and look. Sorry [| didn't have time to shovel again this mornIng." twilight, Mr. Reynolds gasped, "Hey!" 30 and ran toward the cage. "Look, she's here! Blossom's jn 9» mean. Which h "That one there, the one with the brown blaze on its head. See, the one with... 1 She unfolded sticky and squinted to make out its hieroglyphics, "Dere Mister Renalds," it began. "Here," said an amused Jenny, "this is My department. I've been translating for years." She took the wrinkled Paper and read with little hesitation, even in the near-dark: DERE MISTER RENALDS, | BARROWED YORE PIGEN CAUSE | NEEDED IT FoR A EXPERMENT. | HAD BALL. THANKYOU. YOURS TURLY, WIDDY TURNER P. S. IT COULD. PSS MERRY CHISTMAS Jenny looked up from the note and into the nice eyes that still looked bewildered. She was glad of the half-light that might dis- guise the unexpected emotion that filled her. "That Widdy," she managed, "he had to make my canary authentic." Dan Reynolds put his. Hand on her arm. She could feel its firmness through her wool coat and interlining. He looked hard into her eyes that were now brimming with unashamed tears. He said softly, "You must be terrific—as a teacher I mean." Even Jenny's ears pounded with her pulse. The years of being almost happy melted in her glow. The agonizing Christmases of the past fell away in the magic of that moment of acceptance. So what if Roger Dixon had passed her up with his mistletoe in the seventh grade. And David Mace—what if he had left her standing by the fountain and sneaked off to the Christmas assembly with Judy? The echoes of failure ran distant now. "No, 'm not going to the Snow Ball"... "Yes, Mother, I am chairman, but I haven't a date for the dance". "Yes, I'd love to be your "A Partridge In A Pear Tree" bridesmaid". "No, I'm not the least bit superstitious about its being three times". "Gh, Corinne, a baby in December... How wonderful!"... "No, I'm not married yet".. Ee Father, I'll be home far Christmas... I know, with all the boys gone.... Then, loud and clear... "You must be terrific!" It would never be the same. That elusive "partridge in a pear tree"... The gift of the first day of Christmas—it was hers. Widdy had given it to her, and this man smiling down at her had confirmed the gift. All the Christmases of the past blurred into one big, bright image—of a canary, yellow and cocky, singing a jubilant carol as he balanced, just right, on a battered bell. Jenny laughed and kept looking into the nice eyes. "A good teacher, Mr. Reynolds? Yes. Yes, I am." She. Soared with the "Thank - Goodness - It's - Friday" feeling that only a teacher could know, and added, "And I'm going home for Christmas." Emma Lou Warner Thayne, Salt Lake City, Utah, graduated from the University of Utah and has taught Freshman English there part time ever since, that is ''between babies" and while writing for fun and serving on the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. She is married to Melvin E. Thayne, who this year was chosen ''Realtor of the Year," and they have five daughters known as Mel's Belles, ages five to sixteen. They all love sports, especially tennis and skiing, and much of Emma Lou's writing has been the "occasional" kind concerning their activities. A winner of the Deseret News story contest, Emma Lou has published primarily in Church magazines. Recently, nearly all of her writing efforts are invested in MIA manuals, but she still snatches moments for writing—just because. She claims that isolating ideas is the most exciting exercise there is, even including tennis! 31 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Halaevalu Mata'aho Ahome'e, last July, stood behind her husband, Taufa'ahau Tupou IV, as he was crowned King of Tonga, and she was then crowned Queen. She was reminded that her high calling was ''ministering to His Majesty with queenly grace and inspiring the people of this kingdom to noble living.'' Mission President John H. Groberg and Sister Jean S. Groberg, Mission Relief Society Supervisor, officially invited guests at the ceremony in the Royal Chapel, were impressed with the royal dedication to a righteous rule among the 75,000 Tongans (over 10,000 are Latterday Saints). The Queen receives a gift subscription to The Relief Society Magazine and tells her close friend, Mission Relief Society President, Tu''avava'u Mapa, that she enjoys reading it. Sarah Churchill is the author of "A Thread of Tapestry" (Dodd, Mead publishers) "a personal and loving testament' to her illustrious father Winston Churchill, the great statesman, humanitarian, patriot, and man of "lasting letters." Mrs. Pratt Romney, a Latter-day Saint woman who was first employed as a teacher in Colonia Dublan, Mexico, was recently honored by the International Senior League of the Los Angeles (California) High School Alumni Association as the 'National Teacher of the Year."' She was awarded a golden apple mounted on a pedestal, and a large document signed by the officials of the Los Angeles organization. Although Mrs. Romney has not been a "regular'' schoolteacher for forty years, her accomplishments are still bearing fruit and her influence is lovingly remembered. Kate Simon has written three readable, informative, and evocative guidebooks on New York, Mexico, and Paris. The last, 'Paris Places and Pleasures' (Putman), is the best. All stir nostalgic delight in rereading after visiting these fascinating places. Mrs. Clydia Mae Richardson, who has been Chief of Presidential Commissions since 1943, was born and reared on a cattle ranch in South Dakota. She stamps State documents with the Great Seal of the United States. Adopted in 1782, the design of the seal is also on dollar bills. Dr. Marjorie Nemes is the only woman member of a team of four eminent researchers who are associated with the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research, in attempting to find a new and effective defense against viruses. The four scientists are conducting experiments on substances which they hope will activate the cells of the human body to produce more "interferon," a mysterious component of the cells which, apparently, enables them to make effective resistance against certain types of viruses. Svetlana Alliluyeva, Stalin's daughter who defected from Russia to freedom in the West, plans to give a ''substantial part" of the high-figure proceeds from the serialization of her book about Soviet Russia to the United States for charitable purposes. Part will also go to the Pestalozzi project in Switzerland, where refugee children from many nations are learning to live together and like each other. 32 EDITORIAL s With the responsibility which the Lord has placed on parents in regard to their responsibility toward their children (D&C 68:25-28), mothers will give anxious watchcare today to the welfare of their daughters. Especially, during these troubled times, do they need to give special attention to teenagers to guard against some current social trends and fashions that, if adopted, could adversely affect the future of their daughters' lives. The adverse influence of some of these is so subtle as to be almost unrecognizable until it takes over in the life of a young girl. Some extreme fashion trends are becoming a commonplace mode of dress and seem to have won general acceptance, with a failure to see any particular harm in them. A case in point is the present miniskirt fashion trend with skirts seeming to grow continuously shorter and less modest. The Church has always taught the importance of modesty in dress. There is no question as to the present need for emphasis on this teaching. Latter-day Saint parents, particularly mothers whose influence upon a girl is a potent one, should accept the counsel of Church leaders and teach their daughters by example and wise counsel satisfactorily 'to withstand the popularity pressure of the mini-skirt and other types of immodest clothing. They will assist their daughters to make their own clothing if this is necessary to preserve modesty. Mothers will make sure their own attitudes and dress are in harmony with Church teachings if they expect their teen-age daughters to grow into exemplary Latter-day Saint women. Volume 55 January 1968 Number 1 a Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Fawn H. Sharp Florence J. Madsen Anne R. Gledhill Leone G. Layton Belva B. Ashton Blanche B. Stoddard Zola J. McGhie Alene M. Young Oa J. Cannon Alberta H. Christensen Lilia B Walch Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt. Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous 33 Edith S. Elliott Celestia J. Taylor josie B. Bay Resigns as a Member of the General Board # General Board members and sisters throughout the Church will regret the resignation of Josie B. Bay from the General Board as of January 1, 1968. She has served since May 26, 1948. Her departure comes after nearly twenty years of service on the General Board, during the last fourteen of which she has served as Manager of the Temple and Burial Clothing Departments, and, more recently, of the Garment Distribution Centers, as well as Director of Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Her loss will be keenly felt. Sister Bay had been stake Relief Society president of two California stakes before her husband, Ira M. Bay, moved his family to Salt Lake City and Sister Bay was called to the General Board. In addition to her daily attendance at Relief Society headquarters, she has also carried out her General Board duties, serving on practically all of the committees and visiting the stakes throughout the world on conference assignments. Sister Bay is blessed with many talents in the business field and has a humble, teachable personality with great love in her heart for her fellow workers and an understanding heart. She leaves the Board to devote her full time to her husband and family, however, one may be sure she will continue to serve her sisters in the Church as she may be called or as she may volunteer to do. The united love of the Board will go with Sister Bay. Her service to Relief Society will ever stand as a memorial to her in the sound practices she has established under the General Presidency during the past vears of phenomenal growth. On behalf of all Relief Society sisters love and appreciation are extended to Sister Bay and her husband and family, who have unselfishly and devotedly supported Josie B. Bay throughout her long years of valued service to Relief Society. Y RELIEF SOCIETY IS: ) Lois L. Tanner Opportunity—knocking at a woman's soul Service—in a blue checked apron Compassion—with a babe in her arms Faith—washing the windows of heaven. ) # 34 Notes to the Field ey SONG PRACTICES The recommended program of Relief Society provides two ten-minute song practices each month—one on the Social Relations day and the other on the Cultural Refinement day. We urge choristers to use wisely this time in teaching the sisters to sing beautifully and meaningfully the familiar Latter-day Saint hymns and also to train them to sing some of the less familiar hymns. These, we feel, would contribute significantly to the spirituality of all Relief Society meetings. BOUND VOLUMES OF 1967 MAGAZINES Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1967 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 77.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1967 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1967 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. (— LOVE REAFFIRMED ay Carol P. Feltch Nuku' alofa, Tonga | hesitated to burden you With the weight of my fear. Yet, when | did, your understanding spirit Made from that fear a cloak of peace, ' And you wrapped me in it. 35 a _ Birth | Defects— *, Te * @ f = ipa enti \4 The National Foundation—1968 March of Dimes George P. Voss Vice President for Public Relations The National Foundation-March of Dimes marks two milestones during 1968: the 30th Anniversary of its founding as a voluntary disease-fighting organization—and the 10th Anniversary of its entry into the field of birth defects. With one great victory—the conquest of polio—achieved, the uniquely successful March of Dimes partnership of scientists and laymen is now moving forward against an even greater destroyer of health and life through an intensive assault on those killing and crippling birth defects whose conquest had been for centuries regarded as hopeless. But there is hope. Modern medicine can correct many defects. Research may one day lead to the preventives that will make correction unnecessary. Contributions to the March of Dimes support treatment and research. Children with birth defects can be helped, and the March of Dimes is helping them. The extent of that help is determined by the generosity of an informed public. SILVER RHYTHM Ilva Lou Nebeker A moving picture on the lake, Where waters winter-bound Have made a polished looking-glass Of beauty lost and found. The skaters glide with rhythmic ease, Their arms, like wings, are free, And links of silver laughter weave A mesh of buoyancy. Then like flamingoes flying low They skim across the screen, And distance paints a miniature With silent ice between. 36 DAD: SUZ2Y: DAD: SUZY: DAD: SUZY: DAD: SUZY: DAD: SUZY: (Suzanne is seven years old) Did you ever stop to think Suzy, that you and | never seem to have an argument? | think it must be because you understand me better than the others do. If there weren't any arguments there wouldn't be any help for some of people's troubles. Sometimes it is good to have an argument. That's a pretty deep thought, sweetheart, and | agree with you. The main thing is people should love each other. Well, honey, you can be sure | love you. | love you with all my heart. You shouldn't just love one person. You should love everyone in the family. You should love thousands of people. Love is the most important thing there is. | guess if everyone believed that—and | wish they did—there wouldn't be any divorces or riots or wars. This world would be happier. | wish you stayed home more, Dad. Well, honey, you know | have to work hard to support the family, so we can have this nice house, cars, and clothes and everything. | want you children to have things better than | did when | was a boy. But, Dad, you shouldn't work on Saturdays and Sundays. You should spend more time with the family like Mr. Caine does with his. Life isn't just for working. Life is to live and to enjoy. PERSPECTIVE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Man is given choices. He who lives by the ocean's edge Or waterfall's high mountain ledge Hears no discordant human voices., inside and out MAKE A HANGABOUT APRON Shirley Thulin When is an apron not an apron? * baal When it's a "hang-a-bout."" These new front coverups are so practical and so easy to make you will want several. The teenagers in the family will especially like them because they are so easy to slip into, and have no middle ties to pull in and crease their no-waistline dresses while they help with Sunday dinner. This apron is made from a terry towel —nice for the cook who is constantly wiping her hands. Another handy feature is the easy-to-slip-into neckband, for keeping the hairdo in place. You will need a large-sized kitchen towel or hand towel. Pick one which is bright and cheerful, and one that has fringe on the ends. You will also need the yoke pattern to a muu-muu or other round-necked slip-on garment, for the neck must be large enough to need no placket or other opening. For the yoke, choose cotton fabric of a bright solid color to match one of the colors in the terry. TO ASSEMBLE Cut out the yoke pattern. It will usually be four pieces (figure 1). Stitch both front pieces to both back pieces at the shoulders. Now you will have two circles with shoulder seams (figure 2). Turn up and baste a narrow hem Y, inch around all raw edges of both circles (only turn this 4 inch once). Cut off the fringe from one edge of the towel. Make two small tucks in the towel, about two inches from the selvage edge as you baste the towel to the front edge of one of the circles (figure 3). Be sure to center the towel to the front part of the circle. Now place the other circle on top of the circlé which has the towel basted to it, wrong sides together. Now zigzag, or bind with bias, the two circles together all around the outer edge and also around the neck opening. If you use bias tape, it will have to be top stitched across the edge where the towel is. Now your "hang-about"' is finished (figure 5). 38 Make a Hangabout Apron Figure 1 Front Figure 2 ACC giiffiaeillits Figure 4 ff UF 'VM HUNK Figure 5 3) FRENCH DRESSING 1 large onion, grated 1 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt V/, tsp. Pepper VY, tsp. Dry mustard 1 tsp. Dry horseradish, or fresh, if available 1 large bottle of catsup use catsup bottle as measure filled with salad oil use same bottle filled with vinegar Combine ingredients. Stir vigorously and serve over Harrogate, Yorkshire, England GOOSEBERRY JAM 8 c. Sugar 21, qts. Washed and stemmed \ ] gooseberries Place sugar in heavy kettle over medium heat. Stir continuously until sugar is dissolved. Do not let it turn brown. Add gooseberries and stir carefully until jam thickens. Small amounts do not take more than 12 to 15 minutes cooking. Pour into jars and seal. TRIFLE leftover yellow or white cake, 2 c. Fruit or similar product whipped cream Prepare Jello as directed on package, using fruit juice as part of the liquid. Cool slightly and pour over the cake. Prepare pudding, cool, and add fruit (peaches, apricots, mandarin oranges, fruit cocktail, pineapple, fresh or frozen berries, bananas, or any combination). Chill and spread over cake and Jello mixture. Top with cherry pie filling and a layer of whipped cream or commercial whip, or a combination of both. APRICOT JAM 1 gallon canned apricots 10 c. Sugar Cook apricots, pineapple, and sugar until fairly thick. Stir often. Remove from heat and add 2 or 3 packages of orange Jello. Store in jars in refrigerator or seal in sterilized jars. 40 lettuce or tossed salads. Broken into pieces 1 pkg. Desired flavor Jello 1 no. 2 can crushed pineapple Norma Sepp 1 pkg. Vanilla pudding mix 1 can cherry pie filling 2 or 3 pkg. Orange Jello The Home Inside and Out BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 4 tbsp. Sugar ¥, |b. Margarine or butter 4-414 c. Milk 10 c. Flour 2% tsp. Salt 5 tbsp. Baking powder Sift flour with salt, baking power, and sugar. Cut in margarine or butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add milk all at once and mix until! Dough follows fork around bowl. Turn out on floured board and pat into a flat circle 3/4, inches thick. Cut with biscuit cutter. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet in hot oven (450) for 15 minutes. Handle the dough very lightly and quickly. This is the secret of light, fluffy biscuits. Serves 25. CREAMED CHICKEN Place chicken which has been cut into pieces, celery, onions, and salt, in a kettle with enough water just to barely cover them. Simmer until chicken is very tender. Remove from broth and let cool. Cut chicken into fairly large pieces. Discard skin and bones. Heat fat skimmed from top of broth and add at least 1 c. Flour. Add margarine to increase fat if necessary. When flour and fat are bubbly, remove from heat to cool slightly. Add enough milk to broth to make approximately 6 quarts of liquid and stir constantly until mixture comes to a boil and thickens. Saute mushrooms and add to broth mixture, together with pimento and chicken pieces. Place kettle in pan of hot water and heat slowly. Taste for salt. Serve over hot baking power biscuits which can be made while chicken is heating. Serves 25. 41 2 chickens, 4-5 Ibs. Each 2-3 stalks celery 2 large onions 2-6 tsp. Salt lc. Flour milk, as needed fresh or canned mushrooms, as desired 1 small can pimentos (optional) RIBBONS FOR HER WORK Mabel Lords, Fourth Ward, East Pocatello Stake, Idaho, makes quilts and pillow cases as well as crochet work for her family and Relief Society. She has won many ribbons for her outstanding accomplishments, including a first place at the county fair and second place at the State fair. In Relief Society, Sister Lords has been work meeting leader and work director, and has served faithfully for many years as a visiting teacher, which she enjoys very much. She has four children, ten grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildren. Each of them has received a quilt made by grandma, especially for him, as well as many other gifts of handiwork. Sister Lords enjoys making gifts for her family and for Relief Society, and is especially glad to have the opportunity to work on quilts with her Relief Society sisters. 42 Mirs Plea Ss ant Nelda Pierson Litchfield e Calgary, Alberta, Canada # I shall call her that, because I think of her when I hear that adjective. We met many years ago, when my husband and I had been married for only a few months. An older man with whom my husband worked at the office invited us to his home for dinner. The remarks of this man's lovely wife have made indelible impressions on my mind. The dinner was a veritable feast; yet, I remember less about it. Ini ) As I helped with the dishes, my eyes lingered on the "Thursday" pattern I was holding, and I remarked about the beauty of the hand-worked towel. "Oh, that," she said, "was the poorer one. I think we just have some Thursdays and Mondays left. The children like the other designs better." She took me with her into the boys' rooms while she got the small children into their pajamas and sent them into the bathrooms to get their baths and teeth brushed. She seemed well-organized, loving, and very patient. They responded to her with sincere devotion. When they were both clean and dressed, they appeared in the hall, ready for the session of what their mother called "horseplay." Mrs. Pleasant maintained that all tiny folks needed to be tired and happy before bedtime. She allowed them one-half hour in the playroom at the end of the bath session, timing them by the clock. I noted 43 January 1968 that she had one cupboard up high in the room, in which she kept first-aid supplies. I watched the twinkle in her eyes when she admitted that these supplies were sometimes useful after a nightly workout. "My husband and I feel that children need to play 'roughhouse' now and then," she said, smiling. When the little boys were tucked down into their beds, she said we could have a good talk. Our husbands were in the den, and the older children were busy in the dining room doing their homework. We went back to the playroom. The comfort of the children had been paramount in the planning of that room. Mrs. Pleasant stated that it had taken five years to complete this room to specifications. Rocking horses, painted floor games, basketball equipment, and an extensive children's library of books and musical recordings made the room a haven of fun. There was a noticeable lack of dolls and girls' toys, of course, but the Pleasants had no daughters. I stood in awe at the material blessings that had been bestowed upon the Pleasant children. Their mother, a cultured university graduate, sat down on one of the lounges beside me and sighed, "You know, dear, we were not always able to buy such furnishings as we have now." Little by little, she shared the details with me. "My father was a doctor, and my husband's people had a successful business. They felt there was no reason for us to live in the 'cubbyhole' we rented. However, we wanted to feel independent. It's true, we had quite a struggle while my husband was getting through college; the only money we had was what I could earn as secretary to the dean of engineering." Later, Mrs. Pleasant worked at home, doing typing for the professors, in order that she could be with the first, and then the second child. By this time, Mr. Pleasant had a part-time position, instructing at the college he attended. The tiny suite in which they lived was close to the campus, which saved transportation expenses. Mrs. Pleasant said she had tried to run her miniature home like the best and most orderly office. She had received a degree in business administration, making it possible for her to "understand her husband's language." The two of them learned to budget realistically. They took year-end inventory, to decide on purchases for the future. In allowing themselves few luxuries, they were able to start a small savings account at the bank. They had two rules in those days: first, only one movie or dance a month and dessert once a week, usually on Sunday. "When you look at our home now, you, I realize, can hardly believe that once we got by with apple-box cupboards—apple boxes were free from our grocery store. I painted them and made attractive drapes out of very inexpensive print, bought as remnants. In the fall and spring, I would rent a sewing machine for a week, to keep things in good condition and myself clothed. For the five-dollar fee, I could sew what I needed. I can see that little portable now, on 44 Mrs. Pleasant top of our dresser. Oh, we called it a dresser, although it was simply another set of apple boxes, draped, with a mirror on top. Every inch of space in that apartment-room was at a premium." She told of an incident that indicated clearly the dimensions of the room. "One night, when we had both gone to sleep, Mother knocked at our door. It was after midnight, but we had no phone. She had come to bring us the news of Uncle David's accident. She said that Father was working on him in the operating room. By the time I got my husband awake and the bed lifted up into the wall closet, in order to open the door, Mother seemed upset, and we heard her grumble, 'To think that an only child, a daughter of mine, would have to live like this!' You see, she often forgot the early challenges of her marriage, when Father was attending medical school." Mr. Pleasant had a good sense of humor, and when there would be the least breakdown in office-home management, he would come to the rescue with such comments as, "Has our file clerk taken ill? Under the heading on this file, 'Dry Folded Diapers,' she has filed absolutely nothing!" Mrs. Pleasant always retaliated with laughter, suggesting facetiously that he fire the file clerk immediately. Then Mr. Pleasant would announce, in dramatic alarm, "The room is too crowded. I am afraid I shall never be able to find the file clerk. There is hardly room for the baby!" Mrs. Pleasant, the night of our visit, summed up her thoughts with the remark that all women ought to learn to enjoy what they can afford to own. Last week, a young married woman came to my home, obviously disturbed because she did not have some of the wordly appliances which my husband, after years of planning, had provided for our family. I felt impressed to tell her about Mrs. Pleasant. She had complained, "Why, you should see our apartment! It is no bigger than my office used to be, when I worked as a receptionist, before our marriage. I am ashamed to invite anyone to our place." A letter came in my mailbox today from her. She climaxed her remarks with these comments: "Too many of us young wives are not willing to sacrifice while our husbands are getting started. We expect now what our mothers have taken a lifetime to have. We need more Mrs. Pleasants! She has made me happy, once again, to live out of our suitcases and cardboard boxes. Thank you for letting me meet her!" A POEM Caroline Atterton "Write a poem," says she as plain as can be! As plain as the nose on your face! I'll do what | can—the best that | can! But | warn you—it takes just this much space. 45 Chapter 5 Throw Down the Gauntlet Janet W. Breeze SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband, Grant, on a teaching assignment to the Island of Truk. After a brief stopover on Guam, the family arrives on Truk, where a quonset hut becomes their home. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to a hospital on Guam for the arrival of twin babies. In the meantime, the family observes the Sabbath and hears part of the Tabernacle Choir broadcast. A letter arrives from the Mortensens, their friends, saying that the Jackson -family will be welcomed by the Mortensens on Saipan, and that another teacher has been found to exchange teaching assignments with Grant on Truk. » The sign was painted white, and the black letters read: "Welcome to Saipan— Capital of Micronesia." The dismal looking concrete and clapboard buildings with corrugated steel roofs were also white, and the dust from the crushed coral road gave the vines of purple Bougainvillea an eerie pastel appearance. "That's downtown," Francine Mortensen pointed out, "Chalan Kanoa, the main village. However, whenever anyone on the hill tells you he is going to the village, it just means he is going shopping, because there are villages and stores dotted all over the island. Mostly, though, we stick to the two stores which 46 are air-conditioned and carry the widest variety of American foods." "That was one thing that really surprised me about Truk," Nancy said. "Truk trading— they carried just about anything one could think of. I really came out to Trust Territory prepared for a steady diet of raw fish and coconuts!" Francine laughed. "Have you eaten any raw fish yet?" "No!" 'Well, you're bound to before long. Sashimi is the most popular party food on the island—raw tuna covered with soy sauce and lemon juice." "T like hot dogs and mustard," Grant said. "Sashimi's all right if you like the smell of raw_ fish," Charles Mortensen said, "because that is exactly what it tastes like." "Til take you shopping tomorrow," Francine said. "The Ladies' Welcoming Committee left enough food in the quonset for you until then. So you can just take it easy today." "Listen," Charles said, turning a bit in the car seat to glance back at Nancy and Grant, "about the quonset. I hope you won't mind it. But since school has already started, the houses are all full." "We're quite used to quonset living now,' Nancy laughed. "Besides—people need things to look forward to. And we can dream about teachers terminating and leaving empty houses next summer!" "Now, that's the right attitude to have," Francine said. "I can tell right now, you two are going to get along here just great!" Amy and Skipper watched wide-eyed out of the windows as the car sped along Beach Road. "Tt's much more jungly here than it is on Truk," Nancy said. "Oh, that's just our boonies." Francine laughed. '"Tangen-tangen, actually. But back in Navy days, I guess someone started calling it the 'boondocks,' and now even the Saipanese call it the boonies. There really is other growth back in there. Tangentangen is not native to Saipan at all. But the entire island was so devastated and burned off by flame-throwers in the war, that the Government seeded this stuff by air to keep the soil Throw Down the Gauntlet from eroding. Now it's twenty - feet high, and so dense one can't walk through it except with a machete. But it does provide the Saipanese with lots of good firewood for their outdoor cooking. And privacy? Well, you'd never know there was a house on the island!" "Look, Mama!" "Chickens!" "Yes," Charles said. "Our one and only chicken farm on the whole island, where eggs are large, fresh, and only one dollar a dozen." "Oh, not here, too,' Nancy said. "That's one thing I am still wondering about. Our food budget has exactly doubled." "There's one way to_ beat that," Charles said, "get used to local foods, and forget those canned and frozen imports. Now Francine puts together a salad of fresh pineapple, papaya, and avocado that will make you forget what lettuce even was!" "T also know 199 ways to prepare rice," Francine teased. "And that reminds me, Nancy, better put rice and soya on your shopping list. Your house girl will eat it every day for lunch." Then she laughed to_ herself. "You know? Before we came out here [ had one tiny bottle of soy sauce that lasted four years, and it was still only one-third gone. Now we go through one quart a month! Honestly, sometimes I think Olympia drinks it! But then, I shouldn't say anything. I use a lot more of it now, myself." "Excuse me," Grant said, "but did you say our house girl?" "Oh, yes. I hope you don't mind. I went ahead and lined up Amy said. 47 January 1968 a maid for you. Actually, I don't refer to Olympia as our maid, even though that's what the girls call themselves. Somehow, the word maid always brings to my mind a uniformed servant drawing a bubble bath, while her /ady eats breakfast between pink satin bed sheets! And it's nothing like that out here at all. In the first place, the Saipanese expect you to employ them; and in the second place, these girls are used to the climate and don't mind one bit standing over a hot ironing board all day." "T have noticed my ironing increase,' Nancy said. "It seems we are forever taking showers and changing clothes." "Right. Se I Hope you'll forgive me for employing Soledad." N ancy rested her head back on the seat of the car and closed her eyes. Maybe it would be nice having help, after all, especially with twins. It seemed such a long time since the day Grant had thrown her life into a turmoil by asking if she had ever heard of Micronesia. She hadn't really rested her mind since. Maybe, with a house girl, she would be able to unwind from the whole overwhelming experience of being uprooted so abruptly. And it would give her more time to spend with Amy and Skipper. But the first thing I want to do when I get home, she thought, is just to sleep, and sleep, and sleep. The Mortensen car climbed the long winding road to the top of Navy Hill, made its way around a broad clearing marked 48 off as a ball field, and stopped in front of a bright yellow garbage can decorated with oversized daisies. In the doorway of the quonset stood a short, but large, Saipanese woman. "Soledad," Francine said, as they got out of the car, "this is Mr. And Mrs. Jackson, Amy, and Skipper." Soledad leaned over, wrapped her huge brown arms around Skipper and whisked him up into the air. "T like babies," she said. Skipper screamed and kicked. "T not a baby! Put me down! Put me down!" Soledad complied with his wishes, shaking her finger at him. "Baba patgon lahe!" "T'm terribly sorry," Nancy said. "I hope he didn't hurt you. He's probably just tired from the trip." "Baba patgon lahe!" Then she waddled toward the car to get the suitcases, as the rest of them went into the quonset. Nancy whispered to Francine, "Doesn't she speak English?" "Oh, yes. What she said was that Skipper was a bad boy. She speaks English all right— but gets frustrated in pure Chamarro!" Then Charles reached out and put an arm each around Grant and Nancy. "You don't know what it means to us to have you here," he said. "You'll never know. We've been the only Latterday Saints on the island for six years. This is a very special day in our lives." "Which reminds me," Francine said, "I usually hold Primary with our girls on Wednesdays after school. So why don't I take your children home with me and bring them back afterwards, and you can rest." "Don't you want me to come to Primary?": "Take it easy today," Charles laughed. "Next week you can be president! And let's see," he began counting on his fingers, "with Francine' playing our piano for Sunday School, we can also use a chorister. And with more children, we will need a new Sunday School teacher so we can split the membership into age groups. Then we have made it a practice to hold our Family Home Evening on Sunday afternoon to discourage the children from wanting to go to the beach with their friends. And after they're in bed Sunday evenings, Francine and I usually read the lessons in The Relief Society Magazine and discuss. Them. Anyway, rest today. You'll have lots to do from now on." "Sounds marvelous!" Nancy said. "For the last month, I have felt totally inactive." As Grant stood at the window and watched the Mortensens drive away with Skip and Amy, Nancy opened her suitcase and began to look around for places to put things. "IT do dat!" Soledad said, grabbing a pile of clothes. "But I don't really know where I want to put them yet," Nancy said. "T show you." And away she went down the hall to the bedroom. Grant turned around 'smiling. "I guess she told you." Nancy shrugged her shoulders Throw Down the Gauntlet and continued sorting through the suitcases, while Soledad came back for more. "IT saw a box of soap powder on the washer,' Nancy said. "Would you mind washing these few soiled clothes we brought with us, Soledad?" "You buy soap in yellow box!" "What's the matter with the soap in the blue box?" Nancy asked. "Yellow box get clothes clean! American magazine say so!" Grant turned his head and tried to keep a straight face, while Nancy walked out to the kitchen to wash the clothes. Then Soledad began singing "I Wanna Hold Your Hand," at the top of her voice, as she dragged the heaviest suitcase toward the bedroom and then returned. N ancy lifted a root-bound Philodendron, resting in a foilcovered jar, down from the top of the refrigerator. "This thing needs' water," she said, holding it under the faucet. But as the water spilled up over her hand, so did something else. And as two black, beady eyes stared up at her from the back of her hand, Nancy screamed, dropped the _ bottle, and shook all over. "Nancy!" Grant said. "It's only a harmless little gecko!" "Tt was a lizard!" "You scare him!" Soledad accused. "You scare him! Gecko good luck. And you scare him!" Nancy looked at the two of them, shrugged her shoulders in defeat and walked toward the 49 January 1968 bedroom. It was the middle \ of the afternoon, but the bare bed with the cool white sheets looked inviting, so she crawled in between. Her legs ached from sitting so SX long on the plane, and her head ached, just because. As a. Sudden shower began rattling against the quonset, Nancy closed her eyes and tried to imagine what it would be like to have a baby on Saipan. Francine had already warned her about the rose-colored bedding— the philosophy being that Dr. Torres' was a low-budget hospital; that Japanese dye was cheaper than American bleach, so they used color to prevent the sheets from wearing out so fast. Francine had also told her to keep her suitcase packed with everything, including silverware, personal items, and towels— even a jug of drinking water, unless she liked the chlorine density of village water. Thinking about' Francine made Nancy smile and begin to relax into sleep. How good it would be to have a friend who understood.... But sleep seemed only a ote ott Met Hee Met et OL HAS O68 0,0 08M snatch in the dark, when she felt someone shaking her. "Why you slipping so long?" "TI am _ slipping," Nancy echoed, "because I am tired!" "It four o'clock. Bus coming. I make bed. You move!" Nancy obediently got up and walked slowly down the hallway to the living room. "Just think," Grant said, "if she were an automatic modern appliance, you could turn her off! But she'll be back tomorrow morning at seven-thirty. And the morning after that, and the morning after that." Nancy slumped down. Into the couch cushions and looked as if she wanted to cry. "T can hardly wait." (to be continued) %o o%e a% a%ec%e ste ote ate ote em Ot 00 02a oS e ne oFe 016 06 0. POET Dorothy J. Roberts He was made to lark the fields of night, Song out of silence in the birth of light. Hear him singing in the dark alone; He was made for longing deeper than the bone; Made for enduring in the root That we might, hungering, partake of fruit. He was made for shadow and weight of snow; He was made for darkness where lush things grow. | 50 He was made for midnight and for pain, The somber silence and the spoken rain. —_—, aaa ——_ FROM THE All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents. Or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department. Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities os ae # Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) Cookie Village Attraction at Bazaar December 1966 Left to right: Twin Falls Stake Relief Society Officers: Donnie Miller, First Counselor: Marcella Heider, President; Eloise Olsen, Second Counselor. Sister Heider reports: "A cookie village made by Eloise Olsen was the attraction of the annual Christmas Fair in the Twin Falls Stake. This fair was attended by approximately 500 people who were delighted with the Christmas ideas, handicraft, sewing suggestions etc. "The cookie village consisted of a rock candy schoolhouse, a gingerbread house, and two other houses made from a variety of cookies. Christmas scenes placed inside the houses consisted of Mr. And Mrs. Santa Claus, stockings placed at the fireplaces, and even a kitten on the rug. Outside, Christmas lights on the houses delighted the children as they saw Santa going down the chimney of one of the houses. Elevated above the village was a cookie church with an ice cream cone steeple. "Members and nonmembers alike look forward to this event each year." 51 January 1968 Denver Stake (Colorado) Singing Mothers Join With Priesthood in Presenting "The Open Door to Relief Society" March 17, 1967 Eront row, left to right: Ruth Silver, cultural refinement class leader; Jean Flynn, social relations class leader; Daisy Carlock, chorister; Elva Wright, Counselor; lah K. Smith, former President, Denver Stake Relief Society; Leona Haslam, Counselor; Eleanor Larson, Secretary-Treasurer; Donna Godfrey, homemaking leader. Second row, left to right: Mary Nielson, visiting teacher message leader; Katherina Belmain, Magazine representative; Sharron Christensen, organist; Mary Lou Mason; L. Jo Gillen, spiritual living class leader. Sister Smith reports: "On March 17, 1967, in connection with the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society, a truly outstanding spiritual 'family evening' in story and song furnished by the stake Singing Mothers and the stake Melchizidek Priesthood chorus, was enjoyed by a full house of families and friends. Following the program, refreshments were served, and everyone enjoyed viewing the various exhibits portraying and explaining the many phases of the Relief Society program. Cherry B. Silver is the new President of Denver Stake Relief Society. Rigby Stake (Idaho) Rigby Fifth Ward Summer Sewing Classes Summer 1967 Doris B. Cox, President, Rigby Stake Relief Society, reports: "The accomplishments of the Rigby Fifth Ward Relief Society seem to be noteworthy. "Under the supervision of Rhoda Jeppson, homemaking leader, summer sewing classes were given to fifty-eight members, under direction of twelve instructors. The classes were in six divisions: 1. Measurements; 2. Pattern alterations; 3. Marking and cutting; 4. Fitting and sewing; 5. Finishing; 6. Style show. "Gauged upon their previous sewing experiences, the sisters were divided into three groups. Those with little or no experience mage cotton shifts; those having some experience made two-piece cotton dresses; and the experienced seamstresses made woolen dresses. "Donetta George is president of the Rigby Fifth Ward Relief Society." Illinois Stake Short Story and Poetry Contest Winners September 16, 1967 Left to right: Patricia Lamb, third place, poetry; Priscilla Berardi, second place, poetry; Edna S. Browne, first place, poetry; Annette Weenig, first place, short story; Clara K. Allen, honorable mention, poetry. Marnette R. Woolley, President, Illinois Stake Relief Society, reports: "In November 1966, rules were distributed throughout the wards and branches for a Relief Society Short Story and Poetry Contest. Deadline for entries was May 15, 1967. All entries were judged. There were thirteen in the poetry contest and two in the short story. The winners were introduced and read their entries at our Relief Society leadership meeting, September 16, 1967. "A booklet containing all the entries in both contests was distributed at the leadership meeting. Because of the enthusiasm and excellent quality of the winning entries, there has been a great deal of enthusiasm expressed for repeating the contest." Bye January 1968 South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Holds Opening Social September 15, 1967 Standing, left to right: Susan South; Barbara Anderson, chorister; Ardeth Lee, organist; Eleanora B. Allen; Arnold Hillam; Tamera Hinck. Seated: Annalee Allen. Fern C. McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very successful opening social and fashion show was held in our stake. An adaptation of the script 'Speaking of Matilda' was presented. Under the direction of the ward and stake homemaking leaders, 114 models, including whole families, presented the results of summer sewing instructions. "Music by a group of Singing Mothers and a violinist added much to the beauty of the program. A large and enthusiastic audience attended, and we felt they received an insight into the purposes and plan of Relief Society." Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Annual Relief Society Exhibit August 19, 1967 Big Horn Stake Relief Society officers, beginning ninth from left: Lenore Lewis, First Counselor; Hazel Welch, President; Jeanette Buhler, Second Counselor; Rula C. Johnson, Secretary. Remaining sisters are ward presidents of Big Horn Stake Relief Society. Sister Welch reports: 'Big Horn Stake Relief Society held its annual flower, art, and handicraft exhibit in Lovell, Wyoming. The exhibit was themed 'Lovely Things' which proved to be very apt. "Included in the quilt display were an antique bed, handmade quilts, braided rugs, an antique wash stand, with appropriate accessories, a refinished antique love seat and chair. There was some discussion as to which exhibit was most popular, the quilts displayed on the stage, or the two tables covered with cranberry red velvet, used to display gold leafing done by the sisters. "The response of our Relief Society sisters to our displays is most satisfactory. We are continually impressed with their willingness to create and share their beautiful handiwork with others. "A special attraction was a Singing Mothers concert held at the beginning of the show, with nearly 200 voices participating. Refreshments were served by members of the stake board. The event attracted members and nonmembers alike." Miami Stake (Florida), Fort Myers Ward Commemorates Birth of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, left to right: Fort Myers Ward Relief Society Officers: Adene Doran, Secretary-treasurer; Martha Conroy, First Counselor; T. Godfrey Lawrence, Bishop, Fort Myers Ward; Jessie P. Niedfeldt, President; Annie Harington, Second Counselor. Mary Jane Conklin, President, Miami Stake Relief Society, reports: "A background of the society was presented by Martha Conroy. Organ music was presented by Janet Perry and a vocal duet 'Gonna Build a Mountain' was sung by Inez Nychyk and Venetta Law. Rose Burk presented a pioneer testimony. The program was conducted by President Jessie P. Niedfeldt, and accordion selections were played by Jean Bass. The Singing Mothers participated. Bishop and Mrs. T. Godfrey Lawrence, Fort Myers Ward, joined in the program." 54 January 1968 Star Valley Stake (Wyoming), Afton Second Ward Holds Mothers and Daughters Day July 12, 1967 Left to right: Elvira Higley Hansen Lancaster; Nellie Lloyd Roberts; LaVina Hamilton Daughtery; Sarah Pearl Perry Bowles; Elma Welker Draney. Clarissa Merritt, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Afton Second Ward held a Mother and Daughter Day and specially honored the sisters of the ward who were seventy-five or older (pictured). "These ladies and members of their families presented the program which consisted of life sketches, anecdotes, and favorite musical numbers. Each of the sisters was presented with a corsage and a picture. Light refreshments were served to ninety-seven guests." Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Spring Concert April 28, 1967 Front row beginning at left: Jennie W. Murdoch, stake Relief Society President; Florence Lamb, Counselor; Beulah Bradley, Counselor; Zelma Clayson, Secretary; La Raine Jones, musical director; Sandra Armstrong accompanist. The theme for the Spring Concert was "Let All My Life Be Music." Over sixty sisters participated, each wearing a lovely flower to enhance the beauty of springtime in central Utah. Northern States Mission, Nauvoo—South Illinois Bi-District Relief Society Conference, August 4-6, 1967 Standing, left to right: Ramona Wiggins, West Frankfort Branch, (South Illinois District) Relief Society President; Imogene Samples, First Counselor. Seated behind booth: Elizabeth Jewel Taylor. Artemesia H. Henderson, Supervisor, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "Two of the districts in our mission combined to hold a most successful three day Relief Society Conference. Theme for the conference was 'Roll on to Perfection—Get Up and Go.' It was held on the Robert Morris Junior College campus at Carthage, Illinois. The conference was under the direction of Dorothy McLaughlin, President, Nauvoo District Relief Society; and Anita Wiley, President, South Illinois District Relief Society. "The first day of the conference began with a tour of the Carthage Jail, and ended with a talent show. On the following day classes for all phases of Relief Society were held in the morning. In the afternoon a bazaar was held. One of the booths is pictured. The day ended with a banquet and style show. The climax of the conference was a Sunday morning testimony meeting on the banks of the Mississippi River in Nauvoo, at the place where the saints began their westward journey." 56 January 1968 ~ ORZ VisiTING FEACHING. 2 70 Washington Terrace Stake (Ogden, Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention August 19, 1967 Washington Terrace Stake Relief Society Board: Front row, left to right: Lorna |. Hirschi, organist; Sue P. McKean, Second Counselor; Adelphia D. Bingham, President; Jean D. Tilleman, First Counselor; Donna N. Davidson, Secretary. Second row, left to right: Helen M. Swaner, chorister; Miriam D. Kitchen, social relations leader; Doris H. Knowles, homemaking leader; Edna B. Goodliffe, Magazine representative; Doreen B. Maybury, visiting teacher message leader; Arlene |. Miller, cultural refinement leader. Adelphia D. Bingham, President, Washington Terrace Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held one of the most successful visiting teacher conventions ever. The theme was 'Visiting Teaching World Wide.' Special awards were given to the sisters for achievements in visiting teaching. Washington Terrace Fourth and Sixth Wards tied for the honor of having the highest percentage visiting teaching for the year, and each was presented with a copy of History of Relief Society. "A skit, 'A New Look at Relief Society, was presented and an excellent luncheon was served. The tables were decorated in keeping with the theme and featured dolls, in pairs, dressed in costumes representing various countries where Relief Society is organized. In addition, gladioli in various shades were used on the tables. "We feel it was an outstanding function and well worth all the effort that was expended." 58 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 87—"Be Thou Humble" (D&C 112:10) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 112) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman views her own life in light of the commandment to be humble, with the great promised blessings INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith wrote that, during the year 1837, a spirit of speculation in lands and property of all kinds, which was prevalent throughout the country, took hold of the members of the Church. Out of this practice other evils developed, such as faultfinding, evil-surmising, dissension, and apostasy. He said that no quorum of the Church was entirely exempt from the influence of these evil powers, and that even some of the Twelve Apostles were overcome with this spirit. Amidst this unrest and apostasy, the Lord revealed to him that "something new must be done for the salvation of His Church." (DHC Il:487.) As a result, the resulting therefrom. First foreign mission of the Church was organized under the leadership of Elder Heber C. Kimball of the Quorum of the Twelve. Consequently, in June 1837, he was set apart to preside over the missionary work in England. The same day the gospel of Jesus Christ was first preached in England, the Lord gave Section 112 for the special benefit of Elder Thomas B. Marsh, President of the Quorum of the Twelve, and also for the other members of that Quorum. (DHC II:487-499.) A TRUTH FOR EVERYONE Especially important for Elder Marsh was the following truth: Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and 59 January 1968 give thee answer to thy prayers. (D&C 112:10.) Throughout the Doctrine and Covenants there are revealed truths which, though addressed to individuals, are nonetheless applicable to all members of the Church. These scriptures are known as universal truths because of their applicability to everyone. Such is the one quoted above. FOLLOW THE MASTER The exemplar of humility was the Savior. He was completely submissive to the will of his Father in heaven. Premortally Jesus was one of the Godhead and Creator of many worlds before he came to earth. (Moses 2:26; Colossians 1:16-17.) In that life he desired that the fulness of honor be given to the Father at the time of the Council in Heaven, when decisions were reached concerning the eternal advancement of the spirit children of the Father. (Moses 4:1-4.) In the plan of salvation, Jesus willingly submitted to the will of the Father in becoming the Atoner of man. (John 17:4; Luke 22:39-45.) Every member of the Church should reflect upon the cost of the atonement made by Jesus, for the price was very great in terms of suffering. (D&C 19:15-19.) During his ministry he _ became the pattern for all men. In regard to baptism, which he taught was essential, Jesus showed the way by humbling himself before the Father in submitting to baptism. (2 Nephi 31:5-10.) 60 Class Discussion If you were to follow the Savior in the virtue of humility, what kind of changes would you make in your life? WHY HUMILITY? The first answer to a query by the Latter-day Saint as to why he should be humble, is that God has commanded men to be humble. The benefits of being humble must also give the answer to the need for this virtue. If humility is to submit oneself to the will of God, then it follows that salvation in his kingdom is_ obtainable' only through this. Virtue. (Mosiah 3:18-19.) What, according to the revelations, makes of this quality the pathway to salvation? Obedience to the commandments is the first essential. (Matt. 7:21.) The Lord blesses the person of humility. In what ways? (1) He "shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers." (D&C 112:10.) (2) The Lord's Spirit enlightens the humble. ([bid., 136:33.) (3) "Let him that is ignorant learn wisdom by humbling himself" (bid., v. 32.) (4) The promise of seeing and knowing the Lord is made to the humble. (Ibid., 67:10.) (5) His arm of mercy is extended to the humble in freeing them of bondage. (Mosiah 29:18-20.) (6) The weak are made strong and are thus able to fulfill other commandments. (Ether 12:26-27.) (7) They receive knowledge. (D&C 1:28.) (8) The blessing of assisting the Lord in his work comes to the humble. (Jbid., 12:8.) LESSONS IN HUMILITY As the Savior ministered unto all, even to the giving of his life, so we also should become the servants of all in exercising the virtue of humility. (Matt. 20: 25-28.) The apostle Paul testified that he had made himself servant of all that he might gain the more. (I Cor. 9:19.) Might not Latter-day Saints develop the quality of humility, as commanded, in order that they also "might gain the more," even life eternal? Six months after the Church was organized, the Lord gave a revelation for the benefit of Thomas B. Marsh, the same person who is the subject of the revelation from which the scripture-theme of this lesson is taken. He was counseled to govern his house in meekness. (D&C 31:9.) But he failed to be sufficiently humble when his wife was convicted of a dishonest deed. As a result, Brother Marsh, in a period of disaffection, left the Church because of his lack of humility. Due to his pride and arrogance and unwillingness to follow the leadership of the Church, he apostatized while President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, in 1838. HOW TO DEVELOP HUMILITY Among the ways by which the virtue of humility may be acquired are the following: (1) to place one's full trust in Jesus Christ as his Atoner; (2) by fasting and prayer; (3) through diligent study of the plan of salvation; (4) by being teachable; and (5) elimination of vices opposed to humility. TRUST IN CHRIST The first principle of the gosLesson Department pel is faith in Jesus Christ as the Only Begotten Son of God. As the Savior of men through the atonement, he satisfied the demands of justice and mercy for all men. (Alma 42:5-15; Moroni 7:39-42.) The humble person recognizes that there is no salvation in this world nor in the world to come without faith in Christ as his Redeemer. (2 Nephi 9:6-13.) FASTING AND PRAYER One of the most beneficial practices to develop humility is to place oneself in subjection to the Father through fasting and prayer. By fasting one shows his willingness to subject his physical appetite to his own will and to God's will by keeping the commandment. Sometimes one must force himself to obey and thus, in gaining one victory, he is prepared for other accomplishments. President Brigham Young once said that if a person did not feel like praying, he should get down on his knees and stay there until he felt like it. (Journal of Discourses 16:28.) By yielding one's heart to God in fasting and praying, one becomes stronger in faith and humility. (Helaman 3:55.) DILIGENT STUDY It seems inconsistent to believe that a member of the Church can be ignorant of the principles of the gospel and remain fully subject to the Father. Certainly, no man can be saved in ignorance. (D&C 131:6.) To do the will of the Father, it is necessary to know what his will is. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that if a person did not get 61 January 1968 knowledge, he would be brought into captivity by some evil power from the other world. (DHC IV:588.) The humble person is he who has a deep, abiding faith in the Lord. Elder John A. Widtsoe has pointed out that,... The extent of a person's faith depends in part on the amount of his knowledge. The degree of faith possessed by any man depends not upon the extent of his knowledge, but upon the certainty of his knowledge, which leads to the proper use of his knowledge. (Joseph Smith, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, 1951 edition, p. 163.) An important factor in having the assurance of gospel truth is not only to have an academic knowledge of the gospel, but also to receive the Spirit of the Lord testifying of its truth. President Brigham Young, in this way, admonished the saints to receive this blessing: Let us be humble, fervent, submissive, yielding ourselves to the will of the Lord, and there is no danger but that we shall have His Spirit to guide us. (Journal of Discourses 13:155.) Class Discussion Show why a knowledge of the gospel _can develop humility. BEING TEACHABLE An important phase of humility is teachableness; that is, the ability to place oneself in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The person who is unteachable, hard to accept revelation, lacks the necessary humility. The comparison between the adult who is saved in the kingdom of God and the little child, best illustrates the quality of teachableness and the need for it. The Savior placed a child be- 62 fore his disciples and gave two requirements for them to enter the kingdom of heaven: (1) become converted and; (2) become as little children. His closing point was: Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. (Matt. 18:1-4.) Reliance upon the scriptures was enjoined upon the Church by the Twelve Apostles, in 1838, as follows: Be careful that you teach not for the word of God the commandments of men, nor the doctrines of men, nor the ordinances of men, inasmuch as you are God's messengers. Study the word of God, and preach it and not your opinions, for no man's opinion is worth a straw. Advance no principle but what you can prove, for one scriptural proof is worth ten thousand opinions. (DHC II11:395- 396.) Class Discussion What makes a humble person teachable? ELIMINATION OF VICES The last suggestion as to how one may develop the quality of humility is to eliminate every barrier to one's success in that development. The vice found in the revelations which is opposed to humility is inordinate pride. Inordinate pride has_ several manifestations, such as boasting and vainglory. Pride is condemned in the scriptures because it is the opposite of humility. It is selfesteem arising out of one's possessions, position, or accomplishments. The apostle John wrote: 1 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. (I John 2:15-16.) Boasting is a manifestation of pride. When people boast about their wealth, education, business ability, physical prowess, or works of righteousness, they lack humility. Vainglory is extreme self-pride or excessive ostentatious vanity. The apostle Paul counseled nothing be done in vainglory but that all should esteem others better than themselves. (Phil. 2:3.) Class Discussion Should the Latter-day Saint believe that he should eliminate all pride from his life, or that inordinate pride is the evil? HUMILITY IS STRENGTH The gospel of Jesus Christ extols humility as a prime requisite to eternal life. Submission to the will of God is the key to happiness here and eternal joys in the life to come. As already mentioned in this lesson, the Savior was the epitome of meekness. In his promise to the faithful he declared that, in accepting him, one would receive rest to his soul, for he was "meek and lowly in heart." (Matt. 11:29.) Service to others is an integral part of the gospel plan; consequently, one may understand why humility is a basic ingrediz= = Lesson Department ent of that plan, for without humility the greatest service to man would not be rendered. Jesus' humility did not conflict with his strong condemnation of the Pharisees and lawyers who ignored the spirit of the law. (Luke 11:37-54.) He vigorously taught the truth without fear, even to the giving of his life for that truth. (Mark 14:43-65.) The person possessed of humility is strong. Living the gospel gives strength over weakness. Assisted by the Holy Ghost the member of the Church rises above the base, worldly vices and, being armed with truth and righteousness, is possessed of a power that may eventually culminate in the powers of godhood. Class Discussion Explain why one can be humble and yet be forceful in his promulgation of gospel truth. IMPLEMENTATION To be humble requires submission to the will of the Father as instructed in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The objective of this lesson will be realized when those who come within its influence learn why the Lord requires that his people incorporate this virtue into their lives. It will not be accomplished until each person develops a program of soul searching to determine wherein he lacks the qualities which are found in the truly humble person. Eal 63 January 1968 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 7—Courage and Love Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To be a loving friend or a good neighbor may require courage. Have you ever wronged someone with gossip, angry words, or false accusations? When you met her next how did you feel? Was it easy to be friendly? Did you tend to avoid her? Have you ever had a friend who fell into disfavor, committed a crime, or made mistakes which made him despised, disliked, or scorned by others? Have you known someone who was highly esteemed one day, and without money, power, position, or influence the next? Did you immediately or eventually react differently to him? To admit a wrong, to endure rejection, disappointment, misunderstanding, to risk safety, security, reputation, well-being, for an unpopular but righteous cause, or for the love of a friend requires courage. "There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear." (I John 4:18.) Dr. Jones was a_- brilliant woman, contributing much understanding to the world. She was busy and immersed in her work. She rejected her neighbor, Sister Link, who was not of her faith, and she barely spoke to 64 her. Repeated attempts by Sister Link to be a friend had been rebuffed. One day, seeing Dr. Jones out in her garden, Sister Link had the courage to try again. She went over and said, "T wish I could grow such beautiful flowers. Do you have a moment to tell me how you do it?" Dr. Jones' garden was her avocation. Within the hour she had given both advice and flowers to Sister Link. Now Dr. Jones goes over often to inquire about how "our" plants are doing. During a recent illness of Sister Link's husband, she even brought food to the family. Another woman, a Mrs. Schmidt, no longer spoke to her next-door neighbors. The neighbor's children broke her windows, threw trash in her yard, lined bottles up against her home and woke her up in the night by breaking them with stones. Mrs. Schmidt grew afraid of them and avoided them. Her daughter-in-law came to live with her for the summer. She said, "Mother, they can't be all bad. Maybe they behave so because they are ostracized by all the neighbors." One day, the daughter-in-law took them some newly baked bread. The children were amazed and delighted. Repeated kindnesses began to have an effect. The daughter-in-law invited them over to play with her children. She heard the neighbor's children using foul language. Going into the yard, she explained firmly that such language should not be used. The offending children never spoke such words again in her y D) Lesson Department hearing. Through her courageous love, the children responded with respect and love. It takes courage to find ways to love when one is rebuffed and rejected. To lead out while others wait is not easy. Serving God and one's fellow men without the approval of friends and neighbors requires conviction and fearlessness. As we grow in love we realize that "perfect love casteth out fear." (I John 4:18). {( 4 »») a TO THE NEW OWNER Ruth G. Rothe Be careful as you walk along the path The plants close by are young and fragile there, They must be given very gentle care Especially around the white bird bath. The rooms are done in pale simplicity, Not very modern as compared to some; But | am sure that you will soon succumb And share their offering of felicity. Yes, this has been a place of joy supreme, Where children's laughter echoed in the halls; But now stark silence burdens all the walls And | must find another place to dream. So, if you plan some changes (as you might), In this my cherished love-enshrined domain, But one small thing | ask, let it remain Just as it is, till | am out of sight. 65 January 1968 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 7—The Bedrooms—Wake Up Smiling Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show that comfortable, attractive, quiet bedrooms can contribute to the physical well-being of the family. NOTE: it will be necessary to adapt this discussion to the circumstances of the sisters living in the various areas of the world. It must be remembered, however, that these discussions aim to raise the standards of homemaking and should be adapted with this in mind. INTRODUCTION During the past few months we have been discussing the different rooms of the house in their relation to and their effect upon the family who lives in them. The bedroom, which is our immediate concern, is the most intimate as well as the most personal of all the rooms in the house. It is at once a refuge— for it shuts the world out—and a sanctuary—for it shuts us in. We should come back from that private world of sleep physically refreshed and spiritually renewed. While. Keeping in mind the individual differences of the family members—the likes and dislikes, the dispositions, the ages and sexes, and other pertinent considerations—and the adaptations which may be necessary in each case, we are aware that there are some qualities which are basic to any bedroom if it is to produce the desired results. 66 It should be clean, comfortable, and convenient; it should be pleasant and attractive; and it should insure privacy and quiet to those who will occupy it. THE BEDROOM SHOULD BE COMFORTABLE What is complete comfort in a bedroom today? To begin with, it is the difference between just a room to sleep in and a place where everything is conducive to sleeping comfort. Such comfort doesn't require a large room or an excessive expenditure of money, but it does require organization of space and wise planning of the furnishings for convenience and comfort. Any bedroom can be comfortable if these requirements are met. One of our most modern decorators says, "Many people aren't nearly as comfortable in their bedroom as they might be. And it's not because they need a great deal of money to spend there—it is just because they haven't given the question any thought at all." What you sleep on—the mattress and springs—plays a big part in determining whether or not you will get the refreshing sleep that relaxes muscles and releases tensions built up during the day. You should buy the best mattress that you can afford. Economize on the bed itself rather than on the mattress and springs. Very attractive beds can be improvised at a _ cost which will more than offset the amount spent for the best mattress and springs. The _ best mattress to buy will be the one which is best for you—the one, whether hard of soft, which contributes the most to your comfort and health. The quality of your bedding and the importance of its being just right for you cannot be stressed too much. The size and weight of the bedding, and kind of pillow, the degree of light, the temperature—al! Affect the comfort of the sleeper and thus the quality of the sleep. A noted psychologist says, "Indulge your slightest whim in connection with the comfort of your sleeping environment. Anything matters if it helps you improve your sleep." THE BEDROOM SHOULD BE PLEASANT AND ATTRACTIVE AND QUIET If there is one room in the house where you should be more happy and more at ease than any other it is the bedroom. The more pleasant this room is, the more rejuvenating will be the hours spent there. Good rest Lesson Department stems from more than a comfortable bed, important as that bed is. If the room is gloomy and unattractive, these qualities destroy whatever other virtues that room may have. On the other hand, a pleasant, attractive environment can have a positive therapeutic value. Surroundings which please the eye and appeal to the esthetic senses of sight and sound and touch will improve the quality of sleep and invite forgetfulness of the worries and stresses of the day. Certainly, then, your bedroom deserves to be the most attractive place you can possibly make it. Here, again, the emotional effect of color should never be underestimated. With the intelligent use of color you can bring life, added warmth, and an actual feeling of glow to an otherwise lifeless room, or you can bring an atmosphere of rest and relaxation to one which lacks these qualities. You can even use color to give the illusion of added space to a small room or achieve the opposite result when a room is "barny" and needs to be made more intimate and cozy. To Discuss Discuss available sources for obtaining ideas in achieving color harmony and other decorating skills. Harmonious bed linens, draperies, and rugs add to the restful quality as well as to the beauty of the bedroom. When space is limited, the use of mirrors can double the apparent size of the rooms. The correct use of light and appropriate light fixtures can do much in helping 67 January 1968 to create an attractive environment. The more soft materials there are present the more subdued will be the sounds. Soft carpeting and draperies hung in folds rather than straight will also help to lessen the sound. Joints and hinges on doors and drawers and furniture can be made free from squeaks and harsh, grating sound by the application of a lubricant or a little carpentry work. To Discuss A pleasant and attractive bedroom is an individual responsibility. CONCLUSION Since one-third or more of life is spent in sleep it is imperative that the mother make every effort to provide for her family a desirable place where healthful, adequate rest may be obtained. SOCIAL RELATIONS-A Light Unto the World Lesson 7—Home and the School Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 OBJECTIVE: To point out that an understanding of the purpose of education, at all levels, is of value to both mother and student. INTRODUCTION This lesson points out some general purposes of education and emphasizes areas where the Latter-day Saint mother may give support to her children and to the school. Church views relative to education are stressed. Although academic requirements, organizational patterns, building facilities, and the means of supporting schools' vary throughout the world, some ob- 68 jectives are basic and common to all public and to all Latterday Saint operated schools. It will be well for the class leader to select for full discussion, areas of the lesson which apply specifically to her group, using the nomenclature of her particular country. THE HOME AND EDUCATION Education begins at home. It is there that the infant makes first contact with the realities of earth life, with all its tools for learning. He learns to observe and to know, through seeing, through hearing, and through personally experiencing. The home is thus of first importance in education, and the first four or five years are especially important. The home, however, is not equipped to give specific training in skills needed in today's complex world; it is not equipped to give scientific nor technical training commensurate with the world's demands. It is obvious that some formal education, either private, church, or public, is essential and invaluable. Questions 1. What is the home equipped to give, generally, relative to education? 2. Where and when should character training be given? CHURCH VIEWS ON EDUCATION The Latter-day Saint point of view relative to education is expressed by President David O. McKay as follows:... The Church stands for education. The very purpose of its organization is to promulgate truth among men. Members of the Church are admonished to acquire learning by study, and also by faith and prayer, and to seek after everything that is virtuous, lovely, of good report, or praiseworthy. In_ this seeking after truth they are not confined to narrow limits of dogma or creed, but are free to launch into the realm of the infinite, for they know that "Truth is truth where'er 'tis found, Whether on Christian or on heathen ground." Indeed, one of the fundamental teachings of the Church is that salvation Lesson Department itself depends upon knowledge; for, says the revelation, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance," (D&C 131:6) and again, "... If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (Ibid, 130:19.)... True education does not consist merely in the acquiring of a few facts of science, history, literature, or art, but in the development of character. (David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, pp. 440,442.) President Brigham Young speaks of education and the Latter-day Saint in the following words: We should be a people of profound learning pertaining to the things of the world. We should be familiar with the various languages, for we wish to send missionaries to the different nations and to the islands of the sea.... We also wish them to understand the geography, habits, customs, and laws of nations and kingdoms... How gladly would we understand every principle pertaining to science and art, and become thoroughly acquainted with every intricate operation of nature, and with all the chemical changes that are constantly going on around us! How delightful this would be, and what a boundless field of truth and power is open for us to explore! We are only just approaching the shores of the vast ocean of information that pertains to this physical world, to say nothing of that which pertains to the heavens, to angels and celestial beings, to the place of their habitation, to the manner of their life, and their progress to still higher degrees of perfection. Our education should be such as to improve our minds and fit us for increased usefulness; to make us of greater service to the human family; to enable us to stop our rude methods of living, speaking, and thi. King. We shall never see the time when we shall not need to be taught, nor when there will not be an object to be gained. I never expect to see the time that there will not be a superior power and a superior knowledge, and, consequently, incitements to further progress and further improvements. (John A. Widtsoe, 69 January 1968 Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 254, 255, 248.) Class Involvement Discuss briefly how the Church view of education supports the principle of eternal progression. CHURCH SUPPORT OF EDUCATION From the foregoing quotations it is evident that the Church recognizes the value of both secular and religious education; that it encourages its members to take advantage of opportunities to gain knowledge and to use it constructively in their daily lives. The Church so strongly belives in the value of formal education that it has established and maintains many schools, embracing different levels of learning. Some of these schools are located in areas where there are few other opportunities for education. In some cases, it would not be available, otherwise. The schools enumerated will indicate how world-wide is the influence of Church support of education. MEXICO—thirty schools, twenty-eight of which are elementary AMERICAN SAMOA—one high school WESTERN SAMOA—three elementary and one four-year high school (Church College of Western Samoa) TONGA—eleven middle schools (fourth, fifth, and sixth grades) and one high school TAHITI—one elementary school NEW ZEALAND—one college, with training equal to four years of U. S. High school plus one year of college work, English school pattern UNITED STATES—one junior college (Rexburg, Idaho), one business college (Salt Lake City, Utah), one liberal arts college (Hawaii), and one large university (Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah) SOUTH AMERICA—three elementary schools (Santiago, Chile) 70 Some idea of the importance of Church interest and influence in the field of education may be gained when we consider that, as of May 1967, there were 187,707 students enrolled in Church operated, general education schools, including Seminaries and Institutes of Religion. Class Involvement 1. What place does the home occupy in this vast educational program? 2. How can the mother, generally, help her children receive maximum benefit from these schools? THE CHURCH AND HIGHER EDUCATION All who have followed the growth and development of the Church know that its leaders have ever been mindful of the importance of higher education. Even in the early days of Nauvoo, when the _ Restored Church was in its infancy, plans for higher education took their place beside those of city building and domestic commerce. We read that the leaders hoped the city would become an educational center,... For already steps had been taken towards founding a university, and the keen interest which President Smith and his followers had ever manifested in education, gave every promise that Nauvoo in time would be one of the prominent centers of higher education in the United States. (A Comprehensive History of The Church, B. H. Roberts, Vol. 2, p. 180.) Due to persecution and expulsion of the saints from Nauvoo, this dream was not realized. It did, however, find fulfillment in the valley of the mountains with the founding of the University of Deseret, only three years after the pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley. This institution later became the University of Utah, and is now State operated. Brigham Young University, founded in 1875, now most nearly represents the dream and planning of the Church for the advanced training of its members. It is the largest institution of higher learning in Utah and there, in a generally cultural and religious atmosphere, classes in religion, as well as those of a strictly academic nature, are a part of the curriculum. Included in its large and increasing enrollment, are some Church members from Europe, the islands of the Pacific, South America, Asia, and North American Indians. THE CHURCH AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION The Church so strongly believes in formal religious education that it has established and maintains seminaries and institutes of religion in areas where there are enough Church members to warrant them. The purpose of the seminary, to teach the principles of the gospel, is accomplished through an organized study of the standard works of the Church. Embraced in the courses are such values as the responsibility of good citizenship, obedience and respect for law, respect for the rights of others, and love and appreciation for home and family. Students of high school age are thus given more intensive religious training than the Church auxiliaries, meeting but once a week, are equipped to give. A large selection of elective religious courses are taught by Lesson Department an able faculty at each of the institutes of religion for the benefit of college students and other interested adults. Class Involvement 1. Where can the Latter-day Saint mother obtain information regarding the seminary program? (Consult home teachers or your bishop.) 2. In what specific ways can the mother encourage her children to take advantage of this religious training and otherwise cooperate with the program? THE VOCATIONAL SCHOOL Various situations often make it neither possible nor feasible for some young people to seek college or advanced university training. Fortunately for these individuals and for society, vocational schools (called trade or apprentice schools or the technical college in some areas) offer excellent educational opportunities. Here occupational training is given to prepare the students to become auto mechanics, laboratory technicians, practical nurses, carpenters, machine-dye fabricators, and for many handcraft industries. These individuals fill an essential role in today's growing economy. In some areas they materially reduce unemployment problems. SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL The elementary school program ordinarily introduces a child to formal education. Here he is given experiences which form the foundation for all later education, and, as such, are extremely important. Specific purposes and patterns of organization may vary widely in different countries where Church members attend school. Generally, how- 71 January 1968 ever, the objectives for public instruction of the young are in harmony with the _ following purposes: 1. To teach children the basic skills of reading, writing, and mathematical reasoning. 2. To help children develop and maintain desirable habits and attitudes for healthful living, and to promote emotional stability through experiences which make them feel wanted, successful, and important. 3. To help children develop a sense of moral values which will prompt them to act with respect for self and ethical concern for others. Class Involvement 1. To what extent may the home reinforce or nullify the purposes of the elementary school? 2. Where can honesty in taking examinations and other school activities most effectively be taught? 3. How important to the student is the mother's affiliation with a parentteacher group, in areas where such exist? JUNIOR AND SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL The junior and senior high school program, representing in the United States ages about twelve to eighteen, provides training to meet needs of the adolescent and young adult. The students further their interest, among others, in industrial arts, literature, homemaking, history, foreign languages, music, art, student government, speech, drama, and _ physical education. They learn to be more critical in observation, more individually responsible for their own actions. In spite of this stimulating program which embraces needed and challenging objectives, far too many students fail to finish through the high school. 72 Class Involvement (Select one or two:) 1. How important may a mother's attitude toward education be, in keeping her children in school? 2. Which, in your opinion, is most likely to cause high school dropouts: (1) lack of motivation; (2) inability to keep up with academic requirements; (3) failure to adapt to social situations; (4) desire to make money? EDUCATION ON COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY LEVEL Attending a college or university is costly. It is, therefore, important that both student and parent know (1) what may be gained from higher education, and (2) what general conditions may be encountered. Since the student goes to college to learn, and to enlarge his understanding in many areas, he may expect to receive a training, by qualified professors, that will help him earn a living and make him more useful to society. He may expect to have facilities for study and regular classes without disturbance. Many professions require advanced educational training. For Discussion 1. What benefits may one expect to obtain through a higher education? 2. What ways are there to accumulate means to finance a child's higher education? THE NEAR FUTURE Challenging experiments in the field of education are being carried out today. It is believed by progressive educator groups that children, even infants, can be taught some disciplines of education at an earlier age than has been generally believed. They believe that through suitable motivation and increased ability to read, learning capacity may be increased and behavior problems forestalled. Latter-day Saint mothers may profit by becoming alert to the advances of new methods and techniques, when they have been found to be useful and of permanent value. SUMMARY The Church teaches that we cannot be saved in ignorance. It therefore encourages and supports both secular and religious education as a means of acquirLesson Department ing knowledge. The Church also teaches the importance of the home in establishing and maintaining attitudes receptive to those teachings which make for good, wholesome, and_ useful living. With such cooperation, we may then eventually understand why "The glory of God is intelligence." (D&C 93:36.) FOR HOME DOING Learn how you may support your local schools. Exercise your voting franchise by voting for good school administrators. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 6—"The Substance of Faith" Elder Robert K. Thomas (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) "Faith is the substance of things hoped for.' —New Testament, Hebrews 11:1 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 OBJECTIVE: When her life is lighted by eternal principles, a woman can live both in and above the world. (Note to Class Leader: A consideration of the painting ''Life From Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt, American Painter, and Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University, and his commentary thereon, as printed on page 688, 691, of the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine, will be a part of this lesson.) This lesson opens with a consideration of Matthew Arnold's well-known poem "Dover Beach": The sea is calm to-night. The tide is full, the moon lies fair Upon the straits;—on the French coast the light Gleams and is gone; the cliffs of England stand, Glimmering and vast, out in the tranquil bay. ES January 1968 Come to the window, sweet is_ the night-air! Only, from the long line of spray Where the sea meets the moon-blanch'd land Listen! You hear the grating roar Of pebbles which the waves draw back, and fling At their return, up the high strand, Begin, and cease, and then again begin, With tremulous cadence slow, and bring The eternal note of sadness in. Sophocles long ago Heard it on the Aegean, and it brought Into his mind the turbid ebb and flow Of human misery; we Find also in the sound a thought Hearing it by this distant northern sea. The sea of faith Was once, too, at the full, and round earth's shore Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd. But now I only hear Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar, Retreating to the breath Of the night-wind down the vast edges drear And naked shingles of the world. Ah, love, let us be true To one another! For the world, which seems To lie before us like a land of dreams, So various, so beautiful, so new Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain; And we are here as on a darkling plain Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight. Where ignorant armies clash by night. This poem has been so often analyzed and so widely praised for its imagery and diction that its message has almost assumed a minor role. Critics dismiss Arnold's suggestion that faith in human love must replace religious faith as a typical nineteenth century' reaction to scientific discoveries which were calling many accepted beliefs into doubt. If such criticism is 74 valid—and the perspective of a century would seem to support such a view—perhaps we need to see what this poem tells us about the religious faith it is so willing to abandon. Arnold's basic image—faith as a tide—suggests that he does not expect religious faith to remain constant. As waters rise and fall, so faith may be more evident (or perhaps more possible) in certain epochs. Even more interesting is the secondary image of faith as a "bright girdle." The obvious picture here is a decorative sash or belt encircling the world. The connotations of such a picture are revealing: Faith may be attractive but it is binding, restrictive. It also tries to include too much. Such a concept of faith implies an emphasis on conventional religion rather than on God. For it is quite possible to fall short of joy, peace, love, light, and help for pain if our devotional efforts are focused in forms and creeds. The tragedy of this poem is not that religious faith is impossible, but that a mechanical substitute for a dynamic belief in God should be assumed to be religious faith. In one sense this poem may have been written before its time. Only a few of Arnold's contemporaries were moved by it in spite of its metrical finesse and beautifully modulated imagery. It is the twentieth century to which this poem speaks its cosmic sadness. FOR DISCUSSION Why is Arnold's shift from religious faith to faith in human love lable to be disappointing? "FAITH AND THE FUTURE" BY JOSEPH MAZZINI In his essay, "Faith and the Future," Joseph Mazzini, almost an exact contemporary of Arnold, is under no such illusions. If Arnold reaches for individual, human love, Mazzini points out how short-lived and ineffectual any human relationship must be that is not based on a profound faith in that which transcends individual whim. It is not even enough to shift our loyalty from the single person to the group, for humanity is only an aggregation of individuals until they are integrated by "an aim capable of embracing life as a whole." Joseph, or Guiseppe, Mazzini (1805-1872) was born at Genoa, Italy.. A precocious young man, he became a student of literature at the university of Genoa, but soon gave most of his energies to the liberation of his country. After a life of activist, idealistic effort in behalf of human freedom, Mazzini was convinced that only faith in God can build a world in which liberty and equality will be truly possible. In the final paragraph of the section we have included in the text, Mazzini describes the advvent of Christ as follows: "He bent over the corpse of the dead world, and whispered a word of faith. Over the clay that had lost all of man but the movement and the form, he uttered words until then unknown, Love, Sacrifice, a heavenly origin. And the dead arose." This is not only powerful imagery; it is an almost irresistible appeal. We, too, feel aroused, ready to justify our rebirth. Lesson Department For Discussion Although Joseph Mazzini wrote his article on "Faith and the Future' almost a century ago, what help might a reading of this material provide for the leaders of movements emphasizing _ individual rights in our own day? "FIRST LESSON" BY PHILIP BOOTH "First Lesson" by Philip Booth lets us see a persuasive instance of substituting faith in nature for faith in God. In one sense, faith in nature can be called faith in God's handiwork, but even such a shifting of emphasis can be damaging, for it suggests that man's function on earth is to adapt to the natural forces which surround him. Some adaptation is necessary, but the person who is only trying to find his place will never know the development which the person who both finds and makes his place will experience. As The Book of Mormon reminds us, natural man is not necessarily the ally of God. We must overcome the world, as well as live in it. "SONNET III" BY GEORGE SANTAYANA Rather unexpected support for this Book of Mormon position comes from a famous philosopher who wrote a five-volume work entitled Life of Reason, but also composed poems questioning the primacy of reason at the same time. His poetry was so much more convincing that readers today still enjoy George Santayana's poetry while almost ignoring his philosophic writing. In "Sonnet III," which follows, Professor Santayana contrasts "the soul's invincible surmise" with the "torch of smoky pine" which is all human 7) January 1968 reason and knowledge can provide. O world, thou choosest not the better part! It is not wisdom to be only wise, And on the inward vision close the eyes, But it is wisdom to believe the heart. Columbus found a world and had no chart, Save one that faith deciphered in the skies; To trust the soul's invincible surmise Was all his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine That lights the pathway but one step ahead Across a void of mystery and dread. Bid, then, the tender light of faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Unto the thinking of the thought divine. For Discussion Why does Santayana suggest in the last few lines of his sonnet that only the heart can be led to "thinking of the thought divine'? "FAITH" BY WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN The most famous orator of his day, William Jennings Bryan, next outlines the kinds of faith which a man who wants to achieve must have. In the story which follows. This _ selection, "Jacob and the Indians,' too long to be included here, Stephen Vincent Benét lets us see a young man who exemplifies the four kinds of faith Bryan had asked for: faith in oneself, faith in others, faith in country, and faith in God. For Discussion List the ways in which Jacob Stein has grown up between his two interviews with Raphael Sanchez. "THE TIDE OF FAITH" BY GEORGE ELIOT, AND "A GOOD NIGHT" BY FRANCIS QUARLES George Eliot's "The Tide of 76 * HAWAIL wan is. Fe. 16 * MEXICO Feb. 16 * EUROPE 16 days to 5 weeks, from $275 (from New York) * TEXAS HEMISFAIR * PALMYRA PAGEANT * ALASKA ADVENTURE For alt travel and ticketing arrangements Ke l TRAVEL we Ny 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 30 4 £8898; 571-032 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Faith" repeats the image used by Arnold and in so doing shares some of Arnold's problems. George Eliot was the penname of Mary Ann Evans (1819- 1880). Self-educated for the most part, she read widely and became proficient enough in languages to translate both Feuerbach and Spinoza. By 1858 she had written her first prose fiction. With Adam Bede, in 1859, she _ became famous. Despite her unquestioned success aS a writer of prose, she persisted in writing poetry, and a small number of her poems were printed. Today, only the famous line "O, might I join the choir invisible" is widely remembered from her poetic work. "A Good Night" by Francis Quarles, however, demonstrates BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2. B55) Zone 5 -80 Zone 3......., -60 Zone 6.... -90 Zone 4... = -65 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 8 owe 1.20 Ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, '"Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. Lesson Department the results of faith in God effective terms. Unquestioning in particularly Close now thine eves and rest secure; Thy soul is safe enough, thy body sure; He that loves thee, he that keeps And guards thee, never slumbers, never sleeps. The smiling conscience in a_ sleeping breast Has only peace, has only rest. The music and the mirth of kings Are all but very discords, when she sings; Then close thine eyes and rest secure; No sleep so sweet as thine, no rest so sure. Note how the long vowel sounds of Quarles' diction reinforce the mood of peace and certainty. The opening couplet and the closing one have identical rhymes, suggesting the very state that the words secure and sure stand for. For Discussion There is a lullaby quality about Quarles' "A Good Night." Why. Beyond the title of this poem, is such a mood appropriate? "THE WILL TO BELIEVE" BY WILLIAM JAMES The final selection for this lesson is taken from a_ wellknown defense of faith by the distinguished philosopher, William James. The entire essay from which these excerpts are taken repays close study, for James brilliantly turns the skeptic's own arguments against him. Note how he warns the reader that if he is so prejudiced against religion that no _ religious explanations are possible, he need read no farther. How, neatly, this puts the skeptic in the position he has so often accused the believer of holding, that is, re- 77 January 1968 fusal to consider alternative possibilities. In language that is rarely technical, James very tactfully suggests that skepticism may not be the only position that an intellectual can hold. His most telling point here is that insisting we put off a decision until the evidence is totally convincing, is not to avoid a choice. In such a state we have already chosen,- and we have chosen to say no. In stating that the "faith-vetoer's"' position is "better risk loss of truth than chance of error," he makes the skeptic appear more afraid of religion than the believer is of human reason. It is refreshing to see a beautifully logical mind brought to the support of a position which has often seemed overwhelmed by logic. Belief has never asserted its validity in the face of evidence. Faith, as the Bible tells us, is what we must use when the evidence is yet to be seen. Our whole lives are ventures in faith. We must believe in ourselves to undergo the discipline which prepares us for exacting and satisfying work; we must believe in others if the mutual benefits of civilization are to flourish; we must have faith in a country and a government if we are to live without fear; and we must believe in God if the whole fabric of our lives is to have meaning and significance. For Discussion In the light of James' argument in "The Will to Believe," what might we say to a person who decided to let his eight-year-old child wait until he could choose for himself whether to be baptized into the Church? 78 COOK ELECT RIC ELD) Pots and pans stay ''white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY SOUTHERN TEMPLES TOUR March 14-23 HAWAIIAN TOUR June 16-29 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 ot * The Toni Safety Baby Chair is without doubt, one of the finest and most useful products you can buy.—It has features found in no other product. You and the babies will enjoy using it. It's that good! %* It is strong and will last for your children and grandchildren. * It is COLLAPSIBLE and saves space at home,—it is easy to take with you to use in the Ward nursery, or when dining out or in the park for a picnic. Beet e eee cece sete eeenesWrite or clip and mail now......... Sceeeeeccecaces Safety Baby Chair Replaces the Hi-Chair %* The Toni Chair is safe. It is made so baby can not climb or fall out. %* Toni is easy to keep clean. It comes in three colors. White, Pink, or Blue. SPECIAL OFFER EFFECTIVE NOW With each Toni Chair ordered a $6.95 You will receive your Safety Baby Chair postage free.: Don Lyman 2431 Highland Dr. Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Phone 484-8415: Please send sales tax if you live in Utah. Toni Safety Baby Chairs at $6.95 plus Utah * Color * Name _ > White OJ Blue 0 Address Pink () City State Zip eee e eee eer eer ee sere reser esesresveseve eee eee reer ee errr eer eran eeeesnesessseog 102 Mrs. Elizabeth McEntire Rexburg, Idaho 100 Mrs. Marie Sorensen Jensen Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Rachel Middleton Jensen Ogden, Utah 98 Mrs. Caroline Louisa Tempest Anderson Rexburg, Idaho 97 Mrs. Mary Ann Cole Francom Tremonton, Utah Mrs. Ellen England Miller Bakersfield, California 96 Mrs. Frances Lathrop Lebo Bakersfield, California 95 Mrs. Minnie Searles Merrell Payson, Utah 93 Mrs. Ellen Bickmore Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Carole Wurzbach Fullerton, California 92 Mrs. Ella Wheeler Reynolds Springville, Utah 80 S Congratulations Mrs. Minnie Chatterley Harris Lehi, Utah Mrs. Hannah Field Miller Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Lydia Neuenschwander Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Rose British Columbia, Canada 91 Mrs. Mary Amanda Ellison Nielson Cox Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Kunz Provo, Utah Mrs. Lawar Sandall Layton Layton, Utah Mrs. Annie Lillie Clark Walker Wellsville, Utah Mrs. Barbara Tobler Zohner Washington, Utah 90 Mrs. Oma Bethsold Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Rachel Rees Jacobsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Burton Maxwell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Janette L. Crapo Miller St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Jakobina Tvedt Miner Berkeley, California Mrs. Rebecca Jeffs Narramore Evanston, Wyoming A MORE EXCELLENT WAY by Neal A. Maxwell $2.95 A'Scrapbook of INSPIRATION. Ever been sty DESERET BOOK COMPANy 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please senq me [7 A MORE EXCELLENT WAY DA SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION Total amount of Purchase ¢ ROSS - This Must include 32% Sales tax from Utah residents Ordering from Sait Lake, or 5% sales tax for California residents Ordering from Orange. Apicture of carefree piness.. Guaranteed by Beneficial Life Insurance Your family deserves to enjoy the pleasant. Happy, things of life... And you can also make sure they have the opportunity to achieve all they have set their hearts on if you have provided them with a secure financial future through foresight and planning - and life insurance. Second Class Postage Pai¢ at Salt Lake City, Utah And you can do it so easily; a stroke of your pen can create an "Instant Estate" for your family. This "Instant Estate" can be tailored to your specific needs by a knowledgeable and experienced Beneficial Life Agent. Give him the opportunity to complete the picture of happiness for you. Opal; = 7 fi Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah The Cover: Frontispiece: | © Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: [> illustrations: | ' SOLACE Alda L. Brown For | have seen the wanton breath of spring Lure a lifeless tendril from the earth And guide its tangled fingers to the sun.... From darkest embryonic pulse New life was born! Wounded.... | listened close To hear the limpid song of thrush! 'Soft cadence now that once was stilled! Symphony... Where silence long had kept Its muted sentinel of death! Yet, surely, there was song.... And hope was there— Waiting as a molten ember waits For one quick spark To kindle and flare again And burst to buoyant flame! Lift up your heart! Reach high! God heals the anguished hour Of grieving.... Desert Blossoms Near Lynndyl, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts | Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press | Light and Shadow, Caineville, Utah Dick Scopes Mary. Scopes 81 | have so enjoyed the two-part article (July and August 1967) ''Family Vacations Can Be Fun," by Lillian Y. Bradshaw. Our family have dreamed of just such a trip—we have six children also. My husband teaches school and we all have studied the geography and history of the United States, and we have, also, a great interest in the history of the Church. Recently | was asked by a Sunday School teacher to help with the lesson on the Relief Society's role in the Welfare Program—how fortunate for me to find the article on this subject by President Belle S. Spafford in the August Magazine— "The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program."' lona S. Hall Roy, Utah Recently | received a beautiful orchid which | wore only an hour that evening. During that week end | took ill, and my orchid remained in the refrigerator. Upon beginning the new week, | immediately recalled Elsie Sim Hansen's story ''Orchids in the Kitchen'' (August 1967). | knew the feelings that she portrayed. | was grateful that the article was published when it was—a month later would have been too late, and | would not have known what to do—I wore my orchid in the kitchen. Thaya E. Davis Redondo Beach, California The Magazine is a great tool in this faraway country not only in furthering the Relief Society work, but in preaching the gospel as well. Many friends have been made for the Church through the efforts of those who make it available. Nonmembers in some areas have asked to hear more about the Church that publishes such a worthwhile Magazine. Some of the missionaries have even taken copies and used them as a door approach and have made fine contacts in this way. Eleanor A. Badger Supervisor South African Mission Relief Society Hazel M. Thomson has written an excellent story in a beautiful way (serial "The Golden Chain," concluded in September 1967). The story introduced many gospel principles and stirred my emotions in many ways. It was touching to read how Nora was brought into the Church. | could almost feel every emotion of Nora's, as she waited for Jed to give a sign of how he felt regarding her. | felt elated when she decided on her own to be baptized, and, finally, to go through the temple. Mrs. Arvin Haskell Kimberly, Idaho What a marvelous and inspired job is being done in the editing of our remarkable Magazine, small in size, but immense in value. When | read ''The Outsider'' by Iris W. Schow (April 1967), it brought tears of delight. It is a story of my beloved little home town. | remember the real name of each character Sister Schow portrays in such a delightful way, can picture the field of daisies, remember well the lovely Mrs. Maysprite, even the grave where the bluff looks down the canyon. This will have a new meaning when | visit that cemetery spot again. May J. Hill Richmond, Utah | think the Relief Society Magazine is. Wonderfully compiled and | look forward to receiving it every month. It caters to my amoral mood. The lessons are truly a spiritual ae. An Jessie G. Lockwood Bundaberg, Queensland, Australia A very special ''thank you" for mailing me The Relief Society Magazines, which | thoroughly enjoy reading. | feel that the stories have a special message for us, and the photographs are very beautiful. It is a joy to read of our sisters overseas and the wonderful work they do. Mir. Mary Cosgro Glasgow, Scotland 82 The Relief Society Magazine 'Volume 55 February 1968 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 84 Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar Marion G. Romney 90 Eddie—Second Prize Story Mickey Goodwin 96 A Mother Speaks to Her Children of Spiritual Communication Mabel Jones Gabbott 108 Protect Your Whole Family From Heart Disease 115 _—' Reflections on the Glory of Freedom Josephine H. Beck Fiction 98 The New Neighbor Mabel Harmer 109 The Wedding Gift Kathryn E. Franks 116 = The Rock-Strewn Road Carolyn L. Wright 129 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 6 Janet W. Breeze General Features 82 From Near and Far 105 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 106 _— Editorial—To You With Love Marianne C. Sharp 134 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 160 _—sCi Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 121 The Hot Dish Heart Helen Hinckley Jones 124 = Gifts of the Hands and the Heart—Martha Ellen Chadwick 125 Aunt Minerva's Inspiration Dough Minerva P. Everett 125 Pioneer Recipes Ruth Smith 126 Old Goldie Asel B. Brodt 128 Double-Duty Apron Shirley Thulin Lesson Department 142 ~—s Spiritual Living—The Church and Its Purposes Roy W. Doxey 147 Visiting Teacher Message—Love I|s Active Alice Colton Smith 150 = Social Relations—''That's What They Say, Mama' Alberta H. Christensen 154 Cultural Refinement—''Charity Out of a Pure Heart'' Robert K. Thomas Poetry 81 Solace Alda L. Brown Blind, Dorothy J. Roberts 97; Wakening Thoughts, Syivia Neale 104; Mother's Gracious Little Granddaughter, Iris W. Schow 114; Wasted Years, Ruth G. Rothe 115; Icicles, Vesta N. Fairbairn 119; For a Hill Child, Ethel Jacobson 120; For Example, Kathryn Kay 127; My Glasses, Lucy Woolley Jones 133; Organ Song, Linnie F. Robinson 129; To A Grandchild, Lucille R. Perry 159. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 83 148 Homemaking—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Celestia J. Taylor oper oe oy Go! Mother Eve, A Worthy Exemplar ' i {S Or Se mo elellelarevereCi [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session, Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967] =» I have been greatly impressed by the presentation we have just seen. [""A Call to Benevolence," by Luacine C. Fox] I congratulate Sister Fox on the high quality of the work she does. I was particularly interested in this matter of attitude. About a quarter of a century ago Sister Romney and I moved into a ward in which they were just beginning to build a meetinghouse. The size of the contribution the bishop thought I ought to contribute rather staggered me. I thought it was at least twice as much as he should have asked. However, I had just been called to a rather high Church position, so I couldn't very well tell him where to go. Therefore, I said, "Well, I will pay it, Bishop, but I will have to pay it in installments because I don't have the money.": And so I began to pay. And I when, as is my habit, I was reading The Book of Mormon, Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve paid and paid until I was down to about the last three payments, and came to the scripture which said:. If aman... Giveth a gift... Grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God. (Moroni 7:8.) This shocked me because I was out about a thousand dollars. Well, I went on and paid the three installments I had promised to pay, and then I paid several more installments to convince the Lord that I had done it with the right attitude. By extending to me the invitation to speak to you at this time, the Relief Society Presidency has conferred upon me a great honor. And, they have burdened me with a great responsibility. They did not definitively state what they wanted me to talk about. They said anything that would be good for all women, in the Church and out. Not knowing what you want, I selected a theme that I like. I thought there was no need for all of us to be disappointed. Now, I have decided to try to discharge this responsibility by calling your attention to the five great character traits of Mother Eve, as they are revealed in the scriptures. We all know, of course, that she was the first mortal woman, the mother of the human race. I hope that in the next few moments I can persuade you that she was a great and noble woman who set an example in righteous living worthy of emulation not only by members of Relief Society but by all other women. Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar The virtues I speak of are these: 1. She labored with her husband. 2. She fulfilled her mission to multiply and replenish the earth. She prayed with her husband. She learned, understood, and appreciated the gospel. 5. With her husband, she taught the gospel to her children. Me oo The earliest reference to Eve as a mortal woman is found in the first verse of the 5th chapter of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price. It reads: And it came to pass that after I, the Lord God, had driven them out, that Adam began to till the earth, and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field, and to eat his bread by the sweat of his brow, as I the Lord had commanded him. And Eve, also, his wife, did labor with him. (Moses 5:1.) Laboring with her husband became a grim necessity, as she and Adam began to realize the significance of the "Lord God's" declaration:... Cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; Thorns... And thistles shall it bring forth to thee....... Ln the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground.... (Gen. 3:17-19.) In their valiant, lonely struggle for a livelihood, this noble woman "did labor with" her husband. The word "with," as here used, is very significant. It means more than physical labor. It connotes a common purpose, understanding, cooperation, and love. In this laboring with her husband, she set a pattern worthy of emulation by all her daughters to the latest generation. Although the nature of a wife's 85 February 1968 labor has changed since then, the true relationship of husband and wife has not changed. Even when circumstances justify a_ wife's working away from home to support her family, she should be laboring "with," not on her own nor in conflict with her husband. Latter-day Saint women, members of Relief Society particularly, might well ponder the significance of, and develop within themselves the great character trait revealed in the statement "and Eve... His wife, did labor with him." In Latterday Saint families the husband and the wife must be one. As Paul has said, and which was quoted by Brother Simpson,. Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. (I Cor. 11:11.) N ow, after reciting that "she did labor with him," the record makes it plain that she did not shirk the responsibility of motherhood. It says: And Adam knew his wife, and she bare him sons and daughters, and they began to multiply and to replenish the earth. (Moses 5:2.) P Later we are told that she bore Cain and Abel. (Moses 5:16-17.) Presurhably, she bore Seth and many other children, for the record says that Adam lived after he begat Seth, "eight hundred years and begat... Sons and daughters." (Moses 6:10-11.) The charge to bear children, which the Lord gave to Eve, and to women, generally, is, by many, flouted today. The sordidness of our society, which on the one hand tolerates, encourages, and 86 even condones such abominations as unchastity and other types of licentious debauchery, and, on the other hand, legalizes abortions, encourages, and in some cases attempts to enforce birth control, is a prostitution of the functions of life. If these practices are not checked and reversed, they will bring us to the degradation of Sodom and Gomorrah, with like tragic consequences. Over and over again, the Lord has inveighed against such abominations. He condemned them in the Ten Commandments; in the Sermon on the Mount, as he gave it in Palestine, and as he later gave it to the Nephites. He condemned them at the beginning of this last dispensation. In the 59th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, after saying "Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill,' he added this significant phrase, "nor do anything like unto it." I have not found in the scriptures a definitive statement of transgression which the Lord would liken unto adultery and killing; however, in view of the context in which this phrase appears, it is not unlikely that voluntary abortion would be included in such a list. Latterday Saint women must continue to be earth's noblest bulwark against these wicked and abominable practices. Most Relief Society women are under a divine charge to "multiply and _ replenish the earth," just as was Mother Eve. By seeking to emulate her compliance with this divine com- Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar mand, they will find the surest path to glory. Now, the third reference to Eve as a mortal, pictures her joining with her husband in calling upon the Lord: And Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord, and they heard the voice of the Lord from the way toward the Garden of Eden, speaking unto them, and they saw him not; for they were shut out from his presence. (Moses 5:4.) This is the first scriptural reference to prayer among mortals. It was no ordinary prayer. The circumstances under which it was offered were not ordinary circumstances. When Adam and Eve were driven from the Garden of Eden they were banished— that is, shut out—from the presence of the Lord. Through suffering, toil, and sorrow, they wrested a living from the earth for themselves and their dependents. They had wrestled with the questions and problems incident to rearing a family, without knowledge of the purpose of mortal life or the overall plan for eternal life. It would seem that in their great perplexity, remembering their association with the Lord in the Garden of Eden, they were in desperation, driven to call upon him for help. To do so was a crucial decision. For them to pray was not only necessary— although they did not then realize it—it was indispensable to their receiving a knowledge and understanding of the gospel. Praying together is today indispensable for husbands and wives who would hold their families together and bring them along the way of eternal life. The wise wife and mother will do her best so to organize her home as to promote daily family prayer. When she kneels with her husband and other members of the family and calls upon the name of the Lord, she will not only be following the example of Eve, she will also be following the counsel of the Prophet Joseph to provoke her husband to good works. Praying together materially advances a_ family along the way to eternal life. In answer to their calling upon him, the Lord gave to Adam and Eve two commandments. First, ".. That they should worship the Lord their God..." (this is the first time that mortals were commanded to pray) and second, they "... Should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord...." (Moses 9:0.) The consequences of implicit obedience to these commandments, gave Eve opportunity to demonstrate her great mental and spiritual power to understand and appreciate the truths of the gospel. Adam obeyed the Lord's command. And after many days, an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer these sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. (Moses 5:6.) And then the angel proceeded to teach Adam the gospel. He told him that the sacrifice he was offering was a "similitude of the... [infinite] sacrifice" which Jesus would make in the meridian 87 February 1968 of time; that Jesus would be the Son of God—his Only Begotten in the flesh. Not only did the angel teach Adam, the Holy Ghost also came and taught him, and God himself "by his own voice" instructed: him. He was taught concerning the pre-existence, the creation of the earth—which he himself had participated in but had now forgotten—the fall, the reason for mortality, the mission of Christ and the whole gospel plan; faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism by water for the remission of sins, baptism by fire for the gift of the Holy Ghost, the resurrection, immortality, and eternal life. And it came to pass... That Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. And he heard a voice out of heaven saying... Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all men become my sons. (Moses 6:64-66, 68.) MET iis: gospel plan was great news to Adam. It revealed to him the way by which he and all men may rise from fallen mortality back into the presence of God. And in that day Adam blessed God and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. (Moses 5:10.) And what was Eve's reaction? 88 The record answers: And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying: Were it not for our. Transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.), Many people talk = about ~ women talking loosely. I don't. Know of any statement in the scriptures with more meat and understanding and wisdom in it than that short paragraph spoken by Mother Eve. Her understanding, acceptance, and appreciation of the revelations received by her husband, who communed with heaven, characterize her as having a great mind, a noble character, and a spiritual soul. It has not always been easy for a wife to accept revelations given through her husband. Sariah complained against Lehi,... Telling him that he was a visionary man; saying: Behold thou hast led us forth from. The land of our inheritance, and. My sons are no more, and we perish in the wilderness. (I Nephi 5:2.) The Prophet Joseph's wife had difficulty. Understanding him. Perhaps you have heard of some women who complain about the time their husbands spend in Church work. It is difficult fully to appreciate the relief and the joy and the: happiness experienced by Adam and Eve at the good news of the gospel. During the considerable time since they left Eden, they had been learning the hard way— through trial. And error. As they toiled and suffered, no doubt Eve indulged in some self-condemnation and regrets over the part she Mother Eve, a Worthy Exemplar had played in bringing about their expulsion. From the Garden, for at this time, neither she nor Adam nor any of their posterity knew anything about the plan of salvation, nor the significance of their action in the Garden in implementing it. And so it was that. As the gospel unfolded, revelation after revelation, she listened with rapt attention, she heard, she responded, she understood, she. Believed, and was glad. Her mind grasped the meaning of: it all and her. Spirit soared. In great relief and ecstasy it was-that she expressed the feelings of her soul in these majestic phrases:... Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.) Fortunate - indeed are the husband and the children of a woman who can learn, understand, and appreciate the gospel as did Mother Eve. In this respect she was a most worthy example. The scriptures stress another phase of her conduct which is worthy of emulation. She, with her husband, taught their children the gospel. In revealing the gospel to Adam, the Lord said:. When they [thy children] begin to grow up, sin conceiveth in their hearts, and they taste the bitter, that they may know to prize the good. And it is given unto them to know good from evil; wherefore they are agents unto themselves [We can't always control them, but we can teach them], and I have given unto you another law and a commandment. And the other law he gave them was the law of repentance and forgiveness. Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can. In nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there.... Therefore, I give unto you'a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children.... And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters. (Moses 6:57-58; 5:12.) Now, all Latter-day Saint parents are today under divine command to emulate Adam and Eve in this respect. In November 1831, the Lord said:. Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. (D&C 68:25, 26, 28.) And _ now, by way of epilogue, if, in the future, any one of you, when you think of Mother Eve, remember that she labored with her husband; filled her mission to multiply and replenish the earth; prayed with her husband; learned and understood and appreciated the gospel; taught her children the gospel; and so remembering, seek to emulate her example, these remarks will have. Accomplished their purpose. God bless you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 89 SECOND PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest EDDIE Mickey Goodwin # The sun shone down on Eddie's brown back as he stood at the top of the hill. He could feel the soft summer wind blowing his hair and pulling at his pants' legs. The prairie earth and new grass felt warm under his feet. From his place on the hill, Eddie could see for miles to the east. The sky was high and warm as a light blue blanket. The sunshine made the prairie a lovely land of lavender, orange, and_ yellow. Below him, gray smoke drifted lazily upward through the cottonwood trees. He knew his mother must be frying bread. He could hear the laughter of his little sisters as they chased one another around the house. His brown eyes sparkled with pleasure. His young mouth was spread into a fine smile. The wind made strands of black hair dance on his forehead. Eddie breathed deeply. It was a good day. He felt warm and clean and free. 90 'moving Just then his ranging glance caught sight of a cloud of dust rapidly toward him across the prairie. That was what he had been waiting to see. He knew it was his dad coming home with the check. Instantly Eddie was in motion. His arms went out, his legs shot him forward down the hill, and a great, long "Yahoo" burst forth from his lungs. '"He's coming. He's coming," Eddie yelled as he raced down the hill, dashing around the cactus and leaping over the sagebrush. "Dad's coming," he yelled again as he ran across the bare-packed earth near the house and stopped beside his mother. "Is Dad coming?" his mother asked. "He said I could go to Rapid City with him," Eddie said, excitedly. The old dog stood up and stretched. He stuck his nose affectionately in Eddie's hand, hoping to get his ears scratched. But Eddie was too busy. He turned around and bounced out to the front of the house just as his dad stopped the car. "Are we going, Dad?" The big man nodded and said, "Yup. Are you ready? You'll have to get on a shirt and your shoes." "Hey, Mom," Eddie called as he danced back to his mother where she knelt beside the fire. "Where's my shirt and shoes? We're going to Rapid City!" His mother stood up and smiled at him. She picked up the side of her skirt and wiped her hands on it. "You've not been there for a long time, have you?" Eddie was impatient. ""Where's my stuff?" She reached out and ruffled his hair. "Last time I saw your shoes they were under the girls' bed. You'll have to pull that box out to get them." Eddie disappeared into the house to get his shoes. He knew where he could find a shirt, because he had left one in his bed a couple of days before. Eddie ran into the house and dropped on his knees beside the girls' bed. He tugged and pushed at the box to move it aside. He wiggled into the darkness under the bed and felt around for his shoes. He grabbed the shoes and sat on his own bed to put them on. He threw back the edge of the blanket to find the shirt and dashed out the door as he swung the shirt over his shoulders. "Guess I'm ready," he said, stopping in front of his father to finish buttoning the shirt. His Eddie dad was leaning against the car eating a piece of the hot frybread. He looked down at Eddie and grinned. "You better get something to eat. It's a long way to town." Eddie ran his hands over the dust on the car fender, making a road with his fingers. He took the fry-bread his mother was holding and walked back to the car. He shifted the bread from hand to hand to cool it. His little sisters were bouncing on the back seat and watching the puffs of dust they made. Eddie opened the car door, feeling much older and wiser than his sisters. "Okay, get out. Dad and me are going to town." "Eiddie thinks he's smart," the older girl chided grudgingly as she slid out of the car. The little sister slid out behind her, grabbed her hand, and began a sing-song chant. "Kiddie thinks he's' smar-rt. Eddie thinks he's smar-rt." Together, the girls danced around the car chanting their derision of Eddie. "Dumb girls,' he muttered and slammed the door. Eddie put his feet on the dash and curled down in the seat. The sun felt hot through the wind shield. The bright sound of a meadow lark came to his ears. The bread in his hand was crisp and satisfying. He had a shirt on his back and shoes on his feet. He was going to town with his dad. The whole world was wonderful to Eddie. He smiled to himself. He felt fine. It seemed to Eddie as if it took a long, long time to get to town. Sometimes he talked with his dad and sometimes he didn't. When 91 February 1968 they came to an end of things to say, Eddie climbed over into the back seat for awhile. Then, impatient to get to town, he climbed over the seat again into the front. When the first buildings of the city appeared Eddie began to bounce on the edge of the seat. Going to town was almost the most exciting thing of the summer for him. The rodeo was more exciting, and there would be many things to do at the powwow, but he was wonderfully happy to get to go to town. Eddie's dad reached a big hand over and put it on Eddie's head to stop the bouncing. "Whoa, Eddie," he said. "You can't make the car get there any faster that way." Eddie grinned and tried to sit still. His dad drove to a big building on a busy street near the railroad track. He said he had to take care of some business inside. He told Eddie he would take him up town as soon as he could get back. Eddie was content to wait for a few minutes. He watched the trucks with their big trailers rumble down the street. A switch engine with its cars in tow fascinated him for awhile. He looked at the shiny, new cars. Two pickups went by pulling horse trailers. They made Eddie think of his own little bay horse. When he thought of his horse he thought of home. He wondered what his mother was doing. He wondered if his sisters were riding his horse. The car was so hot, and he suddenly felt so alone that he almost wished he was back home again. Just then his dad came. Eddie was glad to go. When his dad parked in front of a parking meter on Main 92 Street, Eddie put the nickels in it. He just couldn't help being curious about where the money went after he turned the handle. He put both his hands on the meter pole and shook it. He couldn't hear anything jingling. He wondered if the whole pole was full of money. "You want to come with me, or you just want to look around here?" Eddie's dad asked him. Eddie studied the stores a minute. The variety store was right in front of them. The souvenir store was next door. There was a hardware store, and next to it was a shoe store and saddle shop. Thinking his dad was just going to get some things for his mother, Eddie said, "Guess I'll stay here. Can I have some money?" His dad grinned at him and reached in his pocket. "Here's a dollar. Maybe you can get something for the girls, too." Eddie's mouth spread into a wide, bright smile. "Stay right close," his dad said. "I'll be back in a bit and I don't want to have to hunt for you." "Okay," Eddie answered, and put the money in his pocket. His dad started down the street and Eddie went in the variety store. He looked and looked. All the toys were interesting. He felt like touching everything, especially the things that had moving parts. He couldn't decide what to buy. The wind-up monkey drummer looked fine, but he liked the toy truck with the horse trailer, too. He decided to take the jumping ropes for his sisters and some bubble gum. That would leave about sixty-five cents for himself. Then Eddie found a big water pistol. "Oh, boy, fifty shots," he said, reading the package advertisement to himself. He turned to go and almost bumped into one of the ladies who worked in the store. She looked down at him and moved aside. Eddie started toward the front of the store, the clerk following him. He picked up six pieces of bubble gum and two candy bars and then went to the cashier. He glanced behind him when he stopped and saw the clerk standing a few feet away watching him carefully. He turned his eyes away and pulled the dollar bill from his pocket. The clerk shrugged her shoulders and walked toward the back of the store. Eddie left the variety store with the sack of purchases crumpled in his hand. He stopped by the window of the souvenir shop. There were so many little things there that he looked for a long time. He especially liked the bright red velvet on which the souvenirs were displayed. It glowed soft and warm in the afternoon sunlight. The smooth nap reminded him of the shiny, warm shoulders and neck of his little bay horse. Eddie was in no hurry. He studied the things in the hardware store and walked on to the deep glassed-in entrance to the saddle and boot shop. The saddies caught his eye first. There was one something like the one his dad had. There was another for someone about his size. It was carved on the skirts and fenders and shiny nickel studs glistened around the _ edges. Eddie Suddenly Eddie saw the boots! They were boys' boots—red and black and beautiful. The bottoms were black and shiny. The toes were low and neat looking. Eddie almost held his breath as he looked at the tops of the boots. They were bright red with designs cut away leaving sparkling white leather beneath. They were carefully and artistically stitched with rows of white thread. Even the finger loops projecting from the tops of the boots were red with white letters on them. Eddie had never seen anything he wanted more. They looked just the right size. He knew they would look wonderful on him and they would feel better than anything he had ever before worn. Eddie pressed closer to the window. He could almost see himself racing across the flats on the little bay with those black and red boots tucked snuggly against the horse's ribs. Eddie took a deep breath. He pressed his nose and_ hands against the window. His hands February 1968 were damp and sticky. They almost clung to the shiny surface. He could feel his eyelashes brushing the glass. Try though he would, he couldn't get closer to the beautiful boots. His warm breath made little clouds of moisture by his face. There was nothing in the world at that moment except Eddie and a pair of red-topped boots. Suddenly, a rough hand grabbed his shoulder and a harsh voice was muttering angrily, "Dirty little Indian. Get your dirty hands off that window." Eddie twisted under the grasp and turned to meet the angry eyes of a woman. Eddie stared unbelieving a long moment. His dark eyes meeting squarely the eyes of the woman. His mouth tightened and little wrinkles formed at the corners of his eyes as he narrowed them in defense. He stepped carefully away from her and walked slowly and deliberately to the car. He opened the car door and sat down. He still clutched the brown paper bag with the water gun and jump ropes in it. His mouth was still drawn into a tight line across his face. Eddie could feel nothing. He could hear none of the street noises that surrounded him. But inside he heard the sound of the woman's angry voice repeating and repeating itself. "Dirty little Indian, dirty little Indian." Eddie couldn't shut it out. For the first time Eddie looked at his hands. The backs of them were smooth and brown. Inside they were wet. The woman who had spoken to him was white. The people on the street were white. Eddie felt a new feel- 94 ing rising within him. If he was a dirty little Indian they must be ugly old white people. The thought made him feel brave. He tried saying the words aloud. "Ugly old white people." For the first time in his life he felt something close to hatred. His only defense at the moment was the angry, muttering repetition of those words. "Ugly old white people!" Just then his dad came. He opened the door and threw several packages into the rear seat. He looked at the one he had held back, then tossed it in Eddie's lap. For a moment Eddie's thoughts left the bitterness that was boiling inside him. He pulled excitedly at the string that held the box. The string broke easily and Eddie pulled the lid from the box. He pushed back the tissue paper and there, unbelievably beautiful, lay the red-topped boots! Eddie pulled in a big breath. "Oh, boy!" he said. But at that moment the ugly sound of the woman's voice burst into his mind again. "Dirty little Indian." The smile fell from Eddie's face. His hands pulled the tissue paper carefully back over the boots. He put the lid on the box. His dad had waited to watch Eddie's pleasure with the boots. He was surprised to see the boy suddenly act as if he didn't care and rewrap the boots. He shrugged. "Funny kid," he said. He slammed the car door again, started the engine, and they began the long trip home. Eddie held the box on his lap all the way. Inside he felt like a cloudy day. He would be glad to get back to his house, to the sandy creek and the gray smoke fire. That evening as his mother sat quietly in the dark outside the house, Eddie sat down beside her. He didn't say anything for awhile. At last he said, "Mama?" She reached her hand. To him in the darkness and put it on the back of his head. "What?" she answered. He hesitated a moment. "Mama, are we dirty Indians?" She drew in a deep breath. "No, Eddie, we are not dirty Indians. What made you ask that?" "A white woman in town called me that. She told me not to touch her old windows." His mother pulled his head over to her shoulder. "T used to wonder about that, too. But now I know better. Remember those Mormon elders who came to see us? They told us something I never knew. They said that God loves us. We belong to him." "Those Mormons are white men," Eddie interrupted. "They call us dirty Indians." His mother - squeezed him lightly. '""No, Eddie. They won't call us that. They call us brother Eddie and sister. They say they know who we are. They say we are Israel." "What does that mean?" "IT don't really know yet. But it's something like being from a special tribe. I think they've been sent to help us. Your dad and I like them. They bring a good feeling here. They say the Indians can do great things." Eddie didn't say anything. He liked the Mormons, too. '"'Are we Mormons, Mama?" he asked. "No," she answered, "but I think we will be pretty soon." "Mormon," Eddie said, '""Mormon. I guess I'll be an elder Mormon." He stood up and kicked at the dirt in the darkness with his new boots. "T'm going to bed now," he said, and went into the house. His mother smiled softly. The night was clean and cool. An owl made his questioning call from the cottonwood trees. The horses in the corral stirred slightly. She heard Eddie sit on his creaking bed. She heard the clicking sound as his shirt buttons hit the floor. The bed squeaked again. There was no sound of boots hitting the floor. She knew Eddie had worn them to bed. Mickey Goodwin, a writer new to The Relief Society Magazine. And a young mother. Tells us that she feels grateful and honored to be a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest "We are an Air Force family who greatly enjoy the variety of experiences that comes to us because of our frequent moves. My husband, Robert H. Goodwin, our six children, and | are members of the Lompoc Second Ward in the Santa Maria Stake, California. My parents are Cecil M. And Eloise C. Hosman who live in Mobridge. South Dakota. Just before coming to California we spent two years in South Dakota. Where | had the opportunity of serving in the Relief Society Presidency of the Northern Indian Mission. 'Eddie' is probably a direct result of that experience. My literary accomplishments, to date, consist of a drawer full of unpublished poetry and short stories. | do write a monthly column for our local Air Force wives' magazine. | am very pleased and grateful to have my first real publication in The Relief Society Magazine." 95 Mabel Jones Gabbott NS = How can I tell you of spiritual communication? How can I explain to you that God knows how you feel, what you say, and what you do—when you share your life with him? He is our Father in heaven. I am your earthly mother, I can tell you how I know about you—of our communication. Perhaps this would be a guide. When you girls were very little, you had the mumps; your throats were sore; you could not talk; you wanted only soothing liquids to drink. Many times in each hour I would bring to' your room a tray with something surprising for you to wile away the time, to soothe your burning throats, or to ease your discomfort. Once, removing the tray, I found on it a little note: "Thank you, mother; you are very good to us." The blessings given to us from our Heavenly Father are many. You should say thanks to him often, sincerely. Yesterday at dinner, you, my youngest son, a very new deacon, were telling of your concern about the sacrament time; the boys passing the sacrament had almost missed a row; they were embarrassed. You shared this experience shyly. Last week you, my second son, went with your Priesthood group to see "Promised Valley." Standing in our bedroom doorway in the summer night, you described the costumes, the humor, the music, and the lighting outside the temple, with an eagerness for us, your parents, to share in your enthusiasm. It was late when our second daughter came in from the birthday party; but, whispering in the wee hours, so we would not disturb the others, you told of the cake and the singing, of the lovely gift, -of the new boy you had met. There was hesitancy in your voice, my eldest, as you told of the party at Ed's house; thinking it would be a gay group affair, you 96 A Mother Speaks to Her Children of Spiritual Communication had gone eagerly, only to find it was not of your standards, not of your choosing. There was pride in my heart as I listened to you tell of insisting to be brought home. All the mother instincts, the mother longings, the mother love and pride in me want to know of your joys, of your sorrows, of your successes and of your failures—of the little things that interest you and of the big problems that confront you. Would not our Heavenly Father, with love more infinite, more tender than we can imagine, want also to know about you, want also to have you share your daily learnings, your confidences with him? Take time often to tell him of your struggles, your hopes, your dreams. Talk with him often of your problems and of your happinesses. Pray continually. I had come home tired and exhausted; there in the kitchen you were all busy—setting the table, preparing a salad, easing my burdens.. We had said, "Be home early." The hour passed the early mark; suddenly the car screeched to a halt outside; you came running in— "T am sorry; we had no watch. I am just ten minutes over the time." It was the sacrament meeting; my heart brimmed with gratitude; you were there in your places, obedient, giving service, worshipping together. When you do what you know you should do, whether it is hard or not, whether you want to or not, whether I have asked you to or not—when you do what we both know you should do—you communicate to me in a way more definite than words that you are spiritually strong and secure. We read: "... He that doeth the will of God abideth for ever." These are ways of spiritual communication. BLIND Dorothy J. Roberts Is ''wait'' not word but very life To him—the wait for dawns Never to come, for ships never in, For sea to grow blue-green and visible. A wait whorled with music, Roiled with sound on all fronts approaching. I A wait loud with strangers, Or a wait murmurous with insects Or sibilant with the whisperings of love. But a wait, an endless waiting | In the gray-dark apartness, | Striking the match of hope. 97 Oe mae The New Neighbor a Mabel Harmer = Celia Mott stood by her livingroom window watching the man unload the furniture from the moving van into the house next door. She believed that her concern was entirely legitimate. She wanted to know as soon as possible if there were children in the family. Not that she minded children, she dearly loved her own grandchildren. She just didn't want any next door—not after the dose she had had with the Markham boys. As Henry had said after an unusually rowdy session, "Well, boys will be boys, you know." Celia agreed. She just didn't want them next door. There had been nothing vicious, or even mischievous about the Markham boys. It was just that their balls had a special affinity for her back yard, and 98 they leaped or climbed the fence to retrieve them. She had just now been able to get the trumpet vine into shape again after the many beatings it had endured during the climbs. The basketball hoop on the garage door had provided another cause for annoyance. The ball banged first against the door and then onto the cement below, early in the morning and late at night. The dog had never been allowed out of the yard, except on leash, but it had barked at the sound of every siren, no matter how distant. It seemed to hear them especially well in the middle of the night. No, Celia sincerely hoped that there would be no boys in the new family next door. A car had driven up now and a woman got out. At first glance, Celia thought she must be quite young. She was slender, very quick in her movements and wore a dirndl skirt. In addition, her hair was piled high on her head with a bow at the back. A second look showed that she wasn't really so young, after all, just trying to look and act it, Celia decided. The woman began taking things out of the rear of her car. There were bright cushions, lamps and—of all things—a lemon tree. Now why would anyone want a lemon tree in her house? The furniture the men were carrying in was also decidedly on the bright side. The chairs and divan were covered in gay, flowered chintz. There was a dresser that had been painted a bright red. Painters had been over working on the house for the past week. Celia was sure they were needed very badly after the knocks those rough Markham boys must have given the house. Celia turned from the window and went into the kitchen to make some cookies. She always greeted new neighbors' with freshly baked cookies. It gave her a good chance to get acquainted, and they were always very much welcomed in the stress of moving day. She baked her favorite whole-wheat with ground raisins and nuts. It was midafternoon before Celia decided to take them over. That would have given the new neighbor a chance to get at least a few things into place. The neighbor came smiling to the door, "Oh, do come in!" she exclaimed. "How good of you to greet me on moving day." "Thank you," replied Celia. "I The New Neighbor thought you might be able to use these. I daresay baking isn't the first order of business. My name is Celia Mott, and I live right next door south." "How nice,' was the reply. "Tl'm Kathy Andrews and my husband is Don. He has just been transferred from Columbus. I think it's exciting to move to a new city, don't you?" Celia was a bit nonplused. Actually, moving to another city was the last thing in the world she would have wanted. But she nodded and agreed, "I daresay it would be exciting all right. It's an experience I haven't had." Kathy moved a pile of clothing from a chair and said, "Do sit down. I'll make us a glass of lemonade to go with the cookies. I'm almost starved. I hadn't even thought of eating." She went out into the kitchen and Celia sat down. The room was in a turmoil, but that was to be expected. She noted that the walls had been painted an apple green and the chintzcovered chairs in bright colors gave the impression of a garden. In one corner stood the lemon tree. What was surprising was that the floor was almost covered with pictures and snapshots that had obviously been removed from a packing box. When Kathy returned with the lemonade and cookies, she cleared another chair for herself. Motioning to the litter on the floor, she said, "T was just going over these pictures. I haven't looked at them in years and it was more fun. They go back to my high-school days and that was twenty-five years ago." 99 February 1968 "Indeed." Quick figuring by Celia placed her neighbor's age in the late forties. "I hadn't supposed you were that old." Kathy shrugged. "Oh, yes. One of these first years I'll be fifty. That should be quite a milestone. Half a century sounds terribly old. But then—as long as I don't feel old...." She picked up a pile of snaps from the floor. "These are our grandchildren. There are four of them. That was the only bad part of moving. Now we can't see them every day or so. But they'll come often to visit, and I can go back there. Do you have grandchildren?" "Yes, but only three are in the city. We have a son living here and two daughters who live in other cities." "It's lovely that you have one here. We also had a son. He died in Korea." "Oh, what ashame!" exclaimed Celia. It seemed terribly inadequate, but she didn't know what else to say. "Yes it was," said Kathy quietly. Then she brightened and asked, "Would you care to see the rest of the house? Of course, nothing is straight, but we think we're going to like it very much. Would you like to see the kitchen?" "IT would, indeed," replied Celia. The kitchen was a bright yellow, and turquoise appliances had already been installed. Each of the other rooms was almost startling in its gay colors. One bedroom was pink walled with raspberry carpeting. Celia quickly decided that she would not care to live in such a rainbow. When she went back home, 100 the order of her always well-kept house was restful and doubly impressive. For a brief moment it did look rather dull, but she told herself that was simply the contrast with so much color. And a very pleasing contrast, she added to herself. She went into the living room and moved Henry's chair over to another place. The carpet under the spot where he put his feet was beginning to show a tiny bit of wear. If this went on it would soon be very noticeable, and the next thing, they would have to buy a new carpet. All for one worn spot that could just as well be avoided. She knew that Henry liked his chair where it had been, as he claimed it was the only place in the room where the light was good, but that was simply a notion. He could move a lamp over and see perfectly well. Celia went outside and picked some marigolds to put in a bowl for the kitchen—something she hadn't done for a long time. There were artificial flowers in the front rooms. They were so much less work and didn't drop petals around. Besides, now that they were in perfectly good taste she was glad to use them. It was a few minutes after five when another car came into the driveway next door. The master of the house stepped out and Celia noted that he, too, was slender and quick in his movements. She was certainly not prepared however, to see Mrs. Andrews rush out of the back door and throw herself into his arms. He kissed her, then lifted her off her feet and swung her around. They must have been separated for rather a long time, thought Celia. That can't be an everyday welcome. When Henry came in a few minutes later she was vaguely irritated with him. In his usual stolid manner he hung his hat in the closet and settled down with the newspaper he had picked up on the way in. Why, in the name of goodness, was she irritated? Celia asked herself. This was the way he came home every night. Did she suddenly expect him to lift her off her feet and swing her around? Hardly. It would have been the most unlikely event of the year. He could say something, however. Anyway, she could. She stopped in the doorway to ask, "Did you have a good day, dear?" "Um—about as usual," he replied, without glancing up from his paper. Her irritation increased, but she went back to the kitchen and took it out in mashing the potatoes. The table was set in the dining room, although there was ample space in the kitchen for the two of them. Henry would just as soon have eaten there. In fact, he thought there was something cozy about it. But Celia wasn't going to slide into such slovenly ways as long as she was able to carry food and dishes that distance. When they had sat down and the blessing had been said, she remarked, "The new neighbors moved in today. I went over and took some cookies." "Oh. That was nice. What are they like?" Henry's tone showed The New Neighbor that he was really much more in-_ terested in his steak. "Rather strange,' answered Celia. "She dresses like a schoolgirl, but she's over forty. The house is an absolute riot of color —everything from yellow to raspberry. But the oddest thing about her was that instead of putting her furniture in place, she was sitting in the middle of the floor looking at snapshots." "Well, maybe it was her best chance before she put them away again," said Henry quite unreasonably. "Nonsense! She could always remember where she put them. Anyway, I'm glad for one thing. They don't have any boys." "What's wrong with boys?" Henry demanded. "I seem to remember that you have some grandsons of your own." "T didn't mean it that way. Of course there's nothing wrong with boys. But you know full well what a nuisance it was to have those Markham boys always coming into the yard after their balls and yelling like savages any time, day or night." "Speaking of boys—we ought to have ours to dinner this Saturday. We've been going to their house for months now." "Yes, we should," Celia agreed. "T've asked Marcia a number of times, but she thinks that the boys worry me, for fear they'll break something in the house or spill on the carpets. She says she would rather we would come out there." "Well, it isn't right. We ought to have them here sometimes. You call tomorrow and say that we insist. I'll get something special. Steaks, for instance." 101 February 1968 The next morning Celia called her daughter-in-law to insist that they come to dinner. Marcia hesitated and then said, "All right, if you'll have it out on the patio. Charles can bring his grill and the men can take over. I'm not going to risk having Tony spill root beer on your carpet again." "As you say," Celia agreed, actually with a feeling of relief. She, too, was not anxious to have Tony spill root beer or anything else on her beige carpeting. "How do you like your new neighbors?" was Marcia's next question. "All right," answered Celia. "They're quite different...." "Different from what?" "Oh, sort of gay...." "You mean night parties?" "Oh, no!" Celia hastened to say. "They only moved in yesterday, and I haven't even met the husband. It's just that the house and furniture are all bright colors and she dresses to match." "That doesn't sound too bad," said Marcia. "No. And, anyway, they don't....' she was about to add "have any boys," but with Marcia's three that wouldn't sound right. So she finished with "have a dog to bark any time it hears a siren." As she dusted, later in the day, she noticed that Henry had left his chair where she had put it. A couple of times he had moved it back again. She guessed that it was just a notion that he couldn't see as well in that light. All he needed was to get used to it. That evening as they were eating dinner, they heard the strumming of a guitar next door. "That 102 sounds peppy," said Henry. "It's a Mexican dance tune. I wonder if my old guitar is still around." "No, it isn't," answered Celia. "We gave it to one of the girls years ago. This is the first time since you've ever mentioned it." "T guess you're right." After dinner Henry went outside and over to the fence. "Hi," he called. "T sure like your music." "Good," answered Mr. Andrews. "Come on over and [ll play your favorite." Henry went over and Celia could hear them laughing and playing the guitar. When she looked out, Henry had taken the instrument and was trying his hand at it again. She hoped that he wouldn't get so engrossed that he would want to get himself another one. After all—at his age—a man should settle down. Well, come to think of it, Henry certainly had_= settled down. This was the first time she had heard him "carrying on" like this in years. T he next morning she was awakened by one of the Andrews' cars driving out at dawn. Later, she called Kathy to say, "T hope that nothing was wrong this morning. When I heard you driving out I thought there might be an emergency." "Not at all," Kathy answered breezily. "We just drove up on the hillside to watch the dawn. It's a marvelous sight. Especially at this time of the year." Celia Mott spent the morning polishing silver. What an outlandish thing to do, anyway, she couldn't help thinking, to get up in the dark and drive out to watch the dawn. It didn't make sense, no matter how you looked at it. When Marcia, Charles, and the children came on Saturday she had set two small tables on the patio, one for the boys and another for the adults. She would have put them together, but she knew that the boys would much rather eat by themselves. She was rather glad _ that Henry and Charles were broiling the meat because she was tired from going around the block on the Red Cross drive. When Henry had suggested that she ask Kathy to help, she had replied, "That scatter-brain! She would probably forget all about it and spend the day making rose petal sachet. That's what she did yesterday." After dinner the boys were sitting around, clearly waiting for time to go home, when Kathy called over the fence, ''Hi, fellows! Would you like to borrow my bow and arrow set?" "Oh, Boy! Tl say!" cried Jimmy, while Matt and Tony all but leaped the fence in their eagerness. Kathy brought it out and Henry set up the target in the rear of the yard. As Celia was gathering up the dishes, she was half provoked at herself for not thinking of some amusement for the boys and half at Kathy for thinking of it in her place. When the time came for the boys to go home, they thanked her most profusely for the good time they had had. Celia assured them that she had enjoyed it, too, and vowed inwardly that she would have a bow and arrow set for them the next time they came-or something as interesting. The New Neighbor During the next few days she saw Kathy dancing, what seemed to be a tarantella, to the music of the radio. She came over and asked for some nasturtium leaves to scatter on their sandwiches, and she climbed to the top of her house and fastened a weathervane to the roof. So Celia was not too much surprised to see her show up at the front door with four of the Pysklo children from down the street. They were looking more grimy and unkempt than usual —if that was possible. Kathy smiled brightly at Celia and said, "The children's mother has gone to the hospital and they are all alone. I'm trying to find places for them to stay. Mrs. Watkins has taken the baby, and Mrs. Radcliff the two-yearold. I thought that if you could take the eldest two, then I could manage the ones in between." For a moment, Celia could only stand there aghast as she thought of her exquisite spare bedroom with the blue satin spread and tufted pillows. Then 103 February 1968 she said, "I just don't see how I can. My house isn't in shape for little boys. But I'll be glad to do something for them—cook a meal or do some ironing. Maybe there is someone else who can take them?" "Thank you very much," said Kathy. "No, there isn't anyone else in the neighborhood. I've tried them all. Mrs. Jenkins has a headache, and the woman next door has company coming—and so on." As the children began to look distressed, she said quickly, "But, it's quite all right, boys. I can easily take care of you." They walked away and Celia closed her door. She stood rooted there for a minute. She couldn't stand it. She wasn't going to let a newcomer to the neighborhood take over for the rest of them. Not if everything in the spare bedroom had to be burned after the children had used it—as maybe it would be. She snatched off the blue satin cover, looked twice at the chairs, and deeided to leave them in the room. Then she marched over to the Andrews' house. Kathy was putting out bread and jam on the table. "T've changed my mind," said Gaia "TI find that I can take two of them, after all. I hope that their mother isn't going to be too long in. The hospital." "IT wouldn't know," answered Kathy. "We may. Have them for a couple of weeks or so. Anyway, T'll be glad to have you take them.-I was going to make up extra beds on the divan in the living room." Celia waited until they had finished eating their bread and jam, then took them home. When Henry arrived from work she softened the surprise by saying brightly, "We have company for a few days. This is Mark, and this is Evan. Their mother is in the hospital, and their father at work, so they are going to stay with us." Henry quickly covered his astonishment and said, "That's fine. We're real glad to have you boys." Later, Celia suggested that he supervise their baths and take them to their bedroom. Then she went in and moved Henry's chair back to the old accustomed place. Let the carpet wear out! It didn't matter, really. WAKENING THOUGHTS Sylvia Neale Northampton Branch, Central British Mission Bright sun of morning Startles my eyelids, Bids me accept beginning of day. Clouds on horizon are tiny and formless, Gold, crimson jewels—entrancing display. Bright sun of the gospel, Startles my senses, Bids me accept what my heart always knew; Clouds on horizon, tike troubles are harmless, Diminished in size when truth is in view. 104 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Miss Clarice Kerr, now retired and living in Scottsdale, Arizona, has been presented a "superior service' award by the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, in recognition of her contributions to improving the health and welfare of American Indians, through her outstanding performance in nursing service, administration, and staff development. The presentation was made by Dr. Leo J. Gehrig, Assistant Surgeon General at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Most recently Miss Kerr was director of nursing at the indian Hospital, Fort Defiance, Arizona. She has also served in hospitals caring for Gros Ventre, Assiniboine, and Alaskan Indians. Woman executives in the United States who have become millonaires, principally through their own businesses (or co-owned with husbands) are: Mrs. Lynn Stuart, women's apparel; Miss Pat Palmer, real estate; Mrs. Ruth Handler, toy business (creator of Barbie dolls); Mrs. Lynn Pressman, fashion director, toy merchandising, and industrial real estate; Miss Jessie Frankfurt, glamorous maternity dresses, countrywide chain stores, real estate; Miss Jane Trahey, advertising agency, specializing in articles that sell to women. Miss Barbara Thompson, Navajo, was winner of the Fried Bread Contest in the AllIndian Days celebration held in Bluff, Utah, in June 1967. Mrs. Marvin Wallin, Salt Lake City, Utah, is the mother of triplet sons, all of whom have recently returned from missions for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: Scott served his mission in New Zealand, Kent in Austria, and Craig in Samoa. All the boys are Eagle Scouts and all hold Duty to God awards. They are presently enrolled in three separate Utah colleges. Nancy Sweet-Escott, born and brought up in Gloucestershire, England, is the only woman steeplechase horse trainer on the major tracks in the United States. She is also a well-known research veterinarian, much in demand. Mrs. Mary Kaltman is chief housekeeper in the White House, Washington D. C. She has seventy assistants who help her to keep the 132 rooms in cleanliness and order. Such household tasks as washing the crystal chandeliers, cleaning the windows, dusting and polishing the furniture, vacuuming the carpets, cooking and serving meals for the presidential family and the many guests, are only a few of the many jobs that must receive prompt and meticulous attention. Keiko Fukuda, a tiny Japanese woman, an official guest at the World Judo Championship contests in Salt Lake City, has taught judo to many American women in the United States. Judo grew out of a religious foundation, she states, and is supposed to give spiritual as well as physical strength and grace. 105 EDITORIAL VOLUME 55 FEBRUARY 1968 NUMBER 2 General Board @ Belle S. Spafford, President B Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor m Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer s Each time the visiting teachers call at a home, they bring a valentine of love. ''To You With Love,'' their visit says. They are following a path worn smooth by the feet of faithful sisters who have walked the path of loving service for nearly one hundred twenty-six years. They walk over sun-baked sandy paths, between lush green growth, through waving palms, over icy trails, through crowded streets; they go by automobile, horseback, scooters, bus, and even by plane, on occasion. All over the world where the gospel light is piercing the darkness of unbelief in the Savior of the world, two messengers, in a spirit of sisterly solicitude, bring their valentine of love once each month throughout the year. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J). Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous The young child looks out the window at two women entering the gate. ''Mother,'' she calls excitedly, ''it's the Relief Society visiting teachers.'' The young mother hastens to welcome them into her home. The homebound woman has a special smile for her two faithful visitors who bring to her cheery greetings from her sisters, and a message of spirituality to ponder, during the hours of loneliness and pain. The indifferent sister may chide herself after their departure for her feelings of resentment when she saw them coming, and then there is the sister who doesn't answer the door as she hasn't the time to bother with them. Whatever the welcome, the visiting teachers continue on their assigned rounds in rain, in sun, in heat, in cold. They have been called to the service of the Master. They are loyally exemplifying the words which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to Relief Society for their grand key words, ''Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' "' Jesus went about doing good. In spite of rebuffs, indifference, unrighteousness, he still trod the path marked out for him by the loving Father. The visiting teachers go about doing good. They go with a prayer in their hearts, and thanksgiving for the service to which they have been called. —M. C. S. Protect Your Whole Family From Heart Disease The American Heart Association Heart disease is a twentieth century epidemic. More than half of us will die of this dread disease! Hope is on the horizon, research holds answers that will save thousands of lives. The answers from research are hard to get and nature gives up her mysteries slowly. While we support this multi-million dollar research program, there are many things we can do for our families to gain protection from heart disease.. Dr. Paul Dudley White, in his appearance at the Tabernacle in September of 1967, enumerated many things we as families can do to improve against heart attacks. Dr. White says that those who have had heart attacks had one or more of these conditions or living habits: high levels of cholesterol or other fatty substance in the blood, overweight, high blood pressure, lack of exercise, cigarette smoking, and a family history of heart attacks in middle age. It appears that any one of these conditions or habits increases the chances of a heart attack, and that a condition of two or more factors multiples the risk. All of these habits or conditions may be averted or lessened by establishing good family habits. Habits usually begin in early childhood, with living patterns learned from parents. Children begin early in life to overeat and to develop a taste for fattening foods. Some children do not take part in sports or get enough other exercise. The smoking habit often begins in the teens or earlier, especially if the parents smoke. You can help your family by carefully choosing a nutritional and well-balanced diet, planning some type of program for regular exercise, and encouraging your child not to smoke by precept and example.. The home is the ideal place to begin to develop good habits—good habits pertaining to your heart. Your life will be healthier, happier, and longer. Protect yourself and your family and help support your Heart Association in the fight against America's Number One Killer—Heart Disease. 108 THE WEDDING GIFT Kathryn E. Franks e Hope Farrel, on a bright October afternoon, hung up the telephone receiver just as Judy, her ten-year-old daughter, blew into the kitchen. She came in after school as usual with a great deal of zest and hunger. Judy dropped her schoolbooks on the table with a thud and turned toward the refrigerator, her hair shining as she twirled as if summer sun were still reflected there. "That was Ruth Webb on the phone," Hope told Judy. "She's moving Carol's wedding shower up to the fifteenth. Works better for most of-the girls." "Oh," exclaimed Judy, her hazel eyes suddenly dismayed. "What is it, dear?' Hope asked. "Something else planned?" "No, but that's so soon. It's just that I haven't decided on a gift for Carol." "Tll help,' Hope _ offered, thinking of the list she had been adding to and crossing off in connection with Carol's wedding. Right now Hope felt that she was playing tit-tat-toe. "We'll go Saturday," she said, "before I start my other errands." "No, thanks, Mom," Judy replied. "This is special. I want to select Carol's gift by myself." 109 February 1968 "You're right, it is special. Not every day your only, older sister gets married." Too late, Hope sensed she had made the wrong remark. Judy had swung around and fled up the stairs. I haven't been aware, Hope reasoned, with so many of the wedding details on my mind, how difficult this is for Judy. Whatever, Hope wondered in distress, is Judy going to do when Carol is married and away from home? How will Judy sleep at night knowing Carol isn't in the bed across from her? I have never, Hope thought proudly, seen two sisters so absolutely fond of each other, and completely devoted to one another. Earl had been a_ pretty, brown-haired, eleven-year-old the year Judy was born. Hope had feared Carol might display jealousy, but instead she had been childishly delighted with' her baby sister. At once, Carol had tended the baby in a manner that had amazed Hope. Understandingly enough, before Judy was a year old she had turned to Carol for her needs. Judy had insisted upon Carol dressing her, and undressing her. It had been Carol who had helped Judy into her pink sleepers and read the nursery rhymes. Sometimes, Hope thought, smiling now thinking about it, she had felt shut out. For instance, it had been Carol's hand Judy reached for when she took her first steps.... Carol that left her at the door the first day of school. 110 Through the years, Hope had marveled how Carol, unselfishly, totally unaware of it, had Judy's interests and welfare in mind. When Judy was three, Carol had insisted that Judy be moved into the room with her. Carol, fourteen then, had voiced definite ideas on how the room should be arranged and decorated. To blend with the rosepink walls and the pink striped curtains, they had purchased two white beds, with a night stand to go between. It was on the night stand, later, when Judy was_ seven, that they placed the lamp. The girls had been Christmas shopping in Harland's Department Store, when they first saw the blue and white porcelain based lamp with the childish Dutch designs. The shade was made of crisp white organdy. Loaded down with packages and covered with snow, Carol and Judy had arrived home, excited, determined to take their own money and go back to buy the lamp. Since then, the lamp had stood on the night stand between the two beds, a bond between the sisters. When Carol came in after an evening out, more times than not, Judy awakened, snapped on the lamp, sat up in bed, drew her knees up under the covers and listened eagerly while Carol, rolling her hair up in curlers, chatted about the events of the day. Naturally, it was Judy who first saw the engagement ring and heard the announcement. Also, there was a little trick the girls played, like: "Last one to bed turns out the light." These words were called from the shower or the dressing table. With that, the two sisters, Carol, a tall working girl, and Judy, a frisky, ten-year-old, scrambled across the room, pushing and shoving, trying to reach her bed first so that the last one in had to switch off the lamp. Now Judy, Hope realized sadly, was faced with the idea of being alone in her room. Soon Carol would be moved to an apartment of her own. Hope had met the same problem, but with more common sense than sentiment. She tried to concentrate on Carol's happiness, and the blessing that Carol was marrying such a fine young man as Hank. Judy, however, had escaped to her room, faced now with the problem of selecting a gift for her sister. Ni: wanting to intrude, but hoping she might help, Hope picked up aé freshly ironed blouse and carried it up to Judy's room. Hope tapped on the door, and Judy's_ feeble voice answered "Come in." As Hope entered, Judy folded two one-dollar bills around a fifty-cent coin and placed them in her blue handkerchief box. "If you haven't the cash for Carol's gift," Hope suggested, "Tll add what you need for the gift." "No thanks," Judy stated, impossibly independent for her age, "if it's going to be my gift, Ill buy it myself." Hope knew that Judy was planning on earning a few dollars by feeding Mrs. Carlson's poodle while she went to visit The Wedding Gift her son. Now the shower date was set up before Mrs. Carlson's visit, and Judy was in a quandary. Hope wondered if Judy had heard some private remarks between herself and her husband. About. The cost of the wedding, and if that was the reason she was so determined not to take her mother's money. Carol was carrying most of the expense of her wedding dress and the smaller details, but, as parents, they were meeting the other expenses. Or Judy knew, perhaps without hearing, that any expense right now was a burden to her parents, and that was why she felt so determined not to take one penny. Without any doubt, Hope knew for certain what Judy wanted to buy. She and Judy had stopped in the furniture store less than a week ago, when Hope saw Judy holding an early American, copper teakettle. Hope pretended not to _ hear when Judy asked the price. "Six-fifty," the clerk answered. Hope had winced. Judy, still holding the teakettle, remarked, "Carol likes early American. I know because when we walked by here the other afternoon Carol stopped and looked in the window. She said something about the teakettle but when she saw the price, we walked on without going inside. There is an artificial fireplace in the apartment she and Hank are — going to rent. This would look nice on the white mantle. "It is pretty," Hope added, "and Carol and Hank won't be buying many decorative pieces at first. I know she'd love it." 111 February 1968 Hope had moved away, looking for the furniture polish, wanting Judy to make her own selection. Apparently she had decided, for Hope heard her ask the clerk to save the teakettle until the twenty-ninth when she would be in to pay for it. Now, hanging Judy's blouse in the closet, Hope said slowly, "Judy, I think you need some help now that Helen has set the date up so soon. I'll lend you the money, and you go down and pick up the gift. You can have it gift-wrapped, then you can pay me back the difference after Mrs. Carlson pays you." Judy leaped from the bed and grabbed her sweater. "T guess I'll have to," Judy admitted, her face brightening. "Tll walk down now, if you'll lend me four dollars. I'll be back before dinner." Hope hadn't finished peeling the potatoes when she saw Judy coming back, cutting across the front yard, her shoulders sagging, and her face looking more miserable than Hope had ever seen it. When she opened the door she couldn't hold back the tears. "The copper teakettle was sold." She could barely speak above a whisper. She looked so brokenhearted, Hope longed to put her arms around her and comfort her. "Wasn't there another one?" Hope couldn't believe Judy could be right. Certainly there was a mistake. "No," Judy replied, putting Hope's money back on_ the table. "Another clerk didn't know and sold the teakettle only a few days ago." 112 "We'll think of something else," Hope reassured her. "After dinner, we'll think of something." "No," Judy answered, and turned toward the stairs. That evening when Carol came in late from work, she found Judy studying her math, dry-eyed, cheerful as usual. Hope felt astonished that Judy could put on such an act. Carol would never guess by Judy's manners that anything was wrong. Ik ater, in the upstairs hallway putting away clean sheets, Hope heard Judy's voice as she was crawling into bed, saying in a frail voice, "I'm going to miss you, Carol, dreadfully." "T'm going to miss you, too, infant. But, after all, I'm not going to be that far away." Hope stepped into the bedroom to tell her daughters good night just as the two girls reached up together to turn off the night stand lamp. Saturday afternoon, after a busy morning, Hope asked Judy if she might drive her downtown where she could buy another gift for Tuesday night. "Thanks, anyway," Judy informed her mother with her old zest, "but the gift has already been taken care of.' Her voice echoed a hint of secrecy, and Hope knew better than to question. What could she have bought, Hope wondered anxiously, with less than three dollars? Could it have been in that big bag she had carried in only this morning? That sack had been large enough to hold a hatbox. Hope received an unusual number of telephone calls, had her own dress to alter, and marketing to do the day of the shower. When: it was time to dress, Hope felt she had been circling around on a roller rink all day. Her feet felt so heavy and tired, she wondered if she could possibly get them into her dress shoes, but good, dependable Judy on the living-room sofa, was dressed and waiting with her gift. She looked so fresh and neat in her yellow, brass-buttoned jumper and white blouse, Hope knew how proud Carol would be when she saw Judy. Carol was already at Helen Webb's house, thinking she was only invited to dinner. Everything appeared to be working out fine, except Hope couldn't shake off the concern about Judy's gift. Not that Carol wouldn't love anything Judy selected, but Hope didn't want Judy embarrassed in front of Carol's friends. Finally, with her own gift, an electric skillet Carol wanted and needed, Hope collected her purse and gloves, and signaled to Judy. With a mixture of tiredness, happiness, and anxiety, Hope drove with Judy _ beside her, through the crisp autumn evening toward Helen Webb's house., Hope would treasure always the startled expression on Carol's face when her friends and she and Judy crowded into Helen's living room. Instantly, Carol had her natural, quick, sparkling smile for everyone, but she couldn't resist in reaching over, to hug Judy and to kiss her mother's cheek. Hope's shoes pinched, and The Wedding Gift she was glad when Helen suggested she take the comfortable, wing-back chair beside the fire. By now the room had erupted with girls' voices, their chatter and laughter. Hope felt greatly touched by the affection Carol's lovely young friends bestowed upon her. And Carol, Hope noticed gladly, responded in a most gracious, spontaneous manner. Tonight, glowing with happiness, she looked not much older than Judy. INI ot many minutes passed until Helen started some fun games. Hope, trying to concentrate, could not keep from glancing from Carol 'to Judy. Was Judy all right? At the moment Judy appeared to be enjoying herself, and Hope relaxed somewhat until it was time for Carol to unwrap her gifts. Judy, it seemed to Hope, sat a bit too far forward on her chair, looking, Hope thought, as if she were about ready to jump up for some relay race. In her excitement for Carol, Judy appeared to have forgotten herself entirely. Carol opened her gifts slowly, thanking each girl with such heartfelt words, Hope felt certain the girls were touched and delighted in Carol's sincerity. Her friends had lovingly showered her with useful gifts. When Carol reached for Judy's gift, the biggest and most conspicuous, Hope turned her shoulders away from the fire, knowing that she had never been more tense, not even in a dentist's chair. Oh, dear, Hope thought, wishing the flames 113 February 1968 would die down, let it be all right! Judy, her eyes fastened on Carol's hands, sat straight and composed, first crossing, then uncrossing her feet, unaware of anyone else in the room, conscious only of Carol's fingers untying the bow. The two sisters' eyes met before the gift was yet unwrapped, and the instant of endearment that passed between them, though not a word was spoken, brightened the whole room. _ Carol's hands had no more than touched the gift inside, lifting it into view, when she drew in her breath, "Oh, Judy," she began, then her voice broke, leaving her speechless. Her eyes misted as she looked at her younger sister. At once she regained her composure and addressed Judy. "Oh, Judy, our lamp. You gave me our lamp." Hope regained her poise. Indeed, there it was, the familiar night stand lamp, but dressed now in a crisp, new shade. No one in the room would guess what the lamp meant to Carol, or what Judy had really given to her older sister. Not unless they sensed the sisterly affection that passed silently between the two girls. "It's not much," Judy explained huskily. "I thought you might like part of our room to take with you." Part of the room, Hope thought, with emotion, she's giving her part of her heart. Above the crackling flames and the girls' voices, Hope's ears seemed to hear her daughters' voices down through the years. "Last one in bed turns off the light." It did not surprise Hope that Judy had thought of such an idea, but what Hope marveled at, was that she would have the courage to carry the idea through. "Oh, infant," Carol said now to Judy, "every night I reach up to turn off the light, [ll be silently saying goodnight to you." "T know," Judy said happily, scooting across the room to sit on the floor beside Carol, "that's what I thought." Judy sat crosslegged, close to Carol, folding the ribbons and _ papers as Carol continued to unwrap her gifts. She moved, Hope thought, because she got Carol's message. Carol wanted Judy at her side, to share her joy. Hope smiled, then, her first relaxed smile in several days, for she felt certain now beyond all doubt that Carol would never be very far away from Judy vq "Dear Grandma, MOTHER'S GRACIOUS LITTLE GRANDDAUGHTER Iris W. Schow Told she's forgotten to say, ''Thanks," She gravely wrote to square it: Thank you for the hat. | hardly ever wear it."'. Ever! 114 REFLECTIONS ON THE GLORY OF FREEDOM Josephine H. Beck I choose freedom: Freedom is the most precious possession of life, next to life itself. —President David O. McKay "Let freedom ring" is a thought which is thrilling to my soul. I have the right and power to choose for myself whether I will be good or bad, happy or sad. My Heavenly Father gave me this blessing of being a free agent for myself. It is a divine privilege with a mighty responsibility. President McKay has said: The gospel of Jesus Christ is the perfect law of freedom. We do not wish to supplant any government, but we wish to have this truth in our homes, in our hearts, and to teach it to our children as the best, most glorious thing in all the world. (Church Section, Deseret News, August 24, 1963.) It is my desire that my children also may know for themselves the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I will always be grateful to my parents for trying to instill this in my life and for their splendid example of righteous living. The Lord told us that there would be wicked and designing men who would seek to rob us of our happiness and well-being by attempting to persuade us to take up habits which wculd make us slaves. If we value our freedom we would not choose to be slaves, therefore, we must not relax our vigil against the enemies of freedom. WASTED YEARS 7} Ruth G. Rothe Sometimes we let a fence of deep resentment Build up around our hearts against someone, And then as hate-filled years pass slowly onward, We cannot clearly state just what was done, The words perhaps once innocently spoken We cannot now repeat—even recall; If we had only practiced swift forgiveness There would have been no reason for it all. 115 pr THE ss -STREWN i; ye 7 ROAD " On 'Cartin L., Wright —_ s Susan snapped back to attention at the instructor's words as she heard him begin the assignment. "To involve you more in this period of time, your term paper will be a biography. I want you to get to know how a person who lived in that time period felt, what he thought. I don't want one of those he-was-born-hereand-died-there kind of biographies. The individual may be anyone you choose, famous or not. Here is the catch. Your main source must be something the individual wrote." A chorus of moans arose. "It isn't as hard as you may think. For famous people, there are often published autobiographies, collections of letters, and so forth. For many others, there are journals, diaries, that kind of thing." "Diary," Susan thought. "Great-grandmother Carter." The bell rang, Susan gathered up her books and rushed out. Tammy caught up with her and matched her quick steps. ' "Sue, what have your parents decided about this fall?" she asked. Susan frowned as the same problem again captured her attention. "Oh, they won't decide. It's up to me." "Whoopee! Then it's all set. We're off to State. Two years at dear, little, City College, but watch out State, here we come." Tammy noticed Susan wasn't joining in her enthusiasm. "Hey, what's wrong? You don't seem very happy for someone who gets to go to State. We are going to State, aren't we?" "T didn't say I could go to State," Susan replied glumly. "I just said my parents were leaving it to me to decide." "That's the same thing, isn't it? You want to go to State. You make the decision. You choose State. Seems pretty simple to me." 116 The Rock—Strewn Road "Well, it isn't, Tammy. I've got to go to biology now. I'll see you tomorrow." Sue left her friend very bewildered. Susan hardly heard a word the biology professor said. Tammy just didn't understand. Of course it was impossible just completely to ignore her parents' wishes. For one thing, they were probably right. She could take any of a wide variety of classes, she would be with other members of the Church, the Brigham Young University campus seemed so beautiful from the brochures, she would get to travel almost halfway across the country, see new places, meet new people, broaden her horizons. That was the trouble—new places, new people. She wouldn't know anyone. The campus was so big she would probably get lost. The same feeling of panic again threatened to overwhelm her. She would have to decide soon. Deadlines for applications were coming nearer. "Tt just isn't fair to make me decide," she thought. "It would be much easier to go to State. Tammy could be my roommate. If I got lost, at least I'd be lost with someone, and not all by myself. I guess I just don't have much pioneer spirit. Wouldn't Great-grandmother Carter be ashamed of me!" "Hi, Mom." Susan said, putting her books on the table. "Mr. Johnston wants us to write a biography of somebody, and we have to use something she wrote. Don't we have a diary that Great-grandmother Carter kept?" "Yes, Susie. It's so old, though, please be very careful." "T will, Mom. I'll start right after dinner." "Susie, have you thought any more about which school? Dad and I..." "T know, Mom, but I just can't decide. I'll probably be signing up at City College again." "City College is good, or your father wouldn't be teaching there, but we are convinced you need to learn to meet people. You've known almost everyone at City College since you were in the first grade. We'd like you to be around other young people of the Church. That has been one thing I haven't liked about living in the branch. There just aren't any young people for you to be with." "Yes, Mom, but I just can't face the idea of not knowing anyone. If I could just stay here and never have to go anywhere I'd be perfectly happy." Susan hurried through her chores to get to work on her assignment. She was really looking forward to it. She had heard many stories about Emmalou Putney Carter. Susan always pictured her as holding off a band of Indians while holding a baby on her hip. She carefully unwrapped the old volume, and almost reverently opened it. Suddenly she saw a face, the face of a young girl. In one corner of the drawing was the inscription "Emmalou Putney, sixteen years." Susan had seen several old photographs of a sweet, little old lady with white hair piled high on top of her head,. And very merry eyes. But this was a different person. A serious girl, shy looking, and... And... Timid. Susan began to read. She quickly skimmed the pages until one entry caught her eye. "April 23, 1844. Papa met some gentlemen today and invited them to supper. They called themselves elders and talked about a new Church. They spoke of things in a way that made them seem so natural. It was very strange. Grandfather said he didn't think there was a word of truth in it, but Papa was very impressed. 117 February 1968 "May 15, 1844. Today something happened I would never want to happen again. Clara will not speak to me. She has remained silent since breakfast. Papa announced that he is going to be baptized by the elders. Grandfather was very angry. He said that if Mama was alive she would never allow such foolishness. Papa asked Clara and me if we would be baptized. Too, Clara said she would get her hair wet and it would never be dry in time for Mercy Phillips' party. I want to please Papa, but Grandfather said there is not much good being said about the new Church and Papa has just been deceived. "T did promise Papa I would read The Book of Mormon, and that is what made Clara angry. She wanted me to help her iron her petticoats and dress for the party, and curl her hair. But I did promise Papa. This is the most miserable day of my life. "June 3, 1844. | went to meeting with Papa. They seem like nice people and not at all hke what everyone is saving. Clara said it ls mortifving to have her own father be a Mormon. Grandfather says they are all lars and thieves and worse. But Papa isn't and those people seemed very nice. The elders who baptized Papa spoke of the authority to act in God's name and when they said they had that authority I had a very peculiar feeling. I just knew they were telling the truth. When I told Papa he was very happy. He wants me to be baptized, but it would upset Clara and Grandfather and there has been trouble. "June 16, 1844. The situation is getting worse. There has been some talk of violence. Papa wants to go to the Mormon city, Nauvoo. It is only three days' journey and I could come back here and visit. But to leave my home and friends? How can I do that? But how can I let Papa go by himself? I do not have to choose now. Papa could not leave until after harvest, anyway. 'June 29, 1844. A rider came through with terrible news. The Mormon Prophet is dead. No one knows what happened. The elders are going to Nauvoo right away. Papa is going, too. He went to Grandfather and settled evervthing. For Papa's share of the farm, he gets a wagon, team, and supplies, and Clara's needs will be taken care of. She refused to come. I might have, except Grandfather said Papa was risking my neck and that was wicked. To even think Papa was wicked! So I said I would go. But I am so frightened. I must choose quickly what to take. "Clara and I just cannot stand to be parted. She wants me to stay, and I want her to go. But each has to do what she must. I must go with Papa. It is so hard, but Papa says the Lord commands us to do only what it is possible for us to do. I know I must be brave. Papa says it will not be easy, but we will do the best we can." Susan sat staring at the tear-stained page. The words were whirling around in her mind. She knew the main story of Great-grandmother Carter's life, but it had never seemed a real person had done all that. More of an ideal. The very picture of courage, facing all the dangers that came her way. This girl wasn't like that. Mavbe I thought I knew Great-grandmother Carter, Susan thought, but I surely didn't know Emmalou Putney. Susan read on. There was the entry of her baptism, how they had found a small house in Nauvoo. "April 11, 1845. [ have met the most wonderful girl. Hannah Carter. She is just mv age and a great friend. I feel I have known her all my life. And she is so brave. Yesterday she killed a snake with her hoe. I should 118 The Rock—Strewn Road have died first. On the temple. "May 24, 1845, The femple jis finished. Such much joy, Surely it: jx Spreading al] Over the beautify) day. ""Septembe, 5, 1845. 7 IS not Safe to be Out from the She js keeping the Barden sy her brothey Thorryens Can work a glorious day. There jg SO Country, Such a beautiful fect us if it is we Should live, and if we Must give Our lives we Will be eternally rewarded. | Must hold to that. "November 13, 1845. Apa and Brother Carter almost have everything > plan to trave] together. Two Small families are saf, than Separate. Inflame the Mobs avs not to fe walking Shoes, but there has bee ust have to wait. "February 21, 1846. We have been Preserve were CONStant]y mies. The last Y under fe; under the bed. Tom sg; Wanted ty hide * are sick, but.1 soy feel afra; Susan closed the worn Volume. Te am crying for? Not for chided tion fro Nlversity addresg "Susie ide? Appened?" Great-grandmother Carter Stopped being Great-grandmother Carter and started bein Emmaloy Putney and the re Would yoy Write me every da St was easy. But, Mom, Y, at least, at first?" ICICLES Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Pendant Diamonds are these Loveliest Wedding of Winter and wat er, in Perfect 119 'he femple seems to city, Papa s AkInst uy a". God wil) pro- inside and out _- 77 |; < — 'J > | FOR A HILL CHILD: Ethel Jacobson A breeze drifts down the canyon Through dancing aspen glens, » While bright against their murmur ' ay Is the evening song of wrens. 7 From somewhere on the hilltop; A lone coyote calls. The creek has hidden harp strings — In crystal waterfalls. And all these are, That there may be A lullaby For Stephanie. THE HOT DISH HEART Helen Hinckley Jones =» Mama didn't have any French words in her vocabulary, not even the familiar housewifely word "casserole." But she did have both knowledge and wisdom about what she called the "hot dish." Mama had an enamelware pan—blue on the outside and white on the inside—that went into our oven almost every day. Before we baked with gas or electricity, the blue pan often stayed in the oven all day, and in it beans baked slowly in a luxury of molasses, spice, and bits of ham. Another dish that required slow baking was the rice, brown sugar, and raisins that bubbled and grew a creamy beige as Mama turned under, again and again, the brown skin that formed on the top. Potatoes were another stand-by. Mama sometimes peeled and cubed boiled potatoes that had been cooked in their well-scrubbed "jackets," poured creamy cheese sauce over them, and whisked the blue pan that held this everyday goodness into the oven only long enough to bake a crumbly crust of cracker crumbs, butter, and cheese that topped it. If Mama had all afternoon, she peeled uncooked potatoes and sliced them very thin. Into the blue pan, prepared with real butter, she put a layer of potatoes, then a sprinkling of flour, salt and pepper; potatoes again, again salt, pepper, and flour until the pan was two thirds full. Over this she carefully poured rich milk. Slowly, the potatoes grew tender in the slow oven. By some enchantment not known to me, the milk didn't curdle. Some of it was absorbed by the potatoes and it, in turn, absorbed the flour and the seasonings—delicious. On special occasions, Mama covered the potatoes with loin pork chops and let their succulent goodness permeate to the very bottom of the blue pan in a process which Papa called "gilding the lily." Macaroni and cheese made Mama's slow-baked way, was all right. So was stew of yesterday's pot roast of beef, potatoes, carrots and onions, topped with made-from-scratch sour cream biscuits. But my favorite was veal pie. Early in the morning, or sometimes even the night before, Mama boiled veal shanks or shoulder. She sometimes allowed me to help her to pick the meat from the bone, though I often ate more than I put in the bowl. To the bite-sized pieces of meat, she added what she called "milk gravy." Carefully, she lined the sides of the blue pan with a paper-thin strip of crust, then she added the meat and the gravy, and topped the whole thing with a circle of crust. In the crust she cut two long slits that looked to us like willows. They must have been meant for willows, because along 121 29 i each side of the shia nlade leaf-like perforations, and the edge she fluted to the side\dining with perfect stallops. Was there ever anything as beautiful ds Mama's deep-dish véal pie? When something was it jaking in the blue pan, I would return to the kitchen, again and again, for several deep sniffs between practicing Hanon on the piano and reading my library book. Finally, when I could tolerate the anticipation no longer, I would hang around the kitchen complaining, "But, Mama, it's so long until dinner!" Sometimes, Mama would put me to setting the table, but other times she would take the blue pan from the oven and put it neatly in the center of a dazzling washed and boiled dish towel. As she reached for the corners of the towel to tie it into a carrying basket my heart would turn over with the pain of loss. Mama had made this beautiful food for some other family! Sometimes, it went to a house where a new family was moving in, to welcome strangers into the brotherhood (sisterhood, or youngsterhood) of our pleasant block. Sometimes, it went to a family moving out who didn't have time to cook in the midst of packing and the thorough house cleaning that used to go with leaving a rented house. Sometimes, it went to a friend who had unexpected house guests and could use the extra food, or to one who was ill and couldn't get around to go to the store or to cook. We didn't often send store-bought flowers to funerals, but the blue pan was always early, often the first food to arrive at any home from which a family member had departed. I was often entrusted with the delivery. Half rebelliously, I would carry the dish-towel basket like a suitcase, banging it for a while against one leg, then for a time against the other. If the delivery had interrupted some specially important activity like playing "onesies and twosies" with my friend Virginia, I would kick a rock in front of me on purpose to wear out my shoes and wonder what would happen if the blue pan got lost and could never get home. It never did get lost. Everybody knew the Hinckley's blue pan. One day, an unusual family came into our town and settled, with the permission of the town or county (I never did know which), into a shabby, vacant house. The house had been purchased, I think, because it stood on land needed for an extension of the cemetery, and it had never been demolished. The mother went right to bed and added another baby to the family. The father, the first unemployed man I had ever seen, sat in the kitchen. He didn't read, 122 The Home—Inside and Out he didn't make willow whistles for his boys or doll furniture for his girls, he just sat. Nearly every day Mama sent a hot dish, by me, to this family. I knew the rules. The blue pan went to homes where the mother was ill and couldn't get around to go to the store or to cook. But that good-for-nothing man sitting in the kitchen and rising only to spoon the beautiful food into an ugly, soiled soup tureen and to give me back the unwashed pan without even a thank you, I could not tolerate. One morning when Mama tied my favorite veal pie into a dish towel basket, I exploded into tears and angry words. "Why don't we eat this ourselves?" I demanded. "Just our family?" "Why, dear," Mama said, "if we didn't: carry food to this family, they would go hungry. You wouldn't want all of those little people to be hungry, would you?" "Well, ''m hungry," I insisted. "All morning I've been thinking about this pie. And that good-for-nothing father...." I loved this long descriptive word I had heard others use. Papa, hearing my angry voice, came into the kitchen. He gave me his handkerchief to dry my eyes, then he sat down and stood me facing him. He spoke slowly. "Honey, I want you to remember this. Every minute of every day there is a baby born who will never in his life be able to really take care of himself. Even when he grows up to be a man he'll have to depend upon others. Jesus said, 'For ye have the poor always with you.'" "But Papa," I protested, feeling the tears coming again, "he's not blind. He has two legs and two arms, and...." Papa offered the handkerchief again. ""There's something lacking in some people, and you can't see from the outside that this important thing is missing; but still the something that isn't there is more necessary than eyes, or legs or arms. And I think that if a man is born without it, he can't develop it any more than he could grow a second arm if he had been born with only one." I stood undecided about what argument to use next to save that pie for our family. It would only be broken and ruined when it was spooned into the cracked soup tureen. Papa got up and put the blue pan, tied into the dish towel, in my hand. "Every day we can thank God that we were born with this special something inside us. We can give instead of needing to accept." "Papa," I began, still puzzled, 'what is this thing?" "No one has a name for it," Papa said. "In my own mind I call it drive." "Run along, dear," Mama urged me. "I don't want the pie to get cold." I know all about casseroles—family casseroles, party casseroles, church dinner casseroles. Being a housewife on a budget, I have perfected half a hundred. But every time I make a donation to anyone, I remember the blue pan and the love and good feeling that Mama baked into every hot dish. 123 * oy a xf « Pan, age ROL IN A Se ARE ARN SB BEEN MONE » MANY TALENTS—MANY FRIENDS Mabel Varley Christensen, San Luis Stake, Sanford, Colorado, has a multitude of talents and hobbies. During one Christmas season she made 150 pounds of candy for friends and relatives. She raises African violets, creates her own designs for beautiful pieced and appliquéd quilts. Crocheting, embroidering, decorative pillows, and aprons are products of her skillful hands. She is an expert seamstress and for many years did custom sewing, drafting and cutting her own patterns for dresses, coats, and suits. She has made over 1500 aprons. She has always found time for Church activity, and has held ward and stake positions in all auxiliaries of the Church. For more than forty years she has served as a visiting teacher. Sister Christensen has brought much happiness to her family, consisting of her husband of fifty-two years, five sons, twenty-two grandchildren, and fourteen greatgrandchildren. Much of her time is taken up presently with genealogy work, which she lists among her greatest accomplishments. 124 Aunt Minerva's Inspiration Dough Minerva P. Everett 2 c. Scalded milk 1 c. Warm water 6 tbsp. Butter or margarine 1 tsp. Salt 2 packages dry or fresh yeast 3 eggs beaten 1 tsp. Sugar a 8 c. White flour Scald the milk and add shortening while the milk is still hot. Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water and add to the milk mixture when it is lukewarm. Add salt and eggs and mix well. Place in mixing bowl and add four cups of flour, mixing well. Allow to rise about two hours. Knead in the other 4 cups of flour. Let rise until double in bulk. Roll the dough and cut into biscuits. Dip each biscuit in melted shortening and fold over as in making Parker House rolis. Let rise until very light (about one hour). Bake at 350° for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, depending upon the size of the biscuits. Cinnamon rolls may be made from this recipe by rolling out part or all of the dough as desired. Spread the dough with shortening and sprinkle with cinnamon in desired amounts. Then add seedless raisins which have been boiled for five minutes then drained. Roll the dough like a jelly roll and cut off the circles one or two inches thick. Dip in melted shortening in pan and turn over. Allow to rise until very light. Bake at 350° until brown (twenty to twenty-five minutes). PIONEER RECIPES Ruth Smith Are you becoming tired of the same old treats for parties or family nights? Try these old, old recipes for something new and delicious. Pioneer Wheat Place a cup of clean, dry wheat in a pre-heated (medium heat) heavy pan, containing just enough vegetable oil to cover the bottom. Stir about 5-10 minutes, until kernels are popped (they will pop without stirring, but scorch easily and taste burnt). Sprinkle with popcorn salt, stir, and spread out on a paper towel to cool. Keep small children's hands away until it does cool, as it can blister an overeager hand. Golden Parched Corn Dried kernels of sweet corn can be cooked the same way. They may take a trifle longer to pop, however. Note. For those interested in trying these recipes, wheat and corn can usually be purchased from farmers, food stores, flour and feed mills, or health food stores. 125 OLD GOLDIE Asel B. Brodt ® Many stories could be told about a large, ornate, goldframed mirror that for seventy years graced the wall of a little adobe house in a small town at the foot of a mountain. During those years this mirror hung in the. Parlor between the kitchen door and the north window, almost straight across the room from the front door. It was the first thing noticed by anyone entering the room. The little house was new. There were only two children, when the mirror came as an anniversary present to the young wife. Through the years, 126 ten more children were born to this pioneer couple. As the family grew in number and in size, there was never time nor money enough to add additional, muchneeded rooms to the house. Here the children grew up, and the mirror looked down on their sorrows and their joys and became affectionately known as "Old Goldie." She reigned like a queen in the household. To Old Goldie was carried each baby, to be shown for the first time, with his little round face and bright, inquiring eyes. Before Old Goldie, all the Christmas and Fourth of July dresses of six growing girls were fitted and admired. Six boys learned to part their hair and to tie their ties and to shave as Old Goldie flashed back downy chins and changing faces. Old Goldie patiently heard all the prepared speeches and memorized recitations directed at her, as the young people practiced for desired effects of voice and gestures to be used for Church and school programs. And she watched the courting and falling in love of those same young people, and even some of their wedding receptions. The family parlor became the social center of the town, and Old Goldie could have told of the cultural growth of both the town and its people. Fine plays and light operas were learned and rehearsed in her presence. Wedding and graduation dresses were fitted before Old Goldie, and she reflected back a radiant -happiness, as the wearer turned away to face a new life. Old Goldie couldn't speak, but she gave to each an _ honest, direct answer when he stood before her for self-analysis. There were times when selfish, angry defiance was hurled into her face. But she hung quietly, looking at the irate speaker with his own eyes until the storm was spent, and the eyes, first, stared at what she silently showed them, then dropped. Unable to face his own inner reflections, each child would turn and walk away to seek solitude and meditate on Old Goldie's sermon. Yes, Old Goldie watched seventy years of growth and The Home—Inside and Out many changes come to this family and to the town. Now, the one to whom she had been given as a gift so many years ago, lay in her casket within an arm's length of her beloved old mirror. The children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren came, by the score, to bid farewell to Grandma, and to visit the old house for the last time. Old Goldie seemed to hang desolate and untouched by the crowd, as she looked down upon her dear mistress. Would all the stories locked in her memories ever be released and told? She appeared dull and tired and seemed to say, "Dear old friend, we have had a long, eventful life together. Now you will be laid to rest, and this old house will be torn down, but what will become of me?" Then a man's voice was heard to say, "No, John; true, I am the oldest, but my family are all married and gone. You have a big family of growing children at home yet. So you take Old Goldie home with you to help you to rear those children right." It might have been the afternoon sun slanting across the room that made Old Goldie look so bright and alive again. I" " FOR EXAMPLE Kathryn Kay What else is there to do except stop crying, regird myself, with faith restrengthening what's life itself except continued trying? For instance, look at winter... Look at spring! 127 DOUBLE-DUTY APRON Shirley Thulin eumenen A new apron has been designed, and it is a dandy! It does double duty and is so versatile you will find it a great bazaar item. This apron is practical, of floral cotton on one side, with a big serviceable pocket. It is just right for the cooking chores. Then, when the food is all on the table and the family or company are seated, quick as a wink turn the apron about, and you have a fancy apron, pretty while serving. The fancy side is made of organdy or nylon which has no right or wrong side to it. It should be sheer enough to show the flowers of the other fabric through. A dainty pocket edged in lace completes the fanciness, and no one will realize you still have the same apron on! TO MAKE Using your favorite little front apron pattern, cut one complete pattern of the bright floral cotton. This fabric should have no wrong or right side, or at least the flowers should be fairly bright on the wrong side. If your pattern does not have a good-sized pocket, then cut a pocket pattern out of paper first. Now sew the pocket on, but not the ties or the band. Cut the organdy apron, but there is no need to cut another band or another set of ties. Cut a daintier pocket and sew lace or eyelet around it. Stitch it to the organdy apron front. Now, placing the sheer fabric on top of the right side of the floral fabric, machine stitch the two aprons together all around the apron, leaving it open across the top. Trim the seams to % inch and turn right side out and press. Now sew the band and the ties on as you would for any apron. 128 Chapter 6 Janet W. Breeze _ Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband Grant on a teaching assignment to the Island of Truk. After a brief stopover on Guam, the family arrives on. Truk, where a quonset hut becomes their home. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go back to Guam for the arrival of expected twins. A letter comes from the Mortensens, their friends who live on Saipan, saying that the Jackson family will be welcome at their home, and that a teacher will exchange teaching assignments with Grant. Upon their arrival, a native maid, Soledad, takes charge of the children. # At the conclusion of another six A. M. Feeding, Nancy held one of the twins, and Grant held the other. — "Do you still think they look like me?" he asked. "T'mafraid so," Nancy laughed. "Oh, well—what I really 'mean is—it's just about more than Amy and I can stand to be surrounded by so many handsome men all the time!" "They are the _ best-looking Saipanese you ve ever seen, aren't they?" "Well—they're the blondest! Which is more than most of the Saipanese can stand! Every time I go out to the hospital for "baby check," people come closer and closer, until I have practically a whole crowd sitting on my lap! And then the pinching starts. The first time it happened with Skipper, I thought the clerk in the grocery store was_ being 129 February 1968 mean, but out at the hospital, people are constantly coming up and making little cheek and elbow pinches on the children. I don't know if it's the different coloring or their chubbiness that makes them so irresistibly pinchable. Come to think of it, though, I haven't seen Soledad do it to Skipper any more since he bit her." "That must have gone over big." "Really big. Oh, Grant, I just don't know what I'm going to do. Soledad means so well, but sometimes I feel like a third thumb around here—like the day I came home from the hospital, and she took the babies away from me. Why, I could have dismissed her right then." "But you didn't—and you wouldn't. Besides, you weren't in a very good frame of mind that day, anyway." "So would you like to exist on nothing but rice three times a day for two solid days?" Grant put the baby he had been holding down inside the playpen on its stomach and then twisted open the window louvers to let in more air. "Let's not exaggerate, honey. You have canned beef stew for dinner. And you were only in that hospital for five meals—not six." Nancy placed her twin beside Grant's in the playpen. "It really is fun. Having one apiece this time, isn't it?" she asked. "And don't count too much on Soledad." "Why?" Nancy broke three eggs into the frying pan and then began setting the table for breakfast. 130 "Well, in the first place, she is becoming more and more unreliable. I never dreamed a calendar had so many holidays! And in the second place, when she is here, I have about had all I can stand of being second place." "But I thought she had really been a help to you," Grant said. "Well, she has. But she does so much sometimes that I sort of walk around half asleep—just because I'm bored. Now that the twins are sleeping all night, I just wish I knew of a gracious way out, without hurting Francine's feelings, for having hired Soledad in the first place." "But you used to say if we ever had money, the first thing you'd do would be to hire a housekeeper. Now you have one, and you're still not happy." "It's just that I feel like I'm drifting away from you and the children by not doing more for you. I couldn't care less what any of you wear now that I don't have the job of washing and ironing. Well, it's too hard to explain. I guess I've just been getting too dependent on her lately. When she doesn't show up in the morning, I just about turn inside out at the thoughts of having to clean up the breakfast dishes and make the beds. And I don't like feeling that way! That's lazy—and sinful!" Grant laughed at her and painted his eggs with catsup. "T guess you're right," he said. "You never were happy unless you were going a hundred miles an hour. So what are you going to do about it?" "T don't know. But hurry up. You're going to be late." "Listen," he said, "see if you can get Soledad to stay with the children after school. I want you to go to Lake Susupe again with me." As Grant drove away, a jeep came rattling up the hill. When it clunked to a halt outside her door, Nancy heard two familiar voices. "Hunggan!" "Ahi!" "Hunggan! Hunggan!" "Ahi! Ahi! Ahi!" SP inally, Soledad burst through the door and threw herself down on a kitchen chair with one great disgusted thud. "What's the matter now, Soledad?" Nancy asked. "T wish we could separate!" she said. "Whatever for?" "We don't understand each other." "Like how?" "I tell him, 'do dis!' And him say 'do it yourself!" Nancy chuckled. "Excuse me," she said. "But it sounds to me as if he understands you pretty well. What was it you were shouting to each other?" "T tell him yes. Him tell me no." "Soledad, I hate to tell you this, but your matriarchal society is coming to an end." "What that?" "Times are changing. Your men have been going to school long enough now that they're beginning to see how other people live. And Nana is no longer the boss." "You not boss here?" "No. Latter-day Saint women do not boss their husbands. We call ourselves companions. That Throw Down the Gauntlet means we both try to be helpful to each other, but the man still remains the head of the house." "You like that?" "T love it. It's a good feeling to have someone you can depend on to tell you what he thinks is the right thing to do." Now Nancy felt she had caught the moment she was hoping for. "Soledad, do you really have to work?" she asked. "I mean— your husband works. Doesn't he make enough to buy your rice?" "Sure!" "Then why work?" "T don't like to stay home!" "Why?" "It not pretty like here." "But couldn't you make it pretty?" "T don't know. I never try." "Don't you think that could have something to do with the reason you and your husband fight all the time?" Soledad gave the traditional Saipanese blink of the eyes, which interpreted means, "Who knows?" "Frankly," now Nancy was getting around to what she really wanted to say, "I feel my husband would be happier if I were to do more for him. What I mean, is, why don't you try staying home part of the time and making it a place your husband will want to come home to?" "You think maybe that work?" "T'm sure of it, Soledad, I'm sure of it!" "Maybe I try. You don't get new maid—I work part time." "Okay." "T stay today—late. Work." Finish 131 February 1968 "Fine, Mr. Jackson wants me to go 'boondocking' when he gets home. Will you stay with the children?" "Hundert per cent, Missus!" "Si Yuus Maase, Soledad." Then Nancy repeated herself in English. "Thank you." WWren Nancy and Grant had first entered Trust Territory, it had been the rainy season. Now they were in the middle of the dry season. Many of the tangantangan plants had dropped their foliage, and the penetrating odor of smoke polluted the fresh Pacific air as one "boonie"' fire after another broke out across the island. "This really is the only time of year to do this," Grant said to Nancy, as they walked the shores of Lake Susupe. "During the rainy season, there's more water in the lake—and it's harder to get in here through the 'boonies."" "What does it matter how much water there is in the lake when it has no bottom, anyway?" "Oh, that's just a _ native superstition, that and the alligators. No American has ever seen an alligator on Saipan. But this lake is supposed to be full of them. Just folklore. The only threat here is this bog. Probably somewhere in the dim, dark past, somebody was trapped in the quicksand, and the whole lake took on an aura of suspicion. Anyway, I want to measure the depth of the quicksand just out of curiosity. Then I think Ill come back Saturday morning and collect some plant specimens. Here, hold the other end of this pole." 132 "Oh, by the way," Nancy said, "we have a new maid." "Oh?" "Yes! Me." "Now, how are you going to get your book researched if you spend all your time cleaning house?" "T've about given up on that," she said. "There have been so many cultures influencing these people for the past hundred years, I'm beginning to think there is no such thing as a native dance. The Saipanese do a great polka they picked up from the German occupation. And you saw the Palauans stop right in the middle of swinging their grass skirts and mark time, 'Hot, do, tree, far!' They would make much better soldiers than dancers." As they. Slowly worked their way around the swampy shore of the lake, the sun was extinguished by the sea_ before they realized their probing of the quicksand was approaching an end. "We'd better get back," Grant said. "There isn't enough daylight left to go on around. It would be too dangerous not to be able to see where we were stepping." Nancy turned and followed him in retracing their steps, taking care not to walk near the tiny, round pieces of wet quartz. "You know," she said, "I think I'm going to miss Soledad." Grant stopped suddenly and held his arm out to prevent Nancy from passing him. "Shhh, listen," he said. As they stopped talking, both of them could hear a sound like popcorn popping. "IT thought I could smell smoke a little stronger," Grant said. "The wind must be blowing a boonie fire this way." "Don't you think we can make it back to the car?" Now the smoke was becoming more evident and flaky black ashes began drifting about them. "No, I don't," he said, "and we can't go in the other direction either. There's only one way "Swim? In a bottomless lake? With alligators?" "T'll tie up a little raft for our things, Nancy. You take your shoes and stockings off." Nancy removed her footwear as she was told. "Looks like a _ picnic," she whispered. Then she stared at the darkening water, and her armor dropped with a thud. Back to the car, and that's az MY GLASSES Lucy Woolley Jones | wonder why sight is not made to last As long as the rest of this frame, That glasses we need in order to read To me seems a pitiful shame! | lay them down here and | look for them there, And the minutes slip by and | bluster, ''Now where are those needful, but false, pesky orbs?'' | really am all in a fluster! | must bake a cake for our big ward bazaar And it's late and | can't find my glasses! Now what does that recipe say? I'm not sure; Could be sugar or spice or molasses? Glory be! If | didn't need glasses! Iss across the lake." (To be cantinued) Relief Society Activities wg eve por ooovec ym _ aig cme Great Falls Stake (Montana), Conrad Branch Relief Society Style Show June 10, 1967 Second row, seventh from left: Lorine W. Yeager, President, Conrad Branch Relief Society; eighth from left, Alice S. Denning, First Counselor. Third row, seventh from left? Lorraine M. Den Boer, chairman, style show committee.. Glenna MacDonald, President, Great Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Conrad Branch held a very successful musical program and style show. The program emphasized sewing for the family. "This accomplishment made mothers realize just what wonderful things can be done for the family with just a little effort. "The sisters were presented with a pin-cushion corsage made in the shape of a spring bonnet. Light refreshments were served to a very appreciative audience." 134 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society: presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966; page 50. SY SRA Beaver Stake (Utah), Greenville Ward Relief Society, Small But Active Standing, left to right: Margaret W. Barton, President, Greenville Ward Relief Society; Afton S. Kesler, First Counselor; Mary Ann M. Williams, Second Counselor; Maxine D. Barton, Secretary-Treasurer; Sofia G. Yardley, social relations leader; Nell B. Blackett, cultural refinement leader. Insert: Lillian M. Williams, Secretary-Treasurer, Beaver Stake Relief Society, former president Greenville Ward Relief Society. Seated, left to right: Donna C. Morris; Bessie F. Edwards, visiting teacher message leader; Nettie C. Fordham, Magazine representative; Loretta Thompson; Alice M. Burton; Ann W. Blackner. Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We are extremely proud of this little ward whose total membership is only seventy-nine, and whose Relief Society has seventeen members. They have made a fine reputation for Relief Society activity, and their quilts are among the best ever made. "The quilt in the picture is one example of the many satin and tricot quilts they have made. There is a special spirit of devotion and dedication among these fine sisters." 185 February 1968 Oquirrh East Stake (Utah) Sponsors Clothing Exchange and Remodeling School August 21-25, 1967 Oquirrh East Stake Relief Society Officers, standing left to right: Jean Gourley, Counselor; Evelyn Kemp, Secretary-Treasurer; Jean Pixton, Counselor. Seated: Evalyn Olsen, President. Sister Olsen reports: ''About sixty women participated in our clothing exchange and remodeling school, which proved to be very successful. 'Approximately 700 articles were remodeled or exchanged. Many useful ideas were available to aid sisters in alterations and making over articles of clothing. Women's coats were converted into children's coats, women's dresses into girls' dresses or blouses, or boys' shirts. "This project was of great help to many of the families affected by the copper strike in our area. A great deal of advance publicity through the local newspaper and distribution of handbills enabled us to reach more people. "It was indeed a choice experience for us, and we appreciate so much the help ~ that the ward presidents gave in planning and carrying out the event." North Carolina Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference May 21, 1967 Front row, seventh to ninth from left: Madolyn Mackey, director; DeAnn Westover, accompanist; Katherine Bailey, President, North Carolina Stake Relief Society. Sister Bailey reports: ''The North Carolina Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers presented the music for stake conference, held in Wilmington, North Carolina. About sixty Singing Mothers participated, representing the entire stake made up of seven wards and six branches. Many of the sisters had to travel as much as 250 miles round trip to participate. The sisters were most diligent in giving of their time and energy to practice. They seem to find great pleasure in singing together, and have sung for stake conferences annually since the organization of the stake in 1961. All executive officers and two members of the stake board sang with the chorus. We were all so appreciative of the opportunity to lift our voices in praise to our Heavenly Father." Hawaii Mission Relief Society Convention September 1-3, 1967 Imogene R. Woodbury, Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The warmth of sisterhood and a wonderful spirit filled the hearts of members of the Hawaii Mission as they met on the garden island, Kauai. Meetings consisted of educational, homemaking, and executive sessions, under the direction of Chiyo Meyers, Mission Relief Society President, her counselors Ethel Young and Ruth Kondo; and 'Secretary Pearl Mahi. "Lesson demonstrations were presented by each district, along with recipes and handicraft skills. A convention brochure was given to each sister attending the convention. The brochure included a program of meetings, directions for making handicraft articles, household hints, and recipes. "On display in the homemaking department were samples and crafts representing the various activities of the twenty-two branches and four districts of the mission. Outstanding were the beautiful 'kapas,' or Hawaiian quilts which are unique for their beautiful, appliquéd designs. 'Kauai Relief Society sisters were praised for their splendid job of hostessing the convention. They arranged for accommodations, met planes, provided transportation and meals, and planned a delicious {uau to which each district contributed a part of the entertainment. "It was indeed a spiritual, enjoyable, and worthwhile time for the sisters who attended." 136 LET éi »: 12a Oo2aBe February 1968 Norfolk Stake (Virginia) Singing Mothers Present Concert May 6, 1967 Members of the stake board, front row seated, sixth from left, Robina Woodgate, visiting teacher leader; first row standing, thirteenth from left, Mildred Cramer, social relations leader; fourteenth, Elizabeth Ray Jackson, cultural refinement; second row seated, sixth from left, Ann Thonlinson, spiritual living leader; back row, eighth from left, Lorna McPherson, President; sixteenth from left, Nathatia Wettstein, Homemaking Counselor. Standing, front row behind organ, left to right: Dawn Killen, guest organist; Glenona Farnsworth, guest conductor, who trained and conducted the group; Charleen Ogden, stake board organist and concert accompanist; Gladys Skinner, President, Norfolk Second Ward Relief Society and narrator for the concert. Sister McPherson reports: ''After seven months of planning and practice, the first concert of the Norfolk Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers was presented in the stake house in Norfolk, Virginia. "The theme for the evening was 'With a Song in My Heart'—a tribute to mothers and their far-reaching influence. There were sixty sisters in the chorus, representing five Relief Societies. The five wards are so located that much travel was required for practice and performance. "At the close of the concert, refreshments were served to the group of 400, many of whom were nonmembers who expressed their appreciation for the outstanding performance."' Tooele Stake (Utah), Tooele First Ward Honors Visiting Teachers July 11, 1967 Shirley Wright, President, Tooele First Ward Relief Society, presents Anna Gillespie with a corsage for her outstanding service as a visiting teacher. Alice Harrison, President, Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The presidency of the Tooele First Ward Relief Society were hostesses at a luncheon honoring the visiting teachers of the ward. "Special recognition was given to Sister Anna Gillespie for her outstanding record as a visiting teacher. She has served for twenty-six years, and during that time has never missed a month in making her visits. She has served in the other auxiliaries of the ward as well as Relief Society, and is an inspiration to all who know her." Parleys Stake (Utah), Parleys Sixth Ward Presents Opening Social September 20, 1967 Parleys Sixth Ward Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Betty Henderson, First Counselor; Luciile Taylor, President; Esther Smart, Second Counselor; Millie Barnes, Secretary. Standing, left to right: Aaron Hatch; Rhea Allen, accompanist; Judith Marsh; Olive Roberts; Laraine Ferguson; Elizabeth Platt; Patti Hatch; Melba Croft; Dorothy Bench; Gertrude Garff; Afton Miller; Connie Manwill. Mary B. Riley, President, Parleys Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For an opening social, Parleys Sixth Ward presented a musical skit written by Helen C. White, consisting of music from 'My Fair Lady,' to introduce the officers and teachers. Dorothy Bench, as Eliza, sang 'Show Me,' and was shown just how Relief Society could change her life. Each class leader showed how her program could enrich the life of Eliza. In the end, Eliza was a new person." 138 February 1968 Mt. Olympus Stake (Utah), East Milcreek Fifth Ward Bazaar 'The Country Village" October 1967 Left to right: Faun Tavoian, President, East Millcreek Fifth Ward Relief Society; Dorothy Leitheiser, Second Counselor; Jewell Doxey; Lucille Skanchy; Joyce Duce, Secretary-Treasurer; Frances Fritsch, First Counselor; Eileen Parker. Jelaire Simpson, President, Mount Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The East Millcreek Fifth Ward Bazaar, 'The Country Village,' was a huge success. The cultural hall was turned into a country village street with shops on either side. At the end of the hall, the village picnic square featured old-fashioned stew, piping hot scones, and many other delicious foods. Red checked tablecloths adorned the round tables, and nearby was the Shoo-fly Bake Shop, with an aroma of home-baked goods fresh from the oven, and Kelby's Ice Cream Parlor, boasting freshly cranked, homemade ice cream cones. "Old-fashioned individual stores such as Higbee's Handmades, featuring beautiful, handmade clothing for children; Bigler's Baby Stores; 'Oh Promise Me' Bridal Shop; Kringles Kristmas Shop; Crabtree Drugstore; and Ye Old Curiosity Shoppe were arrayed with lovely handmade articles. The articles were of such variety and quality that the Bazaar was virtually a sell-out." Sydney South Stake (Australia) Relief Society Officers September 14, 1967 Sydney South Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Joan McCoy, First Counselor; Mavis Draper, President; Delle Hunt, Second Counselor; Betty Ireland, SecretaryTreasurer. Standing, left to right: June Fulthorp, chorister; Myrtle Hugo, organist; Ruth Pepper, visiting teacher message leader; Nita Ehmann, social relations class leader; Marjorie Newton, cultural refinement class leader; Eva Hennant, spiritual living class leader; Mary Proctor, Magazine representative., Mavis Draper, President, Sydney South Stake Relief Society reports: ''These sisters are very happy in their callings and their desire is to help our stake grow in Relief Society activities and appreciation. They are dedicated and devoted to the gospel and work very hard."' Murray Stake (Utah), Murray Fifteenth Ward Bazaar, ''A World's Fair" August 17, 1967 Left to right, in '"'Picasso's Pastry" bake sale booth, representing Italy: Charlene P. Singleton, homemaking leader; Nida Kitchens; Karen Aubrey. Shirley H. Horton, President, Murray Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Murray Fifteenth Ward held a well-planned and well-organized bazaar with the theme 'A World's Fair.' Booths representing eleven countries were used. Those who attended the booths wore costumes depicting the country. "Because of the time and effort required to make a bazaar successful, these sisters did as much as possible beforehand. The committees had been organized immediately following the previous year's bazaar. Teenagers set up a nursery to care the for young children during the preparations. On the night of the bazaar everyone was relaxed and able to enjoy it thoroughly. This contributed greatly to its success. "Games at the bazaar to entertain the many children were themed around an African Safari, and featured the Hippo Fish Pond, King Kong Dart Game, and the Elephant Peanut Toss, among others.' 140 1 4 1 =~) ~ z nN — —) ~d = BIGLERS SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 88—The Church and Its Purposes Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 115) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman examines herself to see if the purposes of the gospel are fulfilled in her life that her light may be a standard to her family and associates. INTRODUCTION When the Holy Priesthood was restored in the last days, the organization of the true Church upon the earth was effected, on April 6, 1830. One of the confirmatory evidences of the Lord's instituting his Church, in 1830, is its name. Despite the fact that hundreds of "Christian" churches were organized before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, yet that Church is the only one which carries the full name of the 142 Founder of the Christian religion. THE NAME OF THE CHURCH The word of the Lord, as given in Section 115 of the Doctrine and Covenants, made known the name by which his Church would be known from that time forth: And also unto my faithful servants who are of the high council of my church in Zion, for thus it shall be called, and unto all the elders and people of my Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, scattered abroad in all the world; For thus shall my church be called in the last days, even The Church of Jesus 'Christ of Latter-day Saints. (verses 3-4.) While ministering among the Nephites, the resurrected Savior gave the most complete information concerning the reason for his Church being named for him. His disciples asked him what name should be given to the Church which he was organizing among them. The Lord reminded them that they should take upon themselves his name and those who remained faithful to the end would be saved. Then this message was given to them: Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call upon the Father in my name that he will bless the church for my sake. And how be it my church save it be called in my name? For if a church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' church; or if it be called in the name of a man then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel. (3 Nephi 27:7-8.) LATTER-DAY SAINTS The' Savior then promised his disciples that since it was his Church, if they prayed for the Church in his name, the Father would hear them. (3 Nephi 27: 9-12.), Appended to the title, The Church of Jesus Christ, is the important name Latter-day Saints. Because this Church was organized in the last days, it carries this name. As Elder James E. Talmage points out, the word "Saint" has a very special meaning in this title. The word means "holy" when used as an adjective, but as a noun it means "a holy one." Therefore, members of this Lesson Department Church profess to be holy ones. This definition does not mean that the member of the Church is without blemish or blame, but it does mean, as one definition suggests, that "holy" applies to exclusive service in the cause of God. (Conference Report, April 1922, page 72.) As the saints are set apart from the world by a covenant of baptism, so they are a chosen generation, a holy nation, and a peculiar people, upon whom rests the responsibility of living in accordance with gospel truths. (1 Peter 2:9.) Theirs is the responsibility to learn to live in unity, to be of "one accord, of one mind." (Ph. Pa 2) Latter-day Saints are not peculiar because of dress, looks, or other characteristics, but, rather, due to their religious beliefs and practices based upon those beliefs. Elder John A, Widtsoe once pointed out the differences which make this people peculiar as follows: (1) the belief that the Church was founded on direct revelation from God; (2) the Church is the only true Church upon the earth possessing the Holy Priesthood; (3) the body of doctrine and beliefs constitutes a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ; (4) the truth that gospel principles must be applied in one's life; (5) the members of the Church have the courage to live its teachings. (Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 41-45.) THE GOSPEL AND THE CHURCH In the scriptures the words "gospel" and "Church" are syn- 'onymous as to their purpose. 143 February 1968 The gospel consists of principles and ordinances by which salvation may come to the believer. The Church, on the other hand, is the organization of these believers. For all intent and purposes when one speaks of the gospel as the means of salvation, he might also say that the Church is the means by which believers in the gospel receive salvation. Without the gospel there would be no Church, and without the Church there would not be the means by which the gospel could be administered. When the Priesthood is on the earth, the Church is the instrument through which that authority functions. The Priesthood makes it possible for men to receive salvation ordinances. (D&C 84:19, 26, 27.) In this lesson we will consider that when the scriptures speak of the gospel or the Church, they are the same for, as pointed out, the one without the other will not bring salvation. A DIVINE COMMISSION After giving the Church its full name, the Lord gave a charge to his Church and its members as follows: Verily I say unto you all: Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations. (D&C 115:5.) To every member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints the Lord has given this responsibility. Each one is instructed to exert his influence among men that the accumulative hght of all members of the Church may be a standard for all people. 144 It is destined that the gospel of Jesus Christ should be a light to the world—the means by which the nations would receive direction in governing their people in the ways of security and peace. In addition, the gospel is a standard or guide fo the members of the Church, and also for the nonmember that may seek it. (D&C 45:9.) Class Discussion Specifically, how may a woman member of the Church contribute to the goal of her light being a standard for others to follow? PURPOSES OF THE CHURCH The scriptures reveal that there are three major responsibilities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are: (1) to preach the gospel; (2) to perfect the lives of the members of the Church; (3) to make it possible for the member of the Church to save his dead. There are other purposes for the restoration of the gospel, but they may be included in the three major ones mentioned above. If the member of the Church is to let his light shine forth that others may be influenced by it, then it would seem that his covenant obligation would be fulfilled through these purposes. Not just one of the programs of the Church, but all of them are necessary for salvation. PREACH THE GOSPEL Throughout the dispensation the Church has promulgated the gospel through a unique missionary 'program. The contribu- tion of thousands of missionaries to making the gospel known among the nations of the earth, has produced an energetic and devoted leadership in the Church that has helped the work progress. If the member of the Church is to fulfill his covenant with the Lord, he will accept the inspired statement of President David O. McKay: "Every member a missionary." All members of the Church do not have the opportunity for a formal mission, but each member may perform missionary work in these ways: (1) respond to mission service, stake or foreign, if eligible; (2) induce nonmembers of the Church to accept the opportunity to hear the missionaries; (3) live an exemplary life that the fruits of the gospel may be known for what they are intended —a happy and worthwhile life; (4) develop a family life that will shine forth, in parents and children, that is beyond reproach; (5) plan that family members may serve in the mission field. Class Discussion Take each one of the five foregoing opportunities and ask this question: Is this privilege attainable in my life and, if so, what may I do to bring about this desirable objective? PERFECT THE LIVES OF MEMBERS The second major purpose for which the Church has been restored is to assist the member of the Church to bring his life into harmony with the principal objective of the gospel—the perfection that will eventually Lesson Department bring eternal life in God's presence. (Matt. 5:48; 3 Nephi 12:48; Moses 1:39.) Wherein does the gospel provide the means by which the member. Of the Church may perfect his life? By baptism, by both water and Spirit, there is provided the gift of the Holy Ghost that brings innumerable helps to continue along the way to perfection. Prominent among these are the gifts of the Holy Ghost which are to be sought for after baptism that one may not be deceived. (D&C 46:7-26.) Organizationally through the Church, manifold opportunities are provided whereby the person may (1) have fellowship with fellow members; (2) find strength from and fellowship with Christ through partaking of the sacrament worthily; (3) receive opportunities for service to others through teaching and leadership positions. Class Discussion Show wherein the foregoing three privileges help the Relief Society member of the Church to perfect her life. - LEARN THE GOSPEL How can a member of the Church shine forth that his hght may be a standard for his family and associates without knowing how to make or improve that light? From the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, we find ways in which the revelations have affected for good the lives of those who sought perfection. (D&C 1:24-28.) In order to relate these points to the commandment to study the gospel, perhaps we could put these 145 February 1968 ideas in question form: (1) How does one know when he errs or makes mistakes which are contrary to what the Lord has revealed? (2) Unless one knows what it means to observe a commandment, how will one learn of what he is to repent? For example, do you know what the Lord requires of his people in the observance of the Sabbath day? (D&C 59:5-24.) (3) May a person be truly humble without an understanding of the principle of humility, as God requires humility? (4) How will one receive knowledge, from time to time, without seeking for that knowledge? Furthermore, will revelation be received for individual guidance and blessing unless the conditions are met that entitle one to revelation? The Lord has blessed his people with the institutional means by which they may perfect their lives. Class Discussion Am I reading the spiritual] living lessons in The Relief Society Magazine, and failing to study the Doctrine and Covenants itself? TO SAVE THE DEAD The final major responsibility of the Church is to provide the means whereby the members may fulfill their covenant obligation to their kindred dead. Without the Church there would not be the means whereby the dead might be saved. First, the keys of this work are in the Church, and without them there could not be a valid ordinance performed. Second, the physical facilities for baptisms for the dead, endowments, and sealings are pos- 146 sible through the Church. Third, a rich storehouse of genealogical data is in the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that:... Those Saints who neglect it [baptism for the dead] in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. (DHC IV:426.) IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints belong to a Church which is God-organized and God-directed. They have taken upon themselves sacred covenants that they will live to merit the name "Saint." It is their objective to assist in making the Church independent above all things under heaven. They know that this is possible if they individually and collectively seek to unify their efforts to build Zion upon the earth. When they read the scriptures, they learn how to live to fulfill their purpose in life. Since Latter-day Saints are citizens of God's kingdom, they know they have privileges and opportunities which are possible because the gospel and_ the Church have been restored to perform three major functions: (1) to preach the gospel; (2) to perfect their lives; (3) to work for the salvation of their kindred dead. Their lives must be a part of these for they know it is the sure way to salvation here and in the eternal worlds. Their hearts rejoice in contemplation of the Lord's promises, such as this one: Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church. (D&C 100:15.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE-—Truths To Live By Message 8—Love Is Active Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show that love is active, not passive. Across the centuries blaze the words, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only." (James 1: 22.) These words are as applicable in the twentieth century as they were on the day they were written because love, like faith, without works, is dead. Some years ago a religious teacher in one of the Christian colleges wrote in a textbook that when Jesus said, "love thy neighbour as thyself," he meant we should wish for others what we, ourselves, have. Is this what Jesus meant? Is wishing enough? It is not passive "action" to which we are called. President Joseph F. Smith said it is the duty of the Relief Society "to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition." (Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, tenth edition, pp. 386-387.) "Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations." (D&C 115:5.) In writing of the sisters, the Prophet Joseph Smith used action verbs, "... Fly to the relief of the stranger... Pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed... Dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice... Open... Doors to the weary traveler... Divide. With the hungry... Needy and destitute... With... Concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated." (DHC IV, pp. 567, 568.) When a woman moves into our neighborhood, especially one not of our faith, are we the first to bid her welcome? Do we, by repeated kindnesses and constant good will, without undue intrusion, show her that we love her as a sister? When one of our acquaintances does something well or shows charity, and we hear of it, do we commend her? When we find it necessary to discipline our children, afterwards do we show forth an increase of love lest they esteem us to be their enemies? (See D&C 121:43.) Do we take the time to cultivate common interests with our husbands, our children, and our friends? People know that we love them i47 February 1968 through our behavior. They cannot read our minds. True love is active. By our responsible care of another we demonstrate that God's love operates in and through us. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 8—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show that the home which invites the reading of good books will add enrichment to the lives of the family members. INTRODUCTION A professor once stood in his living room in front of a wall shelved with books and _ said, "Having these books here in my home has done more for the education—to say nothing for the pleasure—of my family than the whole school system put together." Modern living has in many instances done away with what used to be an integral and vital part of every home—the library. But we have not lost sight of the value of good books in our homes. Now, instead of confining our book space to one room, we literally live with books in every room—that is, we do if we are wise. For one thing, they add a quality of warmth and _ personality to any room which nothing else can give. Far more important than the decorative value, however, is the influence they exert upon every member of the family 148 both consciously and _ unconsciously. Not only do they fulfill an actual need in our own lives as parents, but they develop in our children a real liking for reading, a genuine interest in books. Children instinctively love books, and constant contact with them and easy access to them naturally increase this love. As parents, we need to know that reading good books is not only a pleasure; it is an actual need—a mental and _ spiritual food for the soul. Having books in the home encourages family reading and becomes a source of enjoyment and interest in doing things together. As one young family member put it, "I wonder what families do that don't read books together? It's like not knowing each other's friends." Our children can widen their world, increase their vocabularies, and learn to communicate intel- ligently by reading. The more they are exposed to books, and the more available these books are, the more they will read. To Discuss 1. Do I, as mother and homemaker, have a responsibility to provide a reading background in our home for my children? 2. If I have a lack of interest in books do I allow it to reflect itself in the attitudes of my children? Where Are Our Books? 1. In the kitchen. A well-known editor of a health and home magazine says, "Every family who wants to take advantage of the best knowledge of our time should be building a nutritional library—the basic books in foods and cookery that give an understanding of this vital area." Every true housewife has her own favorite cookbooks and recipe files. A shelf in her kitchen will keep these in order and in easy reach and, at the Same time, add an accent of interest to her surroundings. 2. In the living room. There is nothing which adds a more attractive appearance to the living room than bookshelves filled with interesting and colorful books. These are especially attractive flanking the fireplace or extending across one end of the room between windows or on either side. Books placed between book ends or on end tables and desks are an invitation to family members and friends. The standard Church works are particularly appropriate in such places. 3. In the dining area. In many of our homes the dining area is combined with the living room or doubles as a dining area and family room, and in both situations, books are a welcome addition. However, the dining room is actually the place where the family can bring out the real value of having books in the home in discussing and enjoying together the things they have read. 4. In the bedrooms. Books are comfortable to live with, and they are a Lesson Department welcome addition to any bedroom. They can be placed in any convenient spot—on a bedside table, on a writing desk, or on shelves built for that purpose, sometimes in the headboard as a part of the bed itself. Even the youngest children like to have a bookshelf that they can reach by themselves in their bedroom. This can be moved higher as the children grow, to accommodate more books and equipment in the teenage years. If the children find pleasure and not merely duty in reading books, they will want to live with them. They will take pride in building their own "library" from the books they receive at Christmas or on birthdays or any other special time when books are an ideal gift. In the bathroom. Many homes have bookshelves in the bathroom. There are those who enjoy reading while relaxing in the warm water of the bathtub. To Discuss on Are my children being encouraged to love good books and reading by association with them at home? CONCLUSION Parents in the home can teach their children, through their constant association with books in their home, that learning is part of the privilege of living and also part of the fun. Whether our children go through life with good books as their friends and companions depends upon us, the mothers—upon our own attitudes toward the importance and use of books in our homes. A home that will have the greatest impact on young minds and which will be remembered as having given the finest incentive toward intellectual, emotional, and spiritual enrichment is the one which holds out to them this constant invitation to learning. 149 SOCIAL RELATIONS-—A Light Unto the World Lesson 8—"'That's What They Say, Mama" (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Alberta H. Christensen Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the responsibility of the mother in fortifying the home against some propagandizing of the commercial world. INTRODUCTION This lesson acknowledges the valuable service of commercial advertising as a legitimate means of disseminating information. As such, it establishes an important and special relationship between individuals and between groups. The lesson, however, also deals with a negative aspect of some advertising. It points out a mother's responsibility to use discrimination in her acceptance of advertising claims and her responsibility to fortify all family members against the biased, even undesirable, advertising of some harmful products. Class leaders will wish to select for full discussion those areas of particular interest and application to their groups. THE GOAL TO SELL The purpose of commercial advertising is publicly to remind and to announce; the goal is to sell, either a service or a commodity. Often a new product is being 150 ~ introduced, or the aim of advertising, by stressing particular features, may be to induce more people to purchase an already known commodity. The advertising technique may involve a change of viewpoint, a different procedure, 'or it may accent an advantageous expenditure of money. As an informant and a reminder, advertising thus renders a vital service and is an asset in today's accelerated living. A FACT TO CONSIDER Since the purpose of publicizing a new commercial product is to market that product, the advertising will naturally point out its attractive qualities, ignoring any undesirable features. In this fact lies the misleading and sometimes harmful factor of some commercial advertising. One need only to consider the glowing statements made for products which are known to be injurious to man, to realize that the onesided advertising story is real. Fortunately, some of the unfavorable features bypassed by advertising are of less concern, affecting only the expenditure of time or money. REVELATION THAT FOREWARNED In February of 1833, in Kirtland, Ohio, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a_ revelation which forewarns us as follows: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation.... (D&C 89:4.) The scripture continues, enumerating some specific items which are beneficial and some which are detrimental to the well-being and health of man. This lesson is concerned' particularly with two of these products which present-day scientific research has proved to have injurious effects upon men; thus confirming | a revelation of years ago. In the words of the scripture we read: And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. (D&C 89:8). Interested individuals and groups are attempting to offset the alluring advertisements for tobacco by giving statistics as to its harmful effects. Yet, in spite of these efforts, in spite of increased evidence of medical findings and research warnings, the consumption of tobacco is a rising spiral. Entrenched economic forces, including growers, manufacturers, retailers, and certain — political subdivisions, continue to entice individuals to use tobacco. Those few countries which have banned Lesson Department advertising are to be commended highly. Confirming the statement that the producers of tobacco, ignoring the claims of medical research, are increasing their efforts to sell even more of this harmful product, is the following statistic:... The cigarette companies are now spending $300 million [in] cigarette advertisng and the government is_ only spending two or three million dollars to warn the people against the dangers of cigarettes. (Church News, Deseret News, April 8, 1967.) Class Involvement Discuss the following statements: 1. The home can fortify against the enticings of this commercial advertising by stressing that divine counsel is supported by medical research. 2. Junior and senior high schools aid materially when they supply data on harmful effects of tobacco. Further Involvement Question: How can parents, especially the mother, most effectively counteract the misleading and fallacious images presented to youth through alluring and attractive tobacco advertising? Discuss the following images: 1. The image = of — luxury-living, through the king-size cigarette. 2. The glamorous image of being sophisticated, socially adequate, and in the "know" group. 3. The image of enjoyable, carefree, boy-girl cigarette relationship. 4. The image of vigorous, robust manhood, in connection with the full, rich flavor of the filter-tip cigarette. Discussion Statement The so-called cigarette "improvements" actually acknowledge that there are harmful effects. For example, "Use the filter and be kinder to your throat," "The filter tip means fewer coughs," "it is less irritating, has lasting flavor." "BEHOLD IT IS NOT GOOD" The heading for this paragraph 151 February 1968 leads us again to the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where we read: That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong. Drink among you, behold it is not good.... And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. (D&C 89:5, 7.) The alarming rise in the consumption: of lquor throughout the world, is of concern to those who are aware of the many prob- ' lems that it creates. It is the concern of highway patrolmen, who would keep the highway free of accident, and of industrialists and manufacturers to the extent that its use may affect the efficiency of labor. It is most certainly the concern of all parents, for they are inseparably associated with the well-being of all family members. Alcohol consumption should be the concern of all citizens, since all segments of our society are affected by irresponsible actions associated with the human consumption of alcohol. Class Involvement Discuss briefly: 1. The intoxicated automobile driver. 2. Man-hours. Lost to industry through alcohol-induced illnesses. 3. Waste of human dignity and creative potential by the deteriorating influence of alcohol. Questions 1. To what extent, in your opinion, is commercial advertising of alcoholic beverages responsible for the increased sales? 2. How can the home fortify against the propagandizing that to drink is to be socially elite? 3. When is the teaching moment for children? Is it when the child, recalling an attractive commercial 152 cartoon or catchy slogan, asks about it? APPRAISAL AND CAUTION The radio, television, newspaper, poster, magazine, and the billboard are the general media of advertising.. Through artistic picture, clever cartoon, messagecarrying slogan, and the catchy singing commercial, the purchasing public is made aware of new or improved things to purchase. Through these media the mother is made quickly aware of situations and commodities which may be of profit to her and to her family. She appreciates this fact. She appreciates the commercial advertising that alerts her to reduced clothing prices, special food sales, and advantageous seasonal purchasing in_all areas. Such a barrage of advertising, however, may, at times, be confusing. It forces upon her the need to choose, to be discriminating, to consider and appraise advertising claims, and to look for the. Values not referred to in the advertising. For example, the new processed foods and complete meals may be time saving and attractively packaged, but many may be more. Expensive for the family food allowance. The homemaking lessons of Relief Society stress wise buymanship and counsel women to purchase prudently with the family resources in mind. Suffice it to say in this lesson, that: all members of the family, even small children, are involved in the art and science of advertising in today's complex world, and family relationships may | be happily or sometimes adversly affected. The following small-boy conversation illustrates this fact. Boy 1: I don't ever like to eat cooked cereal. I want to be a champion. Boy 2: Me, too, I want to have muscles like.... Boy 3: I always want the big box so I can get the prizes inside. Boy 4: Which prizes? Boy 3: The ones with the... Picture on the outside. When you get a whole set you send for a prize. Boy 4: Every time I go with my mother to shop, I coax for the box with. Clown cutouts and magic tricks. She doesn't want to buy it—she says it's too expensive. But I coax and coax; so we do. Boy 5: I know a kind where you can get fourteen prizes. Boy 6: We children won't eat anything for breakfast but... Because we like the cutouts on the front. I say, what are they there for, if not to buy? 'Some advertising would lead our young children to believe that they should have anything that they desire. Class Involvement 1. Do you consider the foregoing conversation a natural reaction, but one which may alert the mother to a teaching opportunity? 2. How may the mother-child 'relationship be strengthened by a wise handling of such a situation? 3. Is this example illustrative of situations on other age levels—the adolescent, and even the mother herself? The woman. With no children? APPRAISE THE POSSESSION Children are not the only individuals who may be strongly influenced by the glowing commercial. This need be 'no discredit to the advertising, for the claims made may be valid and Lesson Department desirable. It does, however, call for choice-making, for appraisal, and the challenge sometimes of self-denial. If an adult develops good judgment, is wisely selective, the entire family may profit by her action. If she is not wise, but lets. Desire for many "things" override need and resources, unhappy, even disastrous situations, may occasionally result. Question Is there danger of being possessed by our possessions? Discuss. THE HELPFUL GUIDELINE Fortunately, there are many guidelines within the framework of Church teachings which may materially assist the mother in being wise and prudently selective. These teachings also may help her to understand the general guidelines. Class Involvement 1. Putting spiritual values above earthly possessions. 2. Temperance and moderation. 3. Economic security of the family which may be effected by the mother's purchasing choices. CONCLUSION By way of summary and in conclusion, we may say that constructive advertising can be an invitation to abundant, useful living. It can force us to make choices for which we may be eternally grateful. It can lead mothers to. Valuable teaching moments. (See Lesson Helps.) For the mother who, seeing commercial advertising, is led to study the written teachings of the Church, it may help answer the unvoiced question of the son 153 February 1968 who looks wonderingly at the tobacco ad, or the smaller child who, recalling a TV cartoon or a singing commercial, asks, "Why don't we do?... Why don't we have?... They're fun and they're good! Anyway, that's what they say, Mama." For Home Doing Appraise your relationship to commercial advertising and the valuable lessons it may teach. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—''Charity Out of a Pure Heart"' (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Elder Robert K. Thomas "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." —New Testament, | Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 OBJECTIVE: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give—and those who receive—graciously. (Note to Class Leader: This lesson will include musical selections, Mendelssohn, Symphony #5, 'Reformation Symphony" Final Movement, from the Relief Society teaching kit, and a consideration of the painting ''Le Beénédicité'' by the French painter, Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779), with the commentary thereon, by Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University, printed on pages 686, 689, of the September Relief Society Magazine.) GENERAL COMMENT There are few utterances in scripture as beautifully phrased as Paul's description of charity in I Corinthians 13: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to 154 feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth.... And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. These verses have such balance and cadence that it is possible to speak them impressively without plumbing their significance, or to hear them with more pleasure than understanding. The concept that even greater than faith or hope is charity, is a very arresting one. At first glance—or even after some thought—this emphasis on charity seems to be a little extravagant, for modern definitions of this term stress almsgiving and mere good will to the poor and suffering. It should be noted that charity surely includes concern for the physical needs of others. But we slight one of the fundamental truths of the gospel if we fail to sound the full significance of this concept. "Charity never faileth" should be more than a motto for mutual aid; it should assert the practical validity and necessity for loving God and all his children wholeheartedly. An analysis of the word itself can be helpful here. The Latin word from which charity is derived is caritas, and this is a reasonably exact equivalent of the Greek term agape. In the Greek New Testament the word in I Corinthians which we translate charity is agape. The significance of this is that there are at least three terms in Greek which can accurately be translated as "love": eros or selfish love, philia or brotherly love, and agape or selfless, unconditional love. These distinctions have blurred a little in use, but it is obvious that the translators of the King James version were anxious to make a discrimination which some earlier (and later) Lesson Department translations have virtually ignored. Agape is often simply translated as love, but this does violence to a very significant idea. The Book of Mormon helps us keep in mind the very special nature of agape—caritas— charity when Moroni tells us that charity is the pure love of Christ. Such a concept could not be focused individually as in eros, and it must be more than the reciprocal cooperation and affection we call brotherly love. The love which God exemplifies in John 3:16 is not given to those who promise to return it. It is not deserved by us, and it has no qualifications. This is charity, pure love. As we think about this concept, it occurs to us that charity has taken on less exalted connotations in our day merely because we cannot face the implications of unconditional love. As a member of the Relief Society, it might be more comfortable to think of the Society's motto, "Charity Never Faileth," in less demanding terms. Taking a pie to our neighbor is an opportunity for which we are usually thanked profusely. Quilting in a homemaking meeting offers fellowship, and a bazaar is often a surprisingly effective way to raise money. But the love that remembers the widow or widower, in little acts of remembrance long after the companion is gone, the pure love of children that prompts a woman to assume a Cub Scout den when her boys are far beyond Cub Scout age— these begin to suggest the apparently unrewarded love that is charity. It is important to note that 155 February 1968 such love is only "apparently" unrewarded, but it is equally important to realize that, in the world's terms, we may get little obvious recompense. If our concepts of reward are limited by the world, we will always be uneasy and a little defensive in the presence of unconditional love. It simply is not of the earth but is a celestial law which can be appreciated only by those who are preparing themselves for exaltation. The selections which are included in this lesson try to help us see what a life infused by charity can be and the pitfalls which would compromise our charitable efforts. "GIVING," BY KAHLIL GIBRAN "Giving," by Kahlil Gibran, a Lebanese-American poet, is not a fully developed exposition of selfless love, but it is an excellent introduction to some of the distinctions we need to keep in mind as we prepare ourselves to understand this concept. The opening lines of this well-known prose poem are conventional enough. We are told that giving possessions is not as significant as giving ourselves. It is in his recital of how we give that Gibran begins to suggest some of the distinguishing characteristics of charity. After describing those who give with joy and find their reward in that joy, and those who give in pain and grow in so doing, he comes to a third group: And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue; They give as in yonder valley the 156 myrtle breathes its fragrance into space. Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth. Many of us are so conditioned to a giving of ourselves which is short of this that we find it hard to conceive of love which is spontaneous, inclusive, and unqualified. It may help to think of ourselves as receivers of God's unconditional love. While he cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance, God never withholds his love from the sinner. And as King Benjamin reminds us in The Book of Mormon, we cannot really repay the Lord for this love. In strict accounting, we will always be "unprofitable servants" no matter how hard we try. Gratitude is a worthy expression of our awareness that the Lord loves and helps us unreservedly, but it really does not even our account with the Lord. This is beyond our power and not even meaningful when we talk of that love which is charity. Many critics have tried to assess the appeal and importance of Gibran's work. While there is little agreement as to its importance—some feeling that he is more rephraser than thinker— most agree that its appeal is based on its mystical vision, metrical beauty, and a simple and fresh approach to the so-called problems of life. "Giving" is typical of Gibran's style and method. For Discussion In Gibran's "Giving" we are told that we who deem ourselves givers are but "witnesses." What is suggested by this? BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone l and2. 55 Zone 5 aan.80 Zone 3..60 Zone 6 -90 Zone 4.,.65 Zone7... 1.05 Zone 8. 1.20 fE= ie — DESERET [FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 SOUTHERN TEMPLES TOUR March 14-23 HAWAIIAN TOUR June 16-30 SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR July 6-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 18-31 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department "A CHRISTMAS GUEST," BY SELMA LAGERLOF Selma Lagerl6éf's "A Christmas Guest" helps us see that there is some risk to giving. Little Ruster, the object of the Liljekrona family's compassion in this story is not very attractive and clearly not deserving. But the mother in this family is encouraged to note that the little man she is trying to help still has a spark in him which enables him to recognize what he is. It is this spark she hopes to fan, aided by her innocent and pure children. "A Christmas Guest" is Scandinavian in locale and dated in time, yet it manages to speak freshly to anyone who sets himself to help another. Probably all of us would find it both convenient and satisfying to aid the attractively destitute, the deserving poor. But real want has often had such a negative effect on those who undergo it that helping them is neither appealing nor easy. Ruster, in this story, is such a person. In the words of the mother: "If it had not been Christmas, perhaps I would not have ventured; but when our Lord dared to place a little child who was His own son among us sinners, so can [ also dare to let my little children try to save a human soul." For Discussion How serious a risk do you think Mrs. Liljekrona is running subjecting her children to Ruster? What should our guide be in such cases? "BARTLEBY, THE SCRIVENER," BY HERMAN MELVILLE The next selection for this month is almost a short novel. MI5\7/ February 1968 Written by Herman Melville in the early 1850's, it is a strange but unforgettable story. It has usually been interpreted as a thinly disguised expression of Melville's own difficulties as a writer. Whether this is so or not makes little difference in our use of this tale, for whatever its genesis, this is a searching examination of man's relationship to his fellow human beings. Bartleby's employer is a conventionally good man, perhaps even a markedly good one. His weaknesses are obvious, but none of them is vicious, and we recognize that few men would be as patient as he is with the totally uncooperative Bartleby. He is sincere in his desire to help and his pity seems genuine, yet he no more succeeds in aiding Bartleby than Bartleby succeeds in helping himself. The basic reason for this is the powerful point of this story. No one cares enough for any other person in this tale really to help. The lawyer will try anything short of unqualified love. Bartleby and the other copyists are so tied up in their own problems that they seem incapable of enough detachment to recognize what they need to do, much less have the motivation to do it. Possibly the lawyer's plight is the most pitiful. He understands at least dimly what he should do. He talks of the "divine injunction" to "love one another," but he quickly drifts to that level of charity on which he feels comfortable, and this is hardly more than self-interest. The real tragedy of this story is suggested at the very end. Bartleby's life and death are moving in their stark emptiness, but it is not enough to say "Ah, humanity!" and thereby shift blame to something abstract. The failures of this story are not abstractions; they are the human beings who settled for something less than unconditional love toward one another which alone might have saved them. For Discussion Bartleby's employer is shifted from leaving Bartleby alone by the reactions of friends and clients. To what extent should such public pressure determine our individual, moral attitudes? No theme which we have considered in the three volumes of Out of the Best books is more basic to human happiness and heavenly exaltation than the topic examined in this lesson. In epic understatement, Moroni of old sounded its fundamental importance when he says, "whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him." (Moroni 7:47.) 158 * HAWAN] Fev. 16 - aprit 12 * MEXICO «.. 1 * EUROPE 16 days to 5 weeks, from $275 (from New York) * TEXAS HEMISFAIR * PALMYRA PAGEANT * ALASKA ADVENTURE For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET | arene Mo Salt Lake City, Uta A 328-898; 571:03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 ORGAN SONG Linnie Fisher Robinson Organ, sing your varied songs, Contrapuntal, note on note; Shake the air with counterpoint, Soothe me with your voice afloat; End the day with folklore lyrics Or with hymnals' solemn praise. Let the air be filled with color, Sound and beauty for my days. Oh, make harmony a stair Of melodic atmosphere; A medley of tones and rhythm Singing of man's idealism; Out beyond all memory— Arias of lands to be. TO GRANDCHILD Lucille R. Perry When barely three begins her pilgrimage A picket fence surrounds her sovereign state. Small kingdom? Which of us can gauge Its vastness, though it ends beside the gate. Are we too old and traveled for this place, Its grand geography of wonders to recall? Then she will show us, laughter on her face— With fresh insight she contemplates it all. The bug that, prodded, rolls into a sphere, A frantic ant which seeks a shady crack, And if she crushes that. Which she holds dear, Of sentiment and tears there is no lack. The years will show her eyes more distant parts Than this some day, but let us take her hand, See through her eyes, reeducate our hearts As we return to a child's encompassed land 159 101 100 99 97 96 95 94 Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie Holladay, Utah Mrs. Mary M. Clarkson Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ann Wray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Ellen England Miller Bakersfield, California Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nicholas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Julia Ann England Denney Robin, Idaho Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah Mrs. Carrie M. Freeman Tomlin Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. Minnie Martin Lutz Teton; Idaho _ Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois 93 160 Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor Provo, Utah Mrs. Marilla Catherine Jensen Oliver Claresholm, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Ella Jarvis Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Curma Murray Summers St. David, Arizona Mrs. Mary Ann Tuck Pasadena, California 92 91 90 Mrs. Flora Blackman Manchester Huntington, Utah Mrs. Clara Elizabeth Woodbury Adams - Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs.. Louise Worthen Doff St. George, Utah Mrs. Florance Autchinson LaComb Evanston, Wyoming Mrs.. Henrietta Cox Stewart Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Esther Densley Mousley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rosina Sophia Spiers Douch Hesperia, California. Mrs. Alta Salisbury. Lewis Peoria, Illinois 'Mrs. Edith Mary Dunn Woodford Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Lennberg Jenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Laura Mette Llewellyn Dallas, Texas Mrs. Annie B. Maxwell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Schirmeister Tujunga, California Mrs. Mary Isabelle Richards Tanner Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Ballard Cardon Logan, Utah Mrs.-Robena Barclay Buckley Orem, Utah Mrs: Sarah Jack West Covina, California Mrs. Jennie Linda Fjeldsted Myrup Salt Lake City, Utah- @ MOTIVATING READING IT'S SMART TO BEA LATTER-DAY SAINT by LaRue C. Longden $2.50 LaRue C. Longden, a devoted leader of youth, has selected in this new volume some of her counsel to young people and their parents on why it is "smart" to live up to Latter-day Saint standards. Key io 4 ro Happiess by Beatrice M. Sparks $3.95 1." aencemsoate daughter. Written especially for high school and college girls, this book contains the secrets that make life a happy and rewarding experience. Foreword by Larraine Day. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple. Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange. California 92668 "h 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL 4 SALT LAKE CITY Please send me IT'S SMART Lo 777 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA TO BE A LATTER-DAY SAINT [_] KEY TO HAPPINESS [_] account [_] Total cost must include 3% sales tax from residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Address City 7 A Total cost $....0000....... An excellent gift from a mother to a 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN...... Paid by check C): money order me Charge established A picture of carefree piness.. Guaranteed by Beneficial Life Insurance Your family deserves to enjoy the pleasant. Happy, things of life... And you can also make sure Fives have the opportunity to achieve all they have set their hearts on if you have provided them with a secure financial future through foresight and planning - and life insurance. "Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah And you can do it so easily; a stroke of your pen can create an "Instant Estate" for your family. This "Instant Estate" can be tailored to your specific needs b a knowledgeable and experie Beneficial Life Agent. Give hi the opportunity to complete the picture of happiness for you. Pas S Virgil H. Smith, Pres. "l.- Sent Ga ~ é yy ss q SPs PEL S + es ~: COMPASS FOR A CHILD Peggy Tangren What will you remember when the roads you take Narrow and dead-end against your mind? Memory will have mileposts leading back To these high fields Where now you run in meadow rue Rocked by wind, and reach, Knowing some day you will be Tall enough to part a cloud And gather down an armful of clear sky. Where visions fade in fog and then are lost, In crowded places sharp with hurting sound, You will know the stillness of deep water, For you were born of tranquil places, Of mountain tops cleaving lanes of air. You have followed corridors of light Through darkened forests, And been nurtured on summer's sweetest yield. This will be your compass when you go— Your magic shield. The Cover: § Blossoms at Appomattox Courthouse, Virginia Transparency by Claire W. Noail Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: |) Needle Mountains, Near Molas Lake, Colorado Phtograph by Don Knight Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: & Mary Scopes 161 lam delighted to belong to an American Branch. This gives me an opportunity to improve myself in the English language. | admire very much the sisters in Relief Society. Indeed, they have the Spirit of the Lord, and they also have very much initiative. | am grateful to The Relief Society Magazine for the joy | feel in increasing my knowledge of the gospel. | like to share the Magazine with my husband, because it gives US the opportunity to have a beautiful and instructive discussion, and | also like to share the Magazine with my neighbors. Fernanda G. Chilicky Nogales, Arizona May | express MY thanks to you for the high standard of art The Relief Society Magazine maintains. The covers are beautiful, uplifting, and edifying, and the drawings are ideal _\ say ideal, for they are peautiful and well done, and the women are always modest. May the Lord bless you for maintaining the Lord's standards. | can, with confidence, jet our children read this Magazine. Mrs. J. Vance Miller Pingree, Idaho Although | am a college graduate, | had never learned to appreciate poetry, until the combination of the Out of the Best Books series, these last few years, plus the Magazine, with its many poems each month, and my wonderful cultural refinement class leader, Violet Larsen, have finally helped me to love and understand poetry. Helen F. Cheney Downey, California | think the December Magazine is superb, with its lovely Madonna cover, and so many beautifully arranged homes in memory of the birth of our Savior. | liked the Christie Lund Coles poem "Christmas Is the Same" so much. | knew Christie when | lived in Springville and belonged to the League of Utah Writers. | also liked especially well the story 'The Christmas Lamb' by Elaine M. Murray. | used it in my Sunday School class last Sunday.; Lucy W. B. Jones Salt Lake City, Utah | enjoy the Magazine So very much. It was given me on my birthday by my parents Mr. And Mrs. A. C. Willardson of Salt Lake City, Utah—the most wonderful parents in the world. Mrs. Jewel Carter West Covina, California What a beautiful New Year's message from our general presidency in the January Magazine. It is SO meaningful to the Relief Society sisters on the Ricks College campus. These are the things We will strive for in the New Year. We love and appreciate our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. Lisle L. Andrus President, Ricks College Stake Relief Society Rexburg; Idaho 162 The Reliet Society Magazine Volume 55 March 1968 Number 3 Editor Marianne Cc. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 164 Relief Society—ATM in Arm With the Priesthood Robert L. Simpson 172 Knowledge of Greatest Worth Mary V. Cameron 175 Third Prize Story—More Than a Game Sarah Brown Neilson 182 How Relief Society Came to Me Rexine Eagar Red Cross Meets Challenges 208 Kalaupapa—Place of Refuge Orlene J. Poulsen 194 A Summer's Day Ruth N. Pepper 212 Where Did My Happiness Go? Venda B. Castleberry 219 'Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 7 Janet W. Breeze General Features 162 'From Near and Far 188 Editorial—An Open Window for the Morning Vesta P. Crawford 191 Woman's Sphere Ramona w. Cannon 226 ~=Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities The Home—Inside and Out 204 Meet the Mallow Family Eva W. Wangsgaard 206 «40 Sugar Easter Eges Virginia Beesley Cannon 218 Tranquility Gladys Hesser Burnham 224 ~=AlwayS Busy, Always Happy—Martha H. Hayward Lesson Department 234 Homemaking—Observing: Recognizing. And Reporting \\iness Alice Schmidt 161 Compass for 4 Child Pegey Tangren Existence, Remelda Nielsen Gibson 171, Toa New Child, Marilyn McMeen Miller 174: The Unnamed Song, Linnie Fisher Robinson 183, Cedars, Annie C. Esplin, 187; Sowing. Catherine B. Bowles 211; Quiet Loveliness, Grace Barker Wilson 218, Anxiety, Ruth G. Rothe 223; Prayer, Christie Lund Coles 237, The Letter, Dorothy J. Roberts 238. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office. 76 North Main: - Bho! Sie: - plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postaee provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized june 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine lS not responsible for unsolicited Manu: scripts. 163 192 Homemaking Department, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1967 Edythe K. Watson 164 Arm in Arm With the Priesthood 7 [Address delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967. ] Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric » Elder Romney, Sister Spafford, brothers and sisters, the Lord must be very pleased with the activities of these two days. The Lord's pleasure can only be complete, however, as we now implement what we have been taught during this conference. So, the true test really lies ahead as we put ourselves into action. Why does the mere mention of the words Relief Society renew my faith? Why do I thrill each time I see the sisters accomplishing their noble work in a quiet, unassuming manner' without boast, no show, just unobtrusively "seeking out objects of charity?" During the past thirty days, I have observed you quietly administering consolation and assistance to a family who lost a loved one. I have seen you graciously and compassionately comforting the sick. I have seen you faithfully going forth to spread your tidings of good will as visiting teachers. I have seen you faithfully going forth to Spread tarried a little too long in help. Your Cheerfy] countenance and Ing to deliver a baby. Yes, Visit - to ably and willingly respond to ing teaching can really be excitner erhaps J a little IstyMaybe | ave some of these €yed because I rem mber go ell feelings abou Relief Society beth Y When a lief Societ € world. | wa d Weary, almos aS an afte tho ght, « d and ho S as sat down, Please €aven] her ¢ Practically in th Shadows of the restore eyesight My b by Pyramids » Prepared to was born py] > and yoy have anded me th d Cross did not d 2.00 ye 80, nor an you agin Y emotion will they ever long as he emotion that filled m there a; faithfy] Relief Societ €art—as | found a note inside Sisters O Tlesthood Which rea ~— the Lord bless bearers Uniting their f. Th, makyou for What yoy are doing in Ing al] things Possible in the Lord. The name of liberty and Peace," Who can match the Strength signed, "The Relief Society of character, the Patience, Or the The Church of Jesus Christ of hope of one 'Relief Society mothe Latter-day ' aints, Takami Who declare In my hearing, af IS frujt sent by the il] It a hy dred m e, if very same Sisters w d blesseq need be, because ] ant to spend me so Undant] ew eternity With the fath of m ealand Sslonar Just a Couple ch Idren H. A good an, and Of years before found me Now th n he wil] alfway around the World. My recognize € truth of this great chance 9 receiving that ParticyChurch," ar fruitcak Was probah Y Some Sisters, here jg Id Saying, Ing like 4 million, Jt "First things fip. T," and | Would did Something ¢ me. It was an like to © 2 ples With you answer to Prayer here today that in yoy do elief Society also Means With y lr Dazaars th your Watching the good Sisters of quiltin jects th y ur dies,' river to Insure a ne hundred thing You have to lS made Per cent Visiting €acher report, Possible 5 Cause yoy are specia] and Particular] » the time the The Lo S given yoy a didn't come back + t evenin Perame d Personality that They were not back Until the are different from ys men. There Next day because the ocean tide are things that the Priesthood came in to block their Path can Most effectively 4CComplish homewarg, only because they through you and only through March 1968 you. Just keep in mind the direction found in your Handbook, and that singular, noble purpose will never be found wanting. That printed direction from your Relief Society presidency states that your main purposes are: To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level... To save souls. (Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.) Oh, that every woman in the world had such a code to live by! What a different world this would be. In discussing this important speaking assignment with Sister Spafford and her counselors, the suggestion was made that something might be said that would be helpful in fostering a closer understanding between the ward Relief Society presidents and the bishops. I took the liberty of inviting several bishops to make comments upon their working relationship with the Relief Society presidency of their ward. I thought some of their observations were classic, and I would like to pass them on to you this afternoon. While the examples are from bishops, the same fundamentals would apply, of course, in a branch or mission, as well as in the ward or stake. One bishop said this: "Our Relief Society president is always ready with excellent counsel, and once the bishopric makes a decision, she supports us all the way." This statement could well have been made by the First 166 Presidency of the Church with reference to your general president. Nothing has thrilled me more than to see the cooperation of Sister Spafford and her counselors in carrying out the desires of our leaders. You will be interested in a recent comment made in my hearing by a member of the First Presidency when he said that he had never known a woman who supports the priesthood any better than Sister Spafford. Sister Spafford, we salute you for your great example. It reminds me of a slogan, "Which way to go, the leader will know." I hope every stake president and bishop is able to make this same observation about his stake or ward Rehef Society president. To be sustained in Church leadership is vital to the success of this Church. Nothing means more to a leader than to be sustained by those working with him. President Tanner related a touching incident on one occasion as he told about his first counselor when he served as a bishop of a ward in Canada. An important decision had to be made. President Tanner and his first counselor had differing opinions about the solution. They decided to fast for twenty-four hours, that the final decision might be correct. After the fast, it was obvious that each was still of the same opinion, and then Brother Tanner stood up and said, "Brethren, as_ the bishop of this ward, I feel strongly that this is the way we must move." At that point, that great first counselor came to his side, put his arm around the bishop and declared, "Bishop, I want you to know that I sustain you all the way." You see, the priesthood authority had spoken, and now this is the direction we move. Recently, a General Authority had just expressed his views on a vital subject, and afterwards was informed that the President of the Church had just given his view, and that it was different. This great apostle of the Lord then commented without hesitation: "In that case, brethren, I have just changed my mind." We must follow our properly designated authority in this Church. Should we fail in this concept, chaos would reign. The work could not go forward. May I be bold enough to share with you sisters a very personal incident that took place just six years ago this week as President McKay honored me with this call to be a member of the Presiding Bishopric. Naturally, there was a period of quiet emotion after the invitation was made. Then as we stood, ready to take our leave, President McKay walked directly to Sister Simpson. He took her by the hand. He proceeded to look deeply into her eyes and into her soul, and his patient silence and kindly smile seemed to be an invitation for her to comment. Finally, she said, "President, I want you to know that I will support and sustain my husband in this new calling." With that, President _McKay said, "Sister Simpson, that is exactly what I wanted to hear." There can be nothing more fundamental in the Church than a faithful sister supporting the priesthood, whether it be her Relief Society—Arm in Arm With the Priesthood husband, or her designated authority in the ward, stake, or mission. Here is another comment from one of our ward bishops: "I never need to worry about confidential matters slipping beyond the Relief Society presidency." The duty and the right of being a common judge in Israel, among the members of the wards and stakes rests with the _ bishop. This is his unshared ward responsibility. Stake presidents have the same stake-wide responsibility. Each ward bishop, of course, has that jurisdiction only within the membership of his own ward. It is his right alone to conduct the personal, private, searching interviews into the hearts of the ward members. This is necessary in determining personal worthiness and in order for him to be in a position to be most helpful. No other officer in the ward has this same right, and, as bishop, he determines the need, then administers the necessary assistance through the appropriate priesthood or auxiliary leader of the ward. It is often necessary to share certain segments of confidential information. Very often that appropriate person is the Relief Society president. To repeat such privileged information needlessly, to pass it on as neighborhood gossip, or even to share it in the supposedly airtight family circle, would surely be a gross violation of the sacred trust placed in you. It is my own personal opinion that violators of such a confidence will be held accountable by the powers of heaven. May I share this comment from a bishop in Arizona: "She 167 March 1968 never resorts to guesswork. Our Relief Society president knows her program and also has an excellent concept of the priesthood and its functions." The Lord admonishes us through the Doctrine and Covenants: Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand... (D&C 107:99-100.) There is a small part of your day, every day, that you might set aside better to learn your duty in Relief Society. How about five o'clock in the morning, if no other time seems right? I think it is important to find an island of time every day when you can improve yourself in your calling. Unfortunately, there are those in the Church who feel that programs can be changed at random merely to meet temporary whims or conveniences, Through Priesthood Correlation, each program becomes a part of the total fabric of the Church. No program can be considered an island. Due to Correlation, everything is now interrelated as never before. To take liberty with a single program is to distort the whole. Be assured, sisters, there is a reason for each phase of the Relief Society program as it is today. It is our fervent desire that you will have the faith to follow the program. This should have been the commitment and heartfelt agreement of each Relief Society president as she accepted her call. Should there be a sister who cannot wholeheartedly accept the pro- 168 gram for which she has been given responsibility, she has a moral obligation to meet with her priesthood authority for a serious talk at the earliest moment. Only as we believe in and have confidence in the programs we administer can we be effective in their implementation. "For if a trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?" (I Cor. 14:8.) So spoke Paul to the saints at Corinth. Still another grateful bishop made this observation: "Our Relief Society is a beehive of activity. All the women are anxiously involved, thanks to a Relief Society president who radiates faith and encouragement as she involves everyone about her." We have often heard it said, "How much more valuable is the man who can get ten men to work as contrasted to the man who can do the work of ten men." This is a Church of involvement for many. There is no place for the prima donna. Surely the Lord gave sound advice to Moses as he found himself overburdened with administrative details and the multitude of daily problems that persisted as the Israelites moved across the wilderness. Moses was told ".. Thou art not able to perform it thyself alone." He was then advised to organize his people into groups of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens, with leaders over each unit to take care of the immediate problems, and then to bring to Moses only the major matters. Then the Lord concluded: "... So it shall be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee." (Exodus 18:15-22.) I might add, they shall share the blessings with thee. And this, I repeat again, is the very essence of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is important for a Relief Society president to free herself for those duties that she alone can do by virtue of her calling. Others will benefit and grow from experience, and as we delegate to others, may we communicate well—explain the assignment in simple, understandable language. Then, check understanding carefully. Having the sister repeat back her own understanding of the instruction, to my mind, is the best way. Sprinkle in a generous portion of your own enthusiasm. Enthusiasm is contagious. Follow up in a kindly, helpful way from time to time, just to make certain that all is on course. Finally, let your crowning effort be a sincere word of commendation. That way the door will always be open for tomorrow. Many times we feel that an unwilling worker should be released without hesitation. I like President Tanner's advice on the subject. He says if you have workers who will not respond, there is no question about it, fire them—fire them with enthusiasm! Do it again and again. After you have done this kind of firing a few dozen times and still no results, then maybe you can think in some other terms. A little act of kindness, a little tact, is so important as we involve others. Brother Dunn tells the story about a good sister who was shopping for a pair of shoes. She entered the first store, was fitted, and complained about one shoe being Relief Society—Arm in Arm With the Priesthood too snug. She was told by the clerk that one of her feet was larger than the other, and she left in a huff. At the next store, a much wiser clerk observed that one foot was smaller than the other. She immediately made the purchase. Now, one final comment from a bishop: "I can always be certain that recommendations and decisions made by our Relief Society president are influenced by the spirit of the Lord." The Lord has said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." As you partake of the sacrament each week, you renew your covenant to keep his commandments, that his spirit may be with you always. Then, sisters, it ls just as simple as that. As you abide by his commandments, you become available to the gifts of the spirit in your callings. In effect you "put on the whole armour of God." (Ephesians 6:11.) A decision that is modulated with the Spirit of the Lord is essential to the success of this great latter-day work. Simplify your lives. May we always remember that the Lord's house is a house of order, and that is the way yours should be. Unless your own home is in order, it is unlikely that your Church assignment will be. Paul gave advice to the bishops in the meridian of time, and I am convinced that this reasoning would also be true for all who hold the office of presidency in Relief Society. He described the able bishop as "One that ruleth his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity." Then Paul asks, "For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of 169 March 1968 the Church of God?" (I Timothy 3:4-5.) May we not consider an able Relief Society president, in like manner, as one who manages well her own house, having her children under control with sincerity; for if a sister knows not how to manage her own household, how shall she take care of her important Church assignment? My wonderful, dear sisters of this great Relief Society, mothers in Zion, defenders of the faith, may I invite you to listen closely to one additional thought, and as you listen, may you rededicate yourselves as Latter-day Saint women. For as Paul puts it, "as the elect of God," and this you surely are, then, showing forth as Paul urges:.. Mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering; Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: Even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts... And be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another... Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. (Colossians 3:12-17.) Sisters, the air is literally charged with anticipation and urgency for this particular General Conference. All of this because the Church is growing, stretching. There has never been a time when so much needed to be done. It is your good fortune to be blessed to live in this most exciting time and to find yourselves locked arm in arm with 170 the priesthood in the front ranks of the most vital and urgent cause known to men. Never before has time been shorter. Never before have the ranks of leadership been more capable, but lest we forget, never before has the Adversary been so clever, never has he been so cunning in his attempts to thwart our success. How grateful we should all be for that blessed event of March 17, 1842, when the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society "after a pattern of the priesthood." Then, to continue in his own words, "as an aid to the priesthood," to function "under the direction and guidance of the _ priesthood." There is nothing more glorious in this world than a cooperative and loving, capable woman standing faithfully at the side of her busy, dedicated husband, both anxiously engaged in teaching their children in truth and light, both finding time to be of service in the kingdom, both cheerfully obedient to their priesthood authority. Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God. (I Corinthians 11:11-12.) I bear testimony that only as the priesthood-bearing man, and the priesthood-honoring woman supplement one another in a common, dedicated, righteous endeavor, can the ultimate purposes of heaven be _ achieved. May God so inspire us, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. KNOWLEDGE OF GREATEST WORTH [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967].. For out of the books which shall be written I will Judge the world, every man according to their works, according to that which is written (2 Nephi, 29:11.) Mary V. Cameron Member Relief Society General Board 172 These are the words of the Lord, as told by the prophet Nephi, and the books referred to are the recorded words of God to his children. The Lord further says, "because that I have spoken one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another... Because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it contains all my words... That I have not caused more to be written. (2 Nephi, 29:9-10.). The Lord made it clear that he would speak to the Jews, to the Nephites, and to others of his children. He says, "... My word also shall be gathered in one" (2 Nephi, 29:14.) We, as Latter-day Saints, have the great blessing to possess not only the Bible but The Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. These are our only holy scriptures—the word of the Lord "gathered in one." These records were preserved by the _faD ED, AeA Lord that they may come to us in his own due time and in his own unusual ways. They contain the knowledge of greatest worth, which points the way back to his presence. These are the books from which the Lord said, "I will judge the world." It would seem, then, of great value to us to read the words of these books. In fact, we have been given the command to study them diligently, "Search the scriptures." (John 5:39.) The Bible was said by one renowned scholar to be "the most exciting book in the world." It has had a more profound influence for good upon mankind than any other book. Much of the world's greatest art, music, and literature is inspired by the Bible. Little wonder that it is called the "Book of Books." In the Bible is found the story of the creation as told by the great Creator himself, "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth" (Gen. 1:1), and again, "God created man in his own image." (Gen. 1:27.) These are among the greatest declarations of all time. Instructions of infinite worth to the whole world come to us in the Decalogue or the Ten Commandments—the great code of ethics written at Sinai by the finger of God. Should the people of the world abide by these rules of conduct, all of the troubles of the world would be solved. The message of the Old Testament is that God is the great Creator of the earth and Father of all people, and that his Son Jesus the Christ, the Redeemer, would some day come and live among men. Knowledge of Greatest Worth In the meridian of time the birth of the Savior was announced. This is the greatest story ever told, and one which everyone should become _ acquainted with in earliest childhood—to be followed by the account of his exemplary life and sublime teachings. If we had but one simple teaching, "Do unto others as ye would that they should do unto you," and lived it, all of the ills of this troubled world would melt away and love would abound instead of hatred. The account of the Savior's death and resurrection brings to the world its greatest hope. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that the Bible means good and the Book of Mormon means more good. (Smith, Joseph Fielding, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, page 300.) With the coming forth of this book, other knowledge of worth comes to us. Here is a "marvelous work and a wonder" and *,. As your Lord and your God liveth it is true." (D&C 17:6). Its greatest message is to the "convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations." (Book of Mormon, title page). What more needed knowledge could come to a doubting and apostate generation? The Doctrine and Covenants was given especially to this, the last dispensation. It comes as a voice of warning and cry for repentance. What could be more vital as teaching and application in our world than the Word of Wisdom? 173 March 1968 The Lord knew there would be "evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days." (D&C Section 89:4.) The most glorious of all revelations comes as Section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants. The testimony is given that the Son lives 'For we saw him, even on the right hand of God." (D&C 76:23.) In this section is also outlined the future status of all the inhabitants of the earth— whether telestial, terrestrial, or celestial, according to worthiness. Where will we find our place? To every Relief Society sister and to every woman, I would urge the study of these scriptures in the homes. God has given no gifts greater than these. We owe it to ourselves and to our chilTO A NEW CHILD Marilyn McMeen Miller Gem in blue, Sprig of heaven: Apples have lost their blossoms in your face, You touch your lips with fingers, delicate as lace. Bud, opening spring; With your small cry A flock of sparrows sing And it is winter yet. | have not time enough to watch you Ere the summer set— Be slow to blossom, flowerlet. 174 dren to have a good knowledge of God's words to us. These books should be easily accessible in every home. Each child when old enough, should have his own copy of the books. They should be studied together as a family and become an important part of our own and our children's lives. Our eternal salvation depends upon our knowledge of and adherence to the words of these books. Let us not be like Patrick Henry, who on his deathbed, said of the Bible, "Here is a book worth more than all others ever printed; yet it is my misfortune never to have found time to read it. It is now too late. I trust in the mercy of God." May we drink deeply of this "well of living water." (D&C 63:23.) THIRD PRIZE STORY Y Uuttoned th ollar into lace, she and grubb ennis ny' Visualized h aving for Schoo] Self-co fidence alwa daw In its Crisp fre hness, | Was riof Convincing her it Was all] right Iculous, sh thought at h though H Ssurance Wanted Wear Starched, White and Maturity 8€—and ad always been Satisfied With tiles kept coming to the Surface plaid Shirts and jeans that could jn its Struggle against complete © worn more than once, Manhood. T boy these 4YS were dif. Ane Ought o his Strong erent. You Just didn 't know What usky build tha er seem ° expect ne t orning they Smal] and frail] Presence Spent endless time be Ore schoo] and his Innin Mile March 1968 on orthodontic work. A smile that always assured her the money had been well spent, and that seemed to open doors wherever he went. It was thinking of his smile that made the lump start swelling in Jane's throat again. She had swallowed it back so many times that day. After all, Tony was only sixteen and one had to make allowances for him. The world of teen-agers was something different and apart from the rest of the world. Who had said only last week that you couldn't rear teen-agers and have any emotions? Somehow she had to eliminate hers and justify his attitude about the football game. It was important to see things from his viewpoint and understand how he felt. She managed to blink back the near-surface tears and glance at the clock. Three-thirty! School was over and the game would be starting! A game that had been such a highlight to all of them —until yesterday. It seemed unreal that an event projected to such importance could shrivel to a mere fragment so quickly. How had it happened? Once again Jane's mind churned the events that had created the situation. It began with Frank's early arrival from work last Friday afternoon. She was expecting him, but managed to act surprised. "Frank! What in the world are you doing home this time of day?" Speaking slowly to hide his excitement, he explained, "Well, there wasn't much doing at the office this afternoon and I thought 176 you might hke to drop by the high school to see how Tony's football game is coming." Jane smiled at his nonchalance, knowing his crowded schedule at work and the effort involved in getting away. He would never outgrow his love of sports nor his eager anticipation of the competition involved. He relived his own athletic days in every game Tony played. And justly so, when one considered how much of himself had been poured into that boy. Their back yard had been a working ground for baseball and football as long as she could remember. Frank's yearning for a smooth green lawn, sturdy shrubs, and healthy flowers had been replaced years ago by a _boy's sturdy limbs and healthy attitudes. It had become a neighborhood gathering place for lonely, frustrated boys, whose own perfected yards were restricted from use. The worn spots in the lawn, the sparse shrubs thinned by swift balls, and the trampled flowers seemed a tribute to Frank's love and patience. His knowledge of sports made him a qualified instructor and ready extra for any game. He should have been a coach, Jane thought one day as she passed an open window and heard his convincing words on the values of honesty and fair play. How blessed she was to have him! "I'd love to see Tony's game," Jane had called as she rushed to get ready, knowing his disappointment if they missed one minute. Of course, they would get Johnny from school on the way. Living the game with Tony had been thrilling. They were So proud of his important position on the team and the way he came through in the last quarter. His courage and determination were magnificent as he struggled free of arms, legs, and tackles to make a mad dash for the goal line. The touchdown gave their school a one point advantage which meant playing in the league championship game. Jane realized now—too late— they had been carried away by the excitement of it all. Frank yelled too many instructions, she cheered too enthusiastically, and ten-year-old Johnny created an embarrassing situation. Why didn't she stop him from dashing out on the field to hug his brother when the gun sounded? She had been afraid they were wrong when she saw Tony trying to ~~ move quickly off the field to avoid him. But no such luck! Johnny was fast and persistent, like his brother. (Frank had taught them well!) He was shoutTony on he could rescue himself. Tony's response to their generous praise at dinner that night seemed a little cool. He didn't show the usual interest as Frank verbally relived each play and dramatized his touchdown. During the week he was unusually quiet, and his lack of enthusiasm about the coming championship game worried her. It was odd Frank didn't notice. His own excitement and anticipation must have clouded his awareness. If only Tony would talk to her. They had always been able to communicate—especially where problems were concerned. She 177 March 1968. Thought of approaching him, but realized the first move must be his. Yesterday it had finally come. Jane was peeling potatoes for dinner when Tony came home from football practice—that made it easier because he didn't have to face her. What he wanted to say was difficult. She could tell because he kept making small talk and fidgeting. The telephone rang and he seemed to welcome the reprieve. When he had taken the message for Frank and hung up the receiver, he cleared his throat, took courage, and came right to the point. "Mom, would you: and Dad care if I asked you not to come to the game tomorrow?" His voice sounded hollow and strained. Not go to the game! Could she have heard him right? This, the most important game of the whole season! Jane groped for an answer, but found a question was the best she could do. "Don't you want us to be there, Tony?" The kitchen chair squeaked as he shifted awkwardly trying to come up with an answer. "Well, it's just that—oh—not many parents come—and I kind of feel like the fair-haired boy. Mom, do you know what I mean—all the yelling—Johnny hugging me —and all the fuss?" Jane could see Frank's eager face as he had talked about the game at breakfast. How could she tell him? Tony had always used her as a reporter of bad news and difficult situations. "You can say it better and soften the blow for Dad," he would explain. But this was too much! 178 And Johnny, who visualized his brother as an inspired hero, how could he understand? The potatoes were going down fast as her peeling speed had increased. Her face was flushed, and her throat felt dry as she struggled. For composure. "Yes, Tony, I do know what you mean, and we'll spare you the embarrassment. Now, go and rest before dinner. You'll need all the energy you can get for the game tomorrow." Tony looked relieved as he moved toward his' bedroom. "Thanks, Mom, you're great!" Jane couldn't let him know how she felt—how Frank would feel. After all, their pride was at stake. This was no time for emotion and they must look at things sensibly. Tony's friends were important, as was his standing in the group. Interested parents threatened his security; that was clear. It wasn't Tony's fault—he was the victim of the day and age. She hoped Frank would see this, and realize it was only a game. Why should it take on such importance? But in her heart, Jane knew it was more than a game. It was all the games that would follow —all the activities that would be part of his life. It was a test of his moral courage, of his ability to apply their teachings, of his regard for their giving, loving, and sharing. Tony had always been so special. He must never know how he had let them down. Like the psychologists taught, something of this sort could damage his self-respect. Jane welcomed Frank home from work with an air of forced gaiety. Some real softening was going to be required for this blow. And she must tell him immediately before the last minute instructions to Tony about the game started. She had sorted through her "softening approaches" and decided the jovial method was best. "You'll never believe how funny Tony was today," she said, when Frank was comfortable in his relaxing chair. "He wanted to tell us not to come to his game tomorrow, because all the attention embarrasses him, and he had such a hard time wording it right—you know, so_ he wouldn't hurt our feelings." The silence was awful. Why didn't Frank say something? Maybe he didn't trust his voice. Jane tried a little harder. "T assured him our being there wasn't that important and that he can tell us all the details when he gets home. It was a riot to see how relieved he was." The first shock was over and Frank joined in the pretense. "That is hilarious! Course, we could go to the game with a paper sack over our heads and tiny holes for the eyes, so no one would recognize us! There's so much to do at the office, I doubt I could arrange to go, anyway. Is dinner almost ready? I'm starved." For being starved, Frank took rather meager helpings. He was too cheerful and avoided talking about the game. Tony was his old self and even played a question game with Johnny before going to bed. Jane found sleep difficult and lay staring into the dark long after the house was quiet. She More Than a Game could tell by Frank's breathing that he, too, was awake. How her heart ached for his unspoken disappointment that could never be discussed. She reached for his hand, hoping he would sense the love and_ understanding she couldn't express. Everyone did the usual things next morning. Frank's face showed weariness and his shoulders drooped a little, but he patiently called the boys three times, took his exercises, and gave Tony first chance at the shower. Tony shined his shoes, brushed his hair and splashed on lotion —apparently it was a white shirt day. Johnny came out with dragging shoe laces and sleepswollen eyes just in time for family prayer. As Frank asked the Lord's blessings upon them, he expressed gratitude for their wonderful sons and made a special plea for Tony's safety and success in the championship game. Jane was glad the bacon needed turning as he finished, so the moisture around her eyes would go unnoticed. Like many other mornings, Tony was too late to walk and Frank rushed through his breakfast te be chauffeur. "Mom, what time are you picking me up for the game?" Johnny asked, as she dug in her purse for lunch money. "We won't be going today, Johnny, Dad has too much work at the office. Please try to understand." "Not go to the game! Mom, you're kidding! Tony can't play if Dad isn't there—he's always there. We have to go to the game! It's an important one. Tony'll never forgive us!" 179 March 1968 Jane bit her lip until it hurt. "Johnny, you're almost late, now please hurry. Just forget about the game for today." A dark look of confusion clouded Johnny's face. "But, Mom, we have to go—I'll be looking for you because I know Dad will come—he always comes —he wouldn't do that to Tony!" Jane hugged him almost too tight as he went out the door. His faith in Frank was heartwarming and she loved him for it. If only she could explain—but no—not to a ten-year-old. The huge basket of ironing looked almost inviting as Jane appraised her day's work. There was something about ironing that gave her a settled feeling. It was never a question of what came next. She knew what came next for a solid chunk of hours. She could sit in one place, enjoy a feeling of accomplishment, and do some thinking. But thinking today had only brought confusion and more heartache. As the mound of unironed clothes grew small and the pile of finished ones grew large, the battle to justify Tony's behavior within herself continued. A slamming door shattered her thoughts and announced Johnny's arrival from school. He was breathless and beads of perspiration marked his forehead. "Mom, you didn't come and the game has already started! I ran all the way from the bus stop! Can't we go without Dad— please? Tony will be looking for us. We have to go!" Jane looked into his anxious, freckled face and tried to sound convincing. "It's too late, dear, 180 and Tony will have fun telling us all about the game at dinner. He's never had a chance to do that because we've always been there. We won't even know who won and he can surprise us! Why don't you get washed and we'll make Tony's favorite cake for dinner. You can make the frosting!" It was a poor substitute for the game, but with Johnny's interest in running the electric mixer, Jane's loving persuasion won. Even with all the family favorites, Jane knew dinner would be difficult. Tony would try to tell them about the game, but without Frank's comments on every detail it would fall flat. Johnny's innocent remarks would create embarrassment, and she could already feel the strain of trying to pretend everything was fine. Frank arrived before Tony, sniffing the air and exclaiming about the joy of coming home to smells of cinnamon and brown sugar. "What a lucky boy you are to have a mother who makes such a wonderful home for us, Johnny. Look at the fresh ironed shirts and stack of clean clothes. Do you think she knows we love and appreciate her?" After twenty years of sharing sorrows and problems with Frank, Jane knew this was his way of trying to help her over the disappointment in Tony. How like him to care what she thought and felt. The game wasn't mentioned until they were sitting down to dinner and Tony opened the door. His flushed face and dark hair, still damp from the shower, made him painfully handsome. L eel e. "Who won! Who won! Did you make a touchdown? Did you win?" Johnny shouted as he grabbed Tony around the waist. There was a long silence, and then Tony led Johnny to the table and sat down beside him. In a very quiet voice, he said, "Yes, Johnny, we won. The score was eighteen to twelve, but I "lost! Oh, I made a touchdown all right—but I still lost. I realized what I had lost when the game started, and I didn't hear Dad's voice in the crowd—when I looked up and didn't see Mom's hand waving or you standing on More Than a Game the bench. Somehow, nothing else mattered but your being there—not the game, my friends, or winning. Oh, I kept playing and doing my best—Dad_ has taught me to do that automatically—but I realized I had sold you down the river for twisted pride and stupid values. Suddenly, I felt sorry for all the guys whose parents don't care about the games—who are too busy to come. All I wanted to do was come home and be with you." Johnny looked confused. "I told you Tony would be mad if we didn't go, Mom. You should have come home, Dad!"' Tony smiled. How like them to protect his standing with Johnny. "Mom—Dad—I'm sorry —can you ever forgive me? Please don't miss another game!" Jane looked into the faces that surrounded the table. Yes, it was more than a game, It was the light of realization, the warmth of understanding, and the cementing of family ties. Now, at last, the tears were spilling unchecked down her face—tears of joy! Through the mist she looked across the table and wondered if there could ever be anything more beautiful than the sight of a father hugging his teen-age son. Sarah Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, expresses appreciation for the short story contest: ''The Relief Society short story contest has opened a new horizon for me. 'More Than a Game' is my first attempt at writing, other than a short incident that was published making me eligible for the contest. | have always loved writing letters and often wondered if writing might be a hobby | could develop and enjoy. This opportunity has helped me to find it is. "| graduated with an English major from the Utah State University in Logan, and have had varied Church experience, holding seventeen different positions in the last twenty-five years. Currently, | am First Counselor in the Pasadena Stake Relief Society Presidency, and my husband, Keith, who has been a bishop, now serves on the High Council. We enjoy three wonderful children: Nancy, living in the San Francisco area while her husband, David Waldvogel, attends dental school; Bob, serving on a mission in England; and David, attending Pasadena High School." 181 How Relief Society Came to Me Rexine Eagar s Three or four days ago Bishop Thomas called my home and asked that I come to his office. When I told my family that I was leaving for a few minutes, and where I was going, my ten-year-old daughter started bubbling over with "Oh, goodie, we don't have our Primary teacher yet. I'll bet it will be you." As I straightened my hair, she bubbled continuously about the joys and hardships of teaching the members of her class. When I returned home and told her that I would be teaching in Relief Society, her face fell and she said, "That's not fair, the ladies already know everything." I have a testimony of the value and worth of Relief Society, but I didn't always have it. Let me tell you how I was converted. I was married when I was eighteen years old and had opportunity then to attend Relief Society—but I didn't. I thought it must be worthwhile because it was part of the Church organization, and I had a testimony of the gospel then, but at eighteen, I was afraid to go for two reasons. First, I thought the meetings were held only to work on welfare sewing, and I knew I wasn't skilled in sewing and quilting. Secondly, I thought that the social relationship among the sisters was talking while they worked. At eighteen, I felt I wasn't wise enough and didn't know enough about what was going on in our small town to be a part of the conversation. As the years passed, I felt less and less a desire to attend. As long as I can remember I have had two main goals in life, successfully to rear and teach a large family of children, and to get as much education as I can. During the first six years of our marriage we were blessed with five children, and I was thrilled with them, but began to feel frustrated and unhappy with myself because I was doing nothing about continuing my education. I couldn't manage to attend night classes and I felt bitter and enslaved by my housework. During that time my Relief Society teachers came each month and always invited me to attend meetings. Inside myself, I felt, that's all I need now, to be using my time in Relief Society meetings. Then, one day the president came to see me and asked me to sing in a meeting. I went to Relief Society and opened the door to opportunities I didn't know existed. At that meeting the class leader and lesson inspired me and I knew that there was my way to gain knowledge. I subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine and began to study before going to hear each lesson. I was thrilled with what I was learning. At first I was attending for selfish rea- 182 How Relief Society Came to Me sons, because of what I could gain personally, but soon I began to see that I was learning things that were helping me to be a better wife and mother. I learned about helping my children eventually to reach maturity in all phases of their lives, not just physically. I could see how very much more was expected of me as a mother than Four years ago I was called to work as a member of the presidency in our ward. My desire to serve others outside my family group broadened the desire for knowledge and brought the joy of service. I have heard several times that if a woman will faithfully attend her meetings, study the lessons, and try hard to make their teachings a part of her life, she will be gaining the equivalent of a college education. She will understand her calling in womanhood and motherhood and will have the knowledge and wisdom to succeed in both. I believe every Latter-day Saint woman should attend Relief Society, and in so doing, "the hand that rocks the cradle" will be strengthened, more gently and always unfalteringly. This is my sincere belief and testimony. A ae a ob -— (im 7 - es an THE UNNAMED SONG Linnie Fisher Robinson \\ She recalls her aversion to practice, ert The music room light and cool: Vow Yet the low notes came singing Singing down deep in her soul. Aa The picture comes back like an etching 7 Of that long lost childhood day; w Her father and mother so patient As she practiced her hour away. The melodies are forgotten, And the notes she tried to prolong; But all of them sang to her young heart A beautiful unnamed song That sings through the varied hours of day With faith that is sweet and strong; Her rampart of beauty, concord, and love, That will last until life is done. MI] 183 A SUMMER'S DAY eRuth Nicholson Pepper Corrimal East, New South Wales, Australia # The day she had had misgivings about had arrived. As the morning sun slatted through the Venetian blinds into the bedroom, Catherine knew that the weather would be no excuse for not going. All week, ever since Jim had suggested it and persuaded her to go, she had been reluctant. Blackberry picking! How idyllic it sounded, she thought wryly. Only it should be called "Mosquito Swatting"—or "Snake Dodging'—or "Fly Flicking!" Ugh! She shuddered inwardly, thinking of the ordeal ahead. I'm 184 no outdoor girl, Catherine mused grimly. But Jim had been insistent and she herself was tired of being left at home with baby David, always making the excuse that he was too small to take on the outings on which Jim liked to take the other two children. But why had it been blackberrying she had said yes to? It would have been more pleasant to have gone to the beach or into the bush for a barbecue. Or even— mad, crazy thought that it was —to have gone to Sydney for the day without the children, for shopping and a show. They kept talking about it, but somehow there was never enough money or time to spare. It was blackberry time, though, and their Relief Society president had especially asked all who could to gather the blackberries for jam-making for their fete. "Good idea," Jim had _ said, when she had casually mentioned it. "How about coming with us next Saturday, Cath— your mother would be glad to have David for a few hours?" And so she had been persuaded and it was now upon her. Oh, well, she thought, not without humor, I guess I'}] live through it. Their departure was one and a half hours later than planned. Saturday morning was a morning that never liked to be hurried at their home, and today had been no exception. They had all lingered and talked over breakfast, and then Catherine had washed through the nappies while Jim and the boys washed the dishes and packed some fruit and cake for their picnic lunch. In dismay, Catherine glanced back at the rooms just before they locked the door behind them—dust on the furniture, toys scattered, ironing in the basket—and it was Sunday tomorrow. Her heart sank. Saturday was usually her day to get ready for the Sabbath, and she revelled in her tidy home and ~ well-stocked shelves on Saturday night. She wouldn't be doing much _ revelling tonight, she thought ruefully. As they sped along the coast road to her mother's home on the other side of town, Catherine beA Summer's Day gan to relax a little, settling back in her seat with David on her knee, listening to Mike's and Stevie's excited chatter in the back, and to Jim humming contentedly to himself as he drove their old car. It was a glorious January day, the hot Australian sun sparkled down on the golden beaches, and the sapphire blue sea was fringed deeply with rows of stark white rolling surf. The South Pacific, she thought idly—this same romantic ocean lapped the shores of Tahiti, too. Wonder if they worried about unmade beds and mud on the back verandah there? It was going on ten o'clock before they left Catherine's mother's, uniting adoring grandmother with adoring grandson, and, after buying ice cones for them all at the corner shop, they left the main highway and followed the winding road up the mountainside. "Look, Mom—look at those big ones—there!" Stevie pointed excitedly out of the window to the blackberry bushes along the roadside, while three-year-old Mike's eyes popped silently, unable to speak for the ice cone at his mouth. "They are better further up though," Jim told them all, "but we'll try to work down to those later." Halfway up the mountain, they all jumped out of the car and began to pull on their long rubber boots, distribute billy cans, and Catherine embalmed herself with mosquito repellent. A few minutes later, questionably perfumed and oily faced, she found herself scrambling under the barbed wire with her two 185 March 1968 sons, while Jim held it up for them. Gingerly, they followed Jim through the waist-high grass, dry and prickly with the prolonged heat, and she hoped the snakes could hear them coming. Sevenyear-old Stevie shared her thoughts. "Hope there're no snakes," he said, half to himself, and she could tell he was as nervous as she was. They reached the first bushes and picking began, but it was soon apparent that all the best berries were right in the middle of the clump, out of reach. "Stamp the outside branches down," Jim instructed from the other side of the bush, "and get right in the middle." Catherine's mind flashed back to a newspaper article she had read only that week. "Blackberry bushes are definitely a menace to the whole south coast, harboring rabbits and snakes." She saw Stevie hanging back doubtfully as she did as Jim had directed, and began picking the inner, juicier blackberries. "Come on, Stevie—in here." "I'm scared, Mom," he said. "There's snakes in there." She looked at him in sympathy. "Yes—perhaps. But shall I tell you something?" She smiled at him as she remembered. "This morning when I got out of bed, I asked our Heavenly Father to take care of us all this day." As they looked at each other, she saw he was reassured, and he followed her to help pick the berries. She suddenly felt lighter in her own heart, too. Somehow, by sharing her prayer with an- 186 other who had been afraid, she had strengthened her own faith in Heavenly Father's protection. "It's good to know Heavenly Father watches over us, isn't it, Mom?" Stevie said, as he crouched beside her, pulling off the lower berries. "Yes, Stevie, it is." As the morning wore on they gradually worked their way down the hillside, the sun growing hotter and hotter, and the rich scent of the berries almost overpowering in its sweetness. For a moment, Catherine paused to look at the loveliness of the land—the blue hazed hills flanking the long green valley with its gray-green gum trees, and the glittering sea, in front of her. What a good country it was to live in, she thought, and she wondered then if her greatgrandfather, who had come in chains to Australia, had seen the beauty of this sun-drenched land, or if it had always been a prison to him as he remembered the softness of his native, faraway England. © ddeniy, she was glad she had come. Glad that she had left the housework for a day to enjoy the beauty of her country. Suddenly, too, she realized that her fear of snakes and _ insect bites was nothing more than an excuse for staying home to cook, clean, and wash—her neat, conscientious mind running every day deeper into the groove that she was wearing away for herself. How good it was to jump out of the groove once in awhile, she thought, with a smile, and she grinned happily at young Mike with his purple stained face. Later, they stopped briefly for a quick lunch, calling to Mike and Stevie who had been distracted from the blackberries by a trickle of a stream with tadpoles. As they slaked their thirst with apples and oranges they laughed as they compared their scratches, Catherine ruefully surveying her legs and arms torn from top to bottom in spite of her boots, and her purple, thorn-pricked hands. "My beauty's ruined," she chuckled and she caught the look in her husband's eye. "It's been good having you with us, Cath," he said quietly, "IT miss you when you don't come." "Yes, Jim—I should try to get out more with you—I've enjoyed it so much this morning —just being with you and the boys. I hate being left at home when you go off—and yet it always seems so much effort to y / A Summer's Day get ready and come—always so much to be done at home." He nodded. "I know, love," he answered. "I wish I could make things easier for you." "You help me enough, Jim," she said. "I wouldn't want you to do more. No—I've thought about it a lot—until the children grow up a bit its going to be hard—partly I guess because of my nature that must have everything just so. But I'm going to come out more with you, Jim. Make me come, as you did today, it's been like a vacation." "T'm going to thank Heavenly Father tonight for keeping away the snakes," Stevie said suddenly, as he thoughtfully chewed on his apple. Catherine smiled at him. "And I'm going to thank him for such a wonderful day with such a wonderful family." And she leaned over and kissed her husband. A CEDARS Annie C. Esplin Ageless, the cedars keep a trust with man, Sending deep roots into the valley floor; Redoubtable in drouth and strong wild winds— Yet, standing fragrant by a cottage door. Green on the mountains, green on the plain, Against rose-brown peaks and rose terrain. Shelter for the pastures, grace for the street, The cedars hold the seasons at their feet. Immune to common parasites, they know The mischief of the clinging mistletoe. They sing a quiet song in spare, spare land— Recompense of green to stone and sand. Ad 187 VOLUME 55 MARCH 1968 NUMBER 3 General Board = Belle S. Spafford, President ™ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor w Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer An { pen Window for the Morning... Daniel went into his house; and his windows being open... Toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God.... (Daniel 6:10.) The scriptures record the history of Daniel, who was ''of the king's seed, and of the princes.'' He was taken a captive into the land of Babylon and given a Chaldean name and was schooled in the learning of an alien land, where he became a powerful counselor to Nebuchadnezzar and Darius the Great. Yet Daniel kept his window open toward Jerusalem, and he remembered his heritage. In the year's beginning, or the day's beginning, or the beginning of a season of our lives, or on the Anniversary of Relief Society, let us keep the windows open—not only the casement windows of our homes, but the windows of our spiritual dwelling, for an open window, Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous wherever it may be, directs our thoughts outward, and beckons us to concerns and considerations beyond our immediate problems and our personal desires. By looking through an open window, it may be possible for us to learn wisdom and to become more fully aware of our possibilities and our ultimate destiny. Perhaps we can look upon the eternal design and see therein a pattern for ourselves in relationship to our families, our friends, our responsibilities, and a direction for our prayers. It may be that our own open windows may be lighted and luminous—a beckoning to the pathway someone else may be seeking. A lamp which a pioneer mother lighted and placed in a window became a light unto many who were looking for illumination. The woman polished the glass chimney of her lamp; she trimmed the wick; and filled the receptacle with oil. Then she set the lamp in the window which faced the road and the highway. The woman's daughter remarked that the lamp was not placed for the most advantageous reading position, but the mother said, ''Move your chair a little, my dear. We do not light a lamp for ourselves alone, but also for the benefit of travelers, who, with us, are bound for the same destination, and all of us need a directing light.'' A counselor to a Relief Society president in a large rural ward, on a visit to the president, noted that the window of her little study was open to a view of the majestic rim of mountains to the east. She noticed, also, that the carpet in front of the window was worn. The president smiled as the two Relief Society workers stood together before the window. ''Here | sit to make plans for the organization," the president said, ''here | kneel in prayer; here | look out upon the radiant world, and the world looks back at me—and our relationship is thus established. Through the window, and by its significance, | am inspired, reminded to look outward and upward into the spiritual summation of my days." All the days of our lives, and particularly a time of seasonal change, —may be the time for a personal inventory of our outward and inward looking propensities and habits. In a time of challenge, in the days of a crisis in our lives, in the interim of adjustment to new experiences and new responsibilities, may we consider well the direction of our thoughts. Are we looking through a window outward at the breadth and beauty of our opportunities, or is the view restricted to ourselves—our personal wants, our selfish needs? Always, the outer view is more far-reaching in its range, more lofty in its skyward peaks. Although our own capabilities, our own accomplishments may not be entirely in harmony with our ideals, still the view from the window can expand our souls, and, perhaps, as Daniel looked toward Jerusalem, his heritage and his home, we can look outward and upward through a window that reveals the expanse of mountains and of morning. -V. P. C. 189 RED CROSS MEETS CHALLENGES # One of the major challenges the American Red Cross faces today is in Vietnam, where a tough and demanding conflict calls for new approaches to the continuing problems of serving the United States armed forces in the field. In 1965, twenty-five Red Cross staff members served in South Vietnam. Today, more than 300 serve the nearly half million American troops stationed there. Almost 200 of the American Red Cross workers on assignment in South Vietnam provide personalized welfare and morale-building services for able-bodied men and programs of recreation for men in hospitals and aboard the hospital ships ''Repose"' and ''Sanctuary." Another 100, all young women trained in recreation center-club-mobile unit operation, present audience participation programs that bring wholesome moments of relaxation to servicemen. Welfare services to Americans in uniform in South Vietnam, as in other parts of the world, include counseling in personal and family problems, emergency communications, and emergency financial - assistance. Red Cross workers in hometown chapters obtain confidential information for the benefit of servicemen about personal and family emergencies relating to requests for leave, compassionate reassignment, and hardship discharges. They transmit messages about family health, births, and deaths at a rate of more than 650 daily to keep a line of communication open between home and South Vietnam. Each month, approximately 20,000 servicemen in Vietnam receive some type of assistance through the Red Cross. The American Red Cross is governed nationally and locally by volunteers. Most of the organization's duties are performed by volunteers. Red Cross volunteers in the United States serve in nursing homes, veterans hospitals, and schools for the mentally retarded, in motor pools, and in social welfare programs. Having someone to read or write a letter for him becomes something very special to a lonely disabled veteran. The help of a volunteer driver can make all the difference to an older person who otherwise could not keep a doctor's appointment. The Red Cross is financed entirely by voluntary contributions. As a voluntary organization, the Red Cross depends on the American people for support—both in volunteer time and in money. To keep Red Cross service at the high level which both the fighting man in Vietnam and his family at home have appreciated, and have come to expect, the need for continued support is critical this year. 190 Ma, €) er Ramona W. Cannon Women who are succeeding in helping to solve the problem of the acute shortage of nurses, are the twenty-eight ''mature'' women who recently received their diplomas from the Quo Vadis School of Nursing in Toronto, Canada, the only nursing school in the world designed for mature women. The twenty-eight women are all between the ages of thirty-two and fifty-two, and will be followed in graduation by many other women of similar ages who are now in training at Quo Vadis. Many United States and Canadian hospitals are studying ways to set up special facilities for training older women to become nurses, for, as the directors of Quo Vadis believe, ''some skills and insights come only from living." Denise Jensen (Mrs. Joseph Rivera), soprano, student at the Manhattan School of Music, and pupil of Sarkus Sakarian, in November, was presented at a recital sponsored by the Latter-day Saints Arts and Artists Series of the Manhattan Ward, New York City. She was accompanied by Irene Weiss, a gifted young LDS musician. Winnifred Bowers, New York editor, and former member of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association General Board, serves as director of the series. Mrs. Winifred Ewing, thirty-eight, lawyer, mother of three children, was recently elected to the British Parliament, the first member of the Scottish National Party to go to Parliament since 1945. She is representative of Scotland's emerging leaders who encourage new types of industry and a wider publicity for the great beauty of the country's green vales and craggy isles and inlets. Farah, wife of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi, was crowned Empress of Iran by her husband in Teheran, October 26, 1967, after he had crowned himself Emperor. The Shah, actual ruler for twenty-six years, waited to achieve certain reforms for his people before his coronation. Farah, first woman in Persian history to be crowned empress (or queen), was a commoner, studying architecture in Paris on a scholarship, before her marriage. In case of the Shah's death, she would rule Iran as regent until her son reached the age of twenty. Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain, opening Parliament in November 1967, followed the requirements of the British monarchy in reading a speech written by the Prime Minister, in this case Harold Wilson. The speech called for limiting the hereditary membership of the House of Lords, a body of 861 lords, all of whom do not have hereditary titles. Mary Sue Wilcox, a seventeen-year-old Latter-day Saint girl from Bountiful, Utah, honor student and cheer leader of her senior high school class, won the American championship title for rotler skating in August in Lincoln Nebraska. Competing later in Birmingham, England, for the world championship, she did not win but gave such a beautiful performance that Wide World of Sports photographed her entire exhibition for television. It was shown in America and in many other countries. Jerrie Cobb, famous aviatrix, has long waged a battle to have women included among America's astronauts. She and two hundred others have been rejected—not because of their sex, says the committee, but because they do not quite fulfill the scientific demands. 191 'ny wy a iy vy, he iy 2 Se whe se f 2 wy a 4 A i S Clg Wet WR CAN Ca "Ais ais "a ais sc aie iC se xe a A « é, ert Be q OMEMAKING DEPARTMENT x 7 Sa 2 Relief Society Annual General Conference a "8 2 September 27-28, 1967; ' tr ate ale sie Sie SNe Ae OM. Vy Vis VN AIS ON AY A Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society Chairman, Homemaking Committee = Planning for the Homemaking Department of Relief Society General Conference is an exciting adventure, requiring days, weeks, and months of prayerful, thoughtful planning. Many visits are made to stakes and wards to view their special creative handiwork, to select practical, useful, and attractive, but not costly items, which will improve, beautify, and enrich the homes of Relief Society members in any part of the Church. Relief Society is an international organization, so ideas and items are selected which will be appropriate for many countries. It is the wish to use articles from many stakes in various areas of the Church, but distance, cost, and the availability of transportation have to be considered, and limit the selection. Because the homemaking discussions for 1967-68 were based on the rooms of the home, it was decided to present major displays in room-designated areas. The purpose was not just to show rooms, but rather to display homemaking articles which appropriately would be found in each room. We chose to call this part of our display "Rooms for Improvement." There were six room divisions: living room, dining area, bedroom, kitchen, bathroom, nursery, and patio. In addition, other displays with interesting demonstrations were presented. DISPLAY IN THE FOYER As one entered the beautiful Bonneville Stake House, where the display was held, one felt the spirit of Relief Society. The displays in the hall featured the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society. One's glance was drawn to the impressive seal over the cultural hall door, "Relief Society 1842-1967." On a large table, life-like sego lilies were attractively arranged around two wheels, denoting progress. Above this arrangement, white sea gulls were suspended. A spinning wheel, and a churn (which had been carefully carried across the plains, now attractively antiqued and hand-painted), graced the entrance hall. The pungent aroma of fresh sagebrush filled the air. 192 Sagebrush was placed with wheat to enhance the decorations. The blue of the sky on a clear day seemed transferred to the foyer by the - use of blue fabric attractively arranged. CHRISTMAS DISPLAY As you left the foyer, two choices were open to you, either to go into the cultural hall for an overall view of the displays, or to follow the beckoning lights into the lounge for the Christmas display. The Christmas display featured a tall, graceful Christmas tree in one corner near the fireplace, decorated with large multicolored balls and tiny lights circling the tree from trunk to top branch. An impressive star hung above the fireplace. This was flanked by three handmade Wise Men—beautifully and intricately made. Round tables were alternated against the wall with colonnades holding miniature Christmas trees, each individually and differently decorated. The tables were covered with green cloths of the same pattern—handmade articles of intriguing design graced them— suggestions for making in homemaking meetings, ideas to please the homemaker and beautify any home at Christmas time, including many toys and other articles to charm the children. Transparencies by J M. Heslop Jean Rigby, Sugarhouse Stake Geneva Brown, Holladay Stake Mary Jennings, Bonneville Stake One exquisitely beautiful object which drew exclamations of pleasure from the throng was a. Large, oval, gold-leafed picture frame. This encased. An_ elegant Christmas tree made entirely from old jewelry glued onto a velvet mounting. A stunning and unusual dining table decorated in purple, blue, and green also caught the eye. The purple felt cloth was elegant, yet simple to make. Yarn tassels graced the corners; green balls, each housing a single light, centered the table in an attractive arrangement. A group seemed always to surround the table where burlap Christmas wreaths were being made. Homemaking Committee General Board HANDKERCHIEF TREE—ANTIQUED ARTICLES Entering the cultural hall, gay and colorful flowers captured the interest—exquisite flowers created from pieces of paper. Rugs of many varieties hugged the east wall. Beautiful rugs made from old woolen clothing were a delight to behold. Children's rugs made in the shape of animals, charmed everyone. No one could resist taking a few minutes to watch and learn the art of antiquing or handpainting small articles, such as an old churn, an antiquated iron skillet, and a rocking chair. Many articles long ago discarded have thus been reclaimed and made beautiful. Many paused to admire the beautiful embroidered wall hanging made on a fine burlap and embroidered in wool yarn. The design was not original. The idea for it came from a picture in a magazine. It was composed of flowers and birds in gay colors—a work of art, yet something which can be copied by anyone who has magic in her hands. The gay sparkling lights of the handkerchief tree beckoned all to see the hankies with crocheted and lace edges. 195 Jean Rydatch, South Cottonwood Stake Alyce D Heneiiickson 'East anata Stake MORMON HANDICRAFT EXHIBIT The Mormon Handicraft display included exquisite handmade quilts, attractive, useful aprons, pillows, luncheon cloths, and afghans, with patterns and materials available to Relief Society organizations. Nettie Slotboom, Manager EASTER DISPLAY TABLE One of the loveliest displays was the Easter table, each article appropriate for theseason and especially designed to intrigue a child, and many of them suitable for a mother and her children to make together. Bunnies, chicks, Easter eggs, and a tray of colorfully decorated cookies centered the display. Homemaking hobbies for family togetherness brought many new and interesting ideas, including how to use pine cones, and acorns, to make small Christmas trees, making use of available materials such as flowers and weeds. Cache Stake ENCLOSURE CARDS Many of the gifts were items that children would love to make with a little guidance textile painting resembling embroidery work, and enclosure cards for all occasions, made from discarded and used cards, caught the interest of everyone. A simple process was illustrated, using small folded recipe cards decorated with motifs cut from cards and arranged to make a design. SG Mary Peterson, East Sharon Stake 196 from mother and daddy. New Tertsres s a ee French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society Presidency Elisa Sam You, President POLYNESIAN DISPLAY The highlight of this section was the Polynesian display—carried across the ocean in fourteen different suitcases. Assembled and displayed with artistic grace were bedspreads, wall hangings, purses, and jewelry of many kinds. The handiwork was colorful and intricate. OOMS FOR IMPROVEMENT All who attended the homemaking display "Rooms for Improvement" were delighted with the lovely home decorations, magnificent evidences of the ability of Relief Society women. Antiquing and gold leafing were predominant in the living-dining area. Old furniture, reclaimed and refinished to professional perfection, copies of beautiful paintings by the old masters, treated in a new manner, and decorative tablecloths caught the eye—a green velvet covering was enhanced by an exquisite low bowl, inexpensive, yet looking costly because of its gold leaf finish. An attractive lamp, completely handmade from its gold-leaf base to its hand-sewed shade, was much admired. Some of the most exciting articles were beautiful candles—done in somber hues. They enhanced the beauty of a candle by skillfully placing a copy of a great painting about the candle and making it appear as a part of the candle by 197 Monument Park Stake ___ Monument Park Stake — an additional coating of clear wax. The candle holders were also works of art, all handmade. The kitchen display had great-warmth and charm. Simulated cupboards were made from old wooden crates, covered with heavy cardboard, and painted to resemble fine wood. The Roman blind at the windows was created by the sisters themselves and will serve as a project for a stake. * 'South Cottonwood Stake Interesting to make and much less costly than purchased ones were wall plaques, table coverings, kitchen aprons, and tea towels of many varieties, which added greatly to the room's attractive decor. The bedroom combined new designs and furnishings with the old. The wardrobe was a gift to a bride some seventy-five years ago. The old brass bed was a family heirloom. The bench and night stand came from the Deseret Industries and were refinished and antiqued a beautiful blue. The trunk, found in an attic, was gold-leafed, varnished, and lined with velvet—a bride's dream. The beautiful bedspread was a work of art, hand- 199 =— at Parleys Stake Hillside Stake Bonneville Stake (Basketball Standards) Olympus Stake made by sisters of the stake. Quilted robes, gowns, and hangers were all handmade, a symphony in blue and green. What can one do for bathroom decorations? Was the query. Results were amazing. Shower curtain, drapes, bowl cover, were all hand done and attractive. All details were perfect, from decorated soaps, waste baskets, and wall decorations, to the flower-bordered mirrors and guest towels. This picture also gives a glimpse of the beautiful decorations used to camouflage the basketball standards—net covered pampas grass, plus an ornate bushel basket, uniquely fashioned creations long to be remembered. The nursery was a delight, all pink and white, and filled with priceless family relics. The little cradle was handmade. The chest belonged to a great-grandmother. It was refinished in white antiquing—a decorator's dream. Quilts and blankets made the bed and cradle inviting. Interesting animal wall plaques added charm to the room. Handmade blocks and Raggedy Ann dolls were ready for a child's eager hands. Dresses and sleepwear for the little ones made women want to try their hands at sewing for children. One child couldn't resist the inviting scene and was found lying in the cradle. The patio area was so inviting that visitors were sorry summer had gone. The handpainted backdrop view depicted an ocean scene. Summer furniture and equipment enhanced the display. Aprons, pot holders, gloves, gay tablecloths, table decorations invited the sisters to join in outdoor living. The patio items were of particular interest because they suggested many articles that could well be made for a summer bazaar. The centerpieces were made of bottles wrapped part way up with appropriate twine and used as candle holders—so easy to make, yet so attractive. Additional table lighting was provided by lamp holders made with cut tin cans forming a base with a glass chimney in the center. 201 AN OVERVIEW As one left the cultural hall and turned for a last long look at the overview, one was almost overwhelmed by its loveliness. The many tables decorated with ideas for social affairs, the fascinating displays by the Lamanite sisters, the beautiful pillows made from towels that looked like velvet, the lovely coordinated quilt display with robes, pillow cases, pillows; the apron tree; and the table of children's items, with a table centered by attractive jewelry displays, all gave one a feeling of pride in the women of the Church—their love of beauty, their great contribution in preparing hundreds of items for this homemaking display. Surely knowledge and intelligence, energy, skills, talents, and a desire for service have been given in abundance to the sisters of Relief Society. Where else in the world could one see anything like it? TULIP GARDEN (N THE NETHERLANDS 3 202 Color Photograph by Antonia Copier MEET THE ALLOW FAMILY Eva Willes Wangsgaard s The family of plants called the mallows (Malvaceae) is a large and varied one, representing in origin many lands and many nations of the Northern Hemisphere, and widely cultivated in numerous areas of the world. More than thirty branches (species) of this populous family have been identified and their geographic homes charted in the heritage of plants. The mallows are annual, biennial, and perennial, growing as small trees, as shrubs, as sturdy or fragile stems, and as small, persistent weeds. Mallow leaves are variously lobed or deeply cut. Some of them are of glossy texture, and others are fuzzy and webbed. The blossoms are single or double, or very double, some of them beautifully fluted, wearing many tints and tones of rose and red, purple, delicate bluish-violet, creamy white, or pure white. The hollyhock (Althaea rosea, native of China) growing stiff, straight, and tall, makes a magnificent backdrop for the garden stage. Another Althea, the rose of Sharon (native to Eastern Asia), is often called by observant children, ''the hollyhock tree.'' It does resemble a tree in dwarf proportions. Usually, the rose of Sharon grows on a single woody trunk with branches forming a close-limbed oval a few feet from the ground. This shrub ts hardy, fast growing, and a prolific bloomer. The flowers are of many pastel tones from deep lavendar, through pink, to pure white, sometimes mottled or striped. The hibiscus is the aristocrat of the mallow family. Instead of the large, rough, roundish leaf of the hollyhock, or the smooth, fine-textured, deep-green, slightly dentated leaf of the Althea, plants of the hibiscus genus have dentate or lobed leaves, and large, showy flowers. They range in color from deep red, almost maroon, to rose, deep pink, light pink, and white, with petals rose-washed at the center. In size, they vary from a saucer-size to blossoms as large as a family fruit bowl. From the dwarf mallow to the hollyhock, to the rose of Sharon, and the hibiscus, the texture and the tinting and the rufflings and the flutings are a delight. Why don't you invite the mallows into your garden and enjoy a satisfying and colorful friendship with their fluted petals and their radiant color? Transparencies by Janet Knowles Deep rose-colored hollyhocks like a chalice in the sun. Pastel hollyhocks against the summer sky. Hibiscus on a summer bough. |Branch of Althea Shrub \ge22206e4e4 3652s" «D> ASTER EGGS Make sugar mixture by combining: 2 c. Granulated sugar, 2 tbsp. Ice water. Mix with back of spoon until moist throughout. Mixture is just right if, when squeezed in hand, it leaves imprint of fingers on mixture. Using plastic egg molds that separate in half lengthwise, press sugar mixture into each half with thumbs, working towards edges and making walls from % to %-inch thick. At pointed end of egg, scoop out a half circle to make the peek-through. Carefully lay a piece of cardboard over the top and invert it so that sugar egg half comes out onto cardboard. Allow eggs to dry overnight. Scrape bottom off half of the molds to flatten them slightly for standing, then fill the eggs with green grass, tiny Easter eggs, wee little chicks, or cut out scenes, miniature plastic flowers, or even a tiny cutout snapshot of each of the children. Adjust top half of the egg over bottom and seal the two together with a bit of decorating frosting. Put frosting into cake decorator and pipe around the seam, then around the peek-through opening, and anyplace else desired, either to decorate or to attach decorations, such as gold braid or flowers to egg. Frosting may be tinted any color, as may sugar mixture, for making the eggs. Decorating Frosting Beat together until very thick 2 egg whites, 2 c. Powdered sugar, and a dash of cream of tartar. Be sure to keep the bowl covered with damp cloth when not in use, as this frosting hardens quickly. 207 I shall never forget my first trip to Kalaupapa. We had arrived in Hawaii just a short time before. My husband had been called to preside over the Hawaii Mission, and he had carried with him for over twentyfive years the vivid memory of another visit when he had served as a missionary in Hawaii as a young man. We walked down the pali (cliff) on a steep and rocky trail and arrived at Kalaupapa an hour and a half later, muddy and a little tired. A meeting was held in the branch chapel that evening and, for the first time, I met the dear people of Kalaupapa. They bore their testimonies and sang for us. I remember their rendition of "Hawaii Aloha." They sang like angels. There began the association of three years during which time | became even more enamored of the people and the place. Kalawao is a small peninsula nestled at the foot of a sheer pali on the northern shore of the island of Molokai. On the tip of the peninsula is a small hill on which stands a lighthouse, and on the leeward side, lies the settlement of Kalaupapa. Here and there are graceful palm trees and other greenery, and homes neatly situated on the quiet streets. The ocean which surrounds Kalaupapa is beautiful in all its moods, sweeping in long, white-crested breakers on the lee side, and splashing with vigor against the cliffs that rise in rugged succession on the windward shore. Here one finds a spot shut off from the rest of the world. | — | Orlene J. Poulsen Place of Refuge Former Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society I No wonder this peninsula, isolated by the cliffs of "top-side" Molokai on one side, and the ocean on three sides, was chosen by King Kamehameha V, in 1865, as the site where those afflicted with Hansen's disease (leprosy) could be isolated to stop the spread of the disease. It was on January 6, 1866, that the first boat carrying nine men and three women arrived, and the first settlement at Kalawao, two and a half miles across the base of the peninsula from the present Kalaupapa settlement, was established. Life was very difficult in those early days. Doctors visited the settlement rarely and could do little to arrest the progress of the disease. Law and order were difficult to enforce. The windward side of the peninsula, where Kalawao was established, was lush and green, but it was also damp, and other illnesses came upon the patients. Over the years improvements have come. The selfless dedication of a Catholic Priest—Father Damien—is well known. He arrived in 1873, intending to stay for two or three weeks, but instead he spent the next sixteen years administering to the physical and spiritual needs of the patients —and then died, a victim of Hansen's disease. The settlement was moved from Kalawao to Kalaupapa, and health conditions were improved considerably. Law and order were established, and the needs of the patients provided for by the government. And, Transparencies by Imogene Woodbury 209 March 1968 finally, the use of sulfone drugs, beginning in 1946, caused Hansen's disease to recede greatly. In July of 1965, there were only about sixty cases of Hansen's disease in the settlement. Another 135 who have recovered from the disease live there by choice. It is their home. Participating in the history of Kalaupapa since its early days have been members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and for many years there has been a branch of the Church there. At first, the missionaries were not permitted to teach in the settlement, so the meetings were held in the Kukui nut grove at the foot of the pali. Construction on the old branch chapel was begun in 1901, and the building small monument on the grounds still marks his burial place. The early saints not only had to collect all the money but do all the work, and they were all patients. Money was very scarce. The patients were given portant—and very expensive. When the barge came in, all the material, even the precious bell, was just thrown overboard, and the men had to swim out and either push or pull it to shore before it was washed out to sea. In 1956, a new chapel was erected under the Church Building Program, and the old one was torn down. A large group of workers, directed by building supervisor Claude Terry, turned out on May 18, 1965, and the building was torn down and cleared away in a week, and groundbreaking for the new one was held on May 29. The response of members and nonyears. His friendly, helpful, jovial manner 'wins him friends wherever he goes. He is respected as a business man, religious leader, and friend. In preparation, fattened a pig for a dedication luau. The big day came—on December 16, 1965, when President Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of Seventy dedicated the building to the Lord, and at that time the first meeting in the chapel was held. Two weeks later the dedication luau was held with President Sing's pig and the cooperation of the entire settlement—all of whom had been invited to share in the happiness at the completion and dedication of the 210 Kalaupapa—Place of Refuge Latter-day Saint chapel. Two large lanais had been constructed, consisting of frame structures covered with palm fronds brightened here and there with poinsettias and hibiscus. Under the lanais, were long tables and benches, and here the luau was served, with one lanai for the patients and one for the non-patients. Then all present joined in singing. The sun was shining, the ocean was blue—and in Kalaupapa there was peace and happiness. Mary Sing came to Kalaupapa as a girl of seventeen, and it has been her home for fifty-one years. Here she met Jack Sing and married him. For thirty-five years they have been sweethearts, while giving of their time and talents to the Lord. Mary is the president of the Kalaupapa Relief Society, a position she has held for twenty-three years, and during most of this time she has also been the secretary. She joined the Church in 1928, and has been a Relief Society visiting teacher ever since, adding up to forty years of visiting service. Gentle and kind, with a quick sense of humor, she watches over the needs of the Relief Society members in the branch. It is not at all unusual to find on her monthly Relief Society report that 100 per cent visiting teaching has been done, or that many visits have been made to the sick. I shall never forget my first visit to Kalaupapa nor any of those since —for Kalaupapa is beautiful and unforgettable—there is a special spirit in that lovely place. 9 SOWING on rine Catherine B. Bowles \ *} What have you sent to the garden of God c= KR While you live here on this earthly sod? Y RP One kind act to one in need, Q lad One whispered word of love, \ The hungry soul you helped to feed With faith in him above. One broken heart was mended Of deepest sorrows there. Did you make the burden lighter With love that all may share? Did you soothe a tempest raging In a heart so sorely tried? And poured the balm of friendship Where love and faith abide? If so, you make your garden shine, Each plant, a token there, Will fill your heart with gratitude That in his presence you may share. 211 , i = The thought came to me as I was freshening up the guest room, that Mother's visits had always been timed, somehow, to coincide with crises in our lives. At first, there had been the almost yearly occasions when she came to help us settle in our newest baby. "IT guess you'd never come to see us,' Andy had said to her on one of these occasions, "if we didn't have a baby every year! Come to think of it, there must be a cheaper reason for a visit!" "It just gives me a good excuse—I'd come anyway—but don't you know a visit from her mother, a bit of pampering from her husband—and a new house coat are the only immediate rewards a girl gets for having a new baby?" Mother said, and we all laughed. Two years ago when Mother had visited us, I had been dis- 'Wi Coo Wrmiine DID MY HAPPINESS GO? Venda B. Castleberry couraged with my seeming inefficiency as a homemaker, seeing my life as insignificant. Mother had somehow made me feel that my work as a mother was more creative than I felt. "... Your home is a laboratory—a studio— where children are being shaped into men and women," she had said* That crisis had passed; now there was another. Andy's company was transferring him to Portland, a thousand miles away, and he was leaving next week. At first he had taken it for granted we would all go, but I had convinced him that it would be better for him to go now—the children and I to join him in the spring. "It's just too cruel to uproot them now—the middle of the school term—they've got a good start in dancing—their music. Let's give them time to get used * Editor's note: See "A Time to Every Purpose," February 1966. 212 to the idea of leaving their friends; they'd be shattered...." I had said, and Andy was convinced—too easily. I had convinced him, and then, perversely, was vaguely uneasy about it! There was a time, I knew, when such sloppy' thinking * would have brought hoots of laughter from him, for we both knew that our children were nothing if not adaptable, and that they would be happy wherever Andy and I were. Had he given in because he was hurt by my suggestion, or was he glad to go alone? Well, I thought now as I dusted the rocking chair and put a vase of flowers on the dresser, at least the house is clean, and I will not bother Mother with my problems this time. Mother was coming that night, on the late flight. We left the children with a neighbor girl and went to meet her. On the way to the airport, Andy turned the car off the freeway and drove up the old road, to the top of the hill where the lights of our little city were spread out below—vari-colored, twinkling jewels, thrown at random on black velvet. "We have some time; let's look at the lights and talk," Andy said, putting his arm around me, trying to pull me close. I turned one shoulder stiffly, and sat hard on my side of the seat. Not this time, I thought, he always thinks whatever is wrong between us can be erased by this.... He put his hands back on the steering wheel, straightened his arms to push his back against the seat. Looking at his hands on Where Did My Happiness Go? The wheel made me remember other times when we would drive up here and I would wait, not able to breathe, until his arms were around me. "Pat," he said now, "what's wrong with us? We used to just look at each other and know what the other was thinking, wanting... Lately I don't know what you're thinking or— sometimes now I look at you in church across our lineup of kids, and I remember how you used to manage to sit by me! I think —she's lovely, but do you know something? I try to picture you, now, doing things the wonderful, sweet, crazy way you used to do —and the picture won't come." "I've tried to learn a few things.... Lately I've been getting your things ready to go," I said. "Honey, you do fine,' Andy said quickly, "in fact," he grimaced, "maybe you're getting too efficient! I miss the girl who used to serve the pie while the potatoes and meat were cooking —and put the baby to bed with his shoes on to keep his feet warm—and— sometimes asked even stupid me for advice!' He drummed gently on the wheel with his fist as he said slowly, "Oh, yes—getting my things ready to go.... You're very efficient about that! I wish...." What perverseness made me break in with "Let's go! If a man doesn't want to be pleased...." On the way home from the airport, Andy told Mother about the new job. She said, "Oh, my! I should never have come at this time! There must be a million things you have to do, getting a family ready to move...." 213 March 1968 I tensed as Andy said, "Oh, Pat and the youngsters aren't going now; just me," and listened for Mother's tone when she answered only "Oh." As always, Mother was a joy to have for a visit. Her career, presenting her original music and poetry to groups all over the country, has given her a sweetness and depth that is something to behold! Wie day before Mother — and Andy—were to leave, I was alone in the bedroom packing his good clothes. Mother tapped on the half-open door and came in. There I stood, Andy's suit jacket crumpled in my hands, my cheek against it. "Patricia, darling—whatever are you crying about?" Mother asked, taking the jacket from my hands. '"Here—see now—you've got it all wet." She pulled me gently to sit beside her on the bed. "Do you want to tell me what's wrong?" "T—I—made up my mind that this time—always before when you came—you—gave so much— I made up my mind that this time I wouldn't let you know anything was wrong—and then— I could tell you knew anyhow. Did Andy say anything to you?" I was wailing between words. "No," Mother said, "was there something he was supposed to tell me?" "No, I guess not," I said. "It's just that....' I looked around the room at Andy's scattered clothes—the open bags—and I felt my throat ache thickly, my eyes smart with tears. "I've been so mixed up for the past year or so—and now—I thought I wanted 214 Andy to go without me. It was my idea, Mother—or at least I thought it was—and then just now I went to put his suit in the suitcase—and it—it—smelled like him—and I remembered when we were first married—and whenever he had to be away overnight I'd tuck notes in his pockets, Mother—love notes— saying how lonely I was—and now he wants to leave me...." Mother took my hands down from my face. "But you said it was your idea," she said. I moved from the bed to look out the window, not seeing anything. I turned to sit in a chair near Mother. "Td just as well tell you," I said. "You'll think my life is like a soap opera—just living from one crisis to another! But this thing—Andy going away, and how I thought I felt about it— and wondering how Andy really feels—Mother, did you ever want Daddy to go away? Did it ever seem to you that—that just— just coping with marriage was too much for you?" "Well," Mother said thoughtfully, "one is so inclined to remember only the good times! A human relationship is so complicated—takes so long to build and changes so often—but, yes, I think that in the structure of any marriage there would be some wanting to get away." "T've been feeling so—so— married, Mother! So _ horribly, finally married, and it's like a trap! There's no excitement— no joy! I know everything about Andy—or I thought I did—and what he's going to say before he opens his mouth. Is this all there's going to be, forever, this sameness?" I said. Mother took her turn looking out the window. "If only," she said, "they wouldn't end the stories with "They lived happily ever after!'" "Do you know what I think?" I said. "It's cynical, I know, and not like me, the one that couldn't wait to get married! But this is it: marriage is a big blaze of excitement—an_ attraction to assure that you'll, get married; it's momentary flashes of that attraction to assure the advent of babies—and then the sociological phase sets in—you know, keep the institution of marriage going for the good of society— and just try not to die of boredom!" "Oh, Patricia," Mother said, "you never used to be bored— ever! Be careful when you feel this way—discouragement and boredom are such potent weapons for Satan! Does Andy know how you feel?" "T've never told him," I said. "T guess you've noticed we don't talk much. But he's noticed changes—he complains about the way things are. I guess some women pretend to feel the way they did—it seems dishonest to me!" I picked up a clothes brush and squeezed the bristles as I wailed, "Oh, it's so complicated! Why couldn't life stay the way it was? I'm so mixed up—Mother, where did my happiness go?" Before Mother had time to answer, the children came home from Primary, and there was no opportunity for further talk. Mother insisted that Andy and I go out that night, leaving Where Did My Happiness Go? The children with her. Her "going away present" for Andy, she said, since both he and she were going away! We went to a movie, but my heart wasn't in it. I knew Andy and I had something that needed to be said; I needed to know how he felt about me—and going away alone. But I couldn't ask him, because even if he had begged me to go, I was not sure what I would have said. He might have been one of the shadow-figures on the screen, for all I could communicate with him! Andy took Mother to Danton, where her next engagement was, before he went to work the next morning. I almost envied her, as I kissed her goodbye, knowing each day would bring new places, new experiences. Ellen had slept with Mother in the guest room, and when she came out that morning she was carrying an envelope addressed to me. "Look, Mama," she said, "Granny Witch type-writed you a letter last night." "What an awful name for your Grandma!" I said. "She only told you her name was Granny Witch to tease you. You are not to call her that! Give me the letter." I put the letter in my skirt pocket, hoarding the pleasure of reading it until Ellen was cared 215 March 1968 for. I had read many such, for Mother and I had always left notes whenever we had something to say that was close to our hearts. I went into the guest room and closed the door. Crayoned pictures of strange, lopsided houses and people with arms growing out of their heads were lined up on the dresser where Mother had put them, to show proper appreciation for Ellen's art. The scent of Mother's cologne clung to the pillow I pushed under my head as I lay across the bed to read what she had written. "Patricia Dear," she had begun, "how I wish I had the wisdom of Solomon tonight! You said to me, 'Mother, where did happiness go?' and if I live my lifetime only to help you find the answer—then my life will have been well-spent and meaningful! "Where did your happiness go? The happiness you were speaking of—the happiness that came unearned and free because you were young and pretty has gone. It died as a mushroom dies because it sprang, without roots, and too quickly—and lke the mushroom, this happiness did not contain nourishment enough to sustain itself—or a mature marriage! "But from the ashes of that ephemeral happiness can come a real joy—a phoenix so strong and beautiful that it will make life worth living for you—in this life and through all the eternities. "When you said, 'Where did my happiness go?' [ am sure you meant 'Where did my love for Andy go?' for it was your feeling for him that triggered the ques- 216 tion. It has not gone, Patricia; it is changing. Change is the law of life, an eternal progression that does not find us today as we were yesterday; our challenge is to channel change in the right direction. "To us married in the temple for time and eternity, the concept of marriage is especially challenging. Whatever marriage we build here—it is ours forever! What an incentive to keep love alive! "Patricia, this is a period of assessment in your marriage—a time when you are taking a new look at Andy—and I am sure he is looking newly at you also. This is the time, darling, when Satan whispers to so many, 'find somebody new—a different husband will make it the way it used to be!' Liar that he is, he doesn't tell them that a new look at their marriage is what they need, that it has changed because they have changed! "Start by putting Andy first! Your love for each other is the most important thing in your life, and in your children's, for they will be secure and free to develop only if they see that you and Andy love each other. Children must see love demonstrated. When you were a child, did you connect the sacrifice we made to buy you clothes and food with love? Of course not, but you often speak of the 'family hugs' we had, when you felt we all loved each other. Patricia, why don't you kiss Andy goodbye when he leaves for the day? The wife sets the emotional temperature of the home, and if coldness prevails, you will miss_ the warmth in your winter days! A man starved for warmth is looking for it, whether he knows it or not—and he will find it, as the hungry man's eye will see food signs, and his nose will pick up food scents as he walks down the street! "Build Andy up as the leader in your marrige. He holds the priesthood, and it is his privilege and duty. 'Ah,' you say, 'but he does not lead with the right spirit! He doesn't want to be bothered.' Then, darling, encourage him! Stand back—let him lead—and you will see him grow. It was such a blessing to me, as you were growing up, to know that your father was skilled —after much practice—in guiding our family, so that all the awful responsibility was not mine! "You see, Patricia, it is, in a wonderful kind of way, selfishness—this building a happy marriage; if Andy is happy and fulfilled—then the friction is gone, and the energy that used to go into jockeying for family leadership can go into loving plans for your happiness and fulfillment. Patricia, don't fall into the trap of making Andy abdicate his leadership—and then despise him for his weakness! Woman is strong enough to help her husband to become his very best! "Where did your happiness go? Your real happiness is within you, but you will have to cultivate and nourish it, and its growth will be slow. There is a certain sameness to daily living, but challenge this sameness by making sure that every day there is a memory for you and Andy to share—you two out of all the world. The twittering of waking birds in the morning; a campaign Where Did My Happiness Go? To help a child have a perfect day; a sunset; when you go out in public, look at him, talk to him as if it were your first date. Try this, and you will be surprised at the way your love will blossom. Don't let this love die! Keep it so fresh that Andy's will be the first face you will look for on resurrection morning...." I could read no farther on the final page. Tears blurred my eyes. "Oh, Mother," I said, pushing the pillow over my face, hard, "you know me _ better then f know myself! Am I ever going to grow up?" When it was time for Andy to get on the train that night I still hadn't told him I had changed my mind—I was coming to him as soon as I could. I kissed him so long and hard that he gave me a slow, appraising look, though, as he swung up the train steps. I saw him through the window, settling into a seat. Suddenly I was running through the crowd on the platform, yelling "Andy, Andy, darling!" I was thankful when he saw me and raised the window, just as the train started to move. "Darling," I yelled, running now to keep up with the train, "look in your pocket—no—not that one—the inside—there's a note—read it quickly! Call me— look for a house, anything that will hold us all—I love you, darling!" He was laughing, the last I saw of him as the train gathered speed, and it didn't occur to me at the time that my race with the train would be the first memory of our awakened marriage! 217 NAAADA 7 ees \ U WD KS U (x QUIET LOVELINESS x) O O Grace Barker Wilson ) The loveliest of earthly things Move softly as the gauzy wings Of brilliant Springtime butterflies. You cannot hear an opening rose, Nor catch the sound of grass that grows; In silence white clouds rise. ~ The rainbow Stretches, proud and tall; Leaves change to scarlet in the fall In quietness at nature's nod. The stars, the moon, the sunlight, too, Send a soundless message through:. () " "Be still, and know that | am God.". fy, ph if AY Hi) oe y Throw Down Chapter 7 SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband Grant on a teaching assignment on the Island of Truk, where they live in a quonset hut. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to a hospital on Guam for the birth of twins. In the meantime, a letter arrives from their friends, the Mortensens, who live on Saipan, saying that a teacher will exchange teaching assignments with Grant, so that the Jacksons can make their home on Saipan as neighbors of the Mortensens. Upon their arrival, a native maid, Soledad, takes charge of the children. Twin boys are born to the Jacksons, and soon afterwards, Nancy resumes most of the care of her family. They find much delight in exploring their island home and learning the customs of the native people. The Gauntlet Janet W. Breeze «® Boonie fires had to burn themselves out. There was no alternative. The one small fire engine owned by the Municipality of Saipan could, at best, Nancy was convinced, spray forth no more water than a garden hose. And so it was with sighs of relief that the inhabitants of the island once again felt the rain sting the backs of their necks, whether gardening at home, or venturing forth on a picnic to a "hidden" beach. The only thing wrong with Ladder Beach, Nancy decided, was that it had no ladder. One 219 Throw Down the Gauntlet sawed-off telephone pole propped against the cliff was the only means of lowering anyone down to the secluded cove where violent, free waves broke into frothy white as they stumbled and fell against the coral table. "Picnicking at Ladder Beach is about as silly as swimming Lake Susupe," Grant said, as he stood at the top of the short cliff and dropped a pan of fried chicken down to Charles Mortensen. "Say, I never did get the full story on that," Charles said. "You haven't missed anything," Nancy interrupted. "I was never so scared—nor so disappointed in my whole life!" "What she means," Grant said, "was that we swam part way and dragged bottom part way!" "It was pretty exciting, though," Nancy said, "when it started getting darker and we weren't too sure if we were going straight. But some people on the shore saw us and panicked to think anyone was swimming in the lake. So they built a big fire to guide us, and by the time we reached the shore, I think the entire village of Susupe was standing around staring." "Well, you can't say life in the tropics ever gets dull!' Francine laughed. "And while we're on the subject of adventuring— Charles and I would like to take you into the 'boonies' when we've finished eating and show you something I think you'll be quite interested in. It's straight out of an old Tarzan movie!" "Sounds exciting," Nancy said. "You know, we've been here on Saipan ten months, but every 220 time we start thinking we know all about the island and the people, the more we know we don't know. I'll venture to say that it's the most historically complicated fourteen miles by six miles in the whole world!" With this, Nancy carefully stepped and handed her way backwards down the propped pole. Then, upon lifting Skipper and Amy down off the pole, both families of children headed straight for a nearby cave. "T think that's the one thing they love about this place the most," Nancy said, "finding those sea shells with the little crabs in them." Whren Grant jumped down with the last armload of food, Nancy and _ Francine' began spreading out the lunch as the two men built a fire on the sand. "In fact," Nancy said, "I think this whole experience has made our family so much more aware of the little things in life which used to pass us by. Back home, the children were not happy unless they were being entertained by television or friends. It never would have entered their minds to flop down on their stomachs and watch ants march through the grass the way they lie on the sand and race crabs here. Ill admit that the crabs are probably more exciting, but still I can't help but think that we could have had just as many adventures at home if we had taken the time to really look for them." "If you were like me," Francine said, handing Nancy the chip dip, "you probably spent most of your time picking up and putting away. By the time the house was straight, you were too tired to do much exploring." "You know the answer to that, don't you?" Nancy said. "You'd better believe it!" Charles said. '"You know, when Francine was packing, I'll bet she cried for a week about all the things she had to get rid of. We sent only what was absolutely necessary. But by the time the shipment got here, we had so adjusted our lives to getting along without even it—that we weeded out again!" "Actually," Nancy said, "it was probably the greatest shock of my life, unpacking after two months and finding things I had forgotten I ever had. Now why did I buy them in the first place?" "When we do go back to stateside living," Francine said, "that is the one souvenir I want to take with me—simplicity. If I never learn another thing in my whole life, I hope I can always remember how uncluttered and uncomplicated the lives of these happy islanders really are." "It was funny," Grant chuckled, "the day we first came, Nancy and I were both shocked to see the women simply standing out in the water in their house dresses to fish! We figured these people must be terribly poor not to have swimming attire of some kind. But it took only once for us to cut our feet on the coral and to get sunburned badly before we _ discovered the Micronesians were only being wise to enter the water fully clothed." At the mere suggestion that Throw Down the Gauntlet there might be approval, Skipper tramped out into the water and sat down with a forceful, giggly splash. Then each of the picnickers helped himself to the informal setting of food, eating wherever and whenever he wished. And Nancy lay face down in the warm, white sand, sifting the tiny particles through her fingers. There she became awed at the almost microscopic world of round, pearl-like shells and porous chips of coral which had previously gone unnoticed under the bareness of her footsteps. Rolling over on her back, she marveled at the tint of ultramarine blue in the zinc white sky, and felt as if she were inside a huge dome. Inside her dome, the world ended at the sea's horizon and Saipan alone was covered with a breathtaking convex lid. As she watched the nebulous clouds grow and age with gray, it was a reminder that the rainy season was once more upon them. "Actually, the rainy season is not the best time of year to be doing a thing like this," Francine said, as she directed them away from the beach to a new adventure of exploring. "But whether you can breathe in here or not, this is something you must see!" A; they stepped and pushed their way through the dense, fern-like tangantangan, Nancy carried one of the twins, and Grant the other. Amy and Skipper ran merrily ahead, chasing after the bouncing toads which crisscrossed their path. And then before them on the compost path stood Francine's fairy-tale surprise—a pre-war 221 March 1968 structure of white concrete, its meticulously designed rotunda scarred with creeping, black mold. "This was the city hospital of Garapan," Francine said. "Now all that remains is just a handful of bombed-out ruins hidden deep in the boonies where the residents don't have to be reminded of the past." They stepped carefully over weathered boards and other debris, down a white-tiled corridor and out into a "sleeping beauty" courtyard. Through an aisleway of giant taro, they came upon another building, small and square. Francine climbed the steps and knocked on the door. "Don't tell me someone lives here!" Nancy said. "No," Francine giggled, "but I want to let all the toads and geckos know were coming!" Then she opened the door and both families stepped inside. "See there!" Francine said, "above the door." "Tt's fantastic!" claimed. "How come they painted a picture on the wall when nobody lives here, Mama?" Amy asked. "People say this was an isolation ward," Francine said, "and that this scene depicting primitive island life was undoubtedly done by one of the patients." "But the colors!" Grant said, "they're so vivid! Why, the whole thing is in_ practically perfect condition!" "The front of the huts look as if they could have been carved and painted in Paluan storyboard fashion," Charles _ said, "so perhaps this was not a scene remembered in the Marianas." Nancy ex- 222 "But just think!" Nancy said, "through war and typhoon, here it stands, a monument to history —a monument no one ever sees." As they stood discussing and appreciating the primitive art, their children ran in and out, excitedly trying to impress each other with the number of green mangos they would dare to eat after having picked them up off the ground outside. Nancy thought only of how long and pleasantly full another day had been, as they worked their way back to their cars in the pale green twilight. "Skipper," Nancy said, "Come and get in the car, honey." She turned and looked behind her. "Skipper? Skipper!" But the child did not answer. "Grant? Oh, Grant. He can't be lost! Not here in the boonies!" "Relax," Francine said, 'no one ever gets lost here very long. You know, yourself, the boonies are full of shacks and people." "Since he obviously didn't come this way," Grant said, "let's just walk back in the opposite direction until we come to something. Maybe someone will have seen him. Come on, Nancy. Let Francine and Charles stay with the other children and we'll go and find him." But as the darkness slowly rose from the jungle floor, and Nancy continually tripped over tangled branches and roots and found herself grasping at Grant with tightened fingers, her fear for Skipper mounted. Finally Grant patted her hand. "It's all right, honey," he said as they stepped and probed slowly along, "I can see a fire up ahead." Around a huge iron cooking pot atop the soft orange glow, little brown faces shone, and then up popped one little sunbleached head. Its mouth opened and one hand stiffened out to slice the air at a make-believe coconut. "Skipper!" Nancy ran to him unaware that anyone else had observed their approach and her relief. As she knelt on the ground embracing her son, a Saipanese man arose from his squatting position in the shadows and came forward into the light. "This your boy, Missus?" "Oh, yes," Nancy said, "and we were so worried!" "Him good boy." "Thank you." She stroked Skipper's hair with her hand. "T give you a drink?" he asked. "No, thank you," Grant said, "we have to get back to the rest of our family." "T give you banana!" He disappeared back into the shadows as the three of them stood selfconsciously in the firelight. Then the man appeared again, this time with a large stock of green bananas supported on his shoulder. He hesitated and pointed back into the shadows. "You see old woman over there? She watch you. She say you look like Americano plane lady." "Like what?" "Old woman like big secret. You can come again tomorrow, when it light?" Nancy and Grant exchanged puzzled glances. "T guess so." Nancy shrugged. "T guess we can come back." The old woman in the shadows shook her head vigorously. "Not Aim," the man_ said, "you." (To be concluded) ANXIETY Ruth G. Rothe People who cross their bridges in advance, Often find they have worried all for naught; Instead of meeting dire catastrophes, They find that sweet contentment is their lot. 223 ALWAYS BUSY, ALWAYS HAPPY Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward, American Fork, Utah, has a special philosophy—always busy, always happy. If this is true, Sister Hayward is a very happy person indeed. Her handiwork includes beautiful quilts, crocheted bedspreads, tablecloths, pillow edgings, doilies, luncheon sets, hot pads, handkerchiefs, and afghans. She is adept at making knitted, crocheted, and braided rugs, knitted clothing, needlepoint items, dolls, clothing, and handbags. She is equally capable of finishing leather goods, decorating wastebaskets, copper tooling, glass and metal etchings, and painting figurines. She has devoted many years of service to Relief Society. She was a visiting teacher message leader for nine years, and has been a visiting teacher for fiftyseven. She is still active and feels that she is inspired by the variety of activities Relief Society offers. Sister Hayward, at ninety-two, is the mother of thirteen children, grandmother to forty-two. She has seventy-two great-grandchildren and eight great-greatgrandchildren. She remembers each on Christmas, birthdays, and other special days with a special gift of her handiwork. On their wedding days the children and grandchildren receive a beautifully finished quilt. 224 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities ne€, Shreveport Stake (Louisiana and Texas) Board Covers Many Miles November 20, 1967 Left to right, members of Shreveport Stake Board: Ozell Loyd, social relations class leader; Stella Hampton, cultural refinement class leader; Elizabeth Conley, Counselor; Lola Wade, President; Geverne Johnson, Counselor; Odeal Rascoe, SecretaryTreasurer; Lucille Stegall, visiting teacher message leader; Elva Cobb, spiritual living class leader. Lea Wagley, chorister, and Beulah Hayes, Magazine representative, were unable to be present. Sister Wade reports: ''Our stake comprises thirteen wards and branches, covering many miles in western Louisiana and eastern Texas. This requires many hours of travel for most of the sisters, and we feel that their efforts to attend leadership meetings should be rewarded. "We have tried to plan more inspirational and meaningful meetings. We are a new board, and were encouraged with an increase in attendance at our last meeting. Each ward and branch had a beautiful display of arts and crafts handwork, and decorations for the holidays. "A short play, 'Everyone Remembered,' by Luacine Fox, was presented under direction of Geverne Johnson. At the conclusion of departmental work, festive refreshments were served." 225 March 1968 Duchesne Stake (Utah) Honors Magazine Representatives for Outstanding Achievement, September 7, 1967 Ward Magazine representatives, left to right: Thelda M. Halstead, Stake Magazine representative; Margaret Wright, Duchesne Second Ward; Letta Meyer, Bridgeland Ward; Linda Gines, Tabiona Ward; Stella Pearson, Altamont Ward; Colleen Thacker, Moon Lake Ward. Belle Bird, Bluebell Ward, and Shirley Bancroft, Duchesne Ward, were unable to be present when the picture was taken. Ora N. Holgate, President, Duchesne Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Magazine representatives in the Duchesne Stake achieved a sixty per cent increase in Magazine sales during the past year. This achievement was highest for percentage increase among the stakes of the Church. "In order that these sisters might know how much their efforts were appreciated, they were honored at a special opening social. The program was centered around the theme 'The Magazine As the Heart of Relief Society.' All Sisters were encouraged to read and study the valuable contents of the Magazine. "Each of the Magazine representatives was presented with a corsage in appreciation for her efforts, and each hopes to go forth this year in similar fashion." 226 Andes South Mission, La Paz (Bolivia) Branch One Bazaar October 28, 1967 La Paz Branch One Relief Society officers, front row, left to right: Wilma de Mercado, First Counselor; Myrna T. Gibson, Supervisor, Andes South Mission Relief Society; Norah de Concha, President; Nieves de Alcazar, Second Counselor; Mery de Sainz, ' visiting teacher message leader. Second row, left to right: Angelica de Escobar, social relations class leader; Soledad de Gonzales, spiritual living class leader; Carmen de Molina, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Gibson reports: ''It was a thrill to see the cooperation and unity with which these sisters worked to produce fine articles of clothing, household, and novelty items. Bazaar items were well-made and the bazaar was a credit to the Church as well as to this small branch. 'We have no districts in the mission, but most of the Relief Societies do hold bazaars, and the sisters love the activities involved, and work very hard toward their success." 227 March 1968 New England Mission Relief Society Presidency Gives Extra Effort Toward Leadership Building Left to right, Donna Packer, Supervisor, New England Mission Relief Society; Leah Dupuis, President; Esther George, First Counselor; Althea Dickson, Second Counselor. Sister Packer reports: ''Our current Mission Relief Society Presidency has done an outstanding job in leadership building since their call in September of 1966. They have, as a presidency, often attended district leadership meetings to give training to the district officers. This requires much travel time. Through their efforts, the district leaders have responded by increased attendance at mission leadership meetings. "One can see devotion, sacrifice, and constant growth in Relief Society in the mission, through the efforts of these sisters. Our past is colorful and commendable, but our vision for the future is for greater achievement as we support the priesthood in perfecting the homes of New England."' Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) ''Mini-Bite Luncheon" and Christmas Display November 3, 1967 Emma Solomon, Second Counselor, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, as Mrs. Santa. Loreta N. Gubler, President, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A 'Mini-bite Luncheon' and Christmas display which we themed 'Browsing Through Mrs. Santa's Workshop,' were held as a fund-raising project. We felt that the displays of handmade Christmas decorations and gifts were presented early enough in the season to be of some value for immediate use. 'Under the Yum Yum Tree' was the theme of the luncheon which was attended by 500 guests. Under the 'Yum Yum Tree,' gaily decorated with red and green homemade lollipops, were displayed holiday goodies. The recipes were sold at ten cents from each sister for all the recipes. Beautiful baked goods and candies were sold. "We felt that this project was a spiritual as well as a financial success." Clearfield Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward Relief Society Opening Social September 26, 1967 Clearfield Eighth Ward Relief Society officers, front row, left to right: Novella H. Perry, Secretary-Treasurer; Gay C. Knighton, Second Counselor; Arvil T. Walker, President; Beth J. Jacobs, First Counselor. Back row, left to right: Betty Carter, organist; Donna Cornia, cultural refinement class leader; Jean Stanley, chorister; Phyllis Douglass, homemaking leader; Ruth Hoggah, spiritual living class leader; Paula Jacobson, Magazine representative; May Fackrell, quilt chairman; Gladys Schiffman, social relations class leader. Ora R. Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society, reports: '' 'Relief Society Cure in a Capsule,' was the theme of the Clearfield Eighth Ward opening social. The lesson previews and the officers and teachers for the coming year were presented. "A skit entitled 'An Appointment at the Relief Society Clinic,' featuring Dr. Medication, Nurse Charity, and two patients, Sister Doubt and Sister Excuse, was presented. Each of the officers and teachers represented a doctor and explained her cure. 'A clever table display carried out the clinic theme and it was also featured at the luncheon in the table decorations."' 228 € Fa a we £ a A] ps - Se o e- _ March 1968 Idaho State University Stake Relief Society ''House of Fashion" Leadership Meeting, October 1967 Idaho State University Stake board members and discussion leaders, seated, left to right: Marjorie Denkers, spiritual living class leader; Jane Nielsen, visiting teacher message leader; Joyce Craigh, homemaking leader; Alma Olsen, homemaking discussion leader; Diane Perry, social relations class leader; Sherry Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader. LaRue Longmore, Magazine representative. Back row, left to right: Elizabeth Godfrey, organist; Martha Smith, chorister; Carolyn Palmer, Secretary-Treasurer; Judy Walsh, Counselor; Beverly Anderson, Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President. Sister Chase reports: ''At our leadership meeting, each department leader arranged displays depicting her program, based on the theme 'Relief Society Wardrobe.' A skit, 'The Relief Society House of Fashion,' introduced the lesson previews. "In our collection we reviewed ensembles one can make as a part of a wardrobe, showing that Relief Society fashions are basic and long-wearing, guaranteed to bring sparkle, style, and happiness to any woman who wishes to spend her time in Relief Society. "Invitations were designed and made by Carolyn Palmer; Diane Perry and Marjorie Denkers were responsible for the decorations."' South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Sponsors Oil Painting Class July and August 1967 Sister Luella W. Finlinson, President, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, reports: ''During July and August, a ten-week oil painting class, spearheaded by the stake homemaking leader, Geraldine S. Halladay, and taught by Max Durrant, a local high school art instructor, was held in the stake center. "The response was so great that three classes were required, instead of one as originally planned. Some entire families participated. "Three objectives were studied: (1) a still life subject, using white, yellow ocher, raw umber, thalo blue, burnt sienna, and learning to mix colors; (2) a landscape scene using various shades of green; and (3) free rein to paint something of the student's choosing. All class members also learned to make their own frames, painting them colors to complement the pictures. "Upon completion of the course, the stake Relief Society sponsored an art exhibit. Shown were 102 paintings of fifty students. Refreshments were served to a large group who were enthusiastic about the quality of the work displayed, and the display itself. We plan to make this an annual affair. Some of the art work is displayed in the picture."' Juarez Stake (Mexico) Dublan Second Ward Relief Society Opening Social, September 1967 Dublan Second Ward Relief Society officers, beginning sixth from left on back row: Estela Q. Macias, Secretary-Treasurer; Refugia Valenzuela, Counselor; Adelina E. Garcia, President; Manuela R. Garcia, Counselor. Retiring President Aurora Garcia is standing twelfth from left on the back row. Standing at left in white dress: Sister Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society. Sister Taylor reports: ''The Dublan Second Ward was newly organized and began the year's activities enthusiastically, with a successful opening social. "The ship in the foreground of the picture served as the motif for the program. An original skit, written by Maria Masa, spiritual living class leader, was presented. It depicted the various values to be received through taking part in Relief Society. 'Exhibited in the background are articles made by the sisters of the Dublan Second Ward." 230 4 ine) om! -~ on ~ co < oc? Ry =— —~< = i] ca o ae | oO ~~ "Tl ae > i —— e& == March 1968 San Mateo Stake (California) Burlingame Ward "Home-Tour Bazaar," November 17, 1967 Standing, left to right: Harriet Bowen; Arlene Spurgeon, homemaking leader; Esther Hendricks; Dorothy Spackman; Edna Cockayne. Merle Gaisford, President, San Mateo Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very Successful Home-Tour and bazaar was held by the Burlingame Ward. Three homes were used to display the items for sale. "The Esther Hendricks home, decorated in a Christmas motif, contained the handmade items. In the home of Louise Johnson, Irene Bassetti, a successful artist and a member of the Burlingame Ward, displayed beautiful oil paintings and a table setting easel. "The Edward Tueller home dispensed delicious home-baked treats with hot bread lending its aroma." Canadian Mission Relief Society Conference October 14, 1967 Front row, seated left to right: Mildred Smith, First Counselor, Canadian Mission Relief Society; Alberta Smith, Second Counselor; Elva M. Adamson, President; Helen Toronto, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor, General Presidency. Standing in front: Ida Perkins, music director, modeling her centennial gown. The remaining sisters are Singing Mothers who furnished the music for the conference sessions. Sister Toronto reports: ''The theme for the conference was 'We Thank Thee Lord for Faith,' and the conference was in connection with Canada's centennial celebration. Presented by the sisters of the Sault St. Marie Branch who traveled 1000 miles to Participate in the conference. "Outstanding work displays were set up by each district in the mission, and by the mission board. A wonderful spirit was enjoyed at the conference. We were honored to have present Sister Sharp and Sister Madsen of the General Presidency." West Boise Stake (Idaho) Honors Visiting Teachers October 20, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Ada Winch; Isabelle Dougal; Lorraine Hatch; Stella Fields. Standing at right: Mary Zurcher, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Jennie Farmer; Myrtle Borup; Grace Jones; Kleo Jeppesen, visiting teacher message leader, Sister Zurcher reports: "A tribute to our 200 visiting teachers was held in the stake center. The book History of Relief Society was presented to the sisters with long service records as visiting teachers. They were thrilled with this book, and it is a gift they will cherish always. "An original skit representing Cinderella in a Latter-day Saint setting, written by Beverly Tanner, was presented and a luncheon was served. Boise Eighth Ward won honors for attendance. "We as a stake board feel that the visiting teaching program is an arm of Relief Society that contributes decidedly to the spirit of the organization, and these faithful sisters are deserving of honors." 232 HANAN. Seal ale Talk st Jieant HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 9—Observing, Recognizing, and Reporting Illness Alice Schmidt, Assistant Professor Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 OBJECTIVE: To learn to be alert for common symptoms of illness occurring in the home. INTRODUCTION When a woman marries and begins to rear a family, she assumes two roles, that of mother and also that of home nurse. The responsibility of keeping her eyes and ears open for early, telltale signs of illness fall to her, and rightly so, for she is the one who observes family members most closely—whether they are working, playing, or resting. Much of this observation is done without comment, since a mother can cause unnecessary apprehension on the part of her family if she seeks needlessly for symptoms of illness. SYMPTOMS OF ILLNESS a. Many diseases begin with upper respiratory symptoms, thus 234 the nose and throat are affected. It is a good practice for the home nurse to check the throat when no illness is present so that she will be aware of the normal state of the throat and tonsils. Ys To check the throat, have the family member tip his head back slightly and say "ah." By placing a spoon handle about two-thirds of the way back on the tongue and shining a flashlight into the mouth, the home nurse should be able to see to the back of the throat, checking for redness, swelling, spots, or patches. She should also note the condition of the tongue and any unusual odor of the breath. The symptoms presented by the nose are familiar ones: a watery or thick discharge or nasal stuffiness which impedes breathing. The latter is often a problem with infants because it interferes with their ability to suck. This should be discussed with the family doctor where it poses a problem. B. Occasionally, symptoms of illness are noted in the eyes. This would include: any unusual color of the white area of the eyes; any discharge, either watery or purulent; sensitivity to light or any other unusual condition. C. A mother notes, almost subconsciously, any changes in the skin of a small child as she bathes him. Such things as the color of the skin, dryness, a rash, or scattered pustules, sores, bruises, or reddened areas, all of these may be important symptoms in all age groups and must be evaluated and reported to the doctor as necessary. D. Digestive system complaints occur frequently in most families. Usually, the complaints are minor, but lack of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, or excessive thirst which occur over a _ period of time may indicate a need for professional help. Sometimes Lesson Department general conditions such as irritability, fatigue, unusual sleepiness, even forgetfulness which comes on suddenly, are clues which may be important in the diagnosis of disease. When a family member mentions pain, the home nurse needs to know the location, type (continuous, intermittent, stabbing, throbbing), severity and time of onset, before she reports to the doctor. SEVEN DANGER SIGNALS OF CANCER Due to the efforts of the American Cancer Society, people have become more aware of the seven danger signals of cancer. Because cancer is a menace which can be defeated if detected early, *each home nurse should familiarize herself with these seven signs: 1. Changes in a wart or mole; 2. A chronic cough or hoarseness; 3. A change in bowel habits; 4. A non-healing wound; 5. A lump appearing anywhere; 6. Unusual bleeding or discharge from any body orifice; 7. Indigestion or difficulty swallowing. These symptoms may indicate _ problems other than cancer, but they should be brought to the doctor's attention so that he can determine the cause and begin treatment. THE FACTOR OF AGE It is important, also, to remember that age may be a factor, since children often become ill very quickly, showing acute symptoms. Thus, a child may be playing happily one minute and be prostrate on the bed the next with a flushed face and high fever. On the other hand, illness in older people may develop very slowly, with symptoms which are 235 March 1968 much less marked. For this reason, the home nurse may need to check signs over a period of days, to note a change in the usual pattern of living. THE HOME NURSE When the home nurse suspects illness, she usually takes the temperature, pulse, and respiration of the patient before she calls the doctor. This does not mean that this should be done on all family members each day, but that a thermometer and a watch or clock with a second THE DOCTOR Each family when moving into a new community should become acquainted with the doctors and should select a family physician. Choosing a doctor in the midst of a medical emergency is a difficult task and one that can be avoided with wise planning. Nowadays, doctors make relatively few house calls as they often need equipment and diagnostic aids which are available only in their offices or at the hospital. As a result, the family is usually Daily Record Diet _—. Jit ee Medicine BM | Urine Remarks P Treatment 7 a. M. 98-70-20 Soft Diet Scanty Urine RX 2401 1 tab. Ate well 8 a. M. Rash on hand are valuable tools for the home nurse. When illness occurs in the home, a daily record helps the home nurse to keep an accurate account of all the information the doctor will need for diagnosing or treating illness. The record should contain: date, time, temperature, pulse, and respiration; diet eaten, medicines given; a record of urine and stools passed by the patient and any symptoms mentioned earlier in this lesson. 236 asked to bring the patient to one of these two places. Where the patient is an adult who is seriously ill, as with a heart attack or stroke, an ambulance is the fastest and easiest way of transportation if available. A child can usually be bundled up and carried to a waiting car. Each home nurse should have available the number of the ambulance service nearest her. She should also have the number of the doctor in case a sudden emergency arises. 6/27/67 ae Black Stool abdomen If the doctor is making a home visit, the home nurse should put the patient to bed, carry out any measures suggested by the doctor over the phone and give the patient rest and emotional support until the doctor arrives. Note; Additional information, suggestions, or helps may be available from health agencies, insurance companies, or government agencies. Discussion: It may be advisable to check with Relief Society members as to their ability to do temperature, pulse, and respiration. A review of this material can be obtained from the Red Cross Home Nursing Textbook or the Relief Society Magazine of August 1960. A model thermometer can be drawn on heavy cardboard with a black ribbon inserted through two slits as the mercury. PRAYER Christie Lund Coles Spare me from self-pity, Lord, Let my sympathy Be for those warped of mind, Those who cannot see The world of wonder and of truth, The mountains, rising tall; Aware of God's great goodness Around, about us all. Spare me from self-pity, Lord, Let each morning dawn As a new promise and a hope Knowing darkness gone, Knowing that the hardships Made me grow and stand Taller in the bright new day, Aware of his strong hand. Tour-ific! * HAWAIL weeny * MEXICO ew * TEXAS HEMISFAIR * PALMYRA PAGEANT * ALASKA ADVENTURE For all travel and ticketing arrangements "ny Sd l TRAVEL INC. 110 East 2nd South aaait Lake City, Utah,, 8-898f 571.03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Fails, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Utah Croft & Novelty~ New Craft Medium. Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies "Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 237 LL LeMey MUSIC COMPANY MOVED We're growing. We've increased our floor size five times. Our sheet music selection and other music departments are being enlarged and streamlined to help you in your music needs. We specialize in Mail Order Service. Write to get on our mailing list for a complete music catalog. Coming soon. Come visit our new home. - NEW ADDRESS - 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Cbene per SOUTHERN TEMPLES TOUR March 14-23 HAWAIIAN TOUR (June 18-30) SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR July 6-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19—September 1 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 THE LETTER Dorothy J. Roberts Your lines hold breeze And burden, beautiful, Wear wings, yet earth Clings to every clause. Wide as blue weather, Your phrases, Yet sheltering of me As roof of fir, As ceiling of cedar. With your words Wrapped 'round my remembrance, Shawled in wool-tones, Warm, | take the lost distances, Close at your side. 238 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. total blectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective March 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.80 Zone5 _-_-_~- 1.20 Zone3 ____.-.95 Zone 6 -.- 1.40 Zone 4 ___- 1.05 Zone? _.. 1.60 Zone8__ ~~ --1985 po = PESERET. PREWS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 DISCOUNT SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 2 Ov, off on ALL LDS Church Books!!! Mailed FREE anywhere in the world KEY TO HAPPINESS Beatrice M. Sparks $3.16 (reg. $3.95) postpaid SO YOU WANT TO RAISE A BOY W. Cleon Skousen $3.96 (reg. $4.95) postpaid MARY FIELDING SMITH, DAUGHTER OF BRITAIN Don Corbett $3.60 (reg. $4.50) postpaid OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Volume 3 $2.36 SEND FOR YOUR FREE DISCOUNT LIST OK& § 6 Mail Order ""& 9 Bookstore ¢ wy PHOENIX, ARIZONA & 360 E. Palm Lane 254-9478 239 (reg. $2.95) postpaid (YD? \ Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or Birthday Congratulations column. The by anyone for inclusion in the married), age, month of birth, street address, least three months before the birthday. 102 Mrs. Eliza Jane Sparks Arcadia, California 97 Mrs. Mary Berg Beckstead Nibley, Utah Mrs. Claudia C. Thomson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ruth Elizabeth Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Hattie Merrill Funk Payson, Utah 94 Mrs. Lena Bagwell Dotson Yucaipa, California Mrs. Rosa Cooper Wanslee Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Minnie Florence Martin Lutz Teton City, idaho Mrs. Caroline Ringle Steed Washington Terrace, Utah 93 Mrs. Fannie Carter Solana St. Augustine, Florida Mrs. Mary Budge Woolley Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Ella Senn Ball Santa Clara, California Mrs. Eliza Ottellia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lina Bergner Lehmann Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake City, Utah ¢ older may be submi full name (maiden city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at 92 Mrs. Helen W. Anderson Tooele, Utah Mrs. Anna Eliza Abegglen Carlile Midway, Utah; Mrs. Lettie May Saunders Taylor Ferri Ogden, Utah Mrs. Nada Kay Mona, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Peucher Parker Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie S. Millward Grantsville, Utah 91. Mrs. Mary Etta Carrico Britton Memphis, Tennessee Mrs. Maud Bowman Kurtz West Haven, Connecticut Mrs. Louise Ernestine Lannier Paris, France Mrs. Aness Elizabeth Ford Latter Adelaide, South Australia Mrs. Susette Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah Mrs. Edith Stoddard West Point, Utah 90 Mrs. Edith Roberts Bradfield Minersville, Utah Mrs. Alice Finlayson Hill Payson, Utah Mrs. Lettie Christensen Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Isabell Penfold Morgan Hagerman, Idaho Mrs. Henrietta Hill Van Wert Ten Sleep, Wyoming Mrs. Ella Irene Brim Cook Voyce Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Madsen Woodland George Ogden, Utah <é D) Witt ZL Ud. Y. Cog palulaltires Usetul and interesting hocks! 1. A SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION by Paul and Karen Searle $3.95 Ever been stuck for material for a talk? Then you'll find this volume handy to have around. These fascinating and inspirational excerpts from outstanding religious and secular thinkers will stimulate and inform you. Makes excellent casual reading as well. 2.0F FOOD & THOUGHT by Florence B. Pinnock Regularly $4.50 — New Special Price $1.95 A tasty mixture of delightful recipes and sound advice that every mother will treasure. A wonderful book to give as a gift! Eo ga | Deseret Book 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALI SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD OGDEN 77780 MAIN ST ORANGE CALIFORNIA ~ _— SaaS So Oe a DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 2. OF FOOD.& THOUGHT ~ Total amount of purchase $0000.00... Cece ee.. This must include 3%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange Enclosed check [] money order [] / or, please charge my established account [7] March 68 Please send me 1. A SCRAPBOOK OF INSPIRATION u Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah At last! A tax break for the selfemployed! A Beneficial Life Retirement Plan can qualify you for a tax deduction of up to 100% of your contributions. Under the terms of the new Keogh Bill, self-employed persons will be eligible to deduct contributions toward a qualified retirement plan. Beneficial Life has such a plan to suit your specific needs... Talk it over with your Beneficial agent. Take advantage of this important tax break for the self-employed — now! BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance ae Company Virgil H. Senith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah The. Pee Relief SocieivhY is ' ro <4 APRIL 1968 Py, oS) Uns OA ee t. *- fa * " "2 if Magazine * LOVE COMES ON LITTLE WINGS Lael W. Hill At the brink of four She is wholly of the world, Exactly the world's bright center, Singing an earnest love: Oh, little bird, she sings, Come down to me and let me hold you— She makes her hands into A tiny nest— Oh, lovely bird, she sings.... Oh, little butterfly, she sings, Come down to me, and | will kiss you— Her face is flower soft And lifted skyward— Oh, pretty butterfly, she sings.... Her eyes are warm with waiting, Her mouth is all curved eagerness; Under pink-petaled wind she stands tiptoe: Oh, little bird, she sings.... The Cover: Symphony of Blossoms Transparency by Camera Clix Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Nest in the Blossoms Luoma Photos Inset Model: Margaret Lloyd Portrait by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes INustrations: Mary Scopes 241 In the December issue ("A House of Many Roofs," by Berta Mae C. P, could hardly wait until they were given Permission to eat "'the house." M. Jean Baty, Selkirk, Manitoba, Can Calling | have in Relief Society, as first counselor, for the beautifu| lesso the features in the Magazine. The Magazine is full of treasures. Curtis, who wrote the article) was here for the holidays, We were both interested in all the other colorful displays. It was truly a Splendid Christmas issue Minnie |. Hodapp, American Fork, Utah 242 The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 55 April 1968 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 244 "If There Is Anything Lovely...."" Harold Lundstrom 249 Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine Jack D. Blodgett 264 Cancer Research Lengthens Life The American Cancer Society 278 Annual Report for 1967 Evon W. Peterson Fiction 253 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 1 Mabel Harmer 265 Home, Revisited Christie Lund Coles 272 ~—s To Visit the Sick... Vangie Mae Blair 299 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Janet W. Breeze General Features 242 From Near and Far 261 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 262 ~=— Editorial—On Graciousness Marianne C. Sharp 304 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 320 ~—swBirthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 271 +The Seven C's Plus Contentment Mabel Jones Gabbott 289 = Significant Day Annie C. Esplin 290 +The Sky Is Blue Again Sylvia Probst Young 292 ~~... Anda Bag to Match Shirley Thulin 294 English Cookery Mary A. Adams 295 Daily Bread Mary W. Stauffer 296 Mama's Dish Cupboard Joy Lamoreaux Frei 297 Helen Henrie Squires—Her Talents Make a Lovely Home 298 "It Is Time to Get in the Chips'' Zara Sabin Lesson Department 312 Homemaking—Care of the lil in the Home Rae Jean Young Poetry 241 Love Comes on Little Wings Lael W. Hill Solace, Gladys Hesser Burnham 248; Breath of Spring, Elena Hassel Stanley 252;. My Song, Della Adams Leitner 271; Be Glad Today, Bonnie S. Gudmundson 277; So | like Pink Clouds!, Kathryn Kay 288; In the Old Hollow, Betty Gardner Ackerlind 291; Pigeons at Dawn, Ethel Jacobson 293; The Interval, Bertha A. Kleinman 298; To A Mother-In-Law in Israel, Alice Brady Myers 303; Colored Pieces, Pearle M. Olsen 316. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street. Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 243 Ye There Sa Snylhing Lvl me Music for Daily Living Harold Lundstrom* a "This is," the chubby, wideeyed fifth grader haltingly sobbed, "the most wonderful thing that has ever happened to me!" The musicians of the quartet on stage stood speechless; the 250 fourth, fifth, and sixth graders and their teachers held their breath, and a couple of us who were auditioning the "Young Audience, Inc.,"' concert could not believe our ears. Because the boy's words came so slowly and hesitatingly between his heaving sobs, there wasn't, I'm sure, a dry eye in the school's auditorium —at least not among any of the adults. "The most wonderful thing" that this ten-year-old was so poignantly and piquantly telling us about was his first experience hearing great music and hearing it played by "live" musicians. All the music he had ever heard previously—or at least to which he had given his full attention— had either been rock-n-roll, or popular, Broadway musical, or movie tunes, and these he had heard over the radio, on television, or in motion picture shows. He represented a fine middleclass neighborhood, and the price of tickets for a concert—any kind of a concert—was not beyond the family's means. Somebody—his parents or other members of his kith and kin—had never enjoyed the fun *Member, Church General Music Committee; Deseret News Music and Dance Editor 244 of giving this boy an opportunity to hear how exciting great music sounds when it is performed by live musicians; somebody had neglected to pique his intellectual curiosity on how impressive a musical experience can be. The great violinist and human being, the late Fritz Kreisler, implied occasionally that a musical experience is worthwhile only if at some point one develops what is commonly called "goose flesh." This phenomenon is difficult to describe, much less to explain or analyze. But once it is experienced—as this musicstarved young man discovered and so eloquently expressed—the desire to feel it again never ends. People arrive at the sensation of "goose flesh" for a variety of reasons. That ten-year-old that morning arrived at it through a live performance. Some persons reach it through some association, consciously or unconsciously. Doesn't every couple, for example, have a musical selection known as "our song'? It raises "goose flesh" because of some important occasion during their courtship. Some persons experience "goose flesh" when they sing or hear their school song. But when a listener has had no previous association with the piece and is really hearing it for the first time, the thrill is determined, generally, by what music, if any—and if so, what kind—to which he has been previously exposed. In a word, if the only music he has _ ever heard has been cowboy songs, he isn't likely to be touched by a Schubert string quartet, no matter how beautiful it is. "If There Is Anything Lovely...." And so it is about time that good music be given the place it rightfully should have, not only among all the arts, but also as one of the essentials of our civilization, as one of the ingredients of our daily living. We hear almost everywhere—in our family, Church, social, business, and professional associations—a _ great deal of patronizing talk about the significance of the so-called "cultural explosion" allegedly taking place. We are proud, we boast, that we are members of a religious organization whose members are dedicated to the cultural and performing arts. But it can be the shocking experience of those engaged in the arts, either professionally or in lay civic music projects and programs, to discover in some of our homes that there are high school age and college age children who have never, in their entire lives, attended one professional concert or ballet, or one professional performance of a Shakespeare play, or who have the companionship of a book filled with reproductions of the world's great art, or who either own or have ever read one of the world's great books (except as a school assignment). It is easy enough for many of us to give lip service to the arts, to the concept of the Thirteenth Article of Faith: If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things. But, too frequently, as far as the cultural arts are concerned, it has been only lip service. Of course, the eternal argu- 245 April 1968 ment as to what is good or bad in the arts comes down eventually to a matter of personal opinion. But there are certain towering masterpieces of music, drama, dance, and _ literature whose permanent values are universally recognized. Below them hes a mass of material of varying appeal, subject to individual taste. Still lower is the heap of unmitigated trash, which is, unfortunately, still the favorite haunt of the so-called "mass audience." But there can be no argument or disagreement concerning the exalted expressions of man's genius in the performing and fine arts. They have become established through the passage of time, not only by the careful study of conscientious scholars, but also by the cumulative approval of the average man himself. The story goes that a man once went to an exhibition of paintings. (One version of the story is that the exhibit was in the Louvre.) The man walked around all the galleries, paying particular attention to the old masters. As he left, an attendant said to him: "I hope you enjoyed our collection of paintings, Sir." "It isn't bad," the man answered, "but I didn't like your old masters." The attendant paused, and then said: "With all respect to you, Sir, it isn't the old masters who are on trial here." If there are some of us, as with the visitor, who couldn't stand or pass the trial either, what can or should we do about it? Before considering some 246 answers, it should be stated that a principal reason for the neglect of listening to great and good music—i. E., "the most wonderful thing that has ever happened to me"—is that its techniques for performance are a complete mystery to the average person. People are constantly boasting, "I can't read a note." This falsely assumes _ that some special talent is required for a musical experience of any kind. Musical performance requires a language that very few people can either read or write, and this requirement, unfortunately, has created a handicap to its casual or serious study. But it is the repeated hearing of a masterpiece that really counts. The ability to read a note or a score is completely unnecessary for a listening thrill that will raise "goose flesh." How many babies (who didn't know a note) have been sung or hummed to sleep by their mothers? How many men (who didn't know a note) have taken up arms and marched to the defense of their loved ones and their country to the stirring music of a martial band? How do we avoid putting our child on trial when he goes out into the world? He can be wonderfully exposed to great music even before he begins kindergarten by the frequent, and perhaps subtle, playing of great music on the family phonograph (hi-fi or stereo set). Fortunately, some kind of reproducing set, can be purchased for as low as $25. And if the family budget doesn't permit much spending for records, almost every library has a record collection from which recordings can be borrowed, in the same manner as books. After his child starts school, every parent should consider that his child's development is being impoverished, if circumstances permit, if he isn't taken to at least one professional concert, one great play professionally acted, visited one art gallery, or read one of the world's masterpieces each and every year until his child is through high school. As the fun and excitement of becoming involved in the performing and fine arts are being experienced, one of every parent's most rewarding challenges is to create good attitudes towards the arts. Much of the backwardness in musical taste can be blamed on the insistence of some well-intentioned but narrow-minded scholars who have persisted in considering the potential audience for good music an automatically limited one. This is snobbery of the most superficial stripe. Symphony orchestras, ballet and opera companies, repertory theaters, and concert series are still too generally regarded as objects of charity whose support is perhaps one's duty but hardly one's honest pleasure. The very word culture seems to create in the minds of too many a curious suspicion bordering on contempt, and the "highbrow" or "egghead" may be held up to ridicule. Such a situation cannot be relieved by either snobbery or hypocrisy. The sincere parent who wants to enrich his child's (and his own) life must find ways of removing the mystery and the mumbo-jumbo from the world's great and permanent composi- "If There Is Anything Lovely...."' tions—or other cultural arts masterpieces—and help reach the enormous audience that is still virtually untouched. Parents can ask both themselves and their children as they hear great music (no matter through what medium): What does that piece make me think or feel? What did I hear? Did I like that? Why did the composer use violins rather than a piano? What color would best describe the sound of the flute? Why did the composer use that color? What color would I have used if I had composed that piece? It will be in answering this kind of question that parents and children can become involved in the excitements of musical experiences. It is not likely that anyone will ever become excited about music if, after he hears a piece, he asks himself (or his child): How much does a tuba weigh? Has that performer ever been on television? Or, for the kiss of death in developing an interest in listening to music: Was the last statement of the fugue subject to retrograde? What we are concerned with is selling ourselves (and our children) the fun and excitement and the joy of great and enobling music. We are not concerned with selling tubas, or television programs, or the technical forms of musical composition. And it is this department's belief that the best way is for us to discover and then articulate our own thoughts and _ feelings about what a certain piece of music does for us. This we can do by ourselves in listening at home or with our families after attending a concert together. 247 OPEN Vile DOOR F Jack D. Blodgett Member, General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association Sales Manager, Deseret News Press - Through The} Relief ciety | Magazine [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Magazine Department Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1967] s Humbly I respond to the invitation to say a few words to you in this session of your conference, and ask that I may enjoy the interest of your faith and prayers in my behalf, for as King Benjamin inferred, there is an obligation on the part of the hearer as well as the giver. (Mosiah 2:9.) We have observed in our conference assignments to the stakes of the Church, that there is a spirit that radiates forth from the congregation. We have sensed this same thing here today and appreciate personally the lift that it gives. Over the years, having spent a good bit of our Church service in four bishoprics closely associated with the Relief Society organization, we have come to appreciate just what this great auxiliary means in the lives of the sisters of the Church and to know the countless services that are rendered. The thought has occurred to me that only a small part of the effort expended and the good that is done can be recorded in the minutes, roll books, and reports. A Voice That Reaches An organization like this must have a voice that can reach out into the homes of the sisters of the Church regularly, to lift, instruct, and inspire them. This voice is The Relief Society Magazine. It is a marvelous blessing to have membership in this Church, and an opportunity for service and _ self-development, to have been called and appointed to an 249 April 1968 assignment. Now we are assuming, for the purposes of our discussion, that all of you have an important assignment, that of representing the Magazine in your stake or mission, even though, today, some of you may be wearing more than one hat. My purpose today is threefold: first, to impress upon you the quality and magnitude of the Magazine; second, to provide some practical helps in fulfilling your calling as a Magazine representative; third, if time permits, a personal testimony. The Opened Door I appreciate the theme of this session: Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine. When first we read it, there came to mind the words of the Master, as recorded in Revelation 3:20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him and will sup with him, and he with me. We remember what President David O. McKay said to a group of missionaries in reference to this verse of scripture. In essence he said, no matter what your task in the Church may be, when you go forth in the strength of your calling, the Lord goes with you, for there are many ways to "knock at the door," and blessed is he or she who hears and answers. Looking at it in this light, perhaps we can gain a different perspective for our calling. Quality and Magnitude of Magazine Now a word about the quality and magnitude of your Magazine. The following comments were 250 made by the wife of an eastern university president when she obtained a copy of The Relief Society Magazine from a friend. I took the copy home with me out of courtesy, and not really intending to read it. But then, out of curiosity, I began to glance through the pages, stopping to read an article by David O. McKay. This led us to read it through. It has been a long time since we have seen any magazine that so impressed us with its lofty principles, and useful information for women. We could not find one blemish of off-color material, nor was it suggestive in any way, which as we all know, is a rarity today. From this we have become interested in other Mormon literature. We cannot attempt to assess the impact of the Magazine fully. Just how do you determine or measure how much it meant in. The life of a sweet soul who joined the Church, and, because of the attitude of her husband, was denied any association with her Church. She couldn't attend her meetings, nor affiliate in any way. Her contact with the Church severed, she was heartbroken, and then an idea occurred, perhaps he will let me subscribe to a Church publication. She pled with him, and at last he agreed, but just one. Her choice was The Relief Society Magazine, and for six and one half years, this was her only contact with the Church. The only voice! Magazine Production The task of producing the Magazine is a formidable one. We are now (September 1967) printing, in the English edition, approximately 260,000 Magazines each month. Each issue requires about forty giant rolls of paper, 56,000 pounds, nearly a railroad car Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine and one half, or twenty-eight tons. If you could stretch this out in a continuous length, it would reach out for 225 miles thirty-five inches wide. Many people are part of the team required to do the job: the Magazine editorial staff, contributing writers from the Church, artists, production coordinators, typositors, lithographic technicians, cameramen, color experts, plate makers, pressmen, binders, deliverymen, mailers, saleswomen, and office workers are all instrumental in providing this excellent publication each and every month. A FEW PRACTICAL HELPS ON SELLING THE MAGAZINE If there is one thing we have learned in twenty years of selling, it is this: There are hundreds of volumes and countless booklets published on the subject of salesmanship, each one filled with methods of sure-fire success, and you may have some of these, as we do. However, we believe these can be condensed into four main points, keeping in mind that you are functioning in the Lord's work. 1. Be prepared with the facts. 2. Know where you are going. 3. Make the calls. 4. Ask for the order. These four items suggest several sub-headings, and we shall mention a few of these. BE PREPARED WITH THE FACTS 1. Become familiar with your product and know what is inside. 2. Know the subscription rate. (We once encountered a_ representative who didn't.) 3.. Know the expiration dates on subscriptions in your territory. 4. Know how the Magazine will be sent to the homes and about when it will arrive. 5. Know how to issue a receipt properly. 6. Compile a simple "sales kit" that may contain, among other items: a. Some sample copies of the Magazine. B. The pertinent facts. C. A good success story about the Magazine. D. Receipt book, pen, and calendar. E. A list of advantages in having the Magazine in the home. F. Some of your own creativity. 7. Know something about the sisters you will call upon. KNOW WHERE YOU ARE GOING 1. Secure an up-to-date listing of the sisters of your ward or branch. 2. Check the names and addresses for accuracy. 3. Make an appointment and define a time limit for it. 4. Be on time and hold to the time limit. 5. Know something about the sisters you will call on, so your presentation can be tailor-made to suit each situation that you may encounter. MAKE THE CALLS Go out prayerfully. Face to face, is best. Be enthusiastic. Be sold yourself, first. Mention some of the advantages of the Magazine. Sell benefits! A. The Magazine specifically designed for the sisters of the Church. B. It has high standards. C. It contains messages from the prophet to the women of the Church. It is fun to read. Educational. Informative. It contains lesson material. It contains special features. Its literary value is high. J. It is a valuable source reference. PA E> £2 ES pa mm B Make your calls brief. There is a classic story on this point. It has to do with Pat Donahue of the Ortho-Vent Shoe Company, Salem, Virginia. He is a salesman 251 April 1968 who cannot talk or hear. He is a deaf mute. But he is the company's number-one salesman, having sold twenty-five pairs of shoes his first week. And he does it with a series of simple cards that briefly state his purpose, the product's advantages, and the price. Show the product—the Magazine. Never argue. You may win the argument, but you will probably lose the sale. Bring out the hidden objection, perhaps it is a just one. ASK FOR THE ORDER— CLOSE THE SALE The choice-question is one of the best ways to close the sale. For example: "Do you want to pay for your Magazine with cash or check?" "Shall we have the first issue begin with October or November?" Whatever you do ask for the order! If an objection iv di 4 y) yy ge ¢ eo a 4 Y SS BREATH OF SPRING An unseen hand seemed urging me to come, To leave the sheltered warmth, the draperied gloom, The lifeless air imprisoned in my room. Too long had winter held this garrison. The rich, brown loam emerging from the crust Of glittering snowbanks, shrinking in the sun, Will yield her buried treasures, one by one, The hidden seeds and cones, now held in trust. | answer spring's faint call and venture out; The sun enfolds me in its lovely light. A golden bee upon its first spring flight Wings by, a gay and lovely gadabout. Ali nature seems to herald a rebirth When springtime comes to wake the sleeping earth. Is raised, consider it, then go back over the strong selling points and close again. Now, in conclusion, we hope that you will remember, above all, that you are serving your Heavenly Father in a way that can bring light and encouragement to the sisters in your area. Every Magazine placed in the homes of the Church is helping to combat, perhaps in a small way, the tremendous load of low standard publications dumped on to the public every day. May the Lord bless you in your efforts. I testify to the fact that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that he directs the affairs of his kingdom through his_ prophet President McKay, and we are all recipients of the blessings that result from service and dedication in his work. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. \y A SS —Elena Hassell Stanley tetera renetiatie sant en 4; \ Lt} i wy EAST URE UN NIE NY Hs rtenert ee 2 la fD iii If Spring Be Late ~ Mabel Harmer Chapter I s Maureen returned a dozen books to their proper places on the shelves, slipped her handbag into the bottom desk drawer, and said to her young assistant, "I'm going down to the office, Madge. You might return the rest of these books into their places. There probably won't be any children in this morning— what with school just starting. The big rush will come after school and next Saturday." "Sure, Miss Taggart. Take your time." This was an hour to which she had looked forward for more than half of the twenty years she had been with the library. Not that she disliked her work. As a matter of fact, she loved it— especially since it was with children. But it was not her first choice for a full and happy life. When she had first dreamed of going to Miss Pine, the head librarian, she had expected to say, "T'm going to get married, Miss Pine. Johnny is coming home, and we plan to be married right away." Only Johnny hadn't come home. His plane had disappeared while flying the Hump over the jungles of Asia. The report was "Missing in action." For a long time Maureen had held out hope. She had heard of men fighting 253 April 1968 their way out of the jungle. But, as the years passed, hope dwindled and finally died. Sometimes when she passed a _ fair-haired lad on the streets, her heart thumped. Then she remembered. If Johnny had been alive he would no longer be a fair-haired lad in his mid-twenties. Maybe he would have thinning hair, or patches of gray. By the time she had finally given up hope of his return, there had not been many single men available. Anyway, she had never yet met anyone who could take the place of Johnny in her heart. MIs Pine was interviewing an applicant, and Maureen waited discreetly outside until the woman left. As she came in, the librarian said, "It's amazing that anyone who wants a job thinks that she can step right into a library and go to work. It must look extremely easy." "Or pleasant," added Maureen. "Well, my visit is exactly the opposite. I came in to tender my resignation." "Not really!" exclaimed Miss Pine. "Why?" "A good question, and I have a great answer. I'm planning to go to England for some months and do genealogical research. My people came from there—England and Scotland. I've been saving and working toward this for a number of years. Now I'm ready to take off." "Tt sounds fascinating," agreed Miss Pine. "You'll do some traveling, too, of course. Tour the Continent and all of Britain. I hope to do the same myself some day—the touring, I mean. 254 When do you plan to leave?" "In a couple of weeks. Madge can take over my work, and you can put an assistant on for her. I'll work right up to the time I go." "Will you fly over?" "Goodness, no! I've never been east of Denver. I'll go by bus so that I can see every mile of the country. And then by boat. I have reservations in October. It isn't difficult to get them at this time of the year. Nearly everyone is coming back instead of leaving." "Well, ''m very happy for you. And when you come back there'll always be a job here for you, if you want it. At least as long as I have anything to say about it." "Thank you very much." As she walked back to the children's library, Maureen said to herself, I wonder what she would have thought if I had said, "Genealogy is only part of my reason for going. I have inherited a joint ownership in a castle in Scotland." Miss Pine wouldn't have believed it, of course. Maureen hardly believed it herself, in spite of the letter she had received from her cousin, Bruce Taggart. Well, she would soon find out. In the meantime, it was exciting just to dream. In fact, it was the most exciting thing, dream or reality, that had happened in a score of years. As she entered the library, she saw Harold Meacham waiting for her. A large boy, now in his late teens, he had been retarded by a childhood illness and never advanced beyond the third grade in reading level. He depended upon her to find books that were near his age in interest, and still in words simple enough for his understanding. She almost felt some guilt in leaving him. She must instruct Madge very carefully how to look out for him. "Hello, Harold," she said brightly. "Have you finished all of those books so soon?" She picked out several more books, and he left, eager to be at them. In the quiet of the library, she said, "Madge, I'm leaving." "Miss Taggart! You don't mean it!" "Indeed, I do. I'm going to England to spend several months. I'm going to do family research and some traveling." "How perfectly marvelous! But I've heard that it's terribly cold in England in the winter. You must load up on scads of sweaters and ear muffs and...." "And built-in foot warmers," laughed Maureen. "I guess that I can manage. Millions of other people have." "Maybe you'll meet someone real exciting,' Madge went on raptly, "like an IBM executive or a chap who conducts safaris—"' "On a bus, I am not likely to meet any executives. More likely it will be librarians, schoolteachers, and secretaries." "Then you should fly," Madge said emphatically. "I've often wondered why you never married. You're so attractive. With your white hair and young face I think you're simply stunning in navy blue or black." "Thanks, honey. One reason is that I waited too long after my fiancé was lost. And there weren't too many men around after the war. Another real good reason is that I haven't been asked. Every If Spring Be Late normal woman—almost every one, at any rate—would like to marry. And I have been entirely alone since my mother died." Madge nodded. "Yes, I suppose so. I worry day and night for fear I'll end up being a so-called career girl." Maureen laughed. "I've noticed how you worry—in-between the times your various admirers call. By the way, do take good care of Harold Meacham and see that he gets the right books to read." "Sure," agreed Madge. "And try to persuade Gary to bring his back in time so that he doesn't have to pay fines. And give the hungry-looking Wilson children some cookies when they come and —you do an awful lot of mothering around here. I'm not even going to try and keep up with it." "Tm not worried," smiled Maureen. "No one who didn't like children would stay in this department. She'd be down in information greeting all newcomers, or in research where the scholars abound." "Don't give me ideas," said Madge. "I might ask for a transfer. And don't forget to look for that IBM executive." "Tll remember," Maureen promised, as she turned to help another patron. That evening she started packing in earnest. Now that she had definitely resigned from her job, she was eager to hurry the project along. She had already rented the modest home where she had lived alone since the death of her mother, five years before. She would empty dresser drawers and put away the few treasures that could not be left to the mercy of strangers, 255 April 1968 She had just stopped for dinner when the phone rang. Helen Morton, her closest friend was calling. "Hi, slave!" was the greeting. "We have important business on hand. I want you for dinner tomorrow night. Chuck's oldtime friend, Steve Madsen, has been transferred here. He's district manager for Roberts, Incorporated." "That wouldn't be IBM, would it?" asked Maureen. "Well, I guess they use them. It's appliances. Anyway, what does IBM have to do with it?" "Tt's just a joke. Madge suggested that I try to meet up with an IBM executive while I'm on my journeys." - "This is just as good. He's been a widower for three years." "And he is woman shy?" "Frankly, that could be part of it,' Helen agreed. "He has been pursued rather hotly. You know how it is. There seem to be so many more single women than men." "Yes, I know exactly how it is," said Maureen. "However, you can assure him that he will be perfectly safe with me. I'm leaving the territory for months, at least." "To be disgustingly honest, that may help. Although that wasn't why I invited you. In addition to being my best friend, you are far and away the most attractive, unattached woman I know." "Spoken lke a true friend," said Maureen, "and adjudged in the same perspective, I'll try to sparkle enough to justify your choice." "Do that. Pll expect you at seven." Maureen could not help being 256 excited. Dinner invitations, other than with her fellow workers at the library, were few and far between. She looked over her clothes, trying to decide what to wear. The deep rose should be about right. It was not too dressy and was pretty with her - white hair and the chalk white costume jewelry. For a brief moment she considered shopping tomorrow for something that would be extra special, but quickly decided against it. After all, this could be the beginning and the sudden end of a lovely frjendship. She mustn't get any ideas. Helen had made that quite clear. Her only concession to the occasion was a new hair-do. She walked the short block to Helen's house and was pleased at the quick glance of approval that came from her friend. She was introduced to the guest as "Maureen Taggart—my dearest The man who rose to greet her was only slightly taller than herself, and, while he may have missed being called handsome, his square jaw and intense blue eyes gave him very much the look of a "doer." His firm handclasp and friendly smile of welcome won her complete admiration. There were no other guests at the dinner, and the conversation was largely between the two men, starting with "Do you remember?" They had been roommates at college and_ close friends ever since. Later, Helen brought out a Scrabble set, remarking, "I speak to play with Maureen. As a librarian she knows all the words." "Only words of no more than two syllables," Maureen countered. "Remember I work with nothing over the sixth grade." "Then I reckon I'm stuck with Steve, and all he ever read was the newspaper and the _ stock market," said Chuck, as he drew up the chairs. Maureen and Helen won easily and, rather ruefully, she recalled the words of the poet, "I'm sorry that I spelled the word. I hate to go above you." Actually, no one had been too serious about the game. There had been more reminiscences and friendly banter. Maureen could honestly say that she had never spent a more pleasant evening as long as she could remember. When it was time to leave, Steve asked, "May I give you a lift?". "Tt's only a block," said Maureen, "but...." "Good. Then I won't have to stop for gas along the way." They both thanked their hosts warmly for a pleasant evening and left. If Spring Be Late "Why don't we walk?" suggested Steve. "I'll just come back here for the car." "T'd like to very much," she replied. "There's something about the air in autumn that you don't have any other season." 'When I was a kid," said Steve, "it was the odor of burning leaves. But that's taboo now. Anyway, September is a mite too early. Then there was the smell of chili sauce cooking in the kitchens. Do you make chili sauce?" "Not very often," she smiled. "T live alone and one_ batch every two or three years does me nicely." Ss he started to go north, in the direction of her home, but he took her arm and turned her in the opposite direction. "We can't waste a night like this walking one insignificant little block. Around this other way will be much better. And maybe there'll be a moon—a harvest moon." "Not unless the walk lasts about two weeks," she replied. "Tn that case we'll have to take another walk—in two weeks." Maureen felt pleasure and panic at the same moment. Pleasure that he quite evidently enjoyed her company and meant to further their friendship. Panic at the thought that in two weeks she would be on a bus leaving home for an indefinite stay. One bright fact rose above the others. He wasn't simply being agreeable because he knew she was going away. At her door, he said, "I've enjoyed the evening ever so much. I hope that I may see you again soon." 257 April 1968 "Ves, indeed," she replied. "Good. Then Ill call you as soon as there is something worth seeing, or hearing." The next morning she picked a huge bouquet of purple asters for her desk and left early for work so that she could walk and savor fully the lovely September day. There was just a suggestion of crispness in the air and the gardens seemed to be overflowing with vivid autumn blossoms. It can't be just the day that is different, she thought. It has to be myself. What irony! That she should meet the first man in whom she thought she could be really interested—in twenty years —just when she was going away. She couldn't possibly postpone her trip. Not that the information she wanted wouldn't still be there. Even the inheritance could be handled by her cousin. It was just that, remembering Helen's words, she felt rather sure that such an obvious step would put a sudden end to a_ blossoming friendship. Brnyway, she still had two weeks before she would take off on a bus for a cross-country trip to board the boat at New York. Madge was already at her desk when Maureen reached _ the library. "Hm—how beautiful!" she exclaimed admiringly. "Yes, aren't they! Asters remind me of highborn ladies." "T meant the lady herself. Isn't that a new dress?" "Yes, as a matter of fact. I bought it for my trip but thought that I might just as well dress up in it today. I'm glad you like it." 258 "I love it," declared Madge. "Also your new hairdo. All of this couldn't be the result of that dinner date last night, could it?" Maureen could not help a slight blush. "Not entirely," she said. "I planted the asters last spring, you know." "Incidentally—how was it— or he? The dinner date, I mean, of course." "Fine. I had a very pleasant evening. Extra nice, really." Maureen tried not to seem too enthusiastic. "Good. Have him come up sometime and we'll introduce him to the library staff." Maureen was saved from replying to this sally by the appearance of the first patron of the day. The day passed more pleasantly than any Maureen could remember for months, and the purple fringed asters in the crystal vase presided in charming dignity over the subdued bustle of the library. Right after school, the three little Wilson children came in, somewhat unkempt and looking hungry, as usual. They came frequently, rather than to go home to an empty house. Maureen supposed that their working mother was doing the best she could for them, but today, of all days, she couldn't bear to see them looking so forlorn. She handed Madge a dollar and said, "Take those youngsters down to the corner and buy them hot chocolate and some doughnuts. Get some with thousands of calories. I'm sure they can use them." "T've warned you not to start this,' said Madge. "You know that if you do, they'll be expect- ing to be fed every time they come in here. It's enough for you to give them a cookie now and then." "If I knew that they were actually hungry I'd plan to feed them every day and so would you—wouldn't you?" Madge shrugged. "I'm not so sure. Anyway, I'll help you do it this time. But don't think that I will carry on after you leave. I'm not a fairy godmother." Maureen smiled. "I know. You're the wicked witch. Run along and don't spend that dollar on a new broom." I was two days before Steve called and Maureen had begun to think that the evening which had been such a delight to her had been more or less a routine evening of pleasure for him. Then the phone finally rang and a vibrant voice asked, "Did you ever try to set up a regional office for distributing appliances?" "Not lately," she replied. "T was afraid of that. Then you have no idea how muddled I've been." "T'll try to imagine." "Don't bother. You couldn't possibly. Anyway, I've earned a night out. Have you?" "T rather think so. I have checked out a few hundred books —mostly since four o'clock. Counted two dollars and twentynine cents in fines—mostly in pennies—and expelled two dogs from the library for undue noise." "That makes us just about even. Would you care to drive out to the Hilltop for dinner? I'm told the food is rather good. You haven't eaten as yet. I hope?" If Spring Be Late Maureen glanced at the salad she had just finished putting together and said, "No, I haven't." "Then I'll call for you in half an hour, if that is all right." "Quite," she agreed. She shoved the salad back into the refrigerator and dashed into the bedroom to change her dress. Salads didn't keep, but no matter. She was glad that she could say truthfully that she hadn't eaten. She put on a rather plain dinner dress and added some rhinestone earrings for a festive touch. As they started out, Steve said, "Let's skip the freeway and take the country road—unless you're starving, that is." "T'm much more hungry for the scenery," she said. "It's lovely this close to the mountains. The leaves are already starting to turn, higher up." "That's one of the things I like best about Utah—the changing seasons I mean. I was reared here, of course, but I've been on the West Coast now for over twenty years and I've always wanted to come back. I hope to take up skiing again. Do you ski?" "Yes, some. You're practically ostracized here if you don't. But I've just barely graduated from the so-called 'Bunny Slopes.' " "At that you're probably much better than I. We'll have a race and see." Maureen said nothing. He still didn't know that she planned to go away, and she couldn't help feeling a deep glow of satisfaction that he was apparently making plans to further their friendship. If only all of her bridges weren't burned! If something would happen to keep her home—for just a little while! If Miss Pine 259 April 1968 would say that she absolutely couldn't be replaced in the library. How absurd! Miss Pine had scarcely raised an eyebrow when she had resigned. Maybe there would be a bus strike. A lot of good that would do her, since there was still the railroad and the airlines for travel. They were among the early arrivals at the Hilltop and were directed to a choice location by a window, where they could see the distant lake. He gave their order and settled back with a contented smile. "By the way," he said, "the company is giving me a sort of welcome dinner two weeks from tonight. Will you be my guest?" "T would love to," she replied. "But two weeks from today I shall be on my way to Europe." "You will!" Steve exclaimed. "For very long?" "I'm not sure. I plan to do some genealogical research in London and—this sounds rather weird—but I'm joint heir to some sort of an estate in Scotland. The other one—a cousin in England—thinks that I should come and look it over." "Oh, an heiress! Will you marry me?" Maureen smiled. "I have no idea what it will amount to—if anything. Maybe just a bill for back taxes. Would you care to withdraw your intriguing proposal until I am sure?" "Under the circumstances— yes. Do you have to leave so soon? Are you flying?" "Tm going by boat. I had planned to go east by bus in order to see the country." "Well, that you can certainly change. You can fly back and see 260 the country some other time. That will leave you free for the dinner." Maureen merely nodded. Her plans seemed to have _ been changed without her saying a word, and she had to agree that this was the better way. She hadn't even had to call a bus strike in order to get this much of a delay. She debated over whether or not to buy a new dress for the dinner and decided that she would. After all, she reminded herself, I may need one to wear in the castle. I may even be giving a dinner for the country gentry. It was so exciting to sit at the head table with the guest of honor. To wear a white orchid on her royal blue dress. To have people express their pleasure at meeting her and genuinely seem to mean it. It was a memory that she knew she would treasure forever. On the day she was to leave, Steve drove her to the airport. As he pressed her hand in farewell he said, "Have fun. Don't stay too long. And send me a postcard of Big Ben." "I promise all three," she smiled in reply. As the plane circled the valley, she looked down upon the lake, the Temple, and all of the beloved landmarks. They would all be there in the spring when she returned. But what of her friends? So much could happen in that time. So many changes could take place. In minutes, the plane was over the mountains. Maureen stopped looking downward. She looked up at her fellow passengers instead. (To be continued) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mignon Ritchie, R. N., a consultant in the Utah State Health Division's Heart Program, is an authority on nursing techniques for heart patients. She presented a paper on ''The Nurse's Role in Congestive Failure of the Geriatric Patient,"' at the clinical session of the American Nursing Association meeting at Philadelphia in November 1967. The address was repeated at the meeting of the Nursing Association in Kansas City, later in November. Miss Ettie Lee, philanthropist and humanitarian, was honored as ''Woman of the Year,' at Brigham Young University in December 1967. Miss Lee has given many years of her life, and a considerable fortune to the establishment of homes for boys. She now owns twenty homes in Utah and California, each one directed by men and women who have ''plenty of love, understanding, and experience.'' Headquarters for the Ettie Lee Homes is the David Lee Ranch, Mapleton, Utah. Dr. Jeanne S. Chall, Professor of Education in the Harvard Graduate School of Education, is author of a new book Learning to Read (McGraw Hill). Dr. Chall's academic life has been spent investigating how children learn to read and the most effective methods for teaching the fundamentals of reading. Winifred Gérin is author of Charlotte Bronte: The Evolution of Genius (Oxford University Press). This biography of a remarkably gifted author presents the complex nature of genius. The story of Charlotte's long struggle toward self-realization is told ''with sympathetic detachment, its drama kept under firm control, its poetry adding an occasional burst of color." Savannah Cross Lockey, graduate of Stanford University, rancher, and director of a cattlemen's association, is owner and manager of the Blu-Flame Gas Company of Texas. Ida A. Tsaacson, Salt Lake City, Utah, was the winner for 1967 in the professional category for her essay ''Reflections While Standing Before the Lincoln Memorial," an award given by the Utah State Historical Society for meritorious writing on the historical significance of the life and accomplishments of ''the Great Emancipator."' Buffy Sainte-Marie, Cree Indian, is winning laurels in the musical world for her compositions and her singing of folk music, with ''a beautifully tremulous voice... Of purity and spontaneity.'' At the corner of her mouth she places the tip of a mouthbow (a curved stick and a taut string) and ''evokes... The primitive and lustrous soul of the folk art.'' Marnee Morris is one of America's rising young stars of ballet. She has been a member of the New York City Civic Ballet for four years and has won special acclaim for her performances in the ''Nutcracker Suite.'' She has appeared in ballet productions in Saratoga (New York), Chicago, Boston, Expo 67 in Montreal, and in Edinburgh, Scotland. 261 Cractousniss # A distinguished man remarked to a daughter upon the passing of her mother, ''She was always a lady.'' The daughter confided that she had given much thought to his remark in the years since then. It had placed her beloved mother on a new plane to learn how she had been regarded by her peers. There still remain countless women who may be termed ''ladies."' An important attribute of being a lady is to be gracious—gracious to everyone in all relationships. Often it may seem well-nigh impossible to be gracious. One is hurrying to an important assignment and ahead one catches a glimpse of an acquaintance who will, in all probability, detain one. A quick decision must be made as to how best to express graciousness and yet not be late for the appointment. Such a situation is graciously resolved by a lady. Observation and experience, moreover, teach one that cordiality can invariably be expressed without delaying one's plans unduly. Some women always seem to have time to evidence interest in others. Other times one feels that the query, ''How are you?" is purely perfunctory, and nothing is expected or wanted except the stereotyped reply, ''Fine, thank you.'' A gracious woman evidences real interest and pursues the matter, without prying, until she really knows of the health of her friend. She is concerned about her. Graciousness is particularly noted under conditions of stress. Even at busy times of the year some women are always welcoming and <i 262 General Board Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill 'Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle A. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Mary R. Young Oa J. Cannon gracious, while others let it be known that a call is unwelcome. Visiting teachers who graciously visit in all types of weather and at personal sacrifice, certainly must make one call during the year which is inconvenient to the homemaker. The breeding of a woman is evident at such times, however, in the graciousness of her welcome. It is especially important to be gracious where one holds a position of authority. It is essential that a woman be gracious with all with whom she works, and sensitive to the feelings of others. Counterfeit graciousness is not acceptable. It is easily detected although a veneer of graciousness may coat the words. The spirit detects falsity. Graciousness has roots in humility, sweetness, and consideration for others, in the realization that another's time is as important as one's own, in kindliness with resolve not to offend another, in being willing to give of one's time to another. One of the hardest times to remain gracious is when a lonely woman with no pressing duties herself, phones a busy mother or one who does have pressing duties, to help pass away the lonely minutes. Gracious, indeed, is the woman who can maintain graciousness over the years in such a relationship. One husband, after the passing of his wife, who had wasted away through a long illness, declared that in his memory she never appeared as a sick woman, but he always saw her as she approached him at a reception held in their home, smiling in the beauty of her apparel and radiant with her gracious personality. It may be helpful for one to imagine the image which she invokes in others, the picture which has been developed over the years, perhaps through everyday contacts or shutter-quick glimpses of varying moods. Graciousness is an attribute to be studiously nurtured and freely bestowed on others. M. C. S. 263 Mary V. Cameron Reba C. Aldous CANCER RESEARCH LENGTHENS LIFE Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check The American Cancer Society = The American Cancer Society is made up of good neighbors. Its work is done by volunteers who ring doorbells with life-saving messages, who serve and help cancer patients and their families, and who raise the Society's funds. Volunteers are in charge of all t Society's policies, and its national and local boards of directors are all volunteers. A volunteer in Pittsburgh gave a leaflet on cancer checkups to a mother of th children. The woman had a checkup and learned she had an early cancer of the breast. With prompt treatent she was cured. 'That volunteer saved my life," she said. Do you know the seven warning signals of cancer? Unusual bleeding or discharge. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. A sore that does not heal. Change in bowel or bladder habits. Hoarseness or cough. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. A change in a wart or mole. NOP WNP The risk of dying in the prime of life is more than twice as great for men who are heavy cigarette smokers as for men who are nonsmokers. Children love to imitate their parents. They learn by imitating them.. Thousands of men and women are hiding from the facts of cigarette smoking. Uterine cancer, common in women, can be detected by a pap test, and is almost 100 per cent curable, if found in time. In the field of leukemia, cancer of the blood-forming organs, research points the way to many promising leads. About 45,000 Americans died of colon and rectum cancer last year. A large number of them could have been saved if they had regular physical examinations, including the ''procto."' Research for cancer detection, treatment, and cure is going forward in many directions and the accomplishments save many lives. Cancer research lengthens life—but research costs money. Give generously to fight cancer. Have an annual physical checkup and give a generous check to support the work of the American Cancer Society. 264 REMI SHED Christie Lund Coles =» Martha stood by the large window as long as her legs would hold her without feeling shaky. Then, she sank into one of the comfortable chairs in the lounge of the rest home, which faced the eastern mountains. It was a nt oeen beautiful view, similar to that she had when she was home and could look from her front door and see the trees and the wide lawn with the mountains in the distance. There weren't many trees here. These places hadn't been built long enough to have roots and old trees. Millie, the tall nurse, paused on her way down the hall to say, "My, Mrs. Brady, you really look nice today. Going to a party?" Martha smiled at her, not quite daring to trust her secret with her, not even sure that there was a secret. But, she couldn't resist saying, "No. I think Ill be going home." Millie smiled indulgently, for most of the people here talked about going home constantly. 265 April 1968 She said, "What will we do without you around here? Who will feed Mrs. Redford? And you would miss the next chapter— and the next—of the book Emma Lou is reading to you." Martha merely smiled, still looking out of the window watching for Tess, her daughter, who had said she might have a surprise for her. To herself, she thought, don't try to butter me up. I'm going home. Back to my own place. My own kitchen where I can putter around. You'll see. She could hear the carts beginning to move down the halls with the noon meal on them. She could smell cooked meat and she thought, asparagus. She liked that. It wasn't likely they would have it here, though. Too expensive. It used to grow wild back at the end of her lot near the stream. Father used to pick it and bring it in, huge bunches of it. The same with the field tomatoes that were pretty different from the ones you saw nowadays, red and ripe and luscious. Now, they called them beefsteak tomatoes and they cost a fortune. But Tess always told her to order whatever she wanted on the days she took her out to lunch. She was going to have steak (no ground meat today), and asparagus. And tomatoes. After dinner—if they did go home—she would buy a cake and have some cool lemonade - with it. The excitement of the thought made her legs quiver as she stood up at the sight of Tess' car turning into the parking area. It was necessary for her to hold onto the back of a chair to 266 get her balance before Tess got out to come in after her. She had thought she could make it on her own but was glad for the steadying hand of Rose, the nurse at the desk, who had seen her wobble, and had come to assist her. Yet, she met Tess at the door, smiling, straightening her good black straw hat. (What if it was ten years old? It was still good, and as near as she could tell, just about what they were wearing nowadays.) Tess kissed her. "You're looking real perky, Mother. Where do you want to go for lunch?" "My dear, you know more about that than I do. Just someplace real nice, because I want something special." "Really? And what could that be? Caviar?" "Nonsense. Salty old fish eggs. I want good old American steak, the kind your father used to raise and slaughter. Can you remember?" "Yes. I can even remember when we were married and he divided one with us. You can't buy meat like that." Martha was pleased. She beamed. "Indeed you can't. And I want asparagus. And tomatoes." "Tomatoes aren't on your diet." "Guess just this once isn't going to hurt me. Now, let's go. They are already eating here." As she settled into her seat, she mused pensively, "I guess Mrs. Redford will be wondering why I'm not there to feed her. But she will have to get used to is | "What did you say?" Tess asked, her mind quite occupied with her driving. "Oh... Nothing really. [ll tell you later." She would tell her after Tess had told her secret. She didn't know how she could wait, but she would manage. She wouldn't let her second daughter (LaVon was living in the East) know how excited she really was. She would go through all the motions of eating, enjoying her food. Then... Later... They would buy the cake, they would go home. She would make the lemonade herself, cut the cake, serve it on her best heirloom plates that were still, she supposed, in the china cupboard in the dining room, just as she had left them. B ut, it seemed, the darkhaired, dark-eyed girl was in no particular hurry to tell her. She kept up a running conversation. Finally, Martha could wait no longer. She put up her thin, slightly gnarled hand to silence her daughter in the midst of some silly bit of news, and said, "I'm not interested in that. ['m interested in what else you're going to tell me. The good news." "Good news?" The girl's eyes widened, just as they had done since she was a small child, questioning her, and wondering. (Could it be possible that her daughter was past forty and had a daughter of her own married and settled in an apartment of her own?) "Pshaw. Surely, you know," her mother exclaimed, in irritation, "You told me last week you had a secret to tell me. Now, tell me. Tell me." Tess' eyes went blank for a moment as she repeated the Home Revisited word "Secret? I don't remember." Then, after a brief hesitation, she smiled, though not exactly as she would have smiled if she were playing a trick on her, and said, "Oh, yes. Jeanie didn't want me to tell you until she was sure. But, she is going to have a baby. In December. Isn't that wonderful? You will be a great-grandmother for the fourth time." Jeanie had been closer to her than any of her grandchildren and she knew she should have been happy, but she didn't feel anything except a great emptiness within her, as if she was falling. She gripped the table edge, asking, "You're sure that's all?" "Why, yes. What did you expect?" Martha didn't speak for a moment, then the words came out almost a sob, "I thought you were going to take me home. That you had made some arrangement that I could stay there...." "But, Mother, we've gone over this so many times. You couldn't stay there alone. You can go home with me. You know you're welcome. But, when Pete has to go on one of his long trips I feel bound to go with him. We can't find anyone to stay with you. You know, we tried it before. I thought you understood how it all is." Martha's lip quivered. "But... I thought... You were going to take me back to my own house, my own things...." Suddenly, Tess stood up. Her square chin, like her father's, was resolute. She said, 'All right, darling, let's drive out 267 April 1968 there. If you want to stay, I guess you may." The cake was in the seat between them, the lemon juice in a sack, when they drove up to the house that stood back from the road thirty or forty yards, surrounded by a hedge that had grown completely out of hand as had the grass. "What has happened here?" she asked, angrily, "Why isn't this place kept up?" "There just aren't any boys around here that want the work." "What about the Deardon boy and Jimmie down the street? He always used to come and help me." "Oh, Mother, they're grown up. Jim has gone away to school. Ted Deardon may even be married, I don't know. Times have changed." "Indeed they have. Look at that grass. And see that paint on the door, it's beginning to peel all over." "We were planning to have it fixed up this summer... Once you made up your mind to sell it." "Or... Decide to come back to it,' her mother injected, quietly, "I told you, after I left your place that I would stay there six months and then, if I still felt pretty well and wanted to, I would come back. You children agreed." The younger woman sighed, "T suppose we did." "Well, come in and make yourself at home. I'm back now, and we'll soon have all of this fixed up." As Tess opened the door and they stepped through, an odor of great mustiness greeted their nostrils. 268 She cried, "Goodness, open a window. It smells like a vault in here... Or a tomb." Tess had a difficult time opening the window, finally having to go to the kitchen to find one that would give freely. "We really shouldn't open that one until the screen is fixed," Martha' suggested, but they needed the air so that she let it go. As she removed her hat and jacket; she said, "Now, you sit down and let me fix you some lemonade and a piece of this angel food cake." "Let me help you," Tess suggested, moving toward the cupboard, in need of painting, too. But her mother protested, "No, you don't. You just sit down. This is my treat." She got her best plates from the top shelf, the cut glass, stemmed glasses that needed to be washed a bit before she could put the cold tap water in (from the old natural flowing well), and the canned lemon juice Tess had _ insisted that she buy instead of lemons... Because it was simpler. And by the time that the can was punched, the sugar measured (she wondered if sugar spoiled standing so long), the cake cut on the plates, she was amazed to find that she was a bit shaky. But, wasn't that natural, really? She had been used to being waited on too long, she needed to get her old legs going again. And she would! Just wait and see, she would, indeed. Tess said, "You look a little tired. Would you like to lie down on your bed for a little while? I have a little shopping to do and I could come back and get you. We could go to my place...." "I'm not going to your place," Martha told her, emphatically, "T'm going to stay here. You can bring me something to cook. I won't need much, some bacon and eggs, bread. They never gave me enough bread." "You weren't supposed to.... "Don't say I wasn't supposed to have it. At my age, what difference do a few pieces of bread make?" Tess started to say something about diabetic coma, but thought better of it, and arose smiling. "Well, [ll turn the bedspread down. There's a blanket on the foot there if you need it over you. I'll bring the groceries. Anything else you want?" Martha enumerated a few things, surprised at the girl's easy compliance. 9 fi was good to be in her own bedroom, see her own dresser, and the old chest and the table with its crocheted doily on it. It was cluttered now with things she had forbidden them to touch, but someday, she would have time to go through them all, sort things out. Right now, she was tired. She lay down, mentally scoffing at the idea of a blanket on such a warm spring day. Yet, it wasn't many moments till she was reaching for it. She had forgotten how cold this house was, and how dark this room. The shrubbery had grown even taller around the windows. It was musty and gloomy, and the silence that settled around her was almost frightening. There were no children playing outside as there had been before her eldest daughter had moved from the house next door. Home Revisited She had complained sometimes, when she had wanted to sleep, but she missed them now. And she didn't like the thought that there would be none of them to take turns sleeping with her at night. Well, she could get a phone. She could have it right beside the bed here. An almost lifetime fear of tramps coming to the door— as they had done when she was younger—needled her stomach, set it to quivering. She wouldn't worry about it now, though. She was going to nap, just as she did every day at the rest home, when the place had settled down in the afternoon quiet, except for the occasional cushioned step of one of the young and pretty nurses. She slept soundly until a noise at the front door invaded her dreamy half-consciousness. Her heart began to pound in unexplicable fear. She was barely conscious of her husband's picture on the wall; that of Lena— the daughter who had died. In fact, by the time Tess got in she was still waking from the sound sleep, waking with a start, wondering where she was, and why it was so dark, instead of bright as noonday as it was at Foothill Manor. Then, she remembered, and a great wave of nostalgia swept over her at the sight of the familiar room—nostalgia for all the pleasant hours she had spent here. The years when the children were running in and out—her own, coming from fishing or bobsleigh parties, to a pot of hot soup and warm, new-baked bread, recently taken from the oven of the coal range (which still sat there in all its regal dig- 269 April 1968 nity, waiting for someone to fetch and carry the wood and coal and start the fire. She was a little afraid she wouldn't use the stove much next winter... Because who would fetch and carry the wood now? Not Father, not her two stalwart sons—married and moved away now, too, and not the grandchildren who had run in and out, and argued over which one should sleep there (that is, until toward the last when they were beginning to get older and were going out with their friends). No. There would be no one coming in now at all odd hours. Even Tess had had little time to spend with her when she had lived there, and would have much less now... Driving clear out here. Tess' cheery voice interrupted her thought. She came in with a rather small bag of groceries, set them down and said, "Does it seem good to be back? Will it be nice to be getting your own breakfast?" She remembered the first small stroke she had had. She had been getting breakfast that morning, when everything went black. But Reid had slept there and helped her to the bed and later had run to get his mother. Who would know if anything should happen to her now? Here alone? She sat on the edge of the bed. She said, "I guess I really should go back there tonight. Mrs. Redford always counts on me helping to feed her. She will wonder what has become of me. By the looks of things, this place needs quite a bit of fixing up. I 270 guess even the gas for the stove and the front-room heater will have to be turned on. Won't they?" "Yes, they will. I don't want you wrestling with that coal range." "Oh, I could manage that for a day or two. I'm not as weak as you all make out." Then, before her daughter could answer, she hurried on, "But for the time being, maybe I'd better go back. You know that sweet Emma Lou who comes and reads to us, is reading the best book. I can hardly wait to hear what's going to happen tomorrow." "Fine. Just fine, dear. Anything you say. You can go home with me to dinner tonight, then I'll take you back." "N-o-o. Your hubby just might bring somebody from the office, and anyway, Mrs. Redford sort of depends on me to help her eat. You don't mind, do you?" Her lovely daughter kissed her gently, "Anything you say, Madam." As they closed the door, Martha looked at the house for just a moment, wistfully. It was the same house, and yet so different. Just as she was different. She had wanted to come home. But not to this strange, this empty, empty shell of rooms that she had seen today. All of them at the home thought and talked of nothing except wanting to go home, but the home they wanted to go to was a place of the long ago. A place that wasn't real any longer. A place out of the past. It was just as well it stayed there. In the past. And in happy memory. The Seven C's Plus Contentment Mabel Jones Gabbott ® I walked into my home at five p. M. I had been at the university since nine A. M. Covering a conference for home economists. During one hour's lecture I had become aware of the seven C's considered in planning a home: comfort, convenience, circulation, color harmony, charm, cost, and conversation pieces. Conversation pieces! Now that was what I had at home. There was the ironing board still set up where the college daughter had done a last minute press job... A Scouter's wet swimming suit on my hall table... And records, piled, scattered, and unsheathed all over the floor around the stereo. How charming! I walked into the kitchen. Grease spattered the burners where the boys had cooked hamburgers for lunch. The overhead stove light blazed away—for how long I knew not. And at what cost! From the front. Door, through the living room and den to the back door, chocolate-colored footsteps added a new note to the color harmony of my rooms, and indicated clearly the route the circulation had taken. I followed the footsteps to my back patio. Conveniently, there was grandfather's rocker. I sank in comfort into it, as I thought: I have a home with seven C's of home planning. What a lucky mother! MY SONGS | sang when | was happy, My song was glad and free, And one who heard my singing Shared happiness with me. | sang when | was burdened, A tender, sweet refrain; | learned that one who suffered Found comfort for his pain. | sang when fears obsessed me, New courage quelled my fear And a timid soul was strengthened | did not know was near. — Della Adams Leitner 271 Vangie Mae Blair =» Louise Farmer leaned back in her chair and glared at her blanket-draped legs propped on the old footstool and felt sorry for herself. She knew it was stupid to feel that way. She was really very lucky, but that didn't seem to make any difference. This was the first time in her life she had been tied down. Even after the birth of each of her five children she had always been able to get up and do things. Not much, of course, but still she had never felt so physically trapped as she felt now. "All because of a silly little operation," she said to the vase of wilted daffodils on the table beside her. Oh, but it wasn't silly, she mentally reminded herself, with 272 a sad shake of her gray head. An operation for her varicose veins had been necessary, important, and for her own good. The doctor had told her that over and over again. "And now all you will have to do," he had said, "is to keep off your feet and give everything a chance to adjust." As if it was easy to keep off your feet and do nothing. That was the hardest thing in the world, just ask anyone who ever tried it! She looked around the room in disgust. There was a thin film of dust on her tables, television, and buffet. The rug by the door needed straightening, and all of the flowers were wilted and needed to be thrown away and fresh ones cut and arranged. It would be so easy, she thought, just to take fifteen minutes and fix it all up. But she had given her word to the doctor that she would follow, to the letter, his orders of extremely limited movement. All her life she had kept her promises. She was going to keep this one, even if it nearly killed her to do it. What really topped it off, she thought to herself with a vengeance, was that today was the Sabbath and she couldn't go to her meetings. The benches in the chapel were too hard and much too close together to let her use a footstool to keep her feet up. Oh, she could go and sit on the benches sideways and put her legs up along the bench, but she wasn't going to make a public spectacle of herself at her age. A squeak and a bang of the front gate caused her to turn and look out of the window. Bobby Johnson was coming up the path, and with the exactness of childhood, he was very carefully stepping only in the center of each and every flagstone. He jumped up onto the wooden porch and knocked on her door. "Come in," she called out. "Hello, Sister Farmer, how are you today?" he said further wrinkling the rug as he twisted around and firmly shut the door behind him. "Fine, Bobby," she answered as she watched him walk over to the large, pink wing chair across from her. One of his shoelaces had come untied, and it dragged along the beige linoleum each time he put that foot down. He perched himself on the To Visit the Sick edge of the chair and looked at her. A large grin lit up his face and wrinkled his freckled nose. In the glow of such a cute, allout smile, Louise felt herself smiling back at him. Bobby is certainly pleased with himself about something, Louise thought, so she asked, "What brings you here? Did your mother send you over for something?" "No," Bobby said and started to swing his crossed feet back and forth. His loose shoelace danced enthusiastically on every down swing. Bobby looked down at his erring lace and bent forward almost double to tie it. His bottom hung precariously on the edge of the chair and Louise felt that any minute he would lose whatever balance he had and she would see him fall, smack, onto the top of his blonde head. He didn't fall, and she sighed with relief as he straightened up, red-faced from his task. "T went to Sunday Schoo! This morning, and my teacher told us some things that Jesus told us to do on Sunday and one was to visit the sick and afflict them, so here I am." After announcing his good works to her, he wiggled back into the large chair, folded his arms, and smiled complacently at her. Louise smothered a_ smile with difficulty and said, "Thank you. "You're welcome." Louise was at a loss. Just how does one talk to a small boy who comes to visit the sick and afflict them? 273 April 1968 From the depths of the chair Bobby looked around the room for a moment and then announced, "' Your flowers are dead." "Yes, Bobby, I know. They need to be thrown out and fresh ones put in their place." "T'll do it," Bobby said as he hopped out of the chair and picked up the vase of daffodils from the table beside her and started towards the bouquets on the television and the buffet. Louise pushed herself forward from the chair and started to protest, when Bobby added, "Jesus said that we're supposed to help people." She sank back into her chair again. She was plainly in the hands of a doer of good works. After all, things are only things, but people, especially children, are special. Bobby tucked the vase of daffodils in the crook of his left elbow and hugged a vase of wilted flowers to his chest with his left hand. With his right hand he picked up the vase of hothouse flowers her daughter had left when she had come to clean house and visit last Monday. Somehow, Bobby made it across the floor and into the kitchen with only one tiny spill on the floor. She heard him dump the water into the sink and pull the flowers out of the vases. He opened the back door and she heard a rattling thump as the old flowers hit the garbage can. After the back door was shut again, there was silence for a space and then a small voice said, "I dripped, where's_ the mop?" 274 "Standing up at the side of the house behind the garbage can." "Oh," he said, as the back door opened and then shut again. Louise smiled as she heard the scratchy sound of a dry mop on the kitchen floor. She had always admired Brother and Sister Johnson for the way they were rearing their family, now she admired them even more. There aren't too many little boys who would try to clean up their messes. "There was a pause in the mopping and a drawer was pulled open. From the sound of the various crashes and clinks, Bobby had pulled out the utensil drawer. He went out the back door, dragging the mop behind him and firmly shut the door. In the house all was quiet. Too quiet, Louise thought, as she strained to hear what was going on outside. After what seemed a very long time, Bobby came in at the back door again. Faintly, the smell of lilacs drifted into the front room. Why, she didn't know the lilacs were blooming! They grew around on the other side of the garage, and she hadn't been able to walk there to see them. She thought, if it weren't for Bobby I would have missed the lilacs this year. Louise heard the splashing of tap water in the sink as Bobby filled the vases. She suddenly thought of something. "Bobby!" "What?" he called as he poked his head through the doorway. The water was still running in the sink. "Could you please put some plates under the vases so the water won't stain the woodwork?" "Okay," he said, and disappeared. Louise leaned back in _ her chair and listened to the small, friendly noises coming from the kitchen. Sometime later, Bobby came in with three plates and put one each on the television, the buffet, and the table by her chair. When he came into the front room again his slow steps proclaimed that he was carrying the flowers. This first vase he carefully placed on the television. He stepped back with satisfaction and skipped back into the kitchen. Louise smiled. The lilacs in the vase looked as if they had been exploded into their present positions. They hung outward and down at alarming angles. Not one of them stood up the least little bit. The stems were too long, and a few of them stayed in only because they had caught on the inside of the sharply curved neck of the vase. 'It was a pottery vase that her oldest daughter had made in a college ceramics class, and, for the first time, Louise was glad that it was as heavy as lead. The second vase of flowers Bobby brought in was filled with what she figured were the remaining blooms of her early bulb garden. Miraculously, all of them were standing straight up in the small, white milkglass vase. When she complimented Bobby on getting them to stay all together so tall, he smiled and said, "I wrapped them together with toilet paper To Visit the Sick before I put them in the vase. See!" He lifted them up. There was a mass of white sogginess gluing the stems together. Louise looked from the flowers to Bobby's proudly smiling face. "That's nice)" managed to say. Satisfied, Bobby put the flowers down and went back for the last vase whose arrangement could be called "various." Bobby had picked a few of every type of flower he could find, and some weren't even flowers! There were small _ yellow flowers from the ditchbank. Their poor little stems were so short that he had balanced their blooms on the edge of the vase, like children hanging their chins over the backs of chairs. A few early blooms, with most of their petals shaken off, stood tall and bare in the center. There were some field daisies and some purple ones that were definitely weeds. Standing aloof in the was all she 275 April 1968 bunch was a rosebud. Bobby pointed to it proudly and said, "T got that one from my Daddy's bush." "Bobby, they are all lovely. Thank you very much," she said softly. The little boy walked carefully back over to the wing chair and sat down. He looked at Louise's legs and asked her, "Do they hurt?" "No, Bobby, not really." There was silence for awhile. "Would you like a peanut butter sandwich? I make them good." "No, thank you." "You don't have to worry about the bread knife being dirty. I washed all the flower juice off of it and dried it real nice. I can cut bread in slices, too. Sometimes they fall into crumby pieces, but most of the time I can cut bread into whole slices. Let me fix you a big fat peanut butter sandwich, okay?" "T wish you could, Bobby, but the doctor said I'm not supposed to eat things like that until I can get up and walk around." Louise looked at Bobby's face slowly losing its sunshine smile, so she _ softly added, "But, if you like, you can get me an apple from the refrigerator. You may have one, too." "T'll get one for you," he said, "but I can't have one because I'm visiting you." Louise was so busy watching Bobby walking proudly into the kitchen to "help" her that the knock on the front door startled her. "Come in," she called. Sister Johnson came in. 276 "Is Bobby still here? He said he was coming over to visit you, but that was quite a while ago and I don't want him to tire you out." "Oh, no, Bobby's not tiring me out. He has been helping me." Louise gestured with her hand to indicate the new flower arrangements. Sister Johnson smiled and walked over to the television to balance the lilacs better in their vase. As she turned and poked the flowers, they assumed a more traditional look. "Yes, he is a big help at times, isn't he?" she asked half smiling. In the kitchen the water tap was turned on and the splashing sounds meant Bobby was dutifully washing the apple before bringing it in. The two women looked at each other with understanding. "Sister Farmer, would you like to go to church with us this evening?" "I'd love to go. I miss not going to my meetings, but I just can't sit that long on those benches." "T've got that all figured out," said Sister Johnson. "We can put all of the children in the very back of our station wagon, and you can sit sideways on the seat going there. When we get there, you can use our aluminum chaise lounge, you know, the folding one with green webbing that we bought last summer." Louise Farmer looked around her front room and thought how nice it would be to get out of the house. She had so missed partaking of the sacrament. If she could sit at the very back.... "Yes," she said, "I will go with you. Thank you so very much for asking me." Bobby came out of the kitchen with a bright apple in his hand. "Hello, Mother. Did you come visiting the sick, too?" he asked. "That's part of it," Sister Johnson said, smiling, "but mostly I came to get my visiting boy." "Did I visit you all mght?" Bobby asked Louise. "Yes, Bobby, you visited me just fine. I'm glad you came." She held out her hand and Bobby took it, "and please come again." "IT will," said Bobby, as he went out the door. To Visit the Sick "We'll be by to pick you up fifteen minutes before church," said Sister Johnson, as she closed the door. Louise looked over her now silent house and smiled at her new flowers. Somehow, the dust on things didn't look quite so bad. The water spot on the floor was slowly drying to a dull uneven shadow, but her daughter would clean that up when she came to clean tomorrow. Let's see, she thought, to herself, what can I wear to church? Then she smiled at herself, because she realized that when a woman starts wondering what she can wear, she is well on the road to recovery. CEEFSO BE GLAD TODAY Smile the miles of child-chatter days; Too soon they pass, and open rooms Resound with quiet echoings; Halls grow more hollow, void of running feet; Walls prattle loneliness where laughter played. Be glad today is boisterous and sweet. —Bonnie S. Gudmundson 278 This annual report reflects the activities and achievements of Relief Society during 1967 the first eight months of 1967, beginning January 1 and ending August 31. The 1968 report will cover the period September 1, Annual 1967 through August 31, 1968 which will be in keeping with the new fiscal year for Church organizations. Report While the change from a calendar to a fiscal year does not lend itself to a comparison of the activities during 1967 with those of 1966, we do note a gratifying increase in the number of organizations as wel! As in the various activities conducted by the local Societies. A total of 434 stakes and 74 missions submitted annual reports which represented the activities that were carried on in 4,046 ward and branch organizations within the stakes and 2,006 branches within the missions during the eight-month period. In 1967 new stakes were organized in Guatemala City, Guatemala; Mexico City, Mexico; Sydney, Australia, and in many parts of the United States. Relief Society organizations are now functioning in 57 countries and in 50 states of the United States. Up to August 31, 1967 there were 298,825 women who availed themselves of the opportunity of membership in Relief Society which was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith 126 years ago for the spiritual and cultural development of the women of the Church and for the blessing of Church members. Two thousand, eight hundred and eleven Relief Society members were not members of the Church but realized within Relief Society opportunities for developing their talents and skills. Leadership opportunities were extended to 197,960 Relief Society members, who officered the various stake, mission, mission-district, ward and branch organizations throughout the Church. Of this number 29,322 executive officers directed the activities of the respective Societies, 12,227 served as choristers, organists, and Magazine representatives, 24,518 class leaders gave untiringly of their time and talents in their respective assignments, and 131,893 visiting teachers visited monthly the 591,200 families within the Church listed for visiting by the visiting teachers. In addition to this number, there were 9,531 non-Latter-day Saint families visited. A total of 3,286,374 visits were made to these families by the faithful visiting teachers who carried spiritual messages to the mothers in the homes. Ward and branch Magazine representatives were successful in extending the blessings of the Relief Society Magazine, printed in English, to 259,638 homes and the Spanish Magazine to 5,868 homes of our Spanish-speaking sisters. There were 183,645 meetings held in wards and branches where the members received instructions in the doctrines of the Church, homemaking skills, as well as in developing better family relations and a greater appreciation for the best in art, music, and literature. Participation in the music program of Relief Society brought increased testimonies, cultural development, and happiness to 52,329 sisters who comprised the 3,739 Singing Mothers choruses organized in the wards and branches of the Church. These blessings were shared with members of their families as well as those who listened to their beautiful music in stake conferences, concerts, and other special activities. Relief Society women, under the direction of the priesthood, assisted in caring for the unfortunate through the Church Welfare Program. Relief Society presidents visited 67,569 families to determine their needs and made 61,718 other contacts with these families; 505,199 hours were contributed by female members of the Church on welfare projects, such as sewing needed clothing, and in canning food. We are grateful that the important service of ministering to the sick and homebound, the comforting of the sorrowing, continues to be carried on in a spirit of sisterly love and concern. Under the direction of the Relief Society presidents, 24,373 eight-hour days were spent in caring for the sick, 284,706 visits were made to the sick and the homebound, and 550,697 hours were devoted to other compassionate services, such as caring for the children of a sick mother, preparing a hot meal for an aged sister or accompanying one to a doctor's office, as well as other types of needed assistance. Relief Society also rendered comforting service at 7,386 funerals and 611 bodies were dressed for burial by members of Relief Society. The homemaking meetings attracted an average of 120,357 sisters each month, who not only developed their own talents and skills, but who assisted in the completion of 662,618 articles; 387,870 of these were sewed articles consisting of quilts, clothing, household furnishings; and 274,748 were articles of other types of handiwork. New and better ways of performing homemaking tasks and better methods in home management were also a part of the homemaking activities. The inspired program of Relief Society, designed to help all Latter-day Saint women as well as non-members who participate in the varied activities to become better wives, mothers, homemakers, and members of the Church, continues to accomplish the purposes for which Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Se SC General Secretary-Treasurer 279 280 In Other Countries Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bermuda Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark Ecuador EI Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Iran Ireland Japan Korea Kwajalein Lebanon Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niue Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Paraguay Peru Philippine Islands Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Singapore Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Thailand Tonga Turkey Union of South Africa Uruguay Vietnam Wales Totals In Stakes Organizations Members 7 393 46 1,531 9 439 89 4,332 57 1,352 23 744 6 120 20 555 8 200 43 1,607 9 252 9 108 15 308 341 11,941 1967 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION © In Missions Organiae Members 1 5 58 1,254 33 833 16 414 8 199 1 8 5 53 60 1,336 96 1,854 29 613 3 26 6 67 5 57 19 526 cS 12 10 207 141 2,326 1 7 3 42 20 543 15 216 48 920 169 3,739 22 408 4 153 10 162 1 12 11 200 39 782 10 226 1 4 1 9 119 2,668 23 250 39 704 1 18 6 91 21 443 2 31 6 128 2 60 26 439 12 304 2 24 81 969 29 333 1 5 34 739 9 171 22 377 1 32 50 881 2 20 - 23 433 33 1,064 1 15 16 207 1,410 27,619 Totals Organi-. Os ane Members 1 5 65 1,647 79 2,364 16 414 8 199 1 8 5 53 69 1,775 185 6,186 29 613 3 26 6 67 5 57 19 526 3 12 10 207 198 3,678 1 7 3 42 20 543 15 216 48 920 192 4,483 28 528 4 153 10 162 1 12 11 200 39 782 10 226 1 4 1 9 139 3,223 31 450 82 2,311 1 18 6 91 21 443 2 31 6 128 2 60 26 439 12 304 2 24 90 1,221 38 441 1 5 34 739 24 479 22 377 1 32 50 881 2 20 23 433 33 1,064 1 15 16 207 1,751 39,560 EF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS In Stakes In Missions Totals in the United States a Members alli Members ae Members Alabama 1 37 27 685 28 722 Alaska 6 280 9 151 15 431 Arizona 187 12,130 31 314 218 12,444 Arkansas 3 53 14 256 17 309 California 575 41,005 10 393 585 41,398 Colorado 74 3,977 5 120 79 4,097 Connecticut 9 295 9 295 Delaware 2 101 2 101 Dist. Of Columbia 2 168 2 168 Florida 48 2,045 20 444 68 2,489 Georgia 20 778 15 335 35 1,113 Hawaii 26 1,659 22 753 48 2,412 idaho 401 28,038 401 28,038 Illinois 35 1,467 17 273 52 1,740 Indiana 20 914 6 187 26 1,101 lowa 8 290 14 321 22 611 Kansas 15 527 12 121 27 648 Kentucky 1 54 29 687 30 741 Louisiana 22 637 7 120 29 757 Maine 15 391 15 391 Maryland 14 695 2 54 16 749 Massachusetts 13 468 13 468 Michigan 25 1,156. 3 47 28 1,203 Minnesota 10 515 16 225 26 740 Mississippi 22 636 22 636 Missouri 16 730 17 345 33 1,075 Montana 55 1,996 23 441 78 2,437 Nebraska 8 312 12 164 20 476 Nevada 86 5,366 1 13 87 5,379 New Hampshire 1 30 6 175 7 205 New Jersey 16 744 16 744 New Mexico 42 1,699 12 289 54 1,988 New York 25 1,073 20 525 45 1,598 North Carolina 37 1,169 ll 191 48 1,360 North Dakota 13 172 13 172 Ohio 36 1,428 3 68 39 1,496 Oklahoma 30 805 30 805 Oregon 92 5,214 21 639 113 5,853 Pennsylvania 8 323 29 808 37 1,131 Rhode tsland 2 70 2 70 South Carolina 24 733 5 106 29 839 South Dakota 17 270 17 270 Tennessee 5 171 25 604 30 775 Texas 83 3,044 34 599 117 3,643 Utah 1,419 111,993 1,419 111,993 Vermont 7 157 7 157 Virginia 27 1,202 19 443 46 1,645 Washington 125 6,887 13 287 138 7,174 West Virginia 22 486 22 486 Wisconsin 10 409 11 157 21 566 Wyoming 60 3,109 1 17 61 3,126 Totals 3,746 246,432 596 12,833 4,342 259,265 Other Countries 341 11,941 1410 27,619 1,751 39,560 Grand Totals 4,087 258,373 2,006 40,452 6,093 298,825 281 282 April 1968 MEMBERSHIP (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS Stakes, Missions, and Districts Stakes Missions Mission Districts Wards and Branches In Stakes In Missions L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers In Stakes In Missions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Subscriptions English Edition Spanish Edition 258,373 40,452 4,855 1,512 22,955 12,227 24,518 131,893 434 74 338 4,046 2,006 496,214 94,986 7,431 2,100 259,638 5,868 Total ' 298,825 2,811 197,960 6,898 846 6,052 591,200 9,531 265,506 €82 L96I 404 oday jenuuy 284 April 1968 MEETINGS Ward and Branch Meetings Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings Other Functions Stake and Mission Meetings Stake and District Board Meetings 134,701 25,903 14,293 8,748 3,069 Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Sessions at Stake Quarterly Conferences Total Meetings Held AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members In Stakes In Missions Spiritual Living Homemaking Social Relations Cultural Refinement Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers In Stakes In Missions VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits Home Not Home Per cent at Home Communications Made in Lieu of Visits 102,599 16,898 126,445 120,357 115,146 115,838 2,942 797 44,200 8,129 2,145,080 1,141,294 Total 183,645 5,401 189,047 119,497 69,239 29,888 3,739 52,329 131,893 70,980 3,286,374 65.27% 106,095 Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings 2,332 Annual Report for 1967 285 April 1968 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed By All Females On Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted On Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves or Families VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches By Stake Officers 20,075 By Mission Officers 5,865 COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Days Care of the Sick Visits to the Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining Lists of Nurses Total 67,569 61,718 505,199 46,519 234,847 4,111 25,940 24,373 284,706 550,697 611 7,386 4,128 In Stakes 3,335 In Missions 793 HOMEMAKING Articles Completed Sewed Articles Women's Clothing 44,205 Household Furnishings 164,168 Non-Sewed Articles Sewing Machines Owned by Societies 662,618 387,870 274,748 6,418 Quilts Children's Clothing Men's Clothing Other (Miscellaneous) In Stakes In Missions 19,457 38,383 2,179 119,478 5,457 961 Annual Report for 1967 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT For Stakes and Missions January 1 to August 31 RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1967 _ _ _ _ _ $3,139,487.42 Receipts --.---.-- ~~. ~~ LLL 2,220,970.73 C0) ¢:) |r 5,360,458.15 Disbursements _________._________ 2,786,894.37 Cash Balance on Hand August 31, 1967_ ___ _ $2,573,563.78 ASSETS Net Cash on Hand August 31, 1967 _____ _ ' $2,573,563.78 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office___________ 422,909.67 Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, Etc.) -__-__._.______ 34,371.22 Real Estate and Buildings ____________._ 40,937.67 Total Assets. 222 = = 8 es $3,071,782.34 287 SO | LIKE PINK CLOUDS! Do not condemn my rose-hued glasses, for they enable me to see the action of life's lads and lasses with tolerance and sympathy. They do not dull my common sense; | stil Khow facts, and wrong from right t's only that, thanks to their lens i see life in a different light 1 see the same things others do— but thréugh a rainbow prism adjusted for my special view, the which, | guess, is optimism. Don Knight Significant Day Annie C. Esplin =» The smell of frying homemade sausage teased my nostrils. Drowsily, I turned in bed, catching a glimpse of light peeking through the bedroom door. An impact of shivery anticipation assailed me as I became fully aware of the importance of the dawning day. We were going with our father to take the grist to the mill—a journey five miles up the valley, with an added five miles back home to prolong the yearly adventure. My two younger sisters awakened. Hopping out of bed, our actions assumed a definite purpose. We donned calico sack aprons, with matching sunbonnets starched to a prim stiffness; hoping that there would be no delay of departure. Mother opened the door to the magic of her cozy kitchen. The coal-oil lamp glowed over the breakfast table, which was spread with a snowy cover. Chairs were placed, with high backs to the table, ready for morning prayers. Father emerged from outside with a bucket of foamy milk in one hand and a lantern in the other. Sensing our eagerness, he smiled with satisfaction, loving an opportunity to gladden our hearts. The sun glazed at us inspiringly from the top of White Mountain, as the team obligingly pulled the wagon and us up the lane to begin the trip. We all settled happily in the spring seat. The wagon box creaked, adjusting itself to hold sacks of wheat, while wheels turned in accompaniment to steady clip-clop of horses' hooves. The road meandered enticingly, rewarding us with surprises of nature at her best—busy, small folk of the animal kingdom, ducks in the creek, red and gold autumn leaves on a hillside lookout. Going down a steep bank, splashing through the creek, we came face to face with a huge structure which was the grist mill. As we climbed out of the wagon, we could hear it groan and shudder as the bulky machinery performed to its utmost capacity. A genial miller, powdered with flour dust, greeted us. He and Father were forced to shout to each other. Our wheat was unloaded, and by thorough process, turned from golden grain into white flour. Going home in tranquil Indian summer twilight, our childish voices accompanied Father's fine tenor in a rendition of "Love at Home." Singing of home reminded me of our brand new phonograph, with elegant morning-glory horn, which was at the very moment resplendent on the center table in the parlor. At night, in our comfortable bed with a fresh outdoor aroma of the corn shuck tick, my thoughts turned to the precious sacks of flour stored with our winter supply of food; abundant granary and barn. Wise, industrious Father and Mother! I felt secure—aware of the fact "all is well." As I sank into untroubled slumber, a singing happiness was in my heart. Peace and quiet reigned in our valley home. 289 The Sky Is Blue Again Sylvia Probst Young #® On a day in late autumn, when the clouds hung oppresively low and a mournful wind cried through the bare, brown trees, I closed my door and walked hurriedly across the field to the home of a friend. My thoughts, as I walked along, were dark as the day. I was lonely, disappointed, sick at heart, feeling that life had hurt me more than I could bear. Nothing seemed really worthwhile anymore. I needed to talk to someone—I wanted sympathy, and so I went to her—a woman who is my friend. She was in her little garden behind the house, digging some carrots for the soup she was making. "It's the kind of a day for good, homemade vegetable soup," she exclaimed, after greeting me warmly. "Come in, I have a nice fire, and we can talk." I apologized for coming so unexpectedly, but she quickly corrected me, "Friends don't need previous appointments; it's a compliment to have you come whenever you will.". Sitting on her worn divan, I talked, and she listened, sitting close beside me, her eyes deep with feeling and understanding, she heard my bitterness and heartache, she shared my tears. Her hand, rough from work and knotted by arthritis, lay gently on mine. I felt the strength of her, the comfort she gave without saying a word—she who had known so much of sorrow herself. When the soup was done, she brought it in on a tray, with homemade bread and apricot marmalade, and I thought it was the best lunch I had ever had. Too quickly the hour passed, and it was time for me to go. I didn't want to, but I knew that I must. At the door [ put an arm around her. "Thank you," I said simply, 290 The Sky Is Blue Again "T feel so much better, now. Could you possibly know how much you have helped me?" "T don't know why," she said, "I never seem to know what to say, all I can do is to listen and try to understand." Then she raised her eyes upward. "Oh, look!" she exclaimed brightly, "the sky is blue again, tomorrow will be a better day." Looking up, I saw that she was right, a big patch of blue was pushing the clouds away, and a ray of sunlight gleamed down. Walking back home with a new perspective, I thought how infinitely wise she was without knowing it. "T just listen and try to understand," she had said, but oh, the strength she gave in the listening! For to listen is the highest compliment one can give another—to listen and to understand. How rare and precious is a listener. Her words at parting had given me much to think about—"The sky is blue again." Certainly all things pass away—sorrow, just as cloudy skies, cannot last indefinitely. "Tomorrow will be a better day." Yes, tomorrow would be a better day because of the selflessness —the charity, of a wonderful friend. La IN THE OLD HOLLOW Those were our green years of learning for, there, in our Hollow, we watched spring baby her new blooms, summer lend her sun-warm support, autumn color the landscape as lazy leaves fell on fantasy land. Willows became our mending walls, our maneless ponies, our weapons. Flowers were our growing children, their buds grew, their petals fell, some were born weak, others survived through summer. We became nature's children as we danced in her dawn, ate of her berries, drank from her waters and sang with her wind. We vowed to return to our world within a world within a world. Yet | forgot, and became as a beggar, too hungry to taste the richness of a feast. These have been my lean years. R — Betty Gardner a 291 .. And A Bag To Match Shirley Thulin = Every little girl loves Mommy's purse, so surprise her with a bag of her very own. This project is so easy, you may want to make several, one to match each new dress you make for her. The bag should be made of faille or a similar fabric. If the child's new dress is of a thinner material, line it with faille or heavy satin, and treat the lining and the matching dress fabric as one piece of material. Bonded lace also makes a beautiful bag. First, cut two circles of fabric 15 inches in diameter. Pin the two sections together, right sides facing. (If you are lining the bag you will have four circles. Be sure to pin the four together so that the right sides of the dress fabric will be together.) Stitch all around ¥, inch from the edge, leaving an opening of 3 inches, as shown in figure 1. Now trim the seam allowance to ', inch, turn the right side out, and slip stitch the opening together. Now, with a fine needle (so that it will not leave holes in the fabric) baste all around the edge, pulling out the seam so that the circle will be nice and round. Now press and remove the bastings. Second, on the wrong side, mark a circle %/, inch from the edge. Now mark another circle */, inch from this circle. Stitch around both of these marked circles. This forms a casing. Make two buttonholes one inch apart on each side (figure 2). Be sure to make the buttonholes through the casing only, and not clear through to the right side. You will have to make them by hand. Thus, from the right side, the buttonholes will not show. Third, make two drawstrings, each ¥, yard long. These can be made of white shoelaces, rug yarn, or ribbon. To insert the drawstrings, fasten a safety pin to the end of one drawstring. Pass through one buttonhole in the casing, work around, passing in and out of both buttonholes on opposite side. Bring string out of second buttonhole of first side (figure 3). Join the ends by knotting the drawstring. Fasten a safety pin to the second drawstring; insert in the buttonhole on the opposite side and thread clear around just like the first drawstring. Now turn to right side and the bag is finished. 292 ... And A Bag To Match _—3", Y"' Buttonholes >\ Inside of Bag \< Buttonholes Figure 1 Figure 2 Inside of Bag Figure 3 PIGEONS AT DAWN The morning wakes to pigeons. Their mingled cries suffuse The chill of paling starlight With ardent sunrise hues. Dawn is their tumbled music As morning moments bring The rosy voice of pigeons, Calling and answering. — Ethel Jacobson 293 Enalish | Cooker Mary A. Adams Lowestoft, Suffolk, England FISH CAKES 1 Ib. Whitefish (cod, halibut, or other fish) 1 |b. Cooked mashed potatoes 1 onion, chopped salt and pepper, as desired 2 eggs, beaten bread crumbs Remove skin and bones from fish and flake into a basin. Mix in the potato, onion, salt, pepper, and beaten eggs. Form into patties, using flour on hands, and dip into the crumbs. Press crumbs on well so they stick to cakes. Fry in shallow fat, turning occasionally, for three to five minutes, until crisp and golden. (Makes 6 cakes.) VEAL AND HAM PIE 1 Ib. Cooked filet veal ¥ tsp. Mixed herbs 4 oz. Bacon or ham 1 gill (% pint) veal stock or water 2 hard-boiled eggs, sliced flaky pastry 2 tsp. Chopped parsley 2 egg yolks, beaten salt and pepper to taste Cut the veal into one-inch cubes, cut up bacon or ham, and slice the eggs. Put the meat and eggs in a baking dish in layers, sprinkling the seasoning on each layer. Add stock, cover with pastry. Make a hole in center. Decorate with pastry ''leaves,"' glaze with yolk of egg. Put on halfway shelf in oven, preheated to 400 degrees, and bake about 45 minutes. If uncooked meat is used, cook for 12 hours, turn heat lower after 45 minutes. Serve with potatoes and a vegetable or salad. SWEET COURSE—APPLE CHARLOTTE 4 oz. White bread crumbs 1 Ib. Cooking apples, peeled and grated 3 oz. Granulated sugar 2 oz. Butter, melted grated rind of 42 lemon Mix together 3 oz. White bread crumbs, sugar, and lemon rind. Peel the apples and grate onto a plate. In a pie dish, place alternate layers of mixed crumbs and apples, the last layer being crumbs, over which pour the melted butter. Sprinkle the remaining 1 oz. Of crumbs on top and bake at 350 degrees for about 25 minutes. Fruit variation: cherries, rhubarb, plums, etc. 294 English Cookery CASSEROLE OF MIXED VEGETABLES Y, |b. Kidney beans 2 leeks 2 onions, medium sized 2 oz. Butter or margarine 2 carrots Y% pint stock (chicken or beef) Y |b. Artichokes, tips and hearts only 1 tbsp. Tomato ketchup (or any other root vegetable) salt and pepper Soak beans overnight. Peel, wash, and slice onions, carrots, artichokes, and leeks. Melt the fat in a saucepan. Fry onions, leeks, and carrots until golden brown. Place in casserole and add the stock, artichokes, beans (drained), and ketchup. Season well, cover with lid, and bake at 325 degrees until brown. NUT CUTLETS 1 oz. Butter juice of % lemon 1 oz. Flour salt and pepper Y, pint milk 1 egg yolk, beaten Y% oz. Mixed minced nuts 1 c. Brown bread crumbs 2 oz. White bread crumbs fat for deep frying 1 tsp. Finely minced onion tomato sauce, if desired % tsp. Chopped parsley Make a mixture with the butter, flour, and milk, and add nuts, white crumbs, onion, parsley, lemon juice, and seasoning and mix well. Allow to cool. Form into cutlets, dip into yolk of egg, coat with brown bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Tomato sauce may be served with the dish. Eee ee ee ee ee es 2 2 ee 8 'Re SEE EO REE ESB BRe ee sees 2 oe ee eek ee ee oe ee ee oe ee ee [eenennee aw eene eae anes eweeenwe - ae ae ae A = EE & 2... =.—_ me ws a Mary W. Stauffer a c. Water 3 pkg. Yeast % c. Instant potato 2 c. Cottage cheese Y, c. Sugar 1 tsp. Soda 2 tsp. Salt 2 beaten eggs Ys c. Oil 12-15 c. Flour Heat water to boiling. Add instant potato. Mix well. Add sugar, salt, and oil. Cool to warm. Add yeast. Heat cottage cheese to lukewarm. Add soda to cottage cheese. Add eggs. Mix all liquids. Add flour to make stiff dough; knead; let rise until double; knead again; let rise 30 minutes. Punch down and let rise 10 minutes. Shape into loaves and Jet rise in warm place until doubled in bulk. Bake at 350°, 25-35 minutes. (Yields 5 loaves.) 295 MAMA'S DISH CUPBOARD Joy Lamoreaux Fret # There is in a simple household task an occasional wafting, as of spring into summer, of a lovely memory. Such is my remembrance of a Saturday, when Mama, finishing her toast and honey, rose from the table in quite her ordinary way, saying "Hurry and finish breakfast, girls, because this morning we must get at that dish cupboard." But cleaning Mama's dish cupboard was anything but ordinary. It was an adventure; it summoned all the warmth and glow of a girl's delight, like new patent leather shoes for the Fourth of July, or standing barefoot at the hearth on Christmas Eve. Mama, though, would pull a chair to the kitchen cabinet as though she did that every day, and the cleaning of her cupboard began. Each of us had our special "dish," and as Mama handed dusty favorites to her girls, we heard again the promises: when we were grown, they would be ours to keep; we would have ideal husbands and lovely china cupboards, with this exquisite glass behind the panes. And as each piece descended, Mama, too, became enchanted, and told nostalgic tales for every one. "That cup came all the way across the plains in great-grandma's wagon box," she would say, And we imagined the lady in homespun skirts, wrapping cut glass in linen and protecting it across plains and mountains, while her own hands grew red and rough. And we knew how tenderly she unwrapped it, and how fondly it was placed in the old west home, a delicate radiance beside log walls. And we could see Mama, laughing, vivacious, with crumpled tissue about her knees in her own first home, and daddy smiling at her beauty. For "that was a present on our own wedding day." There was the tiny tea service with tiny cups that one plump mulberry would fill on summer mornings under the mulberry tree; and the baby plate and cup that had been glued many times since'six rosy mouths had learned to drink from it. So carefully, so gently, we washed and polished every shimmering piece, and each was seen as through a mist, and brought a flood of questions, and romantic answers. Answers that would live for us when, in the distant years, mama would be gone, and we would hear her laughter floating from the shelves of our own cupboards, cleaning them. Our own cupboards—that would embrace the dear fragilities that had been Mama's. Cupboards that would need scrubbing, but would never seem a task to scrub, that would welcome soap and keep the secret of remembering tears. Cleaning Mama's dish cupboard was the glory of a Saturday morning— and more. For the memory of those mornings would, with marriage and children, bring a gentle realization of the timelessness of woman's spirit, of the enduring tenderness of ordinary women who had loved and been loved, and who treasured crystal symbols of that love. And just as Mama's girl had stood enthralled at the tale behind a glistening teacup, just as Mama had known the enchantment of her mother's cupboard, so our daughters would one day ask, "And where did you get this dish, Mama?" 296 8 & & & s a* HER TALENTS MAKE A LOVELY HOME Helen Henrie Squires, Oroville Ward, Gridley Stake, California, puts her talents to use in making her home lovely, both outdoors and inside. She has a ''green thumb,"' and enjoys working in the garden and raising beautiful flowers. Her home is filled with quilts and needlework of many varieties. She also makes drapes and refinishes furniture, and is able to do carpentry work around her home. Relief Society bazaars sell many of her aprons, and she enjoys quilting and other sewing for Relief Society, and gives much assistance towards making baZaars successful. She has served as Relief Society president, counselor, and work director, and on numerous committees. This year she hopes to complete her sixtieth year as a visiting teacher. Besides sewing for her home and Relief Society, she sews for her family of five children, twelve grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. 297 'Ie le Time to Get in the Chips" Zara Sabin: Today, as I was preparing kindling for the fireplace, my thoughts went to a time long past when a little boy sang gaily, "It is five o'clock, it is six o'clock, it is time to get in the chips.... It is five o'clock, it is six o'clock, it is time to get in the chips." The chips were from logs the older brothers or father sawed or chopped and split for use throughout the house for its warming or the cooking of meals. Again, I saw the kitchen range, its black top gleaming almost as brightly as its silver-hued ornaments; smelled the oven-fresh bread, pies, and cakes; heard the popping of corn in the big three-footed iron kettle. Prayers of the kneeling group, which surrounded the table night and morning, giving thanks for blessings and asking guidance and protection in speech and act, rang in my ears and heart. The laughter and gaiety, banter, and jokes of a family who loved life and each other, sang around the parlor organ, worked together in the house or field, which included a carefree boy who could make his own song, are memories beyond price, such as belong to many an older generation. "Tt is five o'clock, it is six o'clock, it is time to get in the chips." aS THE INTERVAL | long for an interval now and then, iff \ With no one demanding my presence, when {jj}! The tasks of the day are complete and done, No heed of tomorrow, no care, not one. Close the shutters tight, let the darkness keep An Interval quiet as childhood sleep: But a child no longer, what drone am | That others should shield as the days go by? Fling the shutters wide, let the daylight in, What matters age? It is time to begin To do what | can, when | can, and how; Tomorrow abides, but today is now. F F — Bertha A. Kleinman <@) 298 # The old Saipanese woman had told her son she had a big secret. But, like a child, she was anxious to share that secret with someone who could really appreciate its full impact. And now she had found that soneeone—Nancy. "The old woman want to show you something," the man said, "in the boonies. Come." Nancy obediently followed them onto a path which appeared from out of nowhere. Inadvertently, she crunched snail shells beneath her feet and ducked under giant spider webs as she was led deeper and deeper into the tangantangan. Then the foliage dropped suddenly from roof-top to knee-high, and the jungle became a quiet forest sprouting row upon row of white, weathered grave markers. Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Throw Down the Gauntlet Janet W. Breeze "Garapan City," the man said, "come." Here and there, bright plastic flowers hung in wreaths from markers where each plot beneath was carefully sectioned off with stones and covered with white sand. Through the sand, small shoots of tangantangan defiantly poked their wispy heads. In once neat garden sectors, crowds of bowstring hemp stood cobwebbed and erect with tropical stature. Green bamboo the size of maple trunks quaked and creaked in the overhead breezes as Nancy's eyes focused from Chamarro, to Spanish, to German, to Japanese markers and back again. And then it was obvious they were once more out of the cemetery—and here, beneath two ancient mango trees 299 April 1968 they stopped, as the old woman began to point to an unmarked plot surrounded by small stones and almost hidden by weeds. "She say," the son _ slowly translated, "many years ago small airplane fall from sky—in lagoon—Tanapag. Lady like you —short hair—come out of water. She wearing man's pants. Americano lady see soldiers make secret. Get ready for war. Old woman see soldiers hide lady. Then lady die. Old woman see them put her in ground." "Amelia Earhart?" Nancy whispered, half to herself. "Here on Saipan?" Nancy stood staring at the potter's field grave, trying to remember what she had read in school about the woman who vanished while attempting to fly around the world in the late 1930's. "Maila," the old woman said, pointing at the darkening clouds overhead. "Come," her son_ repeated. "We go now. Rain." The three of them turned and retraced their steps back through the cemetery. Now the lazy breezes were gaining momentum and the tall bamboo shoots made long, slow, cracking sounds as they leaned first to one side, and then to the other—each stalk now and again rubbing its neighbor with screeching vibrato. Where was that? Nancy thought. She vanished east of here—way east. How could she have made it to Saipan? As they stepped once more into the clearing of the little "boonie" farm a nervous sort of 300 activity brought people running up to them and speaking in soft, urgent tones. "You must hurry," the man said to Nancy. "KJQR say typhoon coming." Nancy looked around at the group of frightened faces—and at the thrown together shack of patchwork plywood resting upon eight cement-block "feet." "But you'd better come with me," she said. "We have a concrete home. There would be plenty of room...." The man grinned and shook his head. "No, Missus." "But where will you go?" "To cave." The old woman began waving her hands excitedly toward Nancy. "Lagusi! Lagusi!" "Hurry, Missus." Nancy quickly climbed into her small, Japanese-made car and turned on the radio, but the daily Armed Forces broadcast of pure "country" music from Nashville was not interrupted by any local news. Maybe there had been a misunderstanding. Well —it had been known to happen! It looked like any other rainy day in any other part of the world to her, but as she drove up to the side of their newly acquired "permanent" quarters, Grant was standing in the doorway waiting for her. "Give me the keys," he said, "so I can park it around the front of the house. They're expecting a typhoon to hit here in forty-eight hours." Nancy still felt a bit stunned and confused. "So then what's the rush?" she asked, "if it's not until day after tomorrow?" "We've got plenty to keep us busy inside,'' Grant said, "come on. Mortensens dropped by to make sure I had heard the broadcast, and they said we should get everything we can, put away and into the closets." G rant's tone of immediacy distressed Nancy. In one year of living in the tropics, she had heard so much talk about typhoons—and false warnings— that she could not immediately comprehend that it could actually happen. And she wanted to talk about something else, about where she had been in the boonies. "T've already checked our food supply,' Grant said. "There's plenty of canned meat and fruit juice to see us through it." "Good," Nancy said, still preoccupied and looking for the encyclopedia volume marked "E." "Honey!" Grant said, "we have to get the books put into the closet—not take them out!" "Oh, Grant, sit down! Calm down! Just give me ten minutes to settle my mind on something and then Ill panic! If KJQR can take time to play country music, 7 can take time to look something up." "Isn't this kind of a switch from our first night on Truk when we caught the tail end of that tropical storm and you all but Aid in the closet?" "Please! Don't remind me!" And she flipped through the pages of her books. "That's what I thought," she said, "Howland Island. It isn't anywhere near here." "Well, of course it's not," Throw Down the Gauntlet Grant said. "But why does that matter right now?" "Grant, that old woman took me to a grave she claims is the burial place of Amelia Earhart. But, according to this, weather observers made an emergency landing field for her on Howland Island, but she never reached it. Now how could she have come this far if she were in that much trouble?" "Nancy—I think every island in the Pacific has a legend of Amelia Earhart. No one knows— and so everyone speculates." "But this old woman told the story in such detail! She is so positive! And she described her perfectly. Now how could she make a thing like that up?" "T don't know. Maybe she saw it in the movies." "Well, maybe it's true, and maybe it isn't," Nancy went on, "but as I stood looking at that grave, what had only been a story before suddenly came alive! And I couldn't help but think what a brave woman she must have been in the first place to even attempt a flight like that— especially after going over the Pacific myself. I don't think I'd ever want to cross any way but by jet—get it over with in a hurry." Nancy closed the book and returned it to the hot closet. "Anyway—lI stood there in the boonies, and I just wanted to cry. She seemed so real. The people of Garapan who are no more seemed so real. I even thought about our pioneer ancestors. Oh, Grant. We've had our disappointments and times of sorrow—but nothing could ever compare with the trials 301 April 1968 some people are forced to live through—and die through. I'm so glad we came out here. It has given me such a greater compassion toward other people and their ways and their problems. I used to think I had a testimony of the gospel—but it was nothing compared to the feeling I have now. When I look at other people, I just can't comprehend what I ever could have done to be so blessed!" Grant smiled at her in his usual studious way. "You're right," he said, "and I hate to dampen your mood—but let's remember that the Lord helps those who help themselves, so let's carry these couch cushions into the bedroom closet." "Do you suppose it will be a | bad typhoon?" she asked. "Who knows? I guess that depends on whether it's a direct hit, or we just get the effects of its hitting someplace else. We shouldn't have too much to worry about, though, in a concrete house. But we should get everything we can put away— not that it's going to stay. Perfectly dry. I've heard people say the wind from a typhoon can send rain through four inches of concrete." "Don't you think that sounds a little farfetched?" Nancy asked. "T don't know. I've never been in a typhoon—yet." When Nancy had first heard that the warning was for a storm forty-eight hours away, it seemed as if they would have time on their hands to do nothing but wait, but in making preparations for the storm and taking care of their four children, the hours seemed to slip by all 302 too quickly. Now the sky was clouded in a frightening green as rain drizzled down the windowpanes. "We'd better tie down the sunshades," Grant said. "It'll keep any broken glass from flying around the room." "Here, Amy," Nancy said, "take this stack of picture books to the nursery. We're going to stay in there for awhile, and you'll want lots to do." Amy held out her arms for the books and started to cry at the same time. "I'm scared." "Oh, come on now," Nancy said, "what's there to be afraid of?" "Tt looks funny outside." "Well, we're going to have a new experience, honey, but before we do, we'll have our family prayer. And then everything will be all right!" Now the increasing velocity of the wind began driving the rain with such force that it came through the lanai screens and then into the living room. Nancy looked at the electric clock. "Power's off." "Let's get into the bedroom," Grant said. "Shouldn't we make some kind Throw Down the Gauntlet of attempt to start mopping this Now she squared her shoulders water?" Nancy asked. As her mind played back the "Forget it. Just take your words of the prayer Grant had shoes off. You'd be fighting 4 just offered and the testimony losing battle." which had increased SO powerSkipper happily obeyed his fully during the time on Saipan. Father's suggestion and began Her family depended upon her sloshing. Around on the floor, for strength; and, for the first put Amy's understanding was time in her life, she felt as if she y to being comprehensible could give it. She would not fail and once more she started to them. Cry—this time softly, while she Grant lighted a kerosene lamp clung to her mother's dress as and when he handed it to Nancy, y walked down the hall to his palms were cold and moist. ' how her mother used to comfort one reason—she's hungry!" Then her "little ballerina" by getting Nancy looked across the room her to watch how the wind where Skipper and Grant were made the curtains and shadows seated by the twin cribs. "So "dance SO beautifully." Daddy, you throw down the Such a long time ago, Nancy gauntlet—and Til prepare the food." =.; _ wm? Ne Mp ade All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Gulf States Mission, Arkansas District Singing Mothers Present Music for Conference December 17, 1968 Front row, beginning fifth from left: Deanna Smith, chorister; Jo Ellen Griffin, President, Arkansas District Relief Society; Donna Williamson, accompanist; Beatrice Pinkston, Supervisor, Gulf States Mission Relief Society. Sister Pinkston reports: ''The Arkansas District Singing Mothers provided the music for the District Conference, held in Little Rock, Arkansas. A special Christmas musical number, 'No Room,' was the highlight of the performance." Northern Far East Misson, West Central District Singing Mothers Present Music for Conference November 2, 1967 Front row, extreme left: Kayo Murakawa, chorister; seventh and eighth from left: Toshiko Yanagida, Mission Relief Society President; Setsuko Yaginuma, Mission Relief Society First Counselor. The remaining sisters on the front row are officers in the branch Relief Society presidencies. Second row, extreme right: Mariko Kunishima, President, West Central District Relief Society. Judy A. Komatsu, Supervisor, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society, reports: "These Singing Mothers presented the music for the District Sectional Conference at Osaka, Japan. "The theme of the afternoon session of the conference was on Relief Society. Gathered were members from seven branches. Most of the sisters are working girls, but are active Relief Society members. As they say, they will be mothers someday. Similar programs were held in all district conferences."' Philadelphia Stake (Pennsylvania), Audubon Second Ward Participates in Charity Bazaar, Audubon Second Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Delora Pugh, Second Counselor; Maxine Barlow, President; Arlene Andrus, First Counselor. Fern L. Hatch, President, Philadelphia Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Audubon Second Ward Relief Society participated with sixty-seven other organizations in a charity bazaar inside the Moorestown, New Jersey, Mall Shopping Center. "This is a newly organized ward, but within two months, the sisters were able to complete over 500 articles. Their booth received honorable mention for the decoration. The unique twelve to fourteen feet high figure drew people to the booth in large numbers. Total sales for the ward exceeded any of the other organizations participating." 304 ee oe ' _ = > ates — {3 ~ - ot: ARTICLES ile i r. -ON SALE = } April 1968 Mount Ogden (Utah) Stake Fashion-Talent Show Culminates Summer Sewing Projects September 23, 1967 Left to right: Marilee Reese; Grace Bateman, Homemaking Counselor, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; Sue Froerer, chairman of fashion-talent show. Edvenia J. Malan, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A summer of sewing and handiwork was culminated by a fashion-talent show themed, 'Our Fair Ladies.' Sixty-six models entered the stage through painted scenes of home, school, and church. After modeling, they walked to the end of a long ramp where Stake President Albert L. Bott assisted them down the stairs. "In addition to the clothing modeled, hats, knits, rugs, quilts, and embroidered aprons were displayed. Dainty refreshments were served to 400 sisters seated around tables placed throughout the cultural hall.'' Brigham Young University Sixth Stake, Brigham Young University Eighteenth Ward Bazaar, '"'The Circus,'' November 19, 1967 Brigham Young University Eighteenth Ward officers, front row, left to right: Carol Gold, Education Counselor; Regina Cappadonia, President; Lawanna Palmer, Homemaking Counselor. Second row, left to right: Sandy Deane, homemaking leader; Judy Sherman, Secretary-Treasurer. Bonnie L. Goodliffe, President, Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The BYU Eighteenth Ward bazaar was themed 'The Circus,' and the sisters worked hard to make it successful. "Our stake is unique in that it is comprised exclusively of married students and their wives and children. Many of the sisters are helping to put their husbands through school. Relief Society bazaars are invaluable, not only for the opportunity they offer to develop homemaking skills, but also for helping the sisters to keep within their tight budgets. ''Each of the six wards in the stake held bazaars. We are grateful that so many of the activities and phases of Relief Society are carried out in the unique university situation." Norwegian Mission Holds All-Mission Relief Society Conference October 7-8, 1967 Rose M. Jacobsen, Supervisor, Norwegian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Mission Relief Society Presidency, Elsie Bakken, President; Alfhild Morteng, First Counselor; Elin Waal, Second Counselor; and Wenche Hedemark, Secretary, directed the conference. "The conference was held in Oslo, and members there graciously opened their homes so that there was no expense for the visitors after travel. In Norway, distances are great and the terrain is difficult to travel. The sisters had been saving for this event for several months. A rummage sale was held early in the year to help defray the expenses of the conference. In addition, each branch brought items to be sold at the conference, and the proceeds were used to help sisters who had traveled long distances. "Saturday evening a program for all Church membership was held, at which time a play, 'Melinda,' was presented, and the visiting teaching film, 'Unto the Least of These,' was shown. "The conference closed with a Sunday night sacrament meeting which focused on Relief Society. Singing Mothers from various branches joined together to provide music for the program. 'It was wonderful for the sisters to be able to gather and feel the strength and support of one another." 306 April 1968 Glendale Stake (California) Presents ''Color Your Life With Culture' December 1, 1967 Glendale Stake Relief Society officers, front row, left to right: Vergie Fischbeck, Spiritual living class leader; Julene Acton, social relations class leader; Carol Smith, chorister; Mildred Thomas, Secretary-Treasurer; Grace Brown, organist. Back row: Nell Sant, Second Counselor; Barbara Moffat, First Counselor; Unita Welch, President; Nancy Scott, homemaking leader; Ethel Schroder, visiting teacher message leader; Lottie Jonkey, Magazine representative. Sister Welch reports: ''To emphasize the interest in art and music, as well as in literature, as presented in the cultural refinement program, the stake board sponsored an evening art exhibit and cultural program. The response was thrilling, with 150 artists displaying over 500 exhibits, including painting, weaving, pottery, sculpture, and photography. "The program was adapted by Sister Barbara Moffat from 'Let All My Llfe Be Music.' Readings from Out of the Best Books, musical selections by the stake Singing Mothers, soloists, and groups, were introduced through a skit, 'Julie,' which featured a sister painting on life's easel, who changed her life from gray shapelessness to a vibrant richness. "The art exhibits were open before and after the program. Punch and cookies were served to over 600 guests. The discovery of many hidden talents and an appreciation of Relief Society by the husbands was a great reward."' 308 Notes From the Field Memphis Stake (Tennessee) Holds First Relief Society Bazaar December 2, 1967 Front row, left to right: Melba Murphy, President, Helena (Ark.) Branch Relief Society; Dana McDaniel, President, Memphis Second Ward Relief Society (Tenn.), Macelle Holliday, President, Sarah (Miss.) Ward Relief Society; Mary Webber, Homemaking Counselor, Helena Branch Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Charmein Hexem, Homemaking Counselor, Jonesboro (Ark.), Branch Relief Society; Marie Rogeau, President, Jonesboro Branch Relief Society; Ramona Floyd, President, Booneville (Miss.) Ward Relief Society; Carol Johnson, President, Hayti (Mo.) Ward Relief Society; Louise Burns, President, Memphis Ward Relief Society; Sylvia Messner, Homemaking Counselor, Millington (Tenn.) Ward Relief Society. Mary Lou Rourk, President, Memphis Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A sweet spirit of love and cooperation prevailed throughout the day at the first stake bazaar of the Memphis Stake Relief Society, although outside there raged the worst rainstorm of the year, complete with tornado warnings. "The theme of the bazaar was 'Around the World,' and the booths featured handwork and ideas from many countries. Everyone worked hard, and inside the gymnasium at Crenshaw (Miss.) High School, there was nothing but sunshine."' 309 April 1968 Kansas City Stake Annual Relief Society Social December 8, 1967 Facing camera, left to right: Marjorie Nelson; Edith Conwell; Juanita Harris; Rowena S. Gillette; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society; Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society. Shown greeting the sisters are President Jewel A. Pope of the Kansas City Stake, his mother, and wife Jean. Sister Reeve reports: ''The Kansas City Stake Relief Society held its annual social in December. The stake board and Sister Sharp greeted the guests as they arrived. 'A short program of musical numbers and remarks by Sister Sharp were followed by a presentation of 'As a City on a Hill,' by Alberta H. Christensen. "An art display lined the walls of the cultural hall. In our September leadership meeting the art work of the sisters had been displayed, and we felt it was worthwhile to show the work to the entire stake. "This social is looked forward to each year."' Bountiful North Stake (Utah) Relief Society Sewing Schools and Fashion Show Seated, left to right: Janene B. Wood; Dalane M. Evenson. | Standing, left to right: Gayle H. McMaster, Homemaking Counselor, Bountiful North Stake Relief Society; Jean G. Ashby; Mildred A. Van Uitert, President; Rulena O. Gray; Evelyn C. Lemon, stake homemaking leader; Edna N. Eggett, guest commentator; Anita H. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer; Shirley C. Moss. Sister Van Uitert reports: ''Early in the spring of 1967, the Bountiful North Stake initiated a series of sewing schools, under the direction of the stake Relief Society presidency and the stake homemaking leader. Classes ranging from beginning sewing to tailoring were offered. The ward homemaking leaders were instructed; they then conducted the schools on a ward basis. 'Participation was excellent, and hundreds of articles, emphasizing Church dress standards, were made. "In the fall, a fashion show was staged, with mothers and children modeling the clothing. The guests were seated at beautifully decorated small tables where refreshments were served. Musical numbers and a guest commentator helped to make the event outstanding. "Enthusiasm was so great that the sewing schools will be held again this year. We feel that it is a great addition to the lives of the sisters, learning to work together, sewing, budgeting money, time, materials, and learning something useful and profitable." Bountiful South Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 1, 1967 Eulala H. Butters, President, Bountiful South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Christmas concert had its inception early in the spring when a letter was directed to each ward, encouraging the sisters to write a song in keeping with the scriptures or the Christmas season, set to music. 'We were delighted when sixteen original compositions were submitted, all beautifully written. We used eight of these for our concert, and the others in stake leadership meetings. The original music was intermingled with a beautiful narration, written and given by Sister Elaine McKay. "Organ music and Christmas carols sung by each ward group were a prelude to the concert. Beautiful displays of gifts, ornaments, and decorations greeted early arrivals. A tableau with special lighting effects made the concert complete. Nearly 1150 people attended the concert, and left with a special feeling of closeness to the Savior of the world, and a greater appreciation of the efforts of the Singing Mothers." 310 Discussion 10—Care of the Ill in the Home HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Rae Jean Young, Faculty Member Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July, 1968 Southern Hemisphere: December, 1968 OBJECTIVE: To suggest ways of easing the burden on the INTRODUCTION There are certain basic factors of physical care that must be attended to in the care of any ill person: comfort measures, which include bathing, hair and mouth care, positioning, elimination of body wastes, feeding, and administration of medication. Along with physical care of the patient, the physical care of the home nurse should be considered. By using the following proper body mechanics, the home nurse can help to protect herself and eliminate fatigue: 1. Maintain a broad base of support with the feet comfortably apart. 2. When lifting, bend the knees to allow the large muscles of the arms and legs to support the weight rather than the weaker lower back muscles. 3. Stand close to the work area and carry heavy objects close to the body. 312 home nurse caused by illness in the home. Slide or roll patient rather than lift. Have patient help when possible. Get help where patient is heavy and helpless. Sd i 5 She should also use a cover-all apron, good handwashing techniques, and proper waste disposal to prevent spread of disease to herself or to other family members. HANDWASHING Wash hands and wrists carefully before and after caring for the patient. Use a good soapy lather and make sure nails and areas between fingers are fully soaped. Rinse hands under hot running water with the stopper removed from basin. Dry hands with clean towel or disposable paper towel. IMPROVISED HOME EQUIPMENT A. Over bed table Lesson Department Use a heavy, clean cardboard carton at least 10 by 12 by 24 inches with flaps removed. Cut curved pieces out of the two wide sides leaving at least 2" on the top to support table top. Adjust height of box to that of patient. The box may be cov ered with plastic or contact paper to ma aa WAYS OF EASING THE BURDEN While caring for the ill, the person carrying the most responsibility often finds that weariness soon sets in. The added amount of physical labor, plus the emotional strain, make it difficult for one person to do the job. Comided by Relief Society sisters can inestimable value at such a time. When illness is present in the home, sharing of responsibility and adjustment of usual responsibilities make the task much easier and the care of the patient can rearrange work assignments This will not only save mother's energy, but will help other family members feel useful. S.> possible ways of rearranging threaten to become a burden, yet it can be borne with greater ease and betwith simple home nursing techniques. Second, love and consideration—from all family members, including the patient. P der, loving care is an important factor in the recovery of the patient. The home nurse should not allow herself to be tied to the sick room day and night. Allowing a friend or neighbor to spend a few hours with the patient while she goes shopping, to a movie, to have her hair done, or to any activity outside of the home usually helps both nurse and patient. 313 April 1968 B. Back rest <p> L_ Wi "a Cut the corner at each of the broad sides of the box. Score the short sides of the carton diagonally from top to bottom on the inner a) surface. | od _ia 4 Vj, a Bring the front side of the box up over the folded sides. Tie in place. Bend inward on the scored lines. _~fPlace on the bed with the slanting side toward the patient. C. Blocks to raise the bed may be made from #10 cans filled with sand. The lids should be replaced on top of the sand for the legs of the bed to rest upon. Remove casters from legs of the bed. 314 THE RIGHT ATMOSPHERE It is wise to create an atmosphere of calm and confidence about the patient. All family members will be called upon to give consideration to the patient, including any children in the home. When a patient is confined to bed over an extended period of time, he often feels lonely and left out of family activities. When the illness is severe, isolation may be required, but once he begins convalescing he usually wants and enjoys company. This is true also of the handicapped, chronically ill, or the aged. Mealtime visiting may be in order, with the doctor's permission. Allowing a family member to share a meal with the patient may reassure him that he is still very much a part of the family. Visits and visitors must be kept within reasonable limits. For all visits a little briefing on suggested topics of conversation may be helpful. A child might be told, "Daddy has been asking about your school activities." For a visit with Grandma a remark such as, "Tell Grandma about Tabby's new kittens." Even when a patient is alone, he can find diversion with the help of the home nurse. Books, Magazines, newspapers, radio, and television are good companions. Some patients who have never before enjoyed games, puzzles, etc., learn to enjoy them while bed-bound. When there is illness in the home, the home nurse finds her work load and responsibilities will increase. It is vital that she keep Lesson Department her health up to par, and that she make every effort to follow, as nearly as possible, the usual pattern of living. Her family's routine must be considered, too, and disturbed as little as possible. She should eat and sleep at customary times and get some needed recreation and diversion. At first, this may appear hard to accomplish, but it is a necessity— for the patient as well as the home nurse. It would be helpful to write out a plan or daily schedule for the care of the patient for the use of the home nurse or her substitute. WHEN HELP IS NEEDED There are agencies and organizations which are for the express purpose of helping care for the ill in the home. In the United States and some other countries public health agencies will send a nurse to the home. The public health nurse is helpful in many ways. She will help arrange the physical setup for the sick room, suggesting the equipment necessary and possible ways of improvising. She will also demonstrate for the home nurse such things as feeding, bathing, and turning the patient. In _ the United States of America, services of public health nurses are free to everyone regardless of socio-economic status. Visiting nurse agencies are found in many cities. They usually charge a nominal fee. The Red Cross is another valuable resource which is available in most parts of the world. The Red Cross is most helpful for instructions on caring for the ill. 315 \ COLORED PIECES My grandma took into her hands one day The scraps of fabric hoarded carefully Against the time when riotous display Of colors teased to set her fancy free. Her eyes compared the bits of printed stuff With those of delicate designs. She matched and trimmed until she had enough To fill her need for seaming patterned lines. Her mind encompassed cloth, yet she would stop While she was plying needle steadily, To straighten and arrange the growing top Of gayest rings upon the quilt to be. Creating beauty, she surveyed the whole And knew that colored pieces feed a soul! - Pearle M. Olsen J NEW LDS FAMILY GAME PROGRESSION IDEAL FOR Family Home Evening DEMONSTRATES: PURPOSE OF GOSPEL ORDINANCES CONSEQUENCES OF DISOBEDIENCE PRINCIPLE OF REPENTANCE IMPORTANCE OF WORK FOR THE DEAD AND MUCH MORE THIS IS NOT A QUESTION AND ANSWER GAME. 1¥ CANNOT SE MEMORIZED. FT TEACHES THE GOSPEL AS YOU PLAY IT. LOWE & RICHARDS 6690 VILLAGE ROAD ONLY SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $3.95 "4121 See The MORMON PAVILION at HEMISFAIR 68 San Antonio, Texas 6 Apr.-6 Oct. MORMON TABERNACLE CHOIR will visit on 23-24th July ACCOMODATIONS forL. D. S. Visitors Write for INFORMATION: L. D. S. Housing Center for HEMISFAIR '68 P. O. Box 23225 San Antonio, Texas 78223 Phone: Area Code 512/532-8122 Housing is already becoming a problem. Write NOW. 316 Tour-ific! *® HAWAII] weeny * HILL CUMORAH paceant 17 Days — $279 19 Days — 319 22 Days — 359 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR 14 Days — $259 22 Days — 369 (including So. States & Florida) 22 Days — $396 (Including Mexico City & Acapulco) For all travel and ticketing. Arrangements RET Cs ne My 110 East 2nd South > oalt Lake City, Utah, a 68.898; 571.033 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 AN Chenezet yo Busliy MUSIC COMPANY MOVED We're growing. We've increased our floor size five times. Our sheet music selection and other music departments are being enlarged and streamlined to help you in your music needs. We specialize in Mail Order Service. Write to get on our mailing list for a complete music catalog. Coming soon Come visit our new home. - NEW ADDRESS - 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective March 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 __.80 JZone5 _~__- 1.20 Zone3 _~__-_.-.95 Zone6 __-_- 1.40 Zone 4 __.-_ 105 Zone7 __-_-_ 1.60 Zone8_ ~~... -1.85 — 3 PESERET PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 NEW SNO WHITE COTTON IDEAL FOR DISHTOWELS Yardage: Bleached 35'' Wide __ 29c yd. SOLD IN FULL BOLTS ONLY Approx. 125 yds. Per bolt Squares: Bleached & Hemmed 29c each Size 28Y2''x35"' Packed 50 per bundle _ - SOLD IN FULL BUNDLES ONLY Shipment Made Anywhere FREIGHT CHARGES COLLECT SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Wagner Corporation 703 West 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Phone: 328-2577 317 "Put up" prettier with JELLY JARS & JELLY GLASSES A joy to 'put up" with! Diamond-patterned glass. Gay, multi-colored tops. And new jelly jars that seal themselves! ('Quilted Crystal" jars have the famous Ball "Dome" Lids, the ones with the nice, clean, WHITE enamel lining and the red sealing ring that clings so tight.) Or, you can buy the glasses and seal with paraffin. No gift is more welcome than a few of your very own favorites, perfectly protected in "Quilted Crystal' jars or glasses. Look for them in handy trays, ideal for storage, serving refreshments, or gift packing! SEND FOR THIS COLLECTOR'S ITEM SALT & PEPPER SET (AVAILABLE WEST OF ROCKIES ONLY) Again, for a limited time only (for just 25¢ and 3 box tops of either Ball Caps or 'Dome' Lids), we can offer collectors these charming, miniature replicas of Ball Mason Jars, for 80 years the world's best selling brand. Practical, too... For picnics, lunch pails, table use. Send for yours, now! BALL BROTHERS COMPANY 4000 North Arden, El Monte, Califorina 91731 (Allow 6 weeks for delivery) NAME ADDRESS CITY 318 Please send me salt & pepper sets. Enclosed find 25¢ and 3 box tops for each set. HAWAIIAN TOUR (June 18-30) SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR July 6-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19-September 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 New Craft Medium __ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies 'Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 DISCOUNT SPECIAL INTRODUCTORY OFFER 2 Ox off on ALL LDS Church Books!!! Mailed FREE anywhere in the world KEY TO HAPPINESS Beatrice M. Sparks (reg. $3.95) TENDER APPLES Ora Pate Stewart (reg. $3.95) FOOD FOR THO'T Mary Taylor (reg. $4.95) ART OF HOMEMAKING Daryl V. Hoole (reg. $3.95) THE WAY TO HAPPINESS Rulon S. Howells (reg. $1.50) THE THIRD THOUSAND YEARS $3.16 (postpaid) $3.16 (postpaid) $3.96 (postpaid) $3.15 (postpaid) $1.20 (postpaid) OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS SEND FOR YOUR FREE DISCOUNT LIST OK & ¢ As) Mail Order Bookstore P. O. Box 270 mf 360 E. Palm Lane ~ PHOENIX, ARIZONA 85004 > ol 319 W. Cleon Skousen (reg. $5.95) Volume 3 (reg. $2.95) $4.76 (postpaid) $2.36 (postpaid) 'ithday Congrallaoas Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 102 Mrs. Hattie Amelia Rushnell Foster 92 Mrs. Damaris Hayes Bradley Belleville, Ontario, Canada 99 Mrs. Sarah A. Collins Frost Ogden, Utah Mrs. Albertha Nielson Hatch Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Stewart Cardston, Alberta, Canada Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Sarah Seely Larsen Castle Dale, Utah Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menan, Idaho Mrs. Ruth Rutherford Woods St. George, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Wakefield Wortley Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada 95 Mrs. Alta Spence Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Nellie May Allred Crane Salina, Utah 94 Mrs. Emma Brown Springville, Utah Mrs. Hannah Jensen Scott Olsen Cardston, Alberta, Canada 93 Mrs. Mary Etta Lee Cox St. George, Utah Mrs. Hettie J. Sniff Hunt Holladay, Utah Mrs. Ann Owen Jones Sandy, Utah 320 South San Gabriel, California Mrs. Ida Taylor Flinders Ogden, Utah Mrs. Maude Whittle Stoddard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Delecta Ballantyne Burton Afton, Wyoming Mrs. Carrie Elissen Hagerman, Idaho. Mrs. Sarah E. Craghead Gascon Elmonte, California Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna Bell Allred Sorensen Salina, Utah Mrs. Johanna Vanloon DeWal Bonner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Roberts Bradfield Minersville, Utah Mrs. Almeda Perry Brown Downey, California Mrs. Estella Nancy Tippetts Christensen Arimo, Idaho Mrs. Mary Magdalene Russ Evans Arcadia, Florida Mrs. Emma Louise Jackson Facer Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Ada Blanche Luscher Johnson Mantua, Utah Mrs. Lillian Johnson Holland Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Maude Frodsham Montierth Wilmington, California Mrs. Prudence Thomas Naylier Ogden, Utah Mrs. Jennie Erickson Nelson Los Angeles, California Mrs. Emma Hatch Wherritt Heber City, Utah 96 Mrs. Emma Johanna Ottesen Halverson a TD Of Special Interest to LDS Women Ta RT i ae ey OUT OF THE WEST by Lu Jones Waite $3.95 An outstanding novel that vividly portrays a young girl's search for a meaningful romance. In spite of an active Church life, a young and vivacious Mormon girl finds that the man she loves is not of her faith. Share the agony that faces this young girl as she tries to decide between her Church and her heart. A satisfying and uplifting book filled with the color and excitement of a ranch and rodeo background. DOCTRINAL COMMENTARY ON THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE by Dr. Hyrum L. Andrus $4.95 Of special interest to Relief Society women since the finding of papyri owned by Joseph Smith is the scholarly exploration and analysis of the least known of the standard works. An aid to a fuller appreciation of this latterday scripture. SS DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY () DOCTRINAL COMMENTARY ON THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE ke, and 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. April "68 R. S. Mag. Send Me: () OUT OF THE WEST Total cost $.... 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALI miso. Asameat. AadtNatcanteeuia -. This includes 34% Utah sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah eer ek LIFE iC "aaance OS) Paty way | Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah ety i o x = 0 0 ) ® te Magazine MAY 1968 DAY DREAMS When | stayed so late beside the willow, Whose slender wands held summer in a spell, And thrust my chin in dandelion yellow, Did you think me idle? Should | tell About the afternoon | watched the swallow And mused his going, though | could not view His higher flight nor, grounded, follow, Except to yearn hour long to cleave the blue? All dreams do not weigh anchor near a pillow, Some seek the quiet inlets of the day, Where fragile sails can catch fresh winds and billow Across the wave and bear one far away. —Lucille R. Perry ake 'Utah Y Deser News Press fi ni; oF a * a layout DIC, - z 7.. Lustrations: Mary Scopes e Dn; f ry? I y fr f yy, AY f- 74 a ha ™~ ' - a J,; Vt/,,: Wf Anyone who has been exposed to the Magazine has learned to love it because it is a building Magazine. It builds faith, love, understanding, unity, respect, and consideration for others. It lifts the spirit and encourages. Fern L. Hatch, President, Philadelphia Stake Relief Society May | say at this time how much | appreciate our Magazine, especially the beautiful color photographs. The December issue is particularly enjoyable, allowing us to see the Christmas decorations in so many homes. As a Spiritual living class leader, | find the lessons most inspiring. The Magazine is indeed a small treasure. Kathleen Peace Gregory, Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England | treasure The Relief Society Magazine, and | will sit for hours reading through old, as well as new, copies. The inspiration | receive and the influence on our home are immeasurable. | thank my Heavenly Father that I, with my husband and children, are members of this great, true Church and privileged to have such stories, poems, and counsel from the pages of the Magazine to draw strength over a number of years. Pamela H. Gardner, Lilanfallteg, Whitland, Carmarthenshire, Wales In the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine | read the short story ''Eddie," by Mickey Goodwin. | enjoyed it very much as | am interested in life in the Northern Indian Mission. Nancy Smith, Lakeland, Florida | appreciate having my story in the Magazine (''Mrs. Pleasant,'' January 1968), and | wish to express my thanks for the splendid illustration. You sisters add greatly to the real pleasure of gaining knowledge. It is an honor to be published on the Magazine's choice pages. Nelda P. Litchfield, Calgary, Alberta Canada | want to express my thanks to Sister Venda B. Castleberry for her wonderful, inspiring, and important message in her story ''Where Did My Happiness Go?'' (March 1968). The story has helped me to put greater meaning and higher goals into my family's home life. It is truly an inspiring story. Veda Foster, Ogden, Utah | would like to pay tribute to Mary Scopes for the very fine way she portrays, by her illustrations, the message and content of The Relief Society Magazine stories. My daughter Louise Harmon, of Provo, Utah, had her Christmas story published in the November issue—''A Miracle at Christmas.' It was a real life experience which happened in our home in Alberta, Canada, when the children were young. The picture which accompanied the story was so real it looked like a photograph—the four children standing watching were completely natural. We gave subscriptions to the Magazine to some of our children at Christmas. T. Ralph LeBaron, Salt Lake City, Utah | would like to say how much | enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. | have attended Relief Society regularly since joining the true Church and have enjoyed every minute of being associated with this good cause. It has helped me in my home and as a mother in so many different ways. | am now president of the South Birmingham Ward, and am looking forward to this assignment. In the December 1967 issue of the Magazine, | especially enjoyed ''The Wonderful Work of Women,'' by President N. Eldon Tanner, of the First Presidency. It was so inspiring. Eunice Y. E. Lake, Stechford, Birmingham, England 322 The Reiief Society Magazine volume 55 May 1968 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 324 Down Memory Lane Mary R. Young 342 Answer to My Daughter Amy Giles Bond 344 ~—s Relief Society—an Awakening Linda Ladd 352 Dearest Mother Evalyn W. Sandberg 354 Testimony Jeanine Clark 376 Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 330 The Happy Homemaker Lael J. Littke 346 Hand in Hand Betty Lou Martin Smith 368 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 2 Mabel Harmer General Features 322 From Near and Far 337 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 338 Editorial—The Future of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford 340 = Cleone Eccles Resigns From Relief Society General Board 340 Wanted! New MIA Plays 341 Notes to the Field—Change in Time Schedules for Literary Contests 388 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 400 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 341 Reflections on Being a Home Mother Josephine H. Beck 356 Konsternation in the Kitchen Helen Hinckley Jones 358 Ways to Use Leftover Pie Dough Dorothy Todd 360 Something New for Your Clothesline Shirley Thulin 361 Annie Bodily Roberts—a Shining Example to All 362 Say Peanut Butter Janice T. Dixon 366 The Magic of Forgetting Sylvia Probst Young Lesson Department 393 Homemaking—Rehabilitation Cathleen Hammond Poetry 321 Day Dreams Lucille R. Perry To a White Peony, Mabel Jones Gabbott 328; The Beautiful Hour, Annie C. Esplin 329; May Is the Month, Christie Lund Coles 336; Mail Box (R. F. D.), Alda L. Brown 341; Spring, Elizabeth Loefler 343; Syringa Blossoms, Gladys Hesser Burnham 345; Brief Beauty, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 351; Story Time, Norma A. Wrathall 353; The Hearts of the Children, Eunice Ravsten 355; | Do Not Walk Alone, Lucy S. Burnham 365; Music for Summer, Lela Morris 367. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. IIE Ve DNC OO DOCS II COON IL DOWN WDMOD Ovi fe MOO 2 Oc sO MO MTeiwd IRON O39 OF3 TEDW CA AOA PMA OMD HONG AOA. POROGASOPO AG, 45 y= ¢ Qwy Ze Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society = She was just a little girl— much too young to make important decisions and, yet, she wanted to be heard from during the family home evening hour. As this incident was told to me, this young child first expressed the desire to be a schoolteacher when she grew up, then she changed her mind and said she wanted to be a nurse; then, looking fondly over at her mother, she said, "No, I have decided I want to be just like mother—nothing!" She meant her mother had not followed a career as a teacher or a nurse, she was just a wonderful mother and homemaker. What a lovely compliment to pay her mother, to want to be like her. I feel honored and complimented when a person says, "You remind me of your mother." I remember how delighted my mother was when friends told 324 her she resembled her mother 'in many ways. I will be eternally grateful for the guidance and teachings of a good mother; for her strength of character; for the example she set by living the principles of the gospel; for her great courage, faith, and honesty, her deep reverence for the priesthood and desire to sustain and follow the counsel of the Authorities and prophets of the Lord. My mother, Mary Romney Ross, lovingly called Aunt Mamie by her nieces and nephews, was both mother and father to her five children. My father, George John Ross, was killed in 1908, in what was believed to be the first fatal auto mobile accident in the State of Utah. My _ youngest brother Charles was born some months after the accident, so mother had five young children to rear alone. She always said her Heav- enly Father blessed her with added strength and health to carry out her many responsibilities as a widow for fifty-four years of her life. Some of my earliest recollections and memories of home were those of hearing mother sing. She had a beautiful soprano voice. I would sit and listen to her practice a solo she was preparing to sing at church; or she and her friends would practice duets or quartets to sing at funerals. It was such fun to hear them make their plans. As children, we enjoyed hearing mother tell us about her childhood, how Brother C. R. Savage called her "little canary" when she sang as a very young girl. How thrilling it was to sing in the Tabernacle when Utah was made a State, and then, with great feeling, she would relate the impressive occasion of singing with the Tabernacle Choir at the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple. With a song in her heart, and with this gift of singing, it naturally brought joy and happiness not only into her life, but Down Memory Lane also into her home, and was an influence for good in the lives of her children. Mother was a very spiritual woman. Her values were lasting ones, eternal values. She taught us to put first things first. Her motto was, "... Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." (Matthew 6:33.) She would get her five little ones around her and we would pray together as a family. We attended Sunday School and sacrament meeting together as a family. Well do I remember one Sunday evening we could not find my brother George, so we went to church without him, and when we returned found out he had been playing baseball with the boys, and his ball had crashed through the large living-room window of our neighbor's house. Mother made the most of that teaching moment and explained fully the real meaning of keeping the Sabbath Day holy, and I am quite sure my brother never stayed away from church to play ball again. "Cleanliness is next to Godliness." This was another of mother's favorite expressions. She was extremely orderly and an immaculate housekeeper. She was always neat and clean in her appearance. Her hair was lovely, and she took a great deal of pride in dressing and _ looking nice. She held her head high with the majesty of a queen, receiving respect and love from all who knew her. She was proud of her heritage, proud of her membership in the Church, and grateful that she was able to render ser- 325 May 1968 vice. She was active in the various organizations of the Church from early childhood. I am grateful that we were taught economy in our home. This proved to be valuable training for me when I was first married and lived in the East while my husband attended law school. Mother had a very meager income after my father died, but she had a deep conviction that if she paid her tithing, was thrifty and frugal, she could manage, and it was more important for her to stay at home with her children than to get a job and supplement her income. She taught each child to share and accept responsibility. She was truly a wonderful manager, and we were taught that happiness does not depend upon how much money one has to spend, but how wisely it is used. She would never think of beginning a winter without a year's supply of coal and wood on hand. I recall seeing many fiftypound sacks of flour stacked high on shelves made for that purpose. The vegetable cellar was usually bulging with potatoes, onions, and apples. This was the way many people lived at that time. It was a safe, secure way of life; an example of living we well might emulate and follow today, as suggested by the Authorities of the Church in our Welfare Plan. Times, situations, and problems are different now than they were then, but certain basic principles and truths remain the same, such as taking care of what we have and living within one's income. In mother's early life she learned that in work there is 326 dignity and satisfaction, stressing the necessity of effort along with work, that anything worth doing is worth doing well. She believed in the statement found in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42:42: Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer. Working long hours was necessary for her to accomplish her many household duties. The smell of freshly baked bread and hot biscuits, baked regularly three times each week, still lingers in my memory, also the tantalizing aroma of chili sauce cooking on the stove in the fall of the year, as we were starting back to school. The spicy smell of delicious pickled peaches, ready to be put in a large earthen crock, and then, of course, her famous mustard pickles had to be made each year, so she could share them with her neighbors. Mother seemed to find joy and satisfaction in working, in keeping busy. Her life was not all sunshine and song, however, as she often remarked, her life was one of tears and smiles. She not only lost her husband, but also two teenage daughters died within the short space of eighteen months. Some years later, one son died as a result of an automobile accident very similar to his father's. These trials seemed to draw her closer to her Heavenly Father and made her stronger. There was never any complaining or wavering in her faith. A poet once wrote: "Sweet are the uses of adversity." These words applied to my mother, be- cause she rose above her tragedies and, through great faith, was able to build something beautiful, strong, and raidant out of adversity. Continuing down memory lane, includes fond memories of my Grandmother Romney. My mother's parents were Vilate Ellen Douglas and George Romney, both sturdy, courageous pioneers. Grandfather bore a fervent, powerful testimony till the time of his death, that he knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. He had known the Prophet Joseph and _ his brother Hyrum—had heard them speak, and was in attendance at the meeting in Nauvoo when the mantle of Joseph Smith fell on Brigham Young. Grandfather left Nauvoo and came West in 1850. Grandmother was just ten years of age at the time she came West with her family. Their fine traits of character were instilled into their children and mother was always grateful and thankful to her parents for the training and influence they had on her life. Grandmother Romney was the mother of twelve children, six boys and six girls. Grandfather was the bishop of the Twentieth Ward for twenty-four years, or more, and Grandmother was a real mother to the ward during that period, helping to care for the sick, the needy, and the widows. She was always on hand when a new baby arrived, ready and able to assist the mother and help with the other children. I always thought of Grandmother as a cultured, refined, kind, and gentle lady. She made a tremendous impression on me Down Memory Lane when I was a child and truly touched and influenced my life, for which I am indebted and will always be grateful. Grandmother and Grandfather were especially close to our family, because of mother being left a widow at such a young age, in fact, we were at their home a great deal. I remember' spending' every Christmas there, as long as they lived. What wonderful times and delicious dinners we did enjoy! One of my fondest memories is the time when I lived with my grandparents for a month when my own family were quarantined for scarlet fever. I had been stricken with the same disease a few years before this time, so was allowed to continue in school if I lived away from home. My grandparents showered me with love and kindness, spoiled me, I am sure, as grandparents do, and made me feel like a queen, not just for a day, but for the entire month. When I first arrived, grandmother had me sleep in bed with her, because she was concerned for fear I might be lonely or homesick. I remember so well trying to lie in bed just as still as I possibly could, not even turning over, for fear I would keep her awake. How I loved to listen to Grandmother tell me about the early days when Grandfather was sent on a mission to England, and to hear her chuckle as she recalled making so many pies, then selling them to support her children while he was away. Getting to know them so intimately was indeed a choice experience. Truly, I was blessed when I think of the influence my grand- 327 May 1968 mother had on my early life; also, when I realize the training my own mother gave me when I was young, and the influence she had on my later life, I was thrice blessed. When we were rearing our family, mother visited us often, usually accompanied us on our family outings, had Sunday dinners with us, and always brightened our home with her vibrant personality and zest for living until she was over ninety years of age. Richard L. Evans appropriately expressed my sentiments when he said: Thank God for mothers, you who have them. And you who have not now, thank him for such a mother to remember. And you, the young mothers who have children yet around you, God grant that you may give them such love, such memories to remember. Mother passed away just two weeks before reaching her ninetythird birthday. She spent the last three years of her life living with us in our home. She had always been so independent, so used to doing for herself, it was very difficult for her to adjust to this new way of life. She hadn't been accustomed to being inactive. She didn't enjoy sitting around having someone wait on her. She did, however, enjoy very much having our nineteen grandchildren (her great-grandchildren) around, when they so often visited. She told them many wonderful stories of her early life, and they loved to hear them. The lives of these greatgrandchildren have been touched and influenced by her fine traits of character, her words of wisdom, her sound judgment, and years of experience. Now, as a family, we all have these precious memories and deeply cherish them. May each one of us live our lives so that our children and grandchildren will carry with them precious and _ cherished memories, as they walk down memory lane. A TO A WHITE PEONY Was it yesterday this pierced The tomb of earth, snow-cooled and dark, And thrust a sharp, blood-red dart Past stones and stubble to the light? Today, | hold the fresh-blown, fringed Peony in my hand, and mark Streaks of crimson at its heart, Deep against the full-flowered white, And marvel at the miracle: A dry brown bulb, grown beautiful. —Mabel Jones Gabbott =~ 328 4 THE BEAUTIFUL HOUR $fhis hour | love, for it brings peace And strength to meet another quest. Evening's solitude is balm d ease for my heart's rest. Etched against a rose red sky A bird wings slowly to the west; Evening breezes wake and bring Fragrance from the mountain crest. The day's fast bustle, too, is gone— Stillness attends with beauty rare; Nature is close and manifest— This hour she offers me her care. —Annie C. Esplin fy 4, 4: tes P a*. * Aas x $ | iy fh. ¥, o, Ye - ee * Pad ae 2 en. * 'th, At & a s Janet felt ill at ease in the group of chattering young women. They all seemed to know one another so well, and they talked of Broadway shows which she had not seen, and of big department stores whose namesshe recognized but which she had not visited. She almost wished she had not come. Yet, she was anxious to be friends with her new neighbors and had been pleased when Norma, who lived next door, invited her to join this group. "You'll love the girls," Norma had said. "We call ourselves "The Neighborhood Club.' Onemorning a month we hire a sitter for our preschool children and get together to do something interesting. It's to be at my house this 330 Lael J. Littke month. You will come, won't you?". "Of course I will," Janet had:- said, although she wondered if she really had time since her new job as second counselor in the ward Primary promised to take care of any spare moments left over from caring for Dale and their four children. Still, joining the group would be an opportunity to meet some of the other young women who lived nearby. Now, sitting there, Janet wondered if she could ever fit in with the group. She was relieved when Norma clapped her hands to call a halt to the chatter. "Girls," Norma said as soon as the noise subsided, "I want you all to meet Janet Nelson who re- cently moved into Sally Mason's house." "T hope she and Sally get along well," said the girl sitting next to Janet, who had introduced herself earlier as Carolyn Symons. Everyone laughed. "You'll have to get used to that," Norma said. "The Masons lived there for a long time, so I guess it will take us a while to stop calling it Sally Mason's house." / "That's all right," Janet said, "as long as you don't call me Sally" The girls laughed again, and Janet began to relax. They seemed just as friendly as the girls at church, she thought. She wonddered why she had thought they would be different. Probably because until she and Dale and the children moved here she had lived her entire life in a beautiful western valley where almost everyone she knew shared her own convictions. She had been fearful about moving to a new environment where she would be surrounded by people who thought, and even spoke, differently, but Dale had wanted very much to take advantage of the fine opportunity his company offered him if he would move to New York, so she had agreed. The children, and Dale, too, had readily made new friends in the pleasant suburb where they bought a house, but Janet, with all the problems of getting settled, had not yet had much chance to get acquainted. Norma was clapping her hands again. "Girls," she said. "I've asked Ann Croyden to come today to tell us about her adventures in Japan while gathering material for her new book, but she has The Happy Homemaker been delayed, so you can go ahead and talk until she arrives." Carolyn sighed. "Now there is a woman I really envy," she said. "Ann Croyden is free as a bird— not tied down to a house and children as we poor drudges are." "Carolyn, here, is our careergirl type," Norma said. "Left a wonderful job as a junior editor in a publishing house to rear a family." "And I've regretted it ever since," Carolyn said with a wry grin. Janet knew some sort of startled expression registered on her face, because Carolyn said hastily, "Don't get me wrong. I love my two children. But if it weren't for my husband's insisting that I stay home until they are both in school, I would be back at that job tomorrow. I get so sick and tired of cooking and cleaning and saying nothing more intelligent all day than 'Put on your shoes.' Being a housewife is such an unrewarding, uncreative job." "Oh, I disagree," Janet said, surprised at herself for speaking so forcefully. "Oh?" Carolyn said, with an amused smile. "Tell us more." Janet's face flushed as she felt all eyes upon her. She swallowed and went on valiantly. "It's just that I don't think it has to be uncreative and unrewarding. In the first place, I like to call myself a 'homemaker.' Adds a little dignity, don't you think?" She smiled brightly at the assembled girls and was reassured to see answering smiles on several faces. "What is any more creative than making a lovely home?" she went on. "You can use any talent you have to help make it 331 May 1968 a place you and your husband and children will enjoy and be proud of. And I don't think there is anything more creative and rewarding than teaching and guiding your children and watching them develop. As for cooking, it can be as creative as you make it, and even cleaning is not so bad if you approach it right." Carolyn was watching her with something very close to scorn on her face. "Well, if it isn't Little Mrs. Sunshine herself," she said softly. There was a titter from somewhere in the otherwise quiet room. UJ anet could feel her face flaming. "Oh, I don't mean it's all roses," she said. "There are times when I would like to get away for awhile, and other times when I yearn to get back into teaching. Maybe I will when my family is grown. But right now I wouldn't trade my very important and satisfying role of being a homemaker for any other job in the world." Janet looked hopefully around the room, waiting for someone to say, "That's right," or "I feel the same way." But no one spoke until Carolyn shrugged and said, "Every woman to her own tastes." Janet was thankful that Ann Croyden arrived just then. In the ensuing bustle everyone else seemed to have forgotten the little exchange between her and Carolyn, but it burned bright in Janet's mind. Why had she spoken so strongly? She had branded herself as such a domestic little homebody that certainly these more sophisticated young women would want nothing further to do with her. Perhaps she had been 332 right in the first place. Perhaps they were different. Or was it she who was different? She didn't hear much of Ann Croyden's lecture. She decided she would stay after the meeting and tell Norma that she didn't think she could come any more. But after the other girls had gone, murmuring polite things, such as "Nice to have you in the club, Janet," it was Norma who spoke first. "You'll get used to Carolyn, Janet," she said. "She's really very nice, but she does have a sharp tongue." "I'm sorry I made a fool of myself," Janet said. Norma shook her head. "You didn't. We have all had tiffs with Carolyn. Actually, most of us agree with you, but I guess no one spoke up because we didn't want to get Carolyn started on her favorite subject—the downtrodden housewife." Norma paused to smile, then went on. "T guess there is a little of Carolyn in all of us, but for the most part we are a pretty happy bunch." Janet had the feeling that she and Norma would become very good friends. "You don't know how much better you have made me feel," she said. "T'm sure you will like our group," Norma said, "and I'm sure they like you. Carolyn may needle you for awhile, but try not to let it bother you." But it did bother Janet, especially when Carolyn started calling her "The Happy Homemaker" whenever they met. "Well, how is the Happy Homemaker today," she asked when they ran into each other in the super- market. At the next meeting of the Neighborhood Club, she said, "Let's have a_ happy thought for the day from our Happy Homemaker." Each time Janet just smiled, although she felt distinctly uncomfortable. If it hadn't been for the friendliness of the other girls, she would have withdrawn from the club. Orne day she caught a glimpse of the inner Carolyn, and it made her hopeful that they might eventually become friends. Carolyn came over to get her daughter, Peggy, who had become the very best friend of Janet's Karen. Janet was making cookies with the enthusiastic but messy help of the two four-year-old girls. "Peggy," Carolyn said as Janet invited her into the kitchen, "what a mess you're making." "That's all right," Janet said. "We are all having fun doing it." "Mama," Peggy said, "I made this my very own self." With great pride she held up a mangled cookie. "How nice," Carolyn said. "If you stay around here long enough maybe you'll learn something useful." She watched as Peggy and Karen rolled and cut more cookies. "Why don't you roll out a few?" Janet invited, offering a rolling pin. "T really have to get home and thaw out some dinner for Jack," Carolyn said. "Besides, I'm all thumbs when it comes to baking. My mother taught me how to handle sculptor's clay, but we never did get around to cookie dough." Her tone was almost wistful. "It's easy," Janet said, handing The Happy Homemaker her a piece of dough. "Just try it." So, for the next half hour, until Carolyn remembered she should be home "thawing out dinner," she rolled and cut fancy-shaped cookies. Janet felt strongly that the episode might have established some basis for understanding between them, but a week later, at the next meeting of the Neighborhood Club, she was again scorched by Carolyn's caustic tongue. "What is the latest goody from the oven of the Happy Homemaker?" Carolyn asked as Janet arrived. Janet smiled at her. "As a matter of fact, I just took a batch of bread from the oven." "Such thrift," Carolyn murmured. "I don't do it all the time," Janet replied, wishing that she didn't always feel so apologetic around Carolyn. "But this morning I wanted to try out a recipe I learned at Relief Society." "At where?" Carolyn said, obviously amused. Janet wished she hadn't mentioned Relief Society. Carolyn was sure to make some sarcastic remark about it. Well, Janet just wouldn't give her the chance. It was about time she stopped being defensive about her life. "At Relief Society," she repeated cheerfully, then went on to explain a little about what it was. "I wish you would all come with me to a meeting some day. You would be surprised what you can learn there. Why, you might even learn to quilt." "Quilt?" said Marcie Edwards. "TI thought that went out with great-grandma." 333 May 1968 "Tt's fun," Janet insisted. Then, on an impulse, she added, "Let me be the hostess at our next meeting and we'll have an _ oldfashioned quilting bee." "Sounds fun," Norma said. "That's something we certainly haven't done before." "For an encore we'll make lye soap," Carolyn said. DD espite Carolyn's sarcasm, Janet was happy as she made the preparations for the quilting bee. She asked Sister Thompson, an elderly widow in the ward, if she would come over and teach the girls to quilt. Sister Thompson was thrilled to be of service. "Let's piece a Texas Star," she said. "No, let's make it something simple so they will feel free to make mistakes." Happily she set to work, with Janet's frequent help, to put together a colorful top. On the day before the meeting she brought the complete top and her frames to Janet's house to set them up. "T'm really looking forward to this," she said. "So am I," said Janet. She planned to make it as much as possible like the quilting bees her mother had sometimes held. For lunch she was going to serve fried chicken and _ fresh-baked bread, as her mother had done. It was while she was at the supermarket purchasing' the chickens that she heard her name mentioned from the other side of a canned foods shelf. "Are you going to the meeting at Janet's tomorrow?" The voice was Norma's. The answering voice was unmistakably Carolyn's. "I guess 334 T'll go, just for laughs. A quilting bee—can you imagine?" Norma spoke again. "She's such a quaint little thing." Quaint! So that's what they thought of her. Quaint. Oldfashioned. Peculiar. Strictly for laughs. She had known from the very first that she didn't fit in with that group. She would never be anything more to them than the quaint little thing who lived in Sally Mason's house. Quickly Janet paid for her chickens and left the store. She wanted to go home and hide. She would call all the girls and say she was ill and couldn't hold the meeting. But when she got home and saw all the preparations Sister Thompson had made, she knew she would have to go through with it. She forced herself to be cordial the next morning as the girls arrived. They squealed with pleasure over the pretty quilt top, and under Sister Thompson's direction they began to sew with enthusiasm. Janet waited for Carolyn's inevitable sarcasm, but it didn't come. In fact, Carolyn was strangely subdued as she sat there stitching the bright squares. However, everyone else was talkative. "Isn't this fun," said Marcie Edwards, "to have a meeting where we can do something and talk, too?" "Sit down and sew with us," Norma said. "You've been working in that kitchen all morning." "Can't now," Janet said. "I'm all ready to serve lunch." The lunch received even higher compliments than the quilt. "Oh, my diet," moaned Eva Rankin. "But I don't care." She took another slice of bread. Even Carolyn was complimentary. "Every home should smell of fresh-baked: bread," she said. The girls stayed on until it was time for their children to come from school. "Let's do it again sometime," Marcie Edwards said as she went out of the door. "I'd like to make a quilt for my boy's bed." Carolyn was still quiet as she left, but she thanked Janet politely. Norma was more effusive. "It's so wonderful to have you with us," she said, giving Janet a little hug. "You're such a quaint little thing, and so refreshing to have around." Quaint again. Janet knew now that it was a compliment. She returned Norma's hug, and smiled happily after the departing girls. The quilting bee had been a success, and Carolyn had not made a single sarcastic remark. At least not yet. The Happy Homemaker It was several days later that Carolyn came by and asked if she could come in and talk for a few minutes. Surprised, Janet said, "Certainly. Come on into the kitchen. I always seem to be baking when you come. Today it's pies." "T like being in your kitchen," Carolyn said. "It seems so cozy." Janet smiled. "My mother always said the kitchen is the heart of the home." "In my home it's been a pretty cold heart," Carolyn said thoughtfully. "But after your quilting bee the other day, I went home and baked some cookies. Thought I would see if I could make my house smell as homey as yours. I let Peggy and David help. We were still at it when Jack came home, and he joined right in. I don't know when we have felt so close, so much like a family. We almost starved before we finally got around to thawing our dinner. Davie asked why couldn't we do something like that more often, so we have." May 1968 Janet opened her mouth to say something, but Carolyn held up her hand. "Let me finish before I start blubbering or something. Anyway, it is gradually dawning on me how precious my family is and how much we can enjoy each other. Those first cookies weren't very good—although the children thought they were wonderful —but Ill keep trying. You know, Janet, I may even turn intoa... Ae... "Happy Homemaker," Janet said, laughing. Carolyn's face reddened just a little, but she grinned. "Exactly. Oh, I'll still probably go back to work in a year or two, but maybe in the meantime I can begin to establish the kind of a home I would like my children to remember. I think things started coming clear at your quilting bee." Janet was surprised. Quilting bee?" Carolyn nodded. "I came prepared to be sarcastic about it, but somehow, when we got started, "The it seemed like sucha... A...." Carolyn paused, searching for the right word, "such a womanly thing to be doing, the sort of thing our great-grandmothers did back in the days when they created homes out of the wilderness. Your home has that same kind of warmth and welcoming homeyness that I imagine theirs had. But there is something more than that. A lot of the warmth comes from you, yourself—from some inner contentment or serenity that even my sarcasm couldn't reach. What is it, Janet, that makes your life so different from mine?" Suddenly Janet was terribly grateful that events had brought her to this place and into contact with this young woman. Silently she prayed that she might say the right things. "Carolyn," she began, "in order to start answering your question, I'm going to ask you two questions. We call them 'The Golden Questions'...." MAY IS THE MONTH: May is the month One thinks of 'children For they, too, are a prelude To summer. They are down-young @™®And soft to the touch; Pink to the rejuvenating eye. One sees Maypoles being braided; And bare toes curling in sand, Damp at the shore, warm In the wide roads of youth. One sees oneself - As a child again Climbing into the apple boughs; Walking the paths, threaded Between poplars, arching over Quibbling-voiced stream. Waters. One feels warmth returning — Like breath, like life itself Reaching its fulfiliment. May is the month One thinks of children, And becomes a child again. 336 — Christie Lund Coles 3 = (as Ramona W. Cannon Ida Jensen Romney, wife of Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was honored in February by the Associated Women Students of Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, for her outstanding service to youth, as a teacher, and as a devoted wife, mother, and grandmother. Mrs. Romney, as Miss Jensen, was a teacher of English at Ricks College, when she met Elder Romney. In her address to the students, after accepting the award, Mrs. Romney advised the girls to stay close to the principles taught them at Ricks College, by their parents, and by the Church. Ruth Heffner, Quinter, Kansas, is partner with her husband Frank Heffner in ''Wagons Ho!"' a unique enterprise that takes people on authentic, covered-wagon journeys. Their journeys follow closely the historic Smoky Hill Trail, along which the pioneer wagons rolled a century ago. All summer long the Heffners run their wagon trains, with Frank as wagonmaster, Ruth as hostess, son David as wrangler, and daughter Ruth playing the accordion by the campfires at night. Joy Courtney, age twenty-five, formerly of Vicksburg, Mississippi, is a bush pilot, flying commercial tourist planes out of Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, Africa. She has logged 3,000 hours of accident-free flying. Rosemary Ryan, who tives in Toorak, an exclusive suburb of Melbourne, Australia, has recently been honored with a special exhibition of her paintings at the South Yarra Gallery. Her specialty is painting with spray guns on large canvases, and touching up the details of the paintings with small brushes. She has exhibited five times in Melbourne, and many times in other Australian cities. Women in the United States Forest Service are enjoying a variety of challenging and remunerative careers. Administrative opportunities include financial management, personnel management, computer programming, writing, and editing. Other opportunities are in the fields of forest recreation, range conservation, landscape architecture, and engineering. Occupational titles include plant physiologist, physicist, chemist, botanist, wild-life biologist, economist, systems analyst, and forest products technologist. Celestine Sibley's book, A Place Called Sweet Apple, relates the deep joy and quiet security which came to her in a cabin in the hiils of Georgia. An Atlanta newspaperwoman, Miss Sibley notes the small, beautiful events which reward one who seeks simplicity in her life and in her surroundings. A number of unusual recipes are included, as well as practical suggestions for making a cabin or a small house into a home. Abbie Rees Madsen, American Fork, Utah, a contributor to the Relief Society Magazine, won honorable mention in the Writer's Digest poetry contest for 1968, for her poem "Rootbound."' Dee Sanford, Spanish Fork, Utah (former president of the League of Utah Writers), received honorable mention for her poem ''The Broken Harness."' More than 3,000 poems were entered in the contest. 337 Volume 55 May 1968 Nu - @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Cou @ Louise W. Madsen, Second @ Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryThe Future of Relief Society ® The annual report for Relief Society published in the April issue of the Magazine reveals, through impressive figures, the present strength of the Society—its great size, its wide geographic scope, its vast humanitarian services, the extent of its educational activities, the volume of its leadership. As we ponder the growth, the influence, and power of Relief Society today, we marvel at what has been achieved in a period of a little more than one and one quarter centuries. It is but natural that we should ask, ''What will it be in another hundred years? Can its rate of growth be maintained? Can it extend itself into ever-widening areas of service? Can it continue to function on an ever-enlarging scale in harmony with its original purposes and procedures?" It is but natural for us to ask, ''Can the women of the Church keep pace with the growth and expansion of the Society and maintain the same high standards of performance? What is the future of Relief Society? What will it be tomorrow?"' It is true, generally speaking, that women's organizations do not persist over long periods of time. They are founded in the interest of some specific cause or have some special purpose. When the goals for which they were created are realized, they then slowly disintegrate, die out, or are dissolved, since the need for them no longer exists. This will not be so with Relief Society. Time will not erase the need for it, nor will the purposes for which it was established cease to exist. Its goals are of an eternal nature; its founding and its mission are according to God's will. Relief Society is the great women's organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—a companion organization to the priesthood. Where there is an organized ward or branch of the Church with a readiness for a Relief Society, there we find a priesthoodorganized Society. This has been so since the day when, through revelation from the Lord, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the sisters, calling their society ''The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Relief 338 General Board: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary RA. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Societies will continue in the years ahead to be organized wherever there is a ward or branch of the Church. President Joseph F. Smith has said: The Kingdom of God is here to grow, to spread abroad, to take root in the earth, and to abide where the Lord has planted it by his own power and his own word in the earth, never more to be destroyed nor to cease, but to continue until the purposes of the Almighty shall be accomplished. The Kingdom of God and the work of the Lord will spread more and more; it will progress more rapidly in the world in the future than it has done in the past. The Lord has said it, and the Spirit beareth record. (Gospel! Doctrine, page 92.) As the work of the Lord progresses in accordance with the predictions of his prophets, the work of Relief Society, also, will progress for, indeed, Relief Society is the medium through which the organized work to be performed by women for the Church is to be done. Relief Society is established upon principles of truth and righteousness. It is priesthood directed. It will not disintegrate, die out, nor be dissolved. Its purposes will endure. It will continue to function in behalf of womankind and the Church until the Lord shall say of it, ''Its work is accomplished."' Nor do we need to fear that the sisters of tomorrow will not be equal to the increased tasks. The Lord will raise up great women leaders and qualify them for the work. He will reveal, through his prophets, the ways whereby the growing and expanding work may be accomplished. Those of us who stand today among that select body of women who make up the Relief Society membership, have just cause to rejoice in the blessings that have given us our present strength. Let us also rejoice in the knowledge that we have a part in the glorious and enduring future of Relief Society. The strength of our testimonies, the quality of our service, the example of our lives, the convictions of the divine mission of Relief Society which we pass on to our children, will be firm stepping stones on which sisters of tomorrow may walk in advancing 339 the work and meeting its every requirement. —Bse General Board members and sisters throughout the Church regret the resignation of Cleone Rich Eccles from the General Board, as - of February 21, 1968. She has served on the General Board since January 15, 1964. During this time she rendered outstanding service to Relief Society. She has ably served on the Music Committee, where her own musical talents and her liberal educational background rendered her contribution of great worth. She was chairman of the Special Programs Committee at the time of her resignation. In addition, she has fulfilled many speaking engagements and served at conferences both at home and abroad where her sweet, refined presence and wise counsel have been greatly appreciated. Sister Eccles came to the General Board after having served in many responsible stake and ward positions in Relief Society and other auxiliaries of the Church. She possesses a great capacity for sympathetic understanding, stemming partly from her experiences of rearing a family of six children. She herself was reared in a family where Relief Society was held in highest regard, as her mother served as president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society for twenty-three years. The united love of the board goes with Sister Eccles. Her service to Relief Society will stand as a memorial to her in the faithful service she has rendered. On behalf of all Relief Society sisters, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Eccles. May she find much happiness in her future endeavors, and may Relief Society continue to be a joy and a fulfillment to her. Plays Wanted WANTED! NEW MIA PLAYS! The MIA Drama Commitee is now reading short and long plays for inclusion in a new play book. Plays pertaining to all women-and-girl casts are especially invited. They should be written for family audiences and adhere to LDS standards. Publication and royalty rights will be purchased for all plays accepted by the committee. Plays, in their proper form, are to be submitted to MIA Drama Committee, 79 South State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. 340 close in November, and the three prize-winning poems, as well as the three prizewinning stories, will be published in the April 1969 issue of the Magazine. Reflections on Being a Home Mother Josephine H. Beck A home mother is what | call myself, because that is what | am Striving to be —a mother at home. / I'm a mother with Precious memories of a mother who was always home when | came home. Always, | could look back and wave goodbye to her as | went forth to perform my daily tasks. Whenever | needed comfort or reassurance, she was there, and | never went away "heart-hungry." Time or loss of taste could never dim my memory of wonderful fragrant bread baking, or the aroma of chili Sauce on the autumn air. MAIL BOX (RFD) In summer, it seems, they always loiter long.... A rose to pick—the bridge to cross—a sunset's glow. But in wintertime their Pace is fleet and swift. What fun to run the length of lane in drifted snow! And oh, the thrill to find the waiting letter there— The Christmas card, the valentine, a child's first scrawl.... And always always the words most waited for: "We are all just fine." "We miss you so."' "God bless you all." Alda L. Brown 341 Amy Giles Bond =» My dear daughter, you say you can't understand why the Lord has sent so much illness, heartache, and sorrow into my life. With the help of the Lord I shall try to give you my answer to your question. I won't say I haven't asked myself this same question, because I have asked it, many times. As I understand it, life was never meant to be filled with only good things and good happenings. We were sent into this world to taste the bitter to know the sweet; if we only tasted the sweet, how could we really appreciate it, unless we have partaken of some bitterness? There are some days that come along that are so filled with sorrow and heartache we feel we won't be able to accept them. These experiences are similar to the darkness of night, but before long we see the rosy light of dawn as darkness turns into light. It is when light returns that we know we have but passed through another period in our preparation to return to our Father in heaven. How we 342 accepted and reacted to the experience just passed through will determine how well we are preparing ourselves for the greatest of all experiences. These things we are called upon to bear are not sent to us by way of punishment by the Lord, but to give us greater strength to overcome all things; where muchis given, in knowledge or anything else, much more is expected of us, and the way was never meant to be easy. Bach day I pray for strength to accept and face whatever may come that day, and, dear, if we have faith, the Lord does bless us with an inner strength to help us when we feel we can bear no more. The fact that I have been called upon to suffer a great deal physically bothers you, also, and you say you don't think a just God would do this to me. I hope I can impart to you my feelings concerning this. There have been times that I, too, have asked why, but I think I know the answer. Each time I have been ill some good has come from it; I have learned something new about life that I never knew before, or, sometimes, even understood. Through illness, I have gained a greater insight into the lives and feelings of others. I have learned to have sympathy, comPassion, and empathy. Life, itself, has taken on new meaning for me. I am learning to choose the important things and not to clutter up my life with things that don't really matter, such as false pride and trying to keep up with the Joneses. There was a time when these meant quite a bit to me, but I have re-evaluated SO many things. I stil] have to Overcome being overanxious and Answer to My Daughter I must stil] learn to be more patient. Being ill so much has opened up new avenues of self-expression for me, and for this I am truly grateful. And despite all the illness, pain, and difficulties that may have been my lot, I have gained two important things, and they are my trust and, if I do nothing more in life than instill in you a desire to find, for yourself, the truth of these things, I shall not have lived in vain. YOUR LOVING MOTHER SPRING "3s 3% | tell you, sister, stop your fear, ~ —, Be not afraid, come, hold my hand:: Ps We sipped the lily's morning-dew. Te 0 Now comes the time for us to rest. "ae We go to sleep, We're links in God's eternal chain, but wake again led—so do not fear that spring is here. When we are cal And just be glad — Elizabeth Loefler Sale, Cheshire, England 7 Te je ete" 343 Look out and see that spring is here: The birds are building nests again, And blossoms glisten in the rain That May drops gently on the land. We two are old, we had our spring, For us nightingales did once sing, We plucked the rose that for us grew, We took of life what we liked best, s - ss ~- *~: / ise "Tt ~ f\* A - Tr Linda Ladd = When I started attending Relief Society meetings less than a year ago, it was at the urging of a friend and neighbor who is an active member of the Church. I didn't think that I would be the "type" that would fit into a ladies Church group, and pictured Relief Society as a group of older women sitting around putting fruit in baskets for the sick and needy. Most of you realize from that statement that I was not a member of the Church. I am still not a baptized member, but I hope that soon, even that will be changed. My first experience with Relief Society was an awakening. I found friendship with the sisters, fellowship with the sisters, and, more important, I found out that my Heavenly Father had indeed given the sisterhood of this Church something wonderful. As time passed I became a frequent, in fact, a regular visitor at the. Meetings. Strange things began to happen to my life—I started considering things that I had never given much thought to before. I was a person who didn't care for being domestic. I hated to cook, and I hated to sew, and most of all I hated to clean house. It didn't bother me that my husband would have preferred a good cook and a clean house—I wasn't cut out of that mold, and he would just have to accept that. Thanks to Relief Society, the lessons, and the put-into-action examples I saw there, I can say that a drastic change has taken place. One day a sister showed us a coat she had made from an old coat she had bought for fifty cents. I was absolutely amazed to think that things like that were being done in this day and age. I went home that day and thought about what I had seen and heard in that meeting and decided that I would try sewing. I bought the material and made 344 Relief Societyan Awakening my baby a dress, a coat, and hat for Easter. What a thrilling experience to know that I could create, with my own hands, something of value! I never felt such pride, and when I showed my husband the coat, the admiration in his eyes was something I will never forget. At another meeting, my life changed 1 in a different way. We had a talk on home food storage, and canning was discussed at some length. Here were women—modern, well-dressed, well-educated women talking about the ancient art of canning. I thought, that is not for me, but the more I listened, the more I realized that if I were to carry out the home food storage plan I would have to can. I didn't do any canning this season, but I did make forty pints of jam, and believe me, that was an accomplishment! Next year I will add some canning to my growing list of domestic talents. I still don't enjoy cleaning house, but I can honestly say that I am trying harder and doing a better job, and I am taking more pride in my home each day. I've found that as I take more pride in my home and the things connected with it, my husband takes considerable more pride in me. I owe this new fulfillment and enrichment of my life to Relief Society. When I go each week and see women learning to be women, and mothers learning to be mothers, and wives learning to be wives and applying what they learn to their daily lives, I thank my Heavenly Father that I was fortunate enough to be given the opportunity of sharing in this wonderful plan. For the first time in my life, I have a purpose and I feel that through my activities in Relief Society, I am doing some small part to see that God's plans are carried out in the way that he would want them to be. The things I have learned about the gospel and the specific teachings of the Church have helped me immeasurably in my life, and the patience and understanding that are facts of life with the sisters of Relief Society are becoming facts of life in our home. I have far to travel, and much to learn, but through this great Church and this wonderful organization I have made a beginning. 4 7 SYRINGA BLOSSOMS White syringa clusters reach Toward an azure sky, Wafting orange blossom scent On zephyrs passing by. Nostalgic scene of bridal white "Something new, or blue," Stirs my heart with happiness, Turns my thoughts to you. Loveliness is memory filled— White syringa—perfume spilled. 1 — Gladys Hesser Burnham 345 T car into that led to their cozy farmhouse. They had Something of worth, lare pulled in front used to the idea, Supper would. Be night, as Rob had t late that un's fading light cast Weird Shadows in the living room. Clare shivered and pulled her sweater more tightly about her. Lately, she had not been able to still the growing feeling of discontentment within her. She had prayed about the strange feeling of uneasiness and discontent that was taking hold of her; she had gone to her Chureh meetings faithfully, but she could not find the answer. Thinking back over their life together, she knew Rob had been a devoted husband, kind and considerate, never once taking her for granted. Why did she feel this way? Also, this past week there had been the dreams. They were almost identical in content. Night after night, she would dream that she was in a garden, and it was beautiful and green with a little stream running close by. There were flowers growing about, and the sight was breathtaking. But, most disturbing to her, were the happy voices, the sounds of children laughing and playing. And then suddenly they were all around her, calling her "Mother." Clare would awaken with a start, and the darkness would seem terrible and bleak. Clare walked listlessly from room to room, tidying things as she went. She paused in front of her dressing table mirror. Her reflection stared back at her, dull and uncaring. The years had not dimmed the delicate brunette beauty, although her hair was well flecked with gray. Her eyes still had the same gentleness, and her skin was softly lined. Rob's pick-up truck pulled to a halt in the driveway and Clare went to the door to meet him. Hand in Hand "For a minute I didn't think you were home. What are you doing sitting in the dark?" Rob smiled affectionately at his wife. Clare responded, trying to make her voice sound light. "I was enjoying sitting in the dark. I am afraid I haven't even started supper as yet, dear. I know that you are hungry." "That's fine dear. Take your time. I think that I would like to read the paper first, anyway. Oh, by the way, I see that someone is living on the old Carlson farm. I understand that their daughter Midge and her husband Ralph Blake have come back and plan to live there. That means that we will have some close neighbors again after all this time." "IT wonder why they came back here. I thought that she enjoyed living in the city." Clare was surprised. "I have never met her. She got married and moved away from home before the Carlsons bought the farm. I imagine it will be quite an adjustment for her." "Talk around town is _ that they wanted to rear their family in the country. Her husband will commute back and forth to work." Rob picked up the paper. "We should pay them a visit very soon and make them welcome." A stinging feeling went through Clare, as though a knife were piercing her heart. After all this time, whenever she heard anyone speak of their children, she could not get over the hurt. Their home had never been blessed with children. She and Rob had had bestowed upon them health, good friends, and 347 May 1968 many physical comforts in life; however, the one blessing that Clare had wanted most had never been granted. At one time they had talked of adopting a child, but it had only been talk. The years had moved ahead and Clare had plunged herself deep into her work. Then it was too late. "How many children do the Blakes have, Rob?" Clare tried to sound unconcerned. "Three or four," Rob responded. "Is supper about ready?" It snowed on and off the next day, and Clare busied herself about the house. Rob had mentioned calling on the Blakes that day, but Clare found an excuse. Rob didn't question it. The snow was piling up outside, one of those freak March storms as winter makes its last stand. The day went by as so many others had for Clare. That evening Rob suggested that she make a batch of cookies, and they would take them over to Midge Blake the next day. This time Clare did not make an excuse. It would give her something to do tomorrow, she thought. "It's a beautiful morning, Clare. Good to see the sun again." Rob had just come in from the barn. "Plenty nippy outside, though," he added. Clare paused, "I haven't even been outside yet. It's too cozy in here to go out unless you really have to." Rob put his arm about his wife. "I see that you took my suggestion, baking cookies for our new neighbors." "Yes, I was just starting. We 348 can take them over after lunch if you'd like, dear." A loud knock at the back door interrupted Clare. Hurriedly, she opened the door. Standing there with flushed cheeks and disheveled, dark hair was a young woman in her early thirties. Clare noted that she hadn't even buttoned her coat. She appeared to have been running. "I'm Midge Carlson—Blake," she spoke out of breath. "My little boy slipped and fell on the back steps. I'm afraid that he has broken his arm. My husband has taken the car to work, and I can't get the old truck started. Would you please help me? I ran all the way over here." "Of course." Rob had his coat and boots practically on. "T'll take you into town." "Mrs. Hopkins, my baby is asleep. Could I impose upon you to stay with him while we go? Two of my children are in school. If they have to X-ray and set my boy's arm, I am afraid it will be too long for me to take the baby with me. Besides my other children only go to school half a day today. I wouldn't want them to come home to an empty house." Clare hesitated only a moment. "I'll be glad to." "T he Blake house was slightly run-down, but it was neat and clean. It had been so long since anyone had lived in it that it couldn't help being a little shabby. Clare helped Midge wrap the small boy in a blanket. His face was tear-stained, but they had found him sitting bravely on the couch where Midge had left him. "See, Mommy hurried real fast as she said she would, didn't she?" Midge gently brushed the tears from the boy's eyes. "They were supposed to connect the telephone today. I couldn't even call for help." The moment had come that Clare had been dreading. Softly she tiptoed into the bedroom where the baby lay sleeping. Peering down into the crib to make certain the baby was all right, Clare found two big brown eyes peering right back at her. "You're not supposed to be awake now." Clare spoke quietly, not wanting to alarm the baby who had so suddenly been confronted by a stranger. Slowly she picked up the child and found her way to the kitchen for the baby's bottle. Are, my little one." Clare rocked him gently. The baby bore a definite resemblance to his mother. Thick, curly, brown hair made the fair skin seem fairer. It had been so long since Clare had held a baby in her arms that at first she hardly knew what to do, and then finally, seemingly by instinct, she relaxed and cuddled the baby Hand in Hand close to her, humming softly. The baby yawned contentedly and went back to sleep. "I don't want to put you down, but I had better." Clare had no sooner put the baby in his crib and left the bedroom door slightly ajar than two bouncing children ran inside the house. "We're home, Mom," the boy called and then stopped, startled to see Clare. "Where is our mother?" the girl asked, obviously upset. "Don't be alarmed, children," Clare smiled. "I'm Mrs. Hopkins. We live in the house down the road. Davey had a little accident this morning, and we think that he may have broken his arm. Mr. Hopkins took your mother and Davey to the doctor. I don't know how long they will be. I am going to stay with you and the baby until they get home." "Poor Davey," the little girl remarked. "He is always falling down." "Take your coats off, children, and we'll go into the kitchen and see if we can find something for your lunch." "T'm_ starved," the boy answered as he flung his coat into a chair. "Chris, you know' what Mother told you about your hanging up your coat," the little girl replied indignantly. Chris obliged. "Okay, okay." Clare had never been so bombarded by questions and answers and stories in her entire life. She felt that she had been given the whole life history of the Blakes, right down to their dog Trixie and their cat Spot. "Chris," Carol called out, an- 349 May 1968 noyed. "You still haven't hung your coat up." Clare smiled to herself. '""Never mind, Carol. Just for today I will hang it up. This must be the closet." The door stuck slightly as Clare pulled it open. On each side of the closet were places to hang coats. However, in the center there were shelves with many books on them, obviously old Church volumes. "My goodness, you have a lot of books in here." "They were Grandma and Grandpa Carlson's," Chris answered. She picked up one of the large volumes and began to leaf through the pages, reading an occasional paragraph, scanning the columns. Carol and Chris had gone into the kitchen and she could hear them talking. It was past time for their lunch. Hurriedly, she turned another page and glanced at the quotation from an address by Brigham Young: "Let me say here a word to console the feelings and hearts of all who belong to this Church. Many of the sisters grieve because they are not blessed with offspring." The words must have been written for her. Surely she had grieved. She had been denied the blessing of children. The dear, sweet voices coming to her from the other room—those voices belonged to another woman's children. Clare picked up a slip of paper to mark her place in the book. In the kitchen Carol and Chris were seated at the table, looking at their empty plates which Clare had put on the table. She 350 went to the stove and stirred the steaming tomato soup = and poured it into the bowls. She cut the sandwiches into triangles and filled the glasses with milk. Small hands reached for the food. Clare touched Carol's braided hair. She smoothed the ribbon bow. Chris was breaking up his sandwich and soaking it in his soup. Clare: watched his chubby fingers moving back and forth. Again she realized her loss— how much of the beauty and blessings she had been denied. She turned back to the bedroom and picked up the book again, reading slowly, almost measuring the words. "You will see the time when you will have children... Around you. If you are faithful to your covenants, you will be mothers of nations. Clare looked at the baby in the crib. He was awakening from his nap, his eyes opened wide, and he waved his hands. What a privilege it was to be with these children. Again she turned to the book, to the words that spoke directly to her. "Be faithful, and if you are not blest with children in this time, you will be _ hereafter...." It was three o'clock before Rob and Midge returned. Rob carried the pale child into the house and laid him carefully upon the couch. "It was broken, all right, Clare, but he was a real trooper. The doctor commented on how brave he was." Rob patted the boy's head tenderly. For the first time in all the long years, Clare realized how Rob must have wanted a son of his own. She had thought that she was alone in her heartache. Now she knew that Rob, too, must have shared her sorrow, although he didn't show it. How God works in mysterious ways. She had prayed so long to be relieved of her discontentment and bitterness, and in only a few hours it had melted away. Quite by accident she had found the books, and read the passage, and from that moment on she had felt herself being restored at last. "Mrs. Hopkins, I can't thank you and your husband enough for what you have done. I couldn't have managed without you. It would have been impossible." Midge hugged Clare, and Clare noted the strain on her face. "I was happy to do it. Your children are just delightful, and that baby...." Clare started to put on her coat. "I was just making some cookies to bring over to you, but I'm afraid they didn't make it to the oven. I'll bring some over tomorrow. Oh, when Davey gets better, we'll have to start going to Relief Society together." "Td like that very much," Midge said sincerely. "I thought that I was going to be lonesome here, but I can see that I'm not. Thanks again for everything." Hand in Hand Rob drove cautiously on the road home. "They're a_ nice family, aren't they, Clare?" "Oh, Rob, they are. It is going to be so pleasant having them close to us." Clare was truly happy. "You should see their baby. He is such a darling. I love them already." "IT know just how you feel. I've taken to them, too." Rob was even more intent on his driving. "Rob, I never realized how you must have wanted children, too. I have been so selfish, thinking the burden was all mine, when all along it has been yours, too." Clare touched his arm. "Please forgive me." Rob stopped the car in front of their house. "I've never thought of it as a burden, Clare. Certainly I wanted children, but you're my wife. My dearest, I have always been so thankful that I have you. I thank God every day for you and the wonderful life that we have had together. God has not forsaken us. I'm sure that we shall have children in the eternities if we live worthily." Clare couldn't hold back the tears any longer. "Oh, Rob, I have been so blessed." Together, they walked toward the house, hand in hand, and the world seemed brighter that day. 7 BRIEF BEAUTY Blossoms From olive trees Like fallen April stars And small as sequins lie upon The ground. A —Vesta Nickerson fepairn ~ 351 you ha pee e from ay Even chou fe) { shies well 35 miles ee often, ept U& peng J° for xhan 3 x, this ar 138 seeme epecially \ons: W jeaned on th ghous? Of ¥ ghe K0° \ed Ze that We a yrange visit, that Y° were giway® there: We aepen® eextul ne ters %° aft he gooanes= f week coldin' y ' etting up each _ And all 352 art © ying 2% not me ow \f, eve® now, FO" \s were " i e mys". COWe ou TOUR | cneke try ai as YOu va greener ye, when nip and ay. Ins» fabric ao 4 one da a you fed. Oni ong befor ard seer' watehe yous) rom yo pignt 8 wr Sn { learne your clot "cowe! Ue 1 lear dow? Ain. Pang i \ ear med dO" tury seem yigh {hous cerry ' art of a nas vere e rer nsis <imp! ~* t tHe cide tM yr you mind ystand. © as wart ee sh ee. Gin * Keepins Sm tivity " € % lS, cty i & Momus, P situal + urpose pe nave very ywat g free y, an tage aye serait he choush® color aa aet ne pai b - K wie oan es em $ {mn ng and HOP yer SPORE Ay allowe" jisapP forts 60 P™ fait se gorroW ess a \ne™ -ded ¥ ners a esilien® reid, we come "praye day: with lm our lives ° each embeF "he vim We re M STORY TIME Night hangs her lantern on the evening bars, Opens the book of heaven, and the stars Come twinkling in across the galaxy To. Learn the lesson of eternity: How each, in his own orbit swinging clear, And then 'impel a beam into the dark To. Find some far place on the shadowed arc— So one, still waiting, might look up and say, "Oh, Star! Send me your everlasting ray!" —Norma A. Wrathall Must light his small dim corner of the sphere;- 353 TESTIMONY Jeanine Clark « "I am thankful for my trials that keep me humble." The voice of the gentle Relief Society sister broke as she stood bearing her testimony that Tuesday morning. The words were almost startling to those who knew her best, for she had good reason to weep. Of her large family of children, fewer than half had chosen to follow the teachings and counsel of good and loving parents. Even as she spoke this morning, although we did not know it then, a new wound had been added to her sorrowing heart. Another child had made a wrong decision and committed a grievous error; yet, in tremulous tones, she praised the Lord and thanked him for hardships and trials that kept her humble! Few of us heard the rest of her testimony. As she stood there in a cheap cotton dress, plain and unpretentious, in deepest humility, a love stronger than earthly sorrow seemed stamped on her countenance and it was almost as though the Master himself was standing there. In that moment, we saw true greatness—the greatness of a Christ-like soul. And in that moment came a glimmer of understanding of what it must have cost the Father to permit his children their free agency and then see one-third of them make the wrong choice. It wasn't easy for him, either. And we realized that sorrow is not confined to man alone. Our Father trod a path of sorrow far greater than we can yet comprehend. And he still sorrows as he sees great numbers of the remaining two-thirds of his children falling away. Close on the heels of that thought came another: How, then, can we mere mortals hope to escape trials and suffering? If the Creator of all, the All-Powerful, must drink of the bitter cup, so, too, must we pass through the refiner's fire. Thus, the human soul draws closer to God. The virtues of love, understanding, courage, and patience are nourished. Humility is born. Character is shaped, and a stronger, better soul travels down the pathway of life, learning to accept each new trial with courage, with meekness, with long-suffering, with "love unfeigned." Yes, we silently admitted, sorrow and trials do have a very real purpose and place in life, and we do owe thanks to our Heavenly Father for the trials that keep us humble. 354 THE HEARTS OF THE CHILDREN | loved to watch grandmother write In the old Gothic style; She learned it as a child, she said, On a small Danish isle. Now | must read and write the script Of my ancestral land, And as | form each letter quaint | see grandmother's hand. —Eunice P. Ravsten _AONSTERNATION IN THE KITCHEN _ s There was consternation in the stake house kitchen the day the salad "didn't set up." Ready were dainty rolls, split and spread with thyme, rosemary, and oregano; punch made of sweet apple cider and ginger ale, on which floated a coronet of giant fresh frozen strawberries; divinity, soft as a cloud; and butter-smooth pecan panocha. But what good was all of this beautiful food, when ninety sisters would be ready for luncheon in less than two hours, and the salad would have to be served in bowls and eaten with spoons. "The salad didn't set up." The whispered information had all the overtones of a national calamity. This luncheon was important. The Relief Society stake board was honoring the ward officers and teachers following the last leadership meeting of the season. The salad looked perfect, a delicate shrimp color and loaded, everyone knew, with such delicacies as tiny whole shrimps, sour cream, chopped chives, and other true party fare. But everyone who shook one of the twelve pans, or tried with a knife to check the consistency, sorrowfully agreed, "It hasn't set up." The panicked sisterhood—all dazzling cooks but one—were not used to failure. 356 Helen Hinckley Jones "TI guess it would be too late to add some concentrated gelatin," someone suggested. "Far too late," Jasmine agreed. "Why don't we take it up to Clarice's and put it in the freezer?" was the next suggestion. Blocks of ice didn't sound appetizing. "We'll have to run out and get some lettuce and tuna-fish and make a quick salad," Sally decided. With a certain amount of timidity and humility, the non-cook spoke up. The non-cook was accustomed to failure. When her gelatin dessert didn't jell she used it as punch base and served it with cookies. When her custard, blancmange, tapioca, or sago refused to thicken she served it as sauce over drained canned peach halves. When her cake was too moist, she cut it in squares, sprinkled it with powdered sugar, and called the result brownies, or when it was too dry, she steamed it and served it with lemon sauce for pudding. When she cut into her meat loaf and found it still raw, she sliced it, slathered each slice with barbecue sauce, and finished cooking it under the broiler. When her divinity refused to become candy, she used it for icing on graham cracker sandwiches and had a treat for her grandchildren for weeks to come. The unset salad wasn't an emergency; not even a full-sized challenge. "Buy head lettuce, red lettuce, water cress, and any other good looking greens you see in the closest market. Chop them, toss them, and serve this salad as topping," she suggested. "We'll all go to opening exercises and act as if nothing has happened," Jasmine said. And so they did. But during the class period, one of the sisters hurried away to get the greens. "Don't ever tell a living soul what happened to the salad," Sally made everyone promise. But, of course, such a good secret couldn't be kept. "This is the best salad I ever tasted," the sisters kept saying. "Such wonderful dressing! May we have the recipe?" Success is wonderful—it is much to be desired. But maybe we need a few salads that don't set up in order to teach us how to turn defeat into victory. Maybe our ingenuity would die if we never met with an unexpected situation. Many important scientific discoveries have been made because, through one small mistake, the method or the components were a little different and a new product was the result. "Nothing succeeds like success," is an old proverb. The negative statement of the same truth might be, "Nothing fails like failure." But this isn't true. Nothing stretches our ingenuity, our abilities, like an unexpected "unset salad," and no success is as sweet as that which was born in near failure. 357 Ways to Use Leftover Pie Dough Dorothy Todd = Pie dough is for making pies. But whether you use an old family recipe or commercially produced piecrust mix, you can use the leftover pie dough ina variety of ways. Uses for Scraps Intriguing novelties made from pieces of dough left over from trimming the crusts for a pie, are useful and delicious. Scrap dough may be rolled a second, or even a third time, if handled lightly. 1. Turnovers: These are little rectangles of dough filled with jam, preserves, applesauce, or mincemeat. Gather the scraps of pie dough into a ball, and roll about 1/4-inch thick. Cut into rectangles 2 or 3 inches wide and 4 or 5 inches long. Fold 1/4 of the length from one end of the rectangle, and in this fold cut 3 or 4 slits 1/2-inch long, for the escape of air. Lay the rectangle flat again, and in the center of the unslit half, place about one tablespoon of filling. With cold water, moisten the edges of this half and fold the other half over it. Seal by pressing edges together with fingertips or tines of a fork. Bake on a cookie sheet, pie tin, or other shallow baking pan at 425° until edges are brown and filling bubbling (8 to 10 minutes). 2. After School Treats: These dainty bites consist of two layers of dough with a hole in the top to contain jelly or preserves. Roll dough as for turnovers. Cut round pieces with a circular cutter, and remove a smaller circle from the center of half of them. Place the whole circle on a shallow baking the center cut out on each. Bake until edges are brown, 6 to 8 minutes, at 425°. When cool, fill centers with one to two teaspoons of filling. Cut these in other fancy shapes if desired, but remember to cut the hole for the filling 3. Decorated Pastries: These little pastries have a melt-in-your-mouth quality. The use of colored frosting and a variety of shapes make them very festive. Pink valentines, green shamrocks, and orange Halloween pumpkins are produced with ease. Roll dough as above. With plain or fancy cutters, cut cookies and place on cookie sheet or other shallow pan. Bake in 425° oven until edges are brown. Watch them carefully, less than five minutes may bake them enough. Remove at once from baking sheet and, when the cookies cool, spread with a thin coat either of butter frosting or a powdered sugar icing. 358 Ways to Use Leftover Pie Dough 4. Decoration for a One-crust Pie: Gaiety is added to a one-crust pie by using scrap dough for decorating it. Pumpkin pie looks charming with a jack-o-lantern face. Glazed cherry pie or other one-crust fruit pies can be decorated with a flower or a pinwheel. Little piecrust hatchets may decorate the top of cherry pie. Plan your decoration before cutting. Use cardboard patterns or miniature cookie cutters. A flower consists of a small round center surrounded by any desired number of daisy petals. Blades of a pinwheel are crescent shaped, -and about five in number, with a small round circle as a center. Gently press decorative cutouts onto the pie and bake. Uses for Larger Quantities of Dough When making a one or two-crust pie, make enough dough for an extra crust. Use it as suggested below. 1. An Extra Shell: Roll the left-over dough and fit it on the outside of a disposable aluminum pie tin or a regular pie plate. Flute edge. Prick sides and top with a fork. Bake 10 to 12 minutes at 425°, and fill within the next day or two, or cover with foil and keep in refrigerator for several days and then bake. 2. Individual Pies: Use small tins, made from aluminum foil, for individual pies. Make individual pies of one or two-crust variety. Any sort of filling appropiate for large pies is good, but they are especially tasty with lemon chiffon, glazed cherry, of applesauce fillings for desert. The only difference in preparing individual pies is that the baking time is less than for a large pie and must be adjusted accordingly. 3. Filled Tarts: Filled tarts are made by fitting tiny pie shells on the outside of muffin tins. Use cherry or berry pie filling, or any sort of cream or chiffon filling. To shape tart, cut a cardboard circle about 1-1/4-inches larger in diameter than the cup of your muffin tin. Ease and fold this circle onto the outside of the cup of your muffin tin. Prick sides and bottom with a fork and bake 8 to 10 minutes at 425°. Cool shells before filling. 4. Pigs-in-the-blanket: These little delicacies make an ideal main dish for a luncheon, or in a miniature form, a delicious snack. Either version of pigsin-a-blanket can be put to use in advance and stored on baking sheets in the refrigerator to be baked when needed. To make six "pigs," you will need six brown-and-serve sausages and about as much leftover pie dough as needed for a single 8-inch piecrust. ' Roll dough and cut into rectangles about 1-inch longer than the sausages and about 3-inches wide. Place sausage on each rectangle; moisten edges with cool water, wrap sausage and seal all edges. Bake on a cookie sheet or other shallow baking pan 10 to 12 minutes in a 425° oven. Serve with a creamy cheese sauce. For luncheon, two of these, plus a vegetable or salad, and dessert, make a good menu. For miniatures, cut sausages in thirds, and use enough dough for each roll as above. Start with these suggestions and add variety and enjoyment to your family meals. If you use your imagination, you can invent still other ways of using leftover pie dough. 359 tec Your Clothesiine Shirley Thulin Here is a new idea for a clothespin bag. It has several advantages over the other types we have been using. First, it has four openings for easy access to the pins. Second, the openings are easy to get your hand into, and yet they are slits which don't hang open. Dust and weather cannot readily get inside. The new bag is very easy to make, and being something different, should sell at a bazaar or will please the new bride at a shower. You'll need two circles of sturdy fabric, nineteen inches in diameter. Denim would be a good choice. You also need enough contrasting bias tape to go around the outside edge and to bind the four eight-inch slits. You may want a piece of wire to make a hook, or you may use bias strings to hang the bag to the clothesline. TO MAKE: Cut four 8-inch slits in one of the circles (figure 1). Bind each slit with bias tape. Now reinforce the center of the circle by stitching a small circle of the denim to the wrong side. Attach two bias strings (about 10 inches long) to the center of the circle. If you plan to use a wire hook, attach it after the bag is completed (figure 2). Place the two circles together, wrong sides inside. Bind all around the outside edge with bias tape and your bag is finished (figure 3). <— 8' —» 19" circle Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 360 A SHINING EXAMPLE TO ALL Annie Bodily Roberts, Layton First Ward, Layton Stake (Utah), is a shining example to all who know her. At a very early age, she began to do handwork, and she learned to knit with a nail at the age of five. She has been an expert seamstress ail her life. She has won top honors in national contests with her quilts and crocheting on two occasions, and her State and county ribbons are numerous. Her pride and joy is a large doily which won first prize in a national crochet contest. Sister Roberts has served in Relief Society as a first counselor and a visiting teacher. She seldom misses a Church meeting, and has been described by her stake president as an outstanding temple worker in the stake. She has done initiatory work for more than 12,000 souls and endowments for 1,300. She is the mother of eight children, twenty-three grandchildren, and forty-three great-grandchildren. All of them describe her as an ideal mother, housekeeper, and Latter-day Saint. 361 ) Peanut Butter. Janice T. Dixon a I have perfectly beautiful children. Everyone says so—my mother, my. Mother-in-law, my grandmother, my _ sisters—even. Total strangers. A total stranger came to my door a couple of weeks ago. "What perfectly beautiful children you have," he said. Ae — ag WP I aia Gf;: for posterity," he said. I agreed. "Tf I could only take their pictures—free, of course." "Free!" "Of course." Now, I am not lke most mothers. I see my children clearly for what they are—perfectly beautiful children. My husband 362 id, Wp "They deserve to be pictured says I am prejudiced, but if a professional photographer offers to photograph my perfectly beautiful children free, who am I to stop him'? "Tomorrow," he said. After he left, I took a look at my three older boys, Charles, nine; Steven, seven; and Daniel, five, and decided that their hair was across between Daniel Boone and the Beetles and rushed them, protesting all the way, to the barber shop. "T like my hair long," said Charles. "All the boys wear it over their eyes." "A boy's haircut," I instructed the barber. "T'll catch cold if you cut it," Charles insisted. "T wanta butch," said Steven. "A boy's hair cut," I insisted. "Oh, brother!" Charles muttered, "I'll look like a cricket!" "Ronnie has a butch, Mike has a butch. Everybody in Mrs. Vaterlaus' first grade has a butch," Steven protested. "Next time. This time you have a boy's hair cut!" On the way home, Daniel said, "Tomorrow, I'm going to be rich!" "That's nice. Why?" "Cauth I jutht lotht a tooth. The tooth fairy ith going to bring me loth of money!" I looked at him, horrified. A Say Peanut Butter ——— en gaping hole smiled back. "Oh, no! Toothless for the photograph!" I washed three-year-old Lucy's golden curls and was brushing them until they glistened when I heard loud fighting noises outside. I ran to the door just as the neighbor boy gave Charles a black left eye. "He called me a _ cricket!" Charles muttered. "Nobody wears their hair this short unless they're a cricket!" "Everybody in Mrs. Vaterlaus' first grade wears it butch, except me," Steven chimed in. I put cold cloths on Charles' eye and hoped it wouldn't swell. It did. The next morning it was dark and puffy and swollen. I considered his wearing dark glasses or a pirate patch over his eye for the picture. "What is all of this hair doing on the floor?" my husband called. It was the remains of Steven's "boy's hair cut." "All the kids in Mrs. Vaterlaus' first grade have butch hair cuts," he explained. "Ronnie has a butch, Mike has a butch. Just everybody." Hacked, uneven wisps stood on end in an inverted Mohawk. I gasped, grabbed a hat for him, and dashed for the barber. "You want me to shave his 363 May 1968 head, lady?" the barber asked. My precious child, bald at seven! "No," I answered, calmly, "Just trim it." "Trim, she says!" the barber muttered as he tried to even up an impossible job. He gave Stevep a "close cut." I considered adding a wig or painting his head with brown shoe polish. "Just like Ronnie and Mike," Steven said, satisfied with his efforts. I arrived home just in time to wave my husband off to work. "By the way, Lucy got into the Vaseline," he said as he backed out the driveway. She had, indeed. Thick Vaseline jelly coated her golden curls until they stuck straight down in greasy globs. I started washing. Every fifteen minutes I washed her hair, but it was still coated. Finally, I gave her a marcel and it stuck fine. "Hurry and get into your Sunday clothes," I instructed the children, then turned my attention to the baby. "Such a doll!" I crooned to him, pulling his thumb out of his mouth. I changed him and put him in his new knit crawlers. He stuck his thumb back in his mouth. "I can't find my shoe," whined Danny. 364 "My white shirt is in the ironing," cried Charles. "My tie is dirty!" said Steven. Lucy just smiled, peanut butter all over her face. One-yearold Doug crawled into the room with peanut butter all over his clothes. "Dougee hungry," Lucy said. I found Danny's shoe in the dirty clothes hamper; ironed Charles' shirt; sponged Steven's tie, washed Lucy's face, and changed Doug's clothes. Then I put cake make-up on Charles' eye to cover up the deep blue crescent. "Now sit and don't move until the photographer comes," I ordered. The doorbell rang. What a relief! All five were still clean! "Danny says I can have my picture taken instead of him," said five-year-old Joey from three houses down. "Not today, Joey." "But I washed my face and hands," he explained. I turned back to untangle Charles, Steven, and Danny from a wrestling match, and to wipe the peanut butter from Lucy's face. Doug was sitting in a pool of milk calmly sucking his thumb. "Dougee thirsty," said Lucy. I changed Doug's clothes just as the photographer came. "These all yours?" he asked in an insulting tone. "Of course! Except for Joey" He sat smiling by Danny. I sent him home with a popsicle. "Let's get it over with." He arranged the children, then rearranged them, and rearranged the rearrangement. "You, there. Open both eyes." Charles winked back. "He has a black eye. Can you retouch?" "Well maybe. Cost a little extra. Take the baby's thumb out of his mouth. Too bad about the second boy's short hair," he said. "High fever?" "No. Low scissors." I pulled the baby's thumb out of his mouth. "Could you possibly retouch his hair?" "Possible. Cost extra." He turned on his bright — lights. "Smile," he ordered. The children all looked glum. "Say cheese." They remained sober. "Say ice cream." Silence. "Say peanut butter." They grinned, except Say Peanut Butter for Lucy who headed for the peanut butter. "Do you usually fix your little girl's hair that way?" he asked, as I washed the peanut butter off Lucy's face and pulled Doug's thumb out of his mouth.. "Make them smile," the photographer said. I danced around the room and made faces at the children. They burst into hilarious laughter, except Doug who burst into tears and stuck his thumb in his mouth. I pulled out the thumb and suggested to Danny not to smile too big—no teeth, you know. I resumed my monkey antics, and the photographer flashed his pictures. I'm sure the pictures will look lovely. After all, I have perfectly beautiful children. If you don't believe me, just ask my photographer. And it only cost $68.40. I wonder how much it would have cost if it hadn't been free. " | DO NOT WALK ALONE Some say that | am going blind Because | grope, my way to find. They do not know; they cannot see That there is One who walks with me. Though the way be dark and filled with pain, He comes to take my hand again, For he hath said in olden days, My child, | am with you always. » —Lucy S. Burnham 365 agic of For getting Sylvia Probst Young =» When I stopped at her home one evening last week, my neighbor, a silver-haired, wiry, little woman of eighty-four, was making cinnamon rolls. The sweet, spicy smell that filled the kitchen, and the look of contentment on the face of my friend, as she rolled and cut the soft dough, made me glad to be alive and to bask in the warmth of a personality made more beautiful with the years. Later, when we sat on the porch enjoying the rich, warm rolls, and watching the setting sun paint the sky in pink and gold, I asked her what magic had given her so much zest for living. She was thoughtful for a moment, and then she said: "I believe one of the most important formulas for happiness in life is the magic of forgetting. It's the harboring of little hurts that cankers the heart, and so, through the years, I have tried to forget more than I have remembered." I have thought about her words many times since, and I have come to realize how profoundly wise is her philosophy. How easy it is to remember the angry words or the ingratitude and thoughtlessness of those we love. How easy to review a false accusation, an unkind remark, a seemingly obvious slight, until what might have been a little thing grows bigger and bigger. Cultivating a grievance, two women, who had once been good friends, went long years without speaking to each other. It was not until one of them was taken in death that the other came to realize, to her sorrow, how much that could have been good and beautiful had been ugly and sordid because neither one had learned to apply the art of forgetting in her life. I can forgive, but I can never forget, we often hear people say. 366 The Magic of Forgetting Unless one forgets the wrong he never truly forgives, for only in forgetting is forgiveness really given. How human to err. With this in mind, can we not be more tolerant of the faults of another, knowing that we are human, too? And no one who nurtures bitterness can expect to reap happiness, for the two do not grow together. Wise, indeed, is my venerable neighbor, turning from the ugly, she has found the beautiful. From her I can learn a great lesson, and try to apply it in my own life, and by so doing I shall be a more worthy handmaid of the Lord. MUSIC FOR SUMMER There is music in the golden summer days—. Drowsy song of honeybee in the copse, Happy note of robin in the treetops; Staccato music in hail against the pane, } When comes the sudden rush of boisterous rain,: Swish of breakers sweeping up the land, Tossing opalescent shells on drenched sand; Plaintive, distant call of mourning dove, Faint honk of wild geese from far above; Melody of west wind whispered to the pine, Fragrant with wild rose and pale columbine. J i 1 New music more lovely, to be remembered after, I } Comes the lilting magic of children's laughter. \ —Lela Morris. A were are men 367 Nesting linnets with glad twittering ways, Rbotosby, ues Setia~ Ky \. YW If Spring Be Late~ Mabel Harmer. Chapter 2 Maureen Taggart, a librarian, decides to go to Britain for some months in order to do genealogical research, travel, and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is joint heir. Before leaving, she meets Steve Madsen, an attractive widower and business executive who has just been transferred to Utah from the West Coast. She admires him very much and wishes that her plans for going away at this time were not quite so final. = Maureen reached the airport shortly before noon and was at her hotel in downtown New York an hour later. She spent the afternoon touring some of the high spots of the city, the United Nations, and Rockefeller Center. From the top of the Empire State Building, she could see the long, sleek lines of the beautiful boat, with its gently slanted red smokestacks. She boarded the ship the next day at midmorning, deposited her luggage in her cabin, and 368 went up on the top deck to watch the departure. By the time the boat was ready to leave, the pier was lined with people bidding farewell to friends and relatives. One of the crew handed Maureen a roll of serpentine and she threw it out joyously. She waved goodbye with all her might to no one in particular, since there was no one there whom she knew, but to the crowd in general. Before long the call came "All ashore who are going ashore," and, shortly after, the great liner edged away from the pier. Maureen stayed on deck long enough to bid farewell tothe Statue of Liberty and see the skyline of the city disappear, and then went down to her cabin. Her fellow traveler was already there, putting away her luggage. She was a girl in her early twenties, fair-haired, very pretty, and smartly dressed. "Hello," she said, "I'm Diane Curran. Have you any preference which side you take?" "Tt doesn't matter at all," answered Maureen. "The view is very much the same from either, I gather." "Yes. I took this: one because the porter had set your flowers over there." "My flowers!" gasped Maureen. ' She had noticed briefly the bouquet on the stand but had thought nothing of it. Now she unfastened the card and read, "Bon Voyage —Steve." Her pleasure was so evident that the girl remarked, half laughing, "Those must be from your true love." "From a mere acquaintance, really," said Maureen. "It is just that I am so surprised. I didn't dream of getting flowers. But, of course, I am also pleased. "T should think so." As soon as they had unpacked, they went up to the lounge, and within minutes, the call for lunch was sounded. "I do hope that I won't be seasick," said Diane. "I want to enjoy every minute of this." "Indeed, so do I," agreed Maureen. "It is my first. Trip abroad and could very well be the last." After lunch, they went out on the deck to arrange for their chairs. It was still warm and October's bright blue weather had extended over the ocean. "Are you taking a_ tour?" Maureen asked. Diane smiled happily. "No. ''m going over to be married. I met Sydney at school in Michigan. He was an exchange student. He is doing advanced work now and If Spring Be Late plans to go to one of the dominions to teach. I hope we will go to Canada. It won't be so far from home." "It sounds wonderful," said Maureen. "I hope it all turns out well for you." "Oh, I'm sure it will. Sydney is a terrific man. We have so much in common." Her rapt expression could have been worn only by one very young and very much in love. Maureen could not help feeling a slight pang of envy. "Are you going over to teach?" asked Diane. "I mean, people don't usually go on tours at this season of the year." "No. [ma librarian, really. But I'm going over primarily to do genealogical research on my family line. I shall be making my home with a cousin who lives near London. Then there is also another reason. He and | are joint heirs: to some property in Scotland. I don't know much about it, and it may not turn out to be anything of value. But it's going to be rather fun to find out." "T should think so!" exclaimed Diane. "I hope for your sake that it turns out to be simply fabulous." "Do you plan to be married soon after you arrive?" "Yes. As a matter of fact, I now have only twenty dollars to my name." "Oh, my dear! Wasn't that taking quite a chance?" "Yes, I guess it was, In a way. I worked through the summer vacation, but after I bought the clothes I needed and paid for my fare, that was all there was -left.;: My mother is a widow and can't afford to do more for me. Sydney will meet me at South- 369 May 1968 ampton and take over from there. And, if I had waited for everything to be just right, I might have lost him. That would have been really terrible." Maureen could not resist smiling at her vehemence. "Yes, I suppose so. Anyway, I'm going to keep rather close track of you until Sydney does take over." "Thank you. I'm glad to have an anchor." T he day before they were to land, Maureen said, "We have to go up to the lounge today and get our landing cards. I'm afraid they won't agree to turn you loose in Britain with only twenty dollars. I'd like to lend you one hundred until we get off the boat—or get our cards, at least." "Oh, thank you very much! I most certainly don't want to have to work my way back to the United States, nor do I want to be smuggled ashore." Early the next morning they sailed into the harbor of Le Havre, and the two girls had their first glimpse of foreign soil. They found it very exciting and tried to determine what the tall buildings were up on the hill, what was being unloaded on the wharf, and where the various other ships in the harbor had come from. They were supposed to leave again within a couple of hours, but the wind was too strong to allow the tugboats to move the great ocean liner out of the harbor, and it was nearly noon before they finally steamed off for the British coast. "Poor Sydney," sighed Diane. "He'll have hours of waiting there at Southampton, and it's another couple of hours on the 370 train before we get to London. I do hope it isn't raining. See. This is where I am to look for him." She brought out a letter which showed a diagram of the pier at Southampton and a very elemental drawing of people awaiting the arrival of the boat. A cross above one of them showed exactly where Sydney would be standing, so that Diane could wave to him while she was waiting to disembark. "That is very ingenious,' agreed Maureen. "No one will be meeting me. My cousin is headmaster in a school and can't get away before Saturday. I have reservations at the Strand Palace in London for tonight. If Sydney has no other plans for you, I'll be happy to have you go with me." "Thank you very much. [ll be ever so grateful, unless he has made other arrangements." It was dark by the time they reached Southampton. Then there was a long wait while the luggage was being put ashore. Diane went up on deck to try to locate Sydney among the people waiting at the pier. After a while Maureen joined her. "Do you see him?" she asked. "T think so, but I can't be sure. It's so dark and they are so far away. But I know he is there." "Yes, of course," Maureen responded cheerfully. The hour dragged on and, at last, they were given the word that they might leave the boat. Diane was first in line and was met at the end of the gangplank by Sydney, who was first in line on that side. There was a joyful reunion while Maureen waited with just a touch of envy. Young love.. She thought. How beautiful! How beautiful is love at any age, for that matter. Their first greetings over, Diane introduced Maureen with the words, "She has been wonderful to me. Quite the most marvelous friend I have ever found." "Then I shall love you, too," said Sydney, with a warm handclasp and a winning smile. "We'll have to go through customs," he added. "But that shouldn't take too long. Unless you have brought loads, of course." "As, of course, we have not," Diane quickly replied. They went into the long building and located their luggage. As - soon as they had checked through, they made their way to the train that would take them to London. They took the seat facing forward and were soon joined by more of the passengers. There was another half hour wait before the train finally started, and they were on their way. "Tll take you to a_ hotel," said Sydney. "We've already arranged for that," said Diane. "Maureen has reservations at the Strand Palace and has invited me to come with her for tonight." "Fine! That's near enough to the center of things for you to enjoy your first glimpse of London. And I'm told the food is excellent." It was near midnight when If Spring Be Late they finally arrived at the hotel. Sydney bade them goodbye briefly, saying, "Ill be around early tomorrow." They went to their room, put a shilling in the heater for a bit of warmth and, after prayers, climbed quickly into bed. "Tt's been quite a day, hasn't it?" remarked Maureen with a sleepy yawn. "Yes, quite a day," agreed Diane dreamily. "It really has been quite a day." "Well, goodnight, honey. We'll look forward to another wonderful day tomorrow." "Yes—and thanks for everything, Maureen." They soon drifted off to sleep and awakened the next morning to a bright October day. Breakfast in the dining room was a real treat, with some wonderfully light, flaky rolls. They had just gone into the lobby again when Sydney appeared, as bright and smiling as the October day. Sydney took Diane off to meet his parents and Maureen walked as far as Piccadilly Circus and back again before lunch. She was enchanted with the sights and sounds of the London streets— the high, red, double-decker buses, the window boxes filled with flowers, the "bobbies" with their chin-strapped helmets, and the business men with tightly furled umbrellas. For the first time, she was completely happy that she had come. Her cousin, Bruce Taggart, was to call for her at two. He came with his wife, Catherine, and two teen-age daughters, Julia and Kitty. Letters and photographs had been exchanged for years, but this was the first 371 May 1968 actual meeting and it was a most happy occasion. They visited in the lobby for awhile, getting acquainted. Then Bruce. Said, 'The girls want to do a bit of shopping while we're in town. Would you like to go with them, or visit here with me?" "T think that I had best stay here," she replied. "I have a young friend with me who has just come to meet her prospective in-laws for the first time. I would like to be here when she returns, just to make sure that everything is all right. We shared a stateroom on the boat and she stayed here with me last night." "It could be a rather delicate situation," said Bruce. "If you want to bring her along home with us there is ample room. We have a very large house. Not a very good house, I'm afraid, but large." "You are most kind. I may do that for the present. The gir! Is here practically without funds. Here they come now." Diane and Sydney were introduced to Bruce. One glance at Diane's face told Maureen that all was not well. She hoped that it meant this was the course of true love, which was not supposed to run smoothly. She would have been more reassured, however, by a bright smile. To make her feel at ease, Maureen said quickly, "Mr. Taggart has invited you to go home with us to Bahlen until you make further plans." "Thank you very much," said Diane, obviously relieved. Mr. Taggart gave Sydney their address and telephone number, and he left, promising to call Diane the next day. Now that 372 Diane had returned, Bruce excused himself to go on a short errand. While they were waiting for Catherine and the girls to return from shopping, they went up to their room to pack. As soon as they were alone, Maureen asked, "Well how did it go?" Diane looked miserable and a trifle frightened. "Not very well. His parents don't want us to get married. Not now, I mean. They're supporting Sydney in school, and they don't relish the idea of taking on a wife in addition. I honestly can't say that I blame them." "Nor can I—in a way," agreed Maureen. "Unless they are people of means." She refrained from saying that all of this should have been cleared before Diane crossed the ocean. It was too late for that now, as Diane had, no doubt, been able to figure out for herself. "Do you have any plans at all—or haven't you had time yet to think it over?" "Well, for the present, there is only one thing I can do," answered Diane, "and that is to get a job. Sydney has suggested that he quit school and go to work. He could start teaching now and still work toward the higher degree, but I wouldn't think of it. Besides, his parents would never forgive me. I've had some secretarial training and some experience. There must be something I can do." "Yes, of course. We'll talk it over with Bruce as soon as it is convenient. In the meantime, you are not to worry at all. Pll keep track of you." "T know you will, and I can't tell you how grateful I am." "Don't try. I wouldn't feel natural if I didn't have some chick under my wing. And you seem to be the only one available at the moment." This brought a smile back to Diane's face, and she finished her packing in a more cheerful spirit. They went down to the foyer and it was only a few minutes before Bruce returned, followed shortly afterward by Catherine and the girls. They all greeted Diane warmly and seemed genuinely thrilled that she was to be their guest. "Of course, you'll practically freeze to death in our house," Kitty informed her blithely. "But if you stay long enough, your blood will get nice and thick, like ours, and you won't mind it a bit." "T shan't mind it, anyway," replied Diane. "We have real winters in Michigan. I've known it to get twenty degrees below zero. Can you top that?" Kitty sighed. "I'm afraid not. And I shan't waste any more sympathy on you. I shall merely lend you an extra sweater." "Come on ladies," said her father. "We'll walk over to the tube. It's only a short distance." At Diane's puzzled look, Julia explained, "It's the subway to you, I believe." And Maureen added, "We'll have to start learning English as it is spoken in Britain." "Especially since I am_ to marry a Britisher," smiled Diane. "Yes, indeed. But aren't you thankful he isn't French or Italian?" said Kitty. "I'm sure that English will be much easier for you." If Spring Be Late "I'm sure, too. I already have a pretty fair start since knowing Sydney." They walked over to the station, caught a train, and were in Bahlen within minutes. "We can walk from here to our house," said Bruce. "Our church is over there on Nightingale Lane. You are a Latter-day Saint, I suppose?"; "No, Iam not. But if they are all as good as you Taggarts, and as kind, I shall join tomorrow." "Not quite so fast," laughed Julia. "But we'll give you every chance." A s they walked along, Julia fell into step alongside Diane. She was a pretty girl of seventeen, interested in life in general, and right now, in this American visitor, in particular. "Perhaps I should tell you about our family," Julia said. "Anyway, about Mrs. Murch." "Yes, do tell me about Mrs. Murch. The name sounds like someone out of Dickens." "Exactly. She came to us during the London Blitz, which I don't remember, naturally, since I wasn't even around. They were not hurt so badly out here as many people in the city, who were bombed out and came here to live while their homes were rebuilt. Well, Mrs. Murch came to us and never left." "Had she no family?" "There was a daughter, whom she thinks she can still find— or rather, who will find her. I wanted to prepare you, since every stranger who comes is at first taken for her daughter. She doesn't realize that the girl would now be in her forties. She still 373 May 1968 thinks of her as the same girl she lost during the Blitz." "How sad! What does she do?" "Besides waiting for Cynthia to come home, she does a great deal of the cooking, which she seems to enjoy. And she knits afghans. Some of them we can sell, which gives her a bit of an income—at least, enough to buy more yarn. Others we give away. The Relief Society has been able to dispose of many of them. It keeps her occupied and _ contented." "Well, I hope that I shan't be on your hands for twenty-five years and have to resort to knitting afghans." wd lia laughed. "Not much danger! What are your plans— outside of meeting your young man and getting married? I know that Maureen came to do research. Are you also interested in that?" "No. I know nothing about that. I came here hoping to get married right away, but that doesn't seem to be working out. So I'll. Have to find a job. Do you, by any chance, know of something I might get? I have had some experience as a secretary." "Well, there's Mrs. Markham, who always needs a secretary because no one can get along with her. But I wouldn't recommend her except in a case of dire emergency." "Well," said Diane, "this could easily be just that. What is her work?" "She does a syndicated column on etiquette. You know, 'When I go out to dinner does my escort order for me?' and that sort of 374 thing. It is carried in about thirty newspapers and she seems to have a big following." "We'll keep her in mind," said Diane. "I'm not likely to have much of a choice." They had arrived now at the Taggart home. It was indeed large, rambling, and apparently quite old. There were flowers about and a degree of charm, on the whole, that reminded Diane of an ancient, but thoroughly pleasant, "Grand Dame." As if reading her thoughts, Julia waved her hand airily and said, "Queen Victoria, as you see. But we love it. There is room for everyone to spread about. Father has a study, Mrs. Murch a sitting room that holds all her yarns and afghans. That's Father's school over yonder." "And you, are you still in school?" asked Diane. "No. Kitty is. I work in a solicitor's office—lawyer to you." "Yes, I know. Sydney's father is a solicitor. My fiancé, you know." "Oh, yes. I hope he is a good one. Mine is old and doddering and doesn't make much money. In consequence, neither do I." She seemed so unconcerned that Diane didn't waste any sympathy. They went into the house and were immediately greeted by Mrs. Murch, who rushed up to Diane, took her arms and searched her face. Julia pulled her gently away. "No, Mrs. Murch," she said, This is not Cynthia. This is Diane Curran and she is to be our guest for a time." Mrs. Murch did not seem too greatly disappointed. Evidently this scene had been played many times before. Catherine took the two guests to their rooms and told them that dinner would be ready in an hour. Maureen walked to a window and looked out on a garden at the rear of the house. It was lush with late-blooming flowers. In one corner was a small greenhouse. For some strange, but satisfying reason, she felt very much at home. Kitty came to call them to dinner and they went down to a real English meal of roast beef and Yorkshire pudding. There were also some excellent tomatoes. "IT suppose these came from the greenhouse," said Maureen. "Yes, and served especially in your honor," said Julia. "We prefer them fried for breakfast." "T'll take them that way, too," smiled Maureen. "When in Rome...." After dinner, they went into the living room, where a bright blaze in the grate drove out the chill of the October evening. "T imagine that you are eager to know about the inheritance," suggested Bruce. Well, curious, at any rate," Maureen replied. "Have you seen it yet?" "No. In fact I thought we would wait until the spring holiday so that Catherine and the girls could go with us. There is still rather a lot of legal work to be done." "And with my employer doing it, the work won't be done before spring," added Julia. "That's quite all right with me," said Maureen. "I hope to find enough records to keep me busy for several months. I can work on my mother's line— the Conklins—you know." If Spring Be Late Catherine broke a brief pause to observe, "I think that we had best not say anything about this inheritance in the neighborhood. Rumors can grow, and. We need to know just what it. Amounts to before we give anyone cause for speculation." "You are quite right, my dear," said Bruce. "You girls will keep that in mind, of course." "Certainly," said Kitty. "I can manage to wait a few more months before people start calling me Lady Kitty. Or shall I be the Honorable Kitty Taggart?" "You'll be just plain Kitty Taggart, more than likely, as you always have been," replied Julia. "Kitty—but not plain," she declared with a toss of her auburn curls. Mrs. Murch left the room just then to go up and get more yarn for her knitting, and Catherine said, "I hope that she will remember not to say anything about this in the neighborhood." "Remember or not, it's probably too late. I daresay that she will have spread the news the entire length of the street by tomorrow night," said Julia. "Oh, dear, I hope not," said her father. "Try to impress upon her that we'll make no mention of this. It could be difficult for me at school. I should have thought of that before I spoke." "Granted," said Catherine. "T'll do my best and hope it's good enough!" "But, knowing our Mrs. Murch, I predict that it won't be," said Kitty, blithely and ominously. (To be continued) 3/3) 376 Ow tg wok of ~ / m™ Stakes and missions are to be congratulated on their success in 1967 in placing The Relief Society Magazine in 271,400 homes of the Church, an increase of 12,908 over 1966. The English Magazine subscriptions totaled 265,000—12,098 more than last year. Spanish subscriptions were 6,400, an increase of 810 over last year's total. These successes represent an all-time high The General Board is always endeavoring to increase the value and beauty of the Magazine, and it is heartwarming to have the Magazine representatives, under the direction of the respective presidencies, do such an outstanding work, for work it is to contact sisters in a ward or branch, perhaps returning to the homes once or twice to speak with them. Only the knowledge of the great importance of the calling of a Magazine representative would call forth such devotion from Magazine representatives. There were twenty-seven more stakes on the Honor Roll in 1967 than in 1966. For the twenty-second year, South Los Angeles Stake leads the Church in the percentage of subscriptions, followed for the ninth year by Huntington Park Stake. Of the highest ten on the Honor Roli, seven are from California and one each from Utah, Idaho, and Counselor Marianne C. Sharp A he Arizona. All stakes in Australia and Canada are on the Honor Roll, many with high percentages. It is satisfying to know that the editorial staff receives an increasing number of submissions from countries other than the United States. The Relief Society Magazine is noteworthy as a medium through which the sisterhood in the world grows closer together in common understanding and love. The Spanish edition is a potent tool in strengthening the Spanishspeaking sisters, both those in the United States and in Mexico, Central, and South America. South Box Elder, Norwalk, and Chicago South Stakes are to be congratulated on their great percentage increases this past year, 38, 30, and 25 per cent respectively. In the missions, the Southern Australian and the Alaskan-Canadian missions are to be congratulated on their percentages of increase. The General Board extends its heartfelt thanks to everyone who has had a part in placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes and also to those who subscribe so faithfully year after year and who write such appreciative letters to the General Board, many of which appear on the From Near and Far page. May 1968 377 Dx d STAKE South Los Angeles (California) 194% Magazine Representative - Dona Osborn kd WARD La Barge Ward, Woodruff Stake (Wyoming) 379% Magazine Representative - Fay Wall > ¢ MISSION Texas South - 120% Magazine Representative - Marjorie C. Ricker + MISSION DISTRICT Kentucky North District, East Central States Mission - 190% Magazine Representative - *% MISSION BRANCH North Battleford Branch, North Saskatchewan District, Western Canadian Mission - 340% Magazine Representative Elaine Rensley TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN STAKES ELEVEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN MISSIONS 194 South Los Angeles __ Dona Osborn *120 Texas South __._._Marjorie C. Ricker 159 Huntington Park __ _ ~Joy B. Snell 108 North Central States Marguerite J. Satterfield 140 South Box Elder __ _ _-Dona W. Curtis 107. = Alaskan-Canadian.. _Erma T. Hinckley 136 Norwalk__-._-____.-Lois Sundberg 105 Western States __ Arline M. Scott 132 East Rigby _-_____.-Norma Rounds 100 Cumorah _____ __-Mary S. Bankhead 131 Glendale ________. Lottie Jonkey 98 Central States __..-Lola R. West 128 Los Angeles- -------Nell W. McDowell 94 West Central States _ _ Nancy Jenkins 127 San Diego East- - - - - -Beverly Barrett 94 Southern Australian _ _Karlyn C. Russon 126 Phoenix West ___-~-~-Rae Levie 93 Western Canadian _ _. Lanore D. Espenscheid 126 Long Beach ______-Erma Halls 93 Canadian__._.__~-Helen D. Toronto 93 Northern States _ _ _ Artemisia H. Henderson *Limited Representation (One district only) Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 378 TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1458 Glendale 1139 Rigby 1479 —s East Central States 695 Alaskan-Canadian 1326 South Los Angeles 1129 Las Vegas North 815 Eastern Atlantic States 668 Florida 1270 Mesa 1094 Bonneville 746 New England 635 Northwestern States 1153. East Cache 1088 Timpanogos 734 North Central States 618 Central States 1145 Huntington Park 1087 — Ensign 713 Southern States 615 Canadian STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER Bannock __-_..--Clara C. Christensen Inglewood _.----Edith Pew Pomona... ---- -Nora Perdue Bear River _-_..--Melba J. Capener Juarez___....--Rhoda C. Taylor Roy North.__---Afton A. Johnson Bonneville._._-~-June W. Kasteler Las Vegas __----Jannie H. Bloxham San Diego East - _. Beverly Barrett Brigham City - _ — - -Hilda R. Forrest Las Vegas East _ - - Ruth Shumway San Diego South ~. Isabell t. Allphin Burley________-'Ruth S. Lyons Long Beach _--_---Erma Halls San Fernando. - -. Kathleen Gooch Canoga Park _ _ - ~~Dorotha Means Malad _-....----Maude Y. Jensen Santa Rosa_.._.-Mary Jewel Vollintine Covina.._.-..-.-Colleen C. Boman Modesto ~____--Eva Andrew Scottsdale ___---Marjorie E. V. Snyder East Idaho Falls _. _Connie Dee Kane North Box Elder _ _ _Lila Y. Rader Shelley..__.----Bessie H. Park East Jordan ____~-Etta M. Whittaker North Davis _-—---Ardell T. Stoker South Cottonwood -Anna V. L. Lindman East Phoenix _ - - - -Geneva Cluff Norwalk_.------Lois Sundberg South Idaho Falls. - Esther R. Hales East Rigby...--~-Norma Rounds Palmyra...-----Eleanor D. Olsen South Los Angeles Dona Osborn El Monte _____-_~-Voile E. Mason Palomar __.__--Amaretta H. Graves South Salt Lake _.. Hannah Dietrich Fullerton.-____--Juanita Barfuss Parleys _._-..--.-June T. Allen Sunset ____----Kathryn S. Shelton Glendale -_-_--~-Lottie Jonkey Phoenix North _. _ - Pearl T. Jacobson Taylor __.------Lauretta S. Dahl Granite _-._____-Hazel F. Bate Phoenix West _ _ — - Rae Levie Huntington Park - - Joy B. Snell Pocatello ____---Alice Brandt May 1968 379 194 159 140 136 132 131 128 127 126 126 125 125 125 124 122 122 122 122 121 121 119 119 South Los Angeles Huntington Park South Box Elder Norwalk East Rigby Glendale Los Angeles San Diego East Phoenix West Long Beach Inglewood Burley Rigby El Paso Santa Rosa Mount Rubidoux East Los Angeles Las Vegas East Palomar North Box Elder Rexburg Cumorah 119 118 118 117 117 117 116 116 116 116 116 116 115 115 115 115 115 114 114 114 114 114 Pomona Mojave South Idaho Falls Idaho Falls El Monte Grant Canoga Park Las Vegas Sunset Chicago Kansas City Phoenix North Granite Boston Milwaukee Ensign St. Joseph Taylor Weber Bannock Oakland-Berkeley San Fernando 113 113 113 113 113 112 112 112 112 111 111 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 Cedar Rapids Taber Roy North Brigham City Huntington Beach San Luis Obispo Santa Ana Las Vegas North Shelley Mesa South Salt Lake South Cottonwood North Tooele Philadelphia San Diego South Covina Scottsdale Pocatello Whittier Granger Juab Nyssa Boise Oquirrh East Yuma Cheyenne Sydney Panguitch Palmyra Minidoka Seattle Provo American Falls Malad East Phoenix Monument Park East Jordan East Long Beach North Davis Melbourne San Mateo Bear River Calgary Monument Park West 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 East Idaho Falls Juarez South Bear River Boise North Santa Monica Southern Arizona Highland Napa Tooele Snowflake Oquirrh Gooding Redondo St. Johns St. Louis Woodruff Big Horn Walnut Creek Fullerton Seattle East Dallas Cannon Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 Stakes on Honor Roll 1967 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Adelaide Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Albuquerque East Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Arlington Ashley Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Blaine Boise Boise North 237 532 369 808 345 362 755 422 653 548 612 653 404 666 549 664 362 510 553 290 560 921 628 671 871 405 774 323 607 599 190 555 320 737 321 273 718 458 540 524 632 673 391 699 516 613 413 478 596 220 546 767 479 588 928 398 791 302 666 643 80 104 87 91 93 75 95 109 83 96 103 103 Pamela R. Mamouney Eloise M. Wyrouck Mariam D. Johanson Marion Low Vera K. Hamilton Rebecca A. Miller Eloise C. Ferguson Verna Larson Mayme J. Baker Melba Pinnegar Ruth T. Milton Esther Pomeray Tula B. Berry Alice T. Wall Colleen P. Main Ruby Woolsey Clara C. Christensen May B. Bowman Melba J. Capener Hattie Moss Daisy Gillins Elaine Wade Martha S. Dillon Meredith B. Hall LeNore B. Lewis Maud J. DeVore Vina Lee Belnap Vera E. Clifford Genevieve Creswell na Scott Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Craig Cumorah Dallas Davis Denver Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Monte El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Fair Oaks Farr West Flagstaff Florida Fort Wayne Fort Worth Franklin 297 453 415 840 466 623 721 696 429 1133 684 604 807 817 711 720 848 608 641 710 656 972 453 457 494 685 647 946 429 797 619 755 325 339 242 540 440 661 485 644 738 635 426 1153 736 653 870 993 737 600 802 659 579 721 865 937 461 533 611 527 594 1087 367 664 525 746 288 336 81 119 106 79 104 103 102 91 99 102 108 108 Ida L. Bair Margaret G. Stoner Elsa Neil Marie S. Lloyd Ada Bell Norman Phyllis T. Benfell Erma E. Cropper Mattie Tuft Thelda M. Halstead Rachel M. Plaser Connie De Kane Etta M. Whittaker Laura Hess Thora B. Rogers Mary L. Adams Lola Condie Katherine W. Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff LaVerne Marley Arlean M. Lewis Norma Rounds Lucile Weenig Elise H. Shields Voile E. Mason Maud T. Bentley Della B. Brasher Reva B. Holt Mildred O. Sloan Juanita W. Duncan Nora K. Poulsen Lula &. Orter Vera M. Williams Alice Green Lucille W. Molen May 1968 383 Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Calgary North Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar Rapids Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Clearfield Coeur d'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corpus Christi Corvallis Cottonwood Covina - 1034 470 869 665 806 886 499 568 259 745 845 392 660 704 377 359 642 431 1010 756 424 261 429 510 223 597 477 424 475 759 339 677 371 617 138 263 638 660 1094 541 769 582 622 879 492 641 257 770 1056 340 611 636 406 376 680 502 939 687 363 260 439 466 252 616 521 492 487 642 270 644 318 630 139 253 585 729 Junewekaiteer - -FFenent Shirley J. Blomberg Beulah Nelson Janice G. Stewart Margene D. Peterson Colleen Poulsen Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth Virginia W. Starke Ruth S. Lyons Gladys R. Loveless Jeannette P. Bradfield Norma Thompson Joan Rea Theadora Stevenson Elsie DuehImeier Dorotha Means Anne L. Halverson Lorraine Stevens Hazel J. Tavis Winona M. Tucker Emma C. Payne Nettie K. Morris Connie Bennion Hazel B. Davies Sandra S. Butterfield Vilda Page Violet Coffing Thelma Haslam Dorothy L. Bennett Ava R. Hill Molly H. Mortensen M. Nadine Smith Lorene Ricker Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Colleen C. Boman Fresno Fresno East Fullerton Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Coulee North Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Gunnison Hamilton Hartford Hattiesburg Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Houston Humboldt Hunter Huntington Beach Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls IHinois Inglewood 392 509 507 547 423 291 1111 654 419 296 555 574 694 641 695 846 615 417 399 980 451 402 334 273 470 653 1116 1035 577 301 616 382 721 841 522 660 408 671 399 465 450 581 362 261 1458 697 400 305 534 631 702 740 700 986 520 409 326 785 368 338 267 205 471 699 980 1048 501 280 508 430 1145 781 510 773 325 841 Ruth Hunt | Myrla Stidham Shirley Self Juanita Barfuss Ruth W. Hoffman Melba Gates Lottie Jonkey Hazel Gines Lula Gilbert Mary Helen Anthron Arda Luster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Hazel F. Bate Lythia J. Street lreta T. Stevens Olive T. Western Wilma |. Miles Alice M. Brewer Vera Allred Amy Thompson Eleanor Ormsby Ella Kohler Evelyn G. Tolbert Marjorie E. Marshall Elia N. Christensen Ruby S. Ockey Nellie D. Huffman Edna Vucinovich Marjorie H. Holbrook Norma H. Scott Pearl C. Watson Joy B. Snell Arlene B. Hall Hazel H. Ozburn June Keller Shauna S. Larsen Edith Pew Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. Stakes on Honor Roll (continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Rate Magazine Representative Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns Kearns North Klamath Falls Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Lehi Lethbridge Lewiston -Liberty Logan Long Beach Long Island Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Macon Malad Manchester Maricopa Medford Melbourne Mesa Mesa South 561 105 560 623 839 523 635 246 731 711 509 627 800 482 1008 760 725 368 698 641 633 315 877 468° 301 568 266 580 220 831 536 466 1140 688 441 617110 113 108 515 92 722 116 754 90 401 77 554 87 256 104 718 98 579 ~=—« 8 511 100 49479 931 116 586 122 1129 112 645 85 689 95 340 92 694 99 605 94 795 126 322 102 763 87 600 128 291 97 515 91 234-88 629 108 206 494 856 103 484 90 503 108 1270 il 683 99 357.8 TT Rita S. Andrews Rhoda C. Taylor Cecil M. Fisher Venna T. Witbeck Irene Olsen Lolita C. Hendrix Shirley G. Allen Beverly Ellis Verla B. Roundy Magda Potter lsora Olmstead Maurine Wittwer Fannie H. Bloxham Ruth Shumway Vaun S. Klingonsmith Rosa Ashton Thelma E. B. Derochie Effie W. Felsted Luetla L. Birrell Luara J. Mortensen Erma Halls Jeannette M. Derr Hazel G. James Yvonne Johnson Barbara H. Slagowski Alexandria S. Graybeal Maude Y. Jensen E. Hargreaves Olive Wallace Barbara Shepherd Grace Matthews Grace E. Jones Rae Lemmon North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympia Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Orem Orem West Orlando Palm Springs Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Pasco Philadelphia 890 846 362 720 756 704 619 451 493 682 667 510 805 793 448 383 635 689 494 294 885 830 479 313 739 856 493 459 735 594 403 887 382 480 914 103 655 77 367 +101 752 104 708 §8693 619 +88 632 102 396 88 548 111 580 85 904 136 560 110 917 114 740 = 3B 384 86 345 90 645 102 700 102 527. 107 322 110 747 84 694 84 409 85 309 99 806 109 674 79 597 121 501 109 671 91 610 103 386 96 919 104 348 91 532 111i 697 98 Maurine N. Grimmett Virginia B. Latimer Sara Fisher Maurine R. Pocock Mary E. Anglesey Connie Ames Dorothy W. Marlowe LaVerde S. Gurney Ann Russell Marvel W. Barrow Lois Sundberg Ethel B. Stoker Helene B. Christensen Edna H. Roghaar Geneva A. McCallister Constance P. Gamman Alfarette S. Liddle Verneta H. Larson Norma Hymas Evelyn M. Bridges Bertha T. Kirk Mable Nelson Ruth Maughan Beatrice M. Nielsen Eleanor D. Olsen Elaine H. Tuttle Amaretta H. Graves Theora Heap Pearl £. Rohde Juna T. Allen Barbara B. Burt Rose N. Simper Joy Hulet Pauline G. Bishop = ist) "< ~~ te) ro (es) Mill Creek Milwaukee Minidoka Minnesota Missoula Moapa Modesto Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Olympus Mount Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa | Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Jersey Central New Orleans New York Norfolk North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis 1092 627 675 379 808 539 528 351 509 773 338 889 671 704 458 366 787 672 902 730 627 435 662 1074 1053 661 710 488 328 368 423 408 363 492 616 441 383 577 Luin High Gladys V. Broadhead Eva Larson Pearl Dunlap Vera Hardy Eva Andrew Lucille Boren Anna Jensen Jean C. Keetch Ruth B. Parkinson Florence Carter Bonnie Mallan Betty A. Cook Florence Wignall Ruth C. Gull Elaine Passey Louise Woodland Dora H, Lerch Helen M. Petereit Liesel Barthel Anne Sanders Louise S. Tobler LaVaun L. Allen Grace Wightman Lu Atkin Joy H. Monson Anita Scotto Rae C. Leuthner Margaret Bruns Lorna H. McPherson Lila Y. Rader Lue Tweddell Katherine Bailey Sarah M. Williams Ardell T. Stoker Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Rialto Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Rose Park North Roy Roy North Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis 635 578 718 737 691 551 678 622 514 199 258 413 684 297 664 554 674 800 429 557 913 597 640 550 618 528 396 441 326 865 585 647 550 626 471 553 638 853 730 681 559 656 676 488 197 237 371 729 306 652 540 618 955 398 464 1139 630 662 467 609 516 394 449 368 767 558 647 586 718 502 Alice Brandt Nora Perdue Evelyn M. Nielson Arelie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Marjorie Edwards Deseret Bullock Ona N. Gunnell Daphne Tew Elsie J. Worthley Rose D. Davis Ruth J. Allen Doris Young Zola R. Lowe Bonnie Parry Mary K. Wilker Esther A. Hill Leora T. Belliston Ora Stallings Perneica D. Fiet lona N. Whitehead LaVon L. Usher Roberta Jones Doris B. Hensler Patsy Pearce Dorothy F. Oleson Afton A. Johnson Amanda E. Hurst Blanch C. Wright Ruby M. Iverson lvamarie S. Crosby Genevieve Woods Patricia S. Keyes Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 386 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. Stakes on Honor Roll (continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Salem Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Sandy Sandy East Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Simi 411 219 766 312 617 928 466 603 860 444 505 753 WES Jad 490 609 194 751 676 534 781 682 286 840 815 427 570 679 546 886 659 903 493 377 848 360 216 683 309 573 968 590 666 978 409 471 657 713 747 480 546 218 810 582 519 877 710 281 901 996 418 629 739 579 929 653 1010 371 343 691 88 99 89 99 93 104 127 110 114 92 SIs 87 os) 99 98 90 112 108 86 78 112 104 98 107 22 98 110 109 106 105 99 112 + / 91 Ann Harris Shaunne Wetherington Idonna A. Toone Carmen S. Martinez Mildred G. Simpson Mariellen D. Greer Beverly Barrett Isabell |. Ailphin Kathleen Gooch Beth Olsen Ronella M. Brough Coleen Jurgens Vivian L. Webb Lea Hurst Elfonda Barker Viola Clarke Enid W. Nelson LaVern K. Stam Louise R. Neff Violet G. Boyce Abigail S. Millett Effie Rohlfing Edith G. Swonger Helen G. Hanson Mary Jewel Vollintine Ella H. Sandstrom Marjorie E. V. Snyder Evelyn S. Brown Erma Kenyon Manetta Hansen Jean K. Reeder Bessie H. Park Beulah Hayes Sharon L. Pittard Sunset Sydney Sydney South Taber Tacoma Tampa Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Tempe Temple View Teton Texas North Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber 357 228 252 393 666 431 690 561 400 446 589 567 213 1087 513 660 719 730 380 1005 525 662 746 589 331 832 395 360 571 837 773 461 347 611 415 249 254 444 634 348 789 458 391 433 592 522 202 1088 548 685 702 696 328 1052 533 607 629 623 322 776 346 318 607 686 818 426 - 294 698 747 116 109 101 113 95 81 114 Kathryn'S. Shelton Viola Innis Mary M. Proctor Evelyn G. Johnson Margaret A. Avery Louise A. Nolan Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Marjorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Kathleen V. Perschon Ruby Hogan Oma J. Patterson Velma Gillman Bertha J. Hogan Ruth F. Rennie Mary Ann A. Stratford Elizabeth G. Martin Nona Moffat LaVella Pace Stella Richards MarJean Westerfield Margaret D. Scott Faye Christensen Ivy L. Edwards Lorna O. Monsen Caroline Wotherspoon Ethel T. Sweet Mary A. Baughman Emily Conrad Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Vonda Williams Gonda De Boer May 1968 387 — "Ty South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina West South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit 615 683 743 480 857 458 466 452 769 658 806 758 919 420 ment Subscriptions No. Pct. Meda P. Hupp Florence H. Nixon Dona W. Curtis Vivian L. Black Anna V. L. Lindman Naomi B. Stanbridge. Esther R. Hales Dona Osborn Lillie H. Berrett Hannah Dietrich Lucille K. Allen Gladys Nielson Martha A. Lambert Virginia Hawkins Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippets Leta Coffman Anne W. Dean Ina G. Blonquist s West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park 662 975 564 428 783 636 712 841 607 283 720 658 227 752 349 778 365 918 731 386 453 Missions on Honor Roll - 1967 Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment 104 105 104 103 110 105 107 100 Subscriptions No. Pet. Gertrude S. Fullmer lla Mae F. Dahl Neva Barrett Evelyn Schmidt Zola M. Jacobs Kate A. McKinnon Beth W. Baker Beulah D. Mickel Edith Isenberg Mary W. Coons Myrtle Powell Myrl H. Bray Clara W. Cameron Dorothy M. Clark Orrie C. Muir LaRene Hall Leola Beddes Faye J. Flack Effie Nowland Orva Jepson Magazine Representative 650 106 662 577 631 Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Eastern Atlantic States 982 107 90 93 81 98 100 87 83 86 85 81 Erma T. Hinckley Marian L. Mac Donald Helen D. Toronto Winnifred Ferre Lola R. West Mary S. Bankhead Erma T. Eldredge Donna J. Bowen Marva S. Rudd Irene M. Lish Beatrice D. Pinkston New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States South African Southern Australian Texas Texas South West Central States Western Canadian Western States 878 677 607 706 412 486 219 54 543 333 427 746 734 564 635 314 456 195 65 512 310 450 85 108 93 90 76 94 89 120 94 93 105 Donna S. Packer Marguerite J. Satterfield Artemisia H. Henderson Virginia P. Backman Eleanor A. Badger Karlyn C. Russon Virginia Budge Marjorie C. Ricker Nancy Jenkins Lanore D. Espenscheid Arline M. Scott Ema e. Chadwick Magazine Honor Roll for 1967 Relief Society Cumorah East Central States Florida Great Lakes Gulf States Enroll: 498 1704 774 210 333 No > Relief Society Activities Las Vegas (Nevada) Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Large Convention Audience Officers of the Las Vegas Stake, front row, left to right: Ferren W. Bunker, High Council Representative for Relief Society; Theodore M. Peterson, Counselor; Harold C. Anderson, Counselor; Clifford Wallace, Regional Representative of the Council of the Twelve; Lucy B. Bunker, Relief Society chorister; Reed Whipple, Stake President; Illean W. Peterson, President, Relief Society; Velma H. Stewart, Education Counselor; Helen C. King, Homemaking Counselor; Phyllis P. Tonks, Relief Society organist; Blanch Dalby, assistant organist. Sister Peterson reports: ''The Las Vegas Stake Singing Mothers participated in a Sunday morning non-denominational worship service with the National Automobile Dealers of America at a convention held here recently. There were some 15,000 delegates in attendance, making this one of the larger annual conventions. "The chorus consisted of 225 voices from nine wards of the stake. Many of the sisters had to travel fifty miles one way for weekly rehearsals. The sisters furnished music for the Stake Quarterly Conference prior to accepting the opportunity to perform for the convention. "By request, they sang 'The Lord's Prayer,' and thrilled the audience with their own selections of 'God of Eternity' and Florence Jepperson Madsen's beautiful 'Still, Still With Thee.' '' Southeast Mexican Mission Holds Relief Society Conference September 8, 1967 Mission Relief Society officers, second row from top, beginning with second sister: Ruth C. Romney, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Bertha Morales, Mission President; Irma Dominguez, First Counselor; Adelina Caraveo, Secretary-Treasurer; Antonia de Castillo, cultural refinement class leader; Alicia G. De Llitheras, visiting teacher message leader. Top row, left to right: Lucila Vargas de Peréz, chorister; Paula J. De Lopez, spiritual living class leader. Sister Romney reports: '"'This was the second all-mission Relief Society Conference held. It was held in Veracruz. A special display of handmade articles was set up. Later, this display was taken to each district in the mission, and a workshop was held. Instruction booklets were printed, and each sister received one. "The mission is growing in spirit and in numbers. The Magazine printed in Spanish has been a great help to us here." Notes From the Field All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake ief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be ressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. May 1968 Perth Stake (Australia) Relief Society Plans Variety of Activities Perth Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Elizabeth J. Alcorn, SecretaryTreasurer; Joyce Pixer, Second Counselor; Mary C. Dawson, President; Eileen N. Crosbie, First Counselor. Sister Dawson reports: ''Our stake is newly organized. Our first monthly leadership meeting was held recently, and we were gratified both by attendance and by the spirit which was there. We have had a full district board organized for many years, so now we feel we are really ready to forge ahead in the service of the Lord. "We are now working on plans for an annual visiting teacher convention, a musical evening, and a mannequin parade, among other activities. We are eagerly looking forward to regular visits from members of the General Board.'' Seven Canadian Stakes Singing Mothers Combine to Present Centennial Concert September 3, 1967 Montez Cooper, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Calgary Stake acted as host to seven Canadian stakes Singing Mothers, who presented a concert in the beautiful Alberta Jubilee Auditorium, which seats nearly 2,800 people. "Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, conducted the choir. The sisters put in an excess of eighty hours practice, mostly in the early morning. "This was a missionary effort, and the missionaries report that they have made many wonderful contacts through people who were impressed by the concert. The music was so appreciated that a standing ovation was given the performance." French-Polynesian Mission, Papeete Branch Holds Opening Social September 8, 1967 Standing, left to right: Martha Taerea, Chairman of bazaar; Elisa Sam You, President, French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society; Elsie L. Richards, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Tetua Tehani, First Counselor; Ninirei Maro, Second Counselor; Marie Wong, Secretary-Treasurer. Seated at left: Tererai Airima; Tiaki Menemene; Erena Taamino. Seated at right:. Nadege Richmond. Sister Richards reports: ''The Relief Society in Papeete held an opening social on President McKay's birthday, and it took the form of a testimonial in his honor. Tt was a very inspirational meeting. "Work in our mission is moving along well, and with the aid of lessons printed both in French and Tahitian, greater interest and participation are evident. We feel special blessings are being showered upon us with so many added facilities."' 390 Sogye cee wry & eee: S46a so ox ds Minnesota Stake Bazaar, ''Christmas Around the World" December 2, 1967 Thelma Hatton, standing in the Germany Booth, sponsored by the Minneapolis Fourth Ward. Arthella Basinger, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The efforts of twelve wards and branches resulted in a gala evening of shopping and entertainment. 'Advance publicity on radio stations in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, newspaper articles, and enthusiastic support from the participants made people aware that a holiday bazaar was taking place, and insured a good turnout. 'Each ward chose a country as the theme of its booth, and music and costumes from that country enhanced the beautifully decorated booths. Each booth was filled with many lovely hand-made articles, and each ward and branch felt that the financial success was adequate to meet their needs for the coming year. "A trumpet fanfare and a narration of a particular country's Christmas customs was followed by traditional Christmas carols, many of them sung in native languages of the countries represented. 'A Fantasy of Carols,' presented by the stake Singing Mothers, 100 in number, was thrilling indeed. "Hungry shoppers were made welcome at the smorgasborg table, sponsored by the stake board. They were served by young people dressed as Santa's elves, and a great variety of food was available. "The cooperation and joint effort of the wards and branches made this international bazaar an inspiring success." 392 Lesson Department Wi Development Through HOMEMAKING Homemaking Education Discussion 11—Rehabilitation Cathleen Hammond Faculty Member, Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August, 1968 OBJECTIVE: To teach the hom Southern Hemisphere: January, 1969 e nurse ways in which she can help family members to resume their daily activities after an illness. INTRODUCTION The term rehabilitation means to put back in good condition or reestablish on a firm, sound basis. This is a very broad term encompassing many areas. 'The purpose of this lesson is to acquaint the homemaker with several basic rehabilitation procedures necessary to restore the sick patient in the home to a useful life. REHABILITATION PROCEDURES Much can be done in the home to help the sick person: a. Proper positioning in bed will prevent the formation of contractures (stiffness of muscles and joints). B. Good skin care will prevent the occurrence of bed sores. In caring for elderly patients or those who must remain bedfast for a long period, it is important to give proper attention to the skin to avoid bedsores. These sores develop most often on the base of the spine, elbows, hips, heels, and toes. They may occur in any area where two surfaces of the skin come together. These precautions can prevent them: 1. Keep sheets dry, clean, and smooth. 2. Keep patient's clothing dry. 3. Prevent skin chafing by rubbing it carefully with a skin lotion or cold cream at least twice each day. 4. Change position of patient frequently to prevent irritation on pressure points such as heels, elbows, buttocks, etc. 5. In using bed pan, slip it under buttocks gently. If the skin is moist shake talcum powder on the bed pan. A soft pad placed between the patient's back and the pan will avoid irritation of the skin. C. Range of motion exercises will help to discourage deformities and maintain or improve muscle strength. D. Interest and encouragement in the patient's attempts to help himself will help to prevent the onset of apathy and loss of motivation. 393 May 1968 e. The use of the proper type of bed for the patient speeds recovery and makes it easier to care for him. The basic bed equipment should include a firm mattress, a bedboard placed between the springs and mattress, and a footboard. F. A firm mattress and bedboard help support the segments of the body and prevent sagging of the patient's hips. Also, it makes it easier for a patient to move and turn in bed and to sit up or maintain balance. G. A footboard ts used to support the feet at right angles to the legs when the patient is lying on his back. This position prevents development of a foot-drop deformity where the feet tend to drop. Forward. It also helps to keep the bedcovers off the patient's feet and prevents pressure on the toes and bedsores on the heels. THE PATIENT'S COMFORT, CHANGING POSITIONS To keep the patient comfortable and help prevent bed sores, it is important to change the patient's position often. The illustration shown in Figure 1. Demonstrates proper positioning for the patient lying on his back in bed. Figure 1. Back lying Patient lying straight. Shoulders level. Hips level. OAORWN Flat pillow under head, neck, and shoulders. Feet against footboard. Toes pointed straight up. Heels of the feet rest over the space between mattress and footboard. Figure 2. Face lying 1. Feet against footboard. 2. Toes hang over edge of mattress. 3. No pillow under head. 4. Flat pillow placed under patients abdomen. 394 Lesson Department Figure 3. Side lying 1. Hips and knees slightly bent. 2. Rolled pillow supporting back. 3. Leg on upper side brought forward slightly on pillow. 4. Upper arm supported on pillow. 5. Prevent dropping of the shoulder. When a patient is lying on his back with his legs relaxed, the legs have a tendency to roll out to the side. A trochanter roll should be placed on the outer side of a patient's leg to prevent this rotation. Figure 4. Demonstrates the proper placement of a trochanter roll. Figure 4. Trochanter roll. 1. Roll is placed at the hip on the involved side. 2. The edge of the roll is placed under the hip. 3. It is under-rolled firmly against the thigh and tucked slightly under the hip: to hold the leg in good alignment. When positioning a paralyzed patient, it is important to place a roll in his hand. The hand roll is used to maintain functional position of the hand. Figure 5. Demonstrates the proper positioning of a hand roll. Figure 5. Hand roll 1. Position the thumb in opposition to the fingers. 2. The wrist should be extended. 3. Hand roll is placed diagonally across palm of hand. 395 May 1968 The doctor wil tient j! Tell you when the pa. € aim of ¢ erapeutic to achieve a each individ therapeutic exercises is very broad. It includes exercises to: Improve Coord ination, Prevent deformit Keep the Patient's Muscles from Wast ing and becomin. Ep the joints in the feet, legs, hips, ands, and arms from 8etting Stiff. Improve Posture. Such that the pat t is given the Oppore tunity and Motivation to do as Much for himself as is Possible Day Provement 3. Work Slowly. Ach exercise should be do Number of times on both sj body. 0 ocks attached, Roll two washcloths t aterials: % inch Plywood Measured with maski to fit the SPECcific bed. Ogether ang Secure king tape. The roll should be firm but not hard. Additiona| Material for this lesson ma € obtaineg from the booktet Strike Back 1. Foldg Cotton bath blanket or a sMooth Printing Office an Available from the IN mattress Pad the long Narrow Way Superintendent of ocuments, United and roll. T € finished roll should be States Government Printj inches | € and 4.5 jn i i 6 nting Office, Wash. Ngton D. C. 20402, for 40¢. 396 elieve Pain. Help the Patient relax, he regime of treatment Should be TROCHANTER ROLL BEDBOARD 1. One solig board the full size of the Mattress js Satisfactory. At Stroke Published by the United States New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective March 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone l and2 _.-..80 JZone5 ___- 1.20 Zone3 -~_---_-.95 Zone6 __-_-_ 1.40 Zone 4 __-- 105 Zone7 -~_-_-. 1.60 Zone8__-_-_-.-1.85 a, DESERET FREWS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 HAWAIIAN TOUR (June 18-30) SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR July 6-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19-September 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT AND HISTORICAL EASTERN TOUR 22 days — July 25 - August 15 See Winter Quarters, Carthage, Nauvoo, The Sacred Grove, etc. HAWAII 14 romantic days September 15 - September 28 see all 4 islands, Hawaii, Maui, Oahu, Kauai MEXICO 15 days June 5 - June 19 see stimulating Mexico City, picturesque Taxco, gay Acapulco PAUL LLOYD -——-_TOURS———__ arj call or write: hitney agent and escort 1205 2nd Ave SLC, Utah 84103 Phone (801) 363-5112 2628 Royalcrest Escondido, California GENEALOGY PHOTOS 35mm Negatives 25¢ 1" x 1%" Prints 5¢ Excellent Quality Send for Complete Price List AtLeEn's 24 North University Avenue Provo, Utah 84601 397 Tour-ific! Happiness | I$ * HAWAII ec * HILL CUMORAH paceant 17 Days — $279 19 Days — 319 22 Days — 359 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR * M EXICO 14 days from Salt p p | [ Lake, as low as $198. (Mexico City, Cuernavaca, Taxco, Acapulco) @ @ GARET / OP ra we Np adat Lake City, Ulan 28-8981 571.03 ous Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Inspirational YOU ARE INVITED TO TRY Enhances your and e % a Church and Appropriate ¢ CE | family activities FOR MORMONS The test of time has proven that LDS Sisters the world around love to sing these songs written in SSA: "Come With Me to the Temple" "Our Own Pioneers" Husbands and sons harmonize with enthusiasm on these: Daughters proclaim these as their favorites to play and sing: "The Temple By the River' '"'A Mother's Prayer" "Live Life in a Sweet Key" "Remember This Night"' They soon have the boys flocking to sing the baritone melody with them on: "Here Am |, God'—SAB and 'We'll Remember Who We Are''—SAB If you are dedicating a chapel or Seminary, you will want this song, based on President David O. McKay's own words: "Dedication" —choir These and other songs, all by Marie Manwaring Anderson, are available at 25¢ each, postpaid. Music cannot be sent out on approval, but a SAMPLE PACKET containing all of her songs may be purchased for $2.00. Address your order to Warie's Musée Shelley, Idaho 83274 398 14 Days — $259 "The Temple By the River' "Every Soul Is Living' "The Strength of Ten'—Unison ba "Visiting Teachers' Song" "God Bless Our Humble Home" "Choose You This Day''—TTBB "PUT UP" PRETTIER with 1 | 99 Crysta JELLY JARS & JELLY GLASSES A joy to "put up' with! Diamond-patterned glass. Gay, multi-colored tops. And new jelly jars that seal themselves! ('Quilted Crystal' jars have the famous Ball '"'Dome'"' Lids, the ones with the nice, clean, WHITE enamel lining and the red sealing ring that clings so tight.) Or, you can buy the glasses and seal with paraffin. No gift is more welcome than a few of your very own favorites, perfectly protected in "Quilted Crystal' jars or glasses. Look for them in handy trays, ideal for storage, serving refreshments, or gift packing! SEND FOR THIS COLLECTOR'S ITEM SALT & PEPPER SET (AVAILABLE WEST OF ROCKIES ONLY) \, Again, for a limited time only (for just 25¢ and 3 box tops of either Ball | Caps or "Dome" Lids), we can offer collectors these charming, miniature replicas of Ball Mason Jars, for 80 years the world's best selling brand. Practical, too... For picnics, lunch pails, table use. Send for yours, now! BALL BROTHERS COMPANY 4000 North Arden, El Monte, Califorina 91731 Please send me salt & pepper sets. Enclosed find 25¢ and 3 box tops for each set. (Allow 4 weeks for delivery) NAME ADDRESS. CITY. 399 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 104 101 100 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 400 Mrs. Mary Adelia Dell Felt Young Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffith Logan, Utah Mrs. Lois Barton Whittaker Circleville, Utah Mrs. Ella Georgianna Francisco Keele Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Diana Lucina Spicer Block Alhambra, California Mrs. Dolly Tignor Greenup Brookhaven, Mississippi Mrs. Isabell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Marsella Swasey Allen Hood River, Oregon Mrs. Ida R. McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Mary Alice Anderson Farnsworth Menlo Park, California Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margarith Roth Anderegg Lubbock, Texas Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Priscilla Merrill Taylor Boise, Idaho Mrs. Naomi Taylor Coon Magna, Utah Mrs. Phebe E. Reeves Davies Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Harriet Hands Dixon San Luis Obispo. California Mrs. Clara Collard Nielson Fountain Green, Utah Mrs. Lucy Raskrow Buddell Roy, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Beveridge Butt Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Borrman Clardy Los Angeles, California Mrs. Jean Coleman Alder Midway, Utah Mrs. Ammorette Allen Fifield Rockland, Idaho Mrs. Edith Folsom Hatch Woods Cross, Utah 91 90 Mrs. Myra Alice Wedeman Humphrey Beaumont, California Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Mabel Tryphena Crandall Stone Boise, Idaho Mrs. Emma Spencer Tanner Myton, Utah Mrs. Boletti Larsen Anderson Duncan, Arizona Mrs. Eliza Ann Jordan Barnes Upton, Utah Mrs. Margaret Ann English Browning Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Stoker Greenwell Ogden, Utah Mrs. LaNora F. Moeller Griffin Turlock, California Mrs. Louise Miles Judd St. George, Utah Mrs. Agnes Richards Hancock Centerville, Utah Mrs. Josephine Faller Held Princeton, New Jersey Mrs. Mary Susan Gray Littleford Lehi, Utah Mrs. Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Maggie Belle Tolman Porter Basin, Wyoming Mrs. Amanda Munk Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Maribelle Bramwell Stevenson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Letitia Alice Litz Wood Logan, Utah Mrs. Sara Phebe Monk Brill Montrose, California Mrs. Lizzie Thompson Bunney Elmonte, California Mrs. Mayme Cooley Christensen Logan, Utah Mrs. Clara Lina Rothe Webb Yates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Jane Green Afton, Wyoming Mrs. Mary Susan Gray Littleford Lehi, Utah Mrs. Beatrice Maude Garside Sellers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Cornelia DeBaate VanDerEnde Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Euphemia Welker Zundel Phoenix, Arizona jor the LDS woman ik an THE LITTLE THINGS $2.50 'Les, qog At by Mirla Greenwood Thayne A book that joyously recalls the little things of life - lyrically reminding us that they are some of life's sweetest moments. Join Mirla Greenwood Thayne as she fashions for us an exquisite web of tender memories - designed to capture and exalt our feelings for... The little things. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 ¢ Total amount of purchase $... This must include 32% for California residents ordering from Orange. COMPANY 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT: Enclosed check ["]; money order []; Or, please charge my established 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 777 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA NAME ADDRESS RS MAY 68 ru eseret Ure COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY § (CINTIN) coe pone Beebe Hopi oannbnHeAeBAN anon ontonneneesSTATE... Please send me [_] The Little Things sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax account [7]. ZIP Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah With Beneficial Life your whole family is sitting pretty! Father — you can provide a pile of money with a stroke of the pen. Money that will always be there for your family to fall back on... Money that can be used for education, missions, or to pay off the mortgage. This pile of money is an "Instant Estate" created as soon as you take out a policy with Beneficial Life Insurance. There are many types of protection— your Beneficial Life agent is the man to tailor your insurance needs Start "sitting pretty" with BENEFICIAL LIFE faswuanee Company = Virgil H. Smith, Pres. To fit your requirements. Salt Lake City, Utah The IRGlef Society Magazine JUNE 1968 The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: IHustrations: MOUNTAIN MOTHER LULLABY The wind is coasting down the hill On long grass runners. (Sh— be still.) The loons are rocking on the lake. (You little owl, you're wide awake.) Time enough to be stern and tail, With the granite strength of a canyon wall; To lean to the storms and grow to be As firmly rooted as a tree. These are days of gentle things, Of marmots, squirrels, and humming bird wings Fanning your cheek in aspen shade, Of little rabbits, unafraid, Venturing out of mountain brush To follow you. (Hush baby, hush.) Gentle things will teach you how To love the earth as | love you now— As | love you now. —Peggy Tangren Ruins at Chiapas, Mexico Transparency by Camera Clix _, Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Mount Moran, Wyoming Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 401 / it tl "g DOU ff Sumo The subject matter, fiction, special and general articles, suggestions for home and family living, which enrich the Magazine, are a great help and inspiration to ail of the sisters. | had the privilege of serving our local Relief Society for one year as secretary-treasurer, and | now hold the position of visiting teacher message leader. | love Relief Society and wish to express my appreciation for the leadership which makes the Magazine so wonderful. Evelyne Bean Duncan, Bozeman, Montana The Magazine is wonderful and the sisters up here in Canada really love it. Many who are nonmembers read the Magazine and love it, too. It is a great help in missionary work. Helen D. Toronto, Relief Society Supervisor, Canadian Mission May we express our appreciation for a fresh re-telling of a beloved story, ''A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star,'' in the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine. We found it so inspirational that we plan to adapt it, along with a poem by Margery S. Stewart, "A Song of Wheels' in the January 1963 issue of the Magazine (the poem to be set to music), for narration, to be used at our visiting teacher convention in May. Maida Moody, President, Canoga Park Stake Relief Society, Topanga, California Three times in recent months, | have found pictures of Relief Society groups with whom ~ at one time. | was associated. That is another wonderful feature of the Magazine. Dorothy C. Robinson, Orem, Utah We are happy to report that our Spanish sisters are enjoying and putting to use the Spanish Relief Society Magazine. Thank you for this wonderful gift to them. Our goal this year is 'A Relief Society Magazine in Every Home,"' and El Paso Stake is working for this aim. Lavinia B. Jackson, President, El Paso Stake Relief Society The arrival of my Relief Society Magazine is always special to me—the March 1968 issue even more so. '''A Summer's Day'' by Ruth Nicholson Pepper of Corrimal East, New South Wales, Australia, took me right back into my childhood. We lived and grew up a few miles along the coast from Sister Pepper's home at Fatrmeadow. The blackberry picking and the fear of snakes were as much a part of summer as were the sparkling sun and the golden beaches. Thank you for a touching trip into an almost forgotten memory. Marina Schrader, Buxton, Oregon | was thrilled to read the article in the March Magazine ''How Relief Society Came to Me" by Rexine Eagar. She is a lovely person and it is a blessing to associate with her because of her outlook on life. She has eleven children and is a lovely mother. Shirley Loveridge, Orem, Utah In the article "Refreshments for the Holiday Season.' by Zola McGhie in the November issue of the Magazine, cider is mentioned as a principal ingredient in two recipes. The cider sold in England is alcoholic, and so most of our sisters would not use cider, but would use, instead, a non-alcoholic apple drink. Doris M. Stevenson, Nottingham, England Through reading a copy of The Relief Society Magazine which my friend receives, | enjoy it so much | would like to become a subscriber. In so many respects it meets the needs of women everywhere. The religious articles are enlightening, the poetry inspirational, the recipes add variety and spice to family meal planning, and the family guides have something new to offer each month. Although | am not a member of the Church, i feel that the Magazine has something to offer all women. Lois Eiss, Forestville, Connecticut 402 The Relief Society Magazine volume 55 June 1968 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 _— Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 407 __— Elder Alvin R. Dyer Made a Counselor in the First Presidency 408 Elder Marion D. Hanks Called to Be an Assistant to the Twelve 409 ~=s Elder Hartman Rector, Jr. Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 410 Elder Loren C. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 411 The Heavy Hand With the Whip-Cream Touch Lillian Y. Bradshaw 425 —_— Australia—An Island Continent in Bloom Wealtha S. Mendenhall 436 'Open the Door Through The Re'ief Society Magazine'' Irene W. Buehner Fiction 421 The Pickle Booth Frances C. Yost 449 _—siIf Spring Be Late—Chapter 3 Mabel Harmer General Features | 402 From Near and Far 417 Woman's Sphere. Ramona W. Cannon 418 —_ Editorial—The 138th Annual General Conference 457 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 420 Flower Gardens Grace Her Home—Tillie Pearson 435 South African Mission Eleanor A. Badger 439 Cactus Radiance on Desert Dunes Claire W. Noall 440 Wild and Cultivated Gardens 442 A Quilt For a Queen Jean S. Groberg 444 Fashion Says Maxine Grimm 445 An Old Trunk Can Be Rejuvenated Olive W. Burt 447 _ ''Chestnut Trees'' (Paul Cezanne) Floyd E. Breinholt Lesson Department 464 Homemaking—The Life You Save Mary Ellen Edmunds 468 = Spiritual Living—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Rey W. Doxey 470 'Visiting Teacher Messages—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Alice Colton Smith 471 Homemaking—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Celestia J. Taylor 473 Social Relations—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Alberta H. Christensen 475 Cultural Refinement—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Poetry 401 Mountain Mother Lullaby Peggy Tangren To My Missionary Son, Gay N. Blanchard 416; Summer Shower, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 424; Portrait, Alice Morrey Bailey 477; When One Must Die, Christie Lund Coles 478; Snail, Ethel Jacobson 478; Endurance, Catherine B. Bowles 480. BIR THOAY CONGRATULATIONS a2 F aAT % fille) eo Sei Ni ws! A KX 'Ta "id Cre pote ISS PT wy 4 y AF p> rr «i ma iggs He 7 r 4 <i y June 23, 1968 pt pb EZ Died OT >, s Ssh ak Furey (SS oh # The world-wide sisterhood of the Church takes the opportunity on this June day to wish a happy birthday to Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our Prophet, David O. McKay. It was ninety-one years ago that her father proclaimed that she was a "ray of sunshine," and she would be known as "Ray." Sister McKay has been a ray of sunshine and a ray of hope to all who know her personally, and to all who glean strength from knowing her as the wife of the Prophet. No one could be more qualified to give advice on being a wife and mother than she whom we all admire. Through joyous, sunny days and through days of shadows she has maintained her inner strength and won happiness. Following are a few selections from a talk she gave to the Brigham Young University women which have meaning to every Latterday Saint woman: AT s = ATTITUDE OF HUSBAND AND WIFE TOWARD EACH OTHER There are many qualifications that a woman should have to be a good wife and mother, but the most important is patience—patience with children's and husband's tempers, patience with their misunderstandings, with their desires, with their actions. Even though girls associate with men in courtship, they do not understand men, which is one great cause for disagreement, heartache, and misunderstanding. If only women would understand that '"Man's love is of man's life a thing apart, 'tis woman's whole existence.". Men are so different that it becomes woman's artful duty not only to study but also to adjust.. Peace in the home is really woman's responsibility, and if she wants happiness, she must work for it—yes, and pay for it, too—by being at all times kind, loving, self-sacrificing, ready to help, ready to serve, in fact, loving to do anything the head of the house desires because his desires are also hers. And she must always remember that wisdom is made up of nine-tenths silence and one-tenth brevity. 404 Emma Ray Riggs McK Woman of the Year Award, April 21, 1966. Courtesy Deseret News Church Section June 1968 Gloom pushes people away from you. A sure way to bring gloom is to show that your feelings are hurt. You cannot live long with any human being and not have something come up to irritate you. "Offense we must expect. The question is what to do with it when it comes. And although we cannot help being hurt, what we can help is showing that we are hurt." Nine times out of ten when "hubby" hurts our feelings, it has been unintentionally or without understanding of the wound he made; and if we will simply keep the harsh word unspoken, keep smiling, and go about our business, the whole matter will disappear. But if we fuss every time we are bruised, irritation begins, and the separating process goes on. Another thing that causes irritability and quarreling is for the wife to criticize her husband. He cannot endure criticism. It stifles love.... With the Latter-day Saint marriage comes the understanding that man with his priesthood will stand at the head of the family. Some women are not willing to take a subordinate position.... It is impossible to teach respect for authority if the husband is belittled before the children. If a man is worthy to be at the head of the household, a wife should respect him and help him as the head. ATTITUDE OF PARENTS TOWARD CHILDREN If the mother does not have obedience when the child is very young, two or three years of age, she is going to have much trouble as the child gets older. Of all the ineffective ways of controlling children, threats are the most futile and harmful..... A child should be taught to do ordinary things as a matter of course without being bribed.... Children respond favorably to praise..... Home is the place where the parents must lead out in obedience, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness, courage, true dignity, and courtesy.... Treat all your children with equal affection.... Never deceive a child. ATTITUDE OF CHILDREN TOWARD EACH OTHER Amusement and fun are essential to peace in the home. Home should be made pleasant and agreeable. A silent home is a dull, sad place, and leads to melancholy. Music is soul-inspiring, and no money is thrown away for musical instruments.... Many a mother nearly distracted by a fretful child has been able to soothe him by softly singing a song to him. The art of rearing children peacefully and pleasantly is the art of becoming a child again, of growing up with them.... "There can never be a noble nation of ignoble households, nor a joyful nation of unhappy homes." The General Board wishes to take this opportunity on behalf of Relief Society sisters throughout the world to wish Sister McKay happiness in the days ahead. May she enjoy good health and all the blessings which she so richly deserves. (Excerpts from "The Art of Rearing Children Peacefully," an address delivered to Brigham Young University women students by Emma Ray Riggs McKay, April 12, 1952. Published by the Brigham Young University Extension Publications. Used by permission of the Office of President David O. McKay.) 406 Elder Alvin R. Dyer Ma First Pre « At the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference, April 6, 1968, Elder Alvin R. Dyer was sustained as a Counselor to the First Presidency of the Church. President Dyer was sustained as an apostle at the 137th SemiAnnual General Conference of the Church in October, 1967. He was an Assistant to the Twelve at that time. He became a General Authority in October 1958. He has served the Church in the missionary program for many years. He served a mission in the Eastern 2 de a Cou Scidqe}r V States, where he was a supervising elder. He then presided over the Central States Mission and, later, over the European Mission. President Dyer is married to the former May Elizabeth Jackson, and they have two children and four grandchildren. He is the author of a number of books which aid the missionary program. He has a great interest in. The youth, having served in the General Superintendency of the YMMIA, prior to his call as an Assistant to the Twelve. 407 to The s Elder Marion D. Hanks was sustained as an Assistant to the Twelve at the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference, April 6, 1968. Elder Hanks has been prominent in Church and civic affairs, predominantly in the field of youth development. He was appointed to the President's Citizens Advisory Committee in 1957, and was the featured speaker at the White House Conference on Youth the past year. He serves as a member of the Board of Trustees at Brigham Young University, and on 408 arion D. Hanks Called to Be an Assistant T W elve the National Council of Boy Scouts of America. Elder Hanks was called to the First Council of Seventy in October of 1953, and since that time has served diligently. He presided over the British Mission, and currently serves as supervisor of the Orient-Hawaii Missions, under direction of Elder Gordon B. Hinckley. He has visited Latter-day Saint servicemen in Vietnam and in other areas of the Orient. Elder Hanks is married to the former Maxine Christensen, and they are the parents of five children. Elder Hartman Rector, Jr Appointed to the First Council « » At the Saturday morning sesion of the 138th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1968, Elder Hartman Rector, Jr., was sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy. Prior to his appointment to this high and important calling in the Church, Elder Rector was serving as senior president of the 542d Quorum of Seventy in the Potomac Stake. His home was in Fairfax, Virginia. Elder Rector was born August 20, 1924 in Moberly, Missouri, son of Hartman and Vivian Fay Garvin Rector. He was reared on a farm. In 1942, he enlisted in the naval reserve program, and, in 1945, he was commissioned a naval aviator with the rank of ensign. He presently holds the rank of captain in the naval reserve. He received his education at Murray State Teachers College in Kentucky, Mankato State Teachers College in Minnesota, the University of Georgia, and the University of Southern California. Elder Rector was converted to the Church in 1952. He met twice with the missionaries in the fall of 1951 before embarking for active duty in Korea. Aboard ship he continued his study of the gospel, and was baptized by a fellow serviceman. A week later, his wife was baptized in San Diego. He had married Constance Kirk Daniel, also of Moberly, in 1947. Their marriage was sealed in the Mesa Temple on May 21, 1953. They are the parents of seven children. Elder Rector was ordained an elder in 1952, and a seventy in May 1956. He has served in many Church positions since his baptism. Sister Rector has also served in many Church positions, and is currently in the Potomac Stake Relief Society presidency. For the past ten years, Elder Rector has been with the United States Department of Agriculture, where he has been program and budget analyst in the office of Budget and Finance. On April 2, he was awarded the Secretary's Certificate of Merit for a survey he conducted of USDA activities in Mexico. 409 Elder Loren C. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy » Elder Loren Charles Dunn was sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy at the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1968. At the time of his appointment to this high and important position in the kingdom of God, Elder Dunn was serving as First Counselor in the New England Mission Presidency. His home was in Natick, Massachusetts. Elder Dunn was born in Tooele, Utah, June 12, 1930, a son of the late Alex F. And Carol Horsfall Dunn. He was educated at the Tooele public schools and Brigham Young University. While at BYU, he was center on the basketball team from 1949 to 1953. He was graduated with a degree in journalism and immediately left for a mission to Australia, where he was a counselor in the mission presidency. Upon returning, in 1956, he served in the United States Army in Germany. He was group leader of Latter-day Saint servicemen during this time. From 1958 to 1961 he was editor of the Tooele Transcript. He then went to Boston University where he received a Master's degree in public relations, in 1966. In 1963, he assumed the position of director of com- 410 munications for the New England Council for Economic Development, which he. Held at the time of his appointment to the First Council of Seventy. Elder Dunn married Sharon Longden, daughter of Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Twelve, in the Salt Lake Temple, December 12, 1959. They have two children. Elder Dunn became a counselor in the New England Mission Presidency in 1962. Sister Dunn has served as YWMIA president in the Boston Stake, stake Primary president, and was in the mission Relief Society presidency. THE HEAVY HAND WITH THE WHIP CREAM TOUCH Lillian Y. Bradshaw = Herein lies the secret of getting children to work. To work or not to work—that is not the question. Whether or not our children like to work has never been our main concern. There will be work to do all their lives, and some work is just plain work no matter how you look at it. That they learn how to work in aS many varied experiences as possible is our first objective. With experience comes satisfaction in results and an appreciation for the efforts of others. Breathtaking exhilaration § in doing work takes many long, patient years really to develop, but come it will, and this is my ultimate aim as a mother, to teach my children the joy of work. W—work we must O—obedience in completion R—right to choose to be happy or not K—know-how WORK WE MUST—WHEN DO WE START? Start when very young! Let us assume you have already taught your child to eat food 'placed before him and to go to bed after prayers are said, and so, already, you have a good start on this road to obedience. But something happens when work is placed before a child, for even if it is made to look like play, it is still work, and he knows it. Accept it as such and 411 June 1968 call it "his work," and half the battle is won. You have a starting place. Perhaps you will want to start earlier, with the picking up of toys or putting away of clothes. This we did, too, but somehow bed making always seemed to be the first thing that was really considered work. Whatever the work may be, consistency is of utmost importance. Now that Tommy is beginning to dress himself, and can make the first loop in his shoelace, he is expected to make his bed each day. Yes, he has made it before now, many times, but with the idea in mind of "learning how." Now he must realize it is his work each day, his part of belonging to a family—and this we repeat often. It is true, there is always a certain amount of balking at this point. He has his "druthers." But when he says, "No," I say firmly, but with love showing all over, "Yes," and then, taking his hand, lead him off to "his work." It will take many mornings for him to learn to make his bed when he first gets up, but from now on this will be expected. I have to keep reminding myself, "Remember, the heavy hand with the whip-cream touch." It is so easy to forget or let something else interfere. My aim is obedience, and this will soon follow if I am consistent every morning. If he be quick to obey or more resistant, I cannot stress this first step too much, for once the "colt" is broken in (and some act like broncos), the way ahead is remarkably easy. 412 He has learned that I mean what Isay, and I have gained confidence in my own ability to have him obey. Rather an_ important step, don't you agree? Especially as the second and third child learn so much from the first, obedience is important. Look at the future you are preparing! My heart just aches for the parents who put the cart before the horse at this point. They wait until the child wants to work -before they expect him to do it consistently, and so they wait and wait and wait. And I understand how they feel, for a parent wants his child to be happy above all else, and disciplining yourself can often be far more difficult than disciplining those you love. But what of the future? This you must constantly ask yourself. Are his "wants" now, your "wants" for him ten years from now. Lasting happiness comes through obedience, and, small though it may be, this is a start. GOOD START—BUT WHERE TO NOW? I have often found myself envying parents of children who live on a farm. There are so many chores that have to be done that thinking up work must seem ridiculous to such a mother. But living in the city, either in an apartment or in a home bounded on three sides by fences and surrounded by a moat of lawn, does create its own interesting challenges. Though our challenges are different, our goal is the same: happy, obedient, skillful, appreciative children. All the things necessary to keep a home clean, orderly, beautiful—a haven of peace from the confusion just outside our doors —are listed and divided: setting the table, washing the dishes, scrubbing the floor, vacuuming the rugs, cleaning the rooms, ironing, washing, mending, cooking, dusting, etc. While the children are young, start by dividing even these responsibilities into small portions. Let me take one just as an example: ' Setting the table. Westart with putting the tablecloth on the table and placement of the spoon. As each one in the family sits in the same place around the table each meal, Tom and I go around together, naming "This is Sue's place, this is Dick's place, this is Jeffs place, now where does Daddy sit?" Very quickly, Tom is naming them off almost singsong fashion by himself. Since he makes his bed in the morning, he will begin setting the table for the evening meal. Be sure one step is done many times and well, before beginning the next, always working as partners, at first. Later, will follow putting the chairs in place, glasses and additional silverware, napkins, flowers or centerpiece. As the second child comes along, the two will be working together very soon, the youngest beginning with spoons, but learning much faster because brother has already demonstrated that he knows how, the older one learning to be the leader. All work is broken down in this way until the child has learned, step by step, all the work in the home—boys and girls alike. There is no favoritism The Heavy Hand With the Whip—Cream Touch as to who can learn the most. It is so much easier and faster to doit yourself, and what a temptation it is to give in and do the work alone! WHY? WHY WORRY? Why all the effort, when it is much easier to do it yourself and not have all that confusion and bother—sticky fingers all over the woodwork, eggs dropped on the floor, vacuum cords cut in two! Oh, yes, I know. As I look to the future, I picture my son _ preparing his own food, cleaning his own room, washing and pressing his own clothes, whether it be off to college, on a mission, or as a husband with a newborn babe coming home. Mother' won't always be able to be by his side. From experience, I also know my daughters are going to have to be full-time gardeners, _ parttime plumbers, and, occasionally, painters, and will want to find contentment and joy in a wellordered home, with happy children, when business and Church assignments call their husbands away. Somehow, all this future has its present rewards. Although I did not need that kind of help when they were young, now, when they are skilled, I do need their help very much. They are blessed now with that selfassured feeling of being needed. Being needed cures so many ills. Every other year we are involved in an early morning Seminary class, and, sometimes, there are other early-morning appointments for one or the other. At such times all of us can give support, and we shift 413 June 1968 the entire work schedule as early as is neccesary so as to accomplish all duties and still have breakfast together. Working together has given us time. Having breakfast together has become more and more important, as the older ones have work and _ activities outside the home that prevent us from always eating together in the evening. Kneeling all together in family prayer in the early morning is a blessing to all of us. Of course, there is a great deal of give and take—each child being able to do all that the others can do, but the home, for the most part, is in order when the children leave for school. Do you wonder that I rise to call my children blessed when they make it possible for me to attend Relief Society, take a class to develop some hobby, work in my garden, read good books, time to teach and be with Tommy—this last year before he goes to school? RESPONSIBILITIES — HOW TO ASSIGN May I share with you something that has worked very well— an idea from the children. Our daily work schedule, of necessity, is rather rigid, each knowing his duties on Monday for the following week. But on Saturday, I list all the work to be accomplished, including outside work in the yard, and then I sprinkle in work that is more fun, like arranging flowers in the house, or making jello salad for Sunday, or laying wood in the fireplace. The list is long and fairly well broken down. Then they go roundrobin. Each selects his first choice 414 which is always the easy one, then the second choice, ending usually with the harder third choices, thereby each sharing in what they choose to call the "icky" jobs. Making their own choices keeps them from complaining that I gave one the hard work and the other the easy work. No matter what method you use to assign -work—write the responsibilities for each down on paper or cards. It will prove far more effective than merely telling, and you will be spared the "Oh, I forgot," routine. DO WE PAY FOR WORK DONE AT HOME? No—of course not. We are a family and it is our home—not my husband's and mine, our home belongs to all of us. We all want it to be beautiful. It is a part of the stewardship Father in heaven has given to all of us as a family and we love taking care of it. With love, these are the thoughts we try to convey, when approached by the children. If for some special reason, ° however, one of the children needs to earn more money to pay for a birthday or Christmas gift or for some other purpose, then he may contract work of his choosing with his father and tell him how much he is willing to do it for. For instance—washing the car, polishing the silverware, or cleaning the garage. HOW ARE ALLOWANCES INVOLVED? Not at all. Allowances are meant to teach saving and tithing. We give our children just enough allowance to teach them how to save and pay tithing. It is enough to pay for their needs, but not for all their desires, and so their. Appetite is kept keen in looking for extra work. About the age of twelve or thirteen, but especially, by fourteen, a boy needs to have work outside the home to keep him busy. Though the pay helps a great deal, of more importance is the experience gained in meeting the demands of those outside the home, getting a taste of meeting life on its own terms— responsibility: cutting the neighbor's lawn just right with edges neat and trim, watering the flowers and lawn during grandma's vacation. As newspaper carriers, our boys have learned why having been a newsboy is a good recommendation for future jobs. Here again, though, I must discipline myself and weigh the scales. They learn that a job must be completed, no matter what the elements—snow, sleet, or rain. They learn to handle money, gaining strength with the test that comes as they pay tithing on a larger scale. Their mission becomes real as the goal comes closer. OBEDIENCE IN COMPLETION — WORK BEFORE PLAY Very early in our children's lives we start teaching about work with the story of the grasshopper and the ant. Remember how the grasshopper didn't want to work. He just wanted to fiddle all day and he kept singing, "Oh, the world owes me a living—oh, the world owes me a living," and, finally, was caught in the cold, starving. Now the worst thing that can be said about anyone in our home is that he is a "grashopper." This The Heavy Hand With the Whip—Cream Touch is the lowest you can get, and each one knows the significance without a lengthy lecture. When work is to be done and must be completed quickly, this is not the time to give a lecture on the value of work. RIGHT TO CHOOSE TO BE HAPPY Often the children have said we are taking their free agency away from them when we make them work. "Work you must— your free agency lies in whether or not you choose to be happy working," we tell them. Though learning to work in as many varied experiences as possible is our first concern, working with a glad heart is a close second. To be happy, children need a reason for finishing their work. Remembering how good the swim felt at the "old swimming hole," after thinning sugar beets, 'our speaker at stake conference many years ago recalled how just the thought of the swim that would follow, gave him that extra zest that made him work faster and with a high heart. It is really just another way of saying, put a goal at the end of any work. Especially when you are having a difficult time getting a job completed, try to think of good reasons why a son or daugh- 'ter would want to finish the work. "After you clean the workshop, you will have time to work on your model." "When your ironing is completed, you might hike to wash and iron your doll clothes." These reasons may not be the ones they prefer, but they will stimulate them into thinking why they want to get through quickly. Satisfaction 415 June 1968 in completion is heartwarming, but true exhilaration comes in the doing. Now they have found the joy in work. Once tasted, they will never forget it. KNOW-HOW Perhaps of greatest importance is that of knowing the effort it took to do a piece of work develops a grateful, appreciative heart. I know of no other way to teach my children this attribute. What you are doing is bringing success. Flitting from one idea to the next will only bring frustration to you and your family. When what you are doing dulls a little, then search for that idea you have stored away. Keep your mind open, always weighing carefully all you hear, all you read. Ponder on new ideas, and then pray to your Father in heaven asking, "Is this best for my family?" Consistency, with love, the heavy hand with the whipcream touch, will bring you success. A WORD OF CAUTION There will always be new ideas. Don't be too quick to change, if NONSENSE eA nye a ON @ g 4 3 TO MY MISSIONARY SON My fledgling has flown Far out of reach of my lullaby's sound... Far past the edge of a wild warning cry... Far beyond sight of my hungering eye. NO ~ = de ONONINONONO ES. How can | share my warm cloak of care? If} Gratefully, Father, | thank thee ys For prayer. Take on its wings the thread of my strength And bind him secure in its infinite length. Let its sure pulse keep a rhythm between That sings of my faith in him, steady, serene. Bring through its channels his message to me... Oe That our hearts may be one \o In dimension with thee. —Gay N. Blanchard a 2 gus Mest docon eee AGT R 416 Half the world round— "4, o Wrap him in love in that far other where? Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Alice Randall (Wa We Ya Gesbhick Go Qua-Walk Around the Sun Lady), a Latter-day Saint of Mole Lake, Wisconsin, was honored as Wisconsin Indian Mother of the Year in 1967. A descendant of a long line of Chippewa chiefs, Mrs. Randali has been a leader among her people in developing arts and crafts, improving housing conditions, and in elevating moral and social conditions. Her children and grandchildren are gifted in music, painting, and dancing, as well as in various handicrafts. Mrs. Randall is an expert at beadwork, moccasin making, and the weaving of rugs. She is a meticulous keeper of records and has gathered and preserved the history of her people over several generations. Anne Ehrlich is a collector of butterflies for scientific research in the field of heredity. With her husband, Professor Paul R. Ehrlich of Stanford University, she has traveled widely and has made a specialty of the butterflies of New Guinea. Benedikte, Denmark's last unwed princess, recently became the bride of Prince Richard Casimir Karl August Konstantin Zu Wittigenstein Berleburg of Germany. The wedding brought to Frendsborg Castle, north of Copenhagen, Queen Mother Elizabeth of Britain, the princess' godmother; King Gustaf Adolf VI of Sweden, the maternal grandfather; King Olav of Norway, King Constantine and Queen Anne Marie of Greece, and others of the royal families of Europe. Queen Anne Marie is the bride's younger sister. Gina Bachauer, world-renowned pianist, is expecially noted for her outstanding technique and ''nobility of phrasing" in the rendition of Rachmaninoff's compositions. Miss Bachauer, a native of Greece, was for many years a student of Rachmaninoff, and traveled back and forth across Europe for her lessons during Rachmaninoff's concert tours. Peggy Fleming, nineteen, of the University of Colorado, is the world's champion in figure skating. In February at the Olympic Games in Grenoble, France, Miss Fleming retained her championship rating and made a new record of 166.4 points, with Gabriel Seyfert of East Germany totaling 154.0 points, and Beatrix Schuba, of Austria scoring 153.2 Federal Careers for Women, distributed by the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government, Washington, D. C., describes preparatory steps to follow before selecting one of the many careers in Government service. The Federal Woman's Award is described in detail in the bulletin. Nursing Careers Among the American Indians (Superintendent of Documents, Washing: ton, D. C.) outlines the wide field of service in the Indian Health Program, and gives a resume of the personal and professional requirements for nurses in the ''wide open spaces" of the Indian lands. Mrs. Irene Porter, Roy, Utah, in cooperation with her husband, Clifford Porter, manages the H. And P. Custom Knit Company, which manufactures the official ski cap for the teams representing the United States in the Olympics competition. Handicapped workers are given preferred employment, and many women knit the caps in their own homes in the Roy area. 417 EDITORIAL THE 138th ANNUAL GENERAL CHURCH. CONFERENCE | = The 138th Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the one-hundred-year-old Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5th, 6th, and 7th, 1968. Church leaders and members from many lands and many nations gathered to hear words of courage, counsel, inspiration, and everlasting truth. Testimonies were strengthened, anxieties lightened, and spiritual ideals illuminated. The significance of Easter was emphasized as a time for a special recalling of the mission of Jesus and the pattern he established for men upon the earth. ''Feed the Lord's sheep, strengthen one another, and strive for the spirit of the Lord." Proceedings of the Conference were sent on the air waves by television, radio, and telestar, to thousands of listeners, world-wide. Membership in the Church was given as 2,614,340, a total for the stakes and missions throughout the world. Two of the General Authorities were advanced in positions of leadership and two new members a Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor General Board: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Ethiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Aiberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 418 Elizabeth B. Winters were appointed to the First Council of Seventy. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, who was ordained an apostle last October, was called to serve as a counselor in the First Presidency, and Elder Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of Seventy was named an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Elder Hartman Rector, Jr. Of Halifax, Virginia, and Elder Loren Charles Dunn of Natick, Massachusetts, were appointed to the First Council of Seventy. The beloved President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-fifth year, presided at all the conference sessions and personally attended two of the meetings. His addresses to the saints were read by his son David Lawrence McKay. In his counsel to the saints at the opening session on Friday, President McKay established a spirit of reverenceand rejoicing which continued throughout all the sessions. In speaking of the true meaning of Easter, he declared: That the spirit of man passes triumphantly through the portals of death into everlasting life is one of the glorious messages given by Christ, our Redeemer. To him this earthly career is but a day, and its closing but the setting of life's sun, death, but a sleep, is followed by a glorious awakening in the morning of an eternal realm... The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most stupendous miracle of all time. In it stand revealed the omnipotence of God and the immortality of man. Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lita B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind President Hugh B. Brown, in his message delivered at the priesthood session on Saturday evening, counseled the members of the Church, and particularly those members in the adolescent years, to remember the building time of life and to make all the timbers strong: Keep in mind the challenging fact that your aim is not to get ahead of others but to surpass yourself; to begin today to be the person you want to be; to immortalize today and all the tomorrows that lie ahead in order that your life may have an eternal significance. Cultivate an unquenchable appetite for learning. Each of you ts the heir of the ages. They who have gone ahead of you have partially discovered and revealed a world of wonder with limitless uncharted fields ahead... Remember, the law of the harvest is inexorable. As ye sow so shall ye reap. President N. Eldon Tanner extolled the Word of Wisdom and counseled members of the Church to stand firm in resisting the very beginning of habits that are injurious and difficult to break: We, as members of the Church, have considered the Word of Wisdom as a direction from the Lord himself, with a warning and a promise. Today, the whole world, with the scientific evidence now available tc everyone, should... Observe this scientific warning.... On behalf of the First Presidency, and with their approval, | appeal to every member of the Church to keep the Word of Wisdom strictly; and to all responsible citizens to accept their responsibilities, to guard and protect our youth against the evils and designs of conspiring men who are determined by every available means to lead them to destruction. President Joseph Fielding Smith spoke of the need for prayer and its efficacy in daily life and as a direction toward eternity: Prayer is something that humbles the soul. It broadens our comprehension; it quickens the mind. It draws us nearer to our Father in Heaven. We need his help, there is no question about that. We need the guidance of his Holy Spirit. We need to know what principles have been given to us by which we may come back tnto his presence. We need to have our minds quickened by the inspiration that comes from him, and for these reasons we pray to him, that he may help us to live so that we will know his truth and be able to walk in its light, that we may, through our faithfulness and our obedience, come back again into his presence. President Alvin R. Dyer spoke of the parable of being ''born again"': Perhaps to be ''born again'' means to have another chance, to renew one's effort to measure up.... This is the Lord's work, my brethren and sisters, and we have no need to fear its triumphant outcome. There is a Prophet presiding through whom God is speaking, as | have witnessed upon so many occasions. | call to mind the words of the Lord unto the Prophet Joseph Smith at a time of frustration. And what was true then is equally true today. Here are the words of the Lord's counsel. ''The works and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated, neither can they come to naught."' At the close of conference, President McKay blessed the saints and bade them keep the laws and ordinances of the gospel: May God be with each of you, and all people everywhere. May we turn to him, and seek for the better and more spiritua! Values of life. He is our Father; he knows our desires and our hopes, and he will help us if we will but seek him and learn of his ways. My prayerful blessings go with you as you return to your homes. God help us all to discharge our responsibilities by making an environment in home, in school, in Church, and in our communities that will be uplifting, wholesome, and faith-inspiring, | pray in the name of Jesus Chirst, Amen. 419 FLOWER GARDENS GRACE HER HOME Tillie Pearson, Lost River Stake, Moore, Idaho. Raises*many kinds of flowers as her hobby. She has planted every kind of flower she thought would grow in her climate. Her flower gardens are surrounded by different and unusual rocks that she has collected. She has served in Relief Society as a secretary-treasurer, and a counselor to four presidents. For thirty-five years she has attained one hundred per cent visiting teaching, often walking as far as six miles. Sister Pearson is an inspiration to all who know her. She and her husband walked a half a mile each way to attend a Scout Flag-raising ceremony on the Fourth of July at six a. M. She loves the out-of-doors, and at eighty-two, is still able to keep her flowers beautiful. She is the mother of five children, grandmother to seven, and greatgrandmother to three, all of whom are inspired by her attendance at all of her Church meetings, and her kind, helpful ways. 420 PICKLE BOOTH Frances C. Yost THE = "There's nothing like a shift in the garden on a hot summer day to make one appreciate the coolness and downright loveliness of the inside of a home." Dear little Maggie McGee, age seventy-three, was speaking to the house itself. Maggie McGee asked the questions, and Maggie McGee gave the answers, and surely the little house of the Irish lady enjoyed the conversation. "Who else is there to speak to these days? When a body lives alone as long as I have, she finds out a house gets lonely, too, when it never hears any laughter and song. A house needs conversation, and, believe me, MY house is going to get it. If I have to do all the talking myself." Maggie took off her bonnet and let the cucumbers she had gathered in her apron fall into the sink. Later, she would wash and dry them. It looked as if there were enough for a nice batch of bread-and-butter pickles. "Later, this very day, Ill see them shining, pretty and lovely, like emerald jewels, in glass jars. Sure, and I will. And when the date for the Relief Society bazaar is set, why I'll make my usual contribution of a dozen full bottles. That I will. How many years has it been since I started contributing pickles instead of handiwork?" "It has been five years this coming bazaar," Maggie answered herself. "It was the very yeal the doctor warned me that I'd have to start preserving my eyes or they would not be seeing me through. It would break my heart if the time came when I could not enjoy the beauty of my surroundings. And it would make me feel equally as miserable, if I were not able to make my contribution to the annual ward Relief Society bazaar." 421 June 1968 Ding! Ding! "There's the telephone begging to be answered. It's a good thing I came in just when I did, or who would have taken the telephone off the hook?" "Hello! Maggie McGee speaking." "This is Sister Clayson calling. How are you today, Sister Maggie?" "Fine as a frilly petunia on a sunny day, President Clayson."' "I'm so glad you are well, Sister Maggie." "T can't remember the time when I wasn't, President Clayson." "The Relief Society would like to ask a special favor of you, Sister McGee, if you feel you are up to it." "T would be glad to do anything the sisters would ask of me, if it doesn't require taxing my eyes." "We wondered if you would make extra pickles for the bazaar?"' "Td be glad to. And what type would you be wanting?" "Sister McGee, we want you to make your regular bread-andbutter pickles. But we want an abundance of them—perhaps fifty jars." "Fifty jars, President Clayson! Why it would infringe on the room of the cooked food goodies." "This year, Sister Maggie, we wanted to have a pickle booth." "A pickle booth?" "Yes, your pickles go over so well, that instead of crowding them in with the cooked foods, we wanted to feature them in a booth by themselves. Now, we want you to be in charge of this booth. You can decorate it 422 as you like. If you need help, you can ask anyone you desire to help you." "That probably won't be necessary; land sakes, I have more time on my hands than most folks. But if I need some help, you can be rest assured that [ll be asking for it." The summer wore on, and every day Maggie McGee picked the cucumbers that were ready in her garden. Before the sun dropped in the west, the cucumbers were miraculously turned into delicious pickles placed in uniform pint jars. How many jars of pickles? Maggie McGee hadn't had time to count them. But there were plenty to line a tiny booth, that was for sure. Niow autumn reigned in all her golden glory, and the day for the bazaar had arrived. Relief Society sisters were busy arranging booths laden with handiwork and baking. In the most central location stood the tiny pickle booth, which was a sheer delight to behold. Maggie McGee was good at anything she put her active, gnarled old hands to. Now she had turned artist to decorate her little pickle booth. An arch framed the little booth, and she had designed a sign to go at the center of the arch. Two green cucumber men were holding up a sign which read "Pickle Booth." The pickle booth was decorated with white paper on which Maggie McGee had drawn all sorts of vegetable people, with tiny pin legs and arms, and with pretty faces showing smiling features and laughing eyes. Each picture, whether it was a tomato, cauli- flower, or onion, looked good enough to eat. Although the booths for the bazaar were all lovely and held people's interest, the pickle booth stood out like an emerald isle jewel of interest. As the Relief Society sisters passed by to their own assignments, they would say: "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." Then someone else would pass by and say: "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." Now that Maggie McGee had the pickles made, the drawings done, and the booth completed, and she had a little time to relax on her little stool in her pickle booth, she started wondering. Were the sisters just trying to make her feel happy? Had she made so many jars of pickles they were afraid they would not be sold, and they were afraid she might feel bad. Were they just helping out to salve her feelings? "If anyone else says, 'Put my name on a jar of pickles,' ['ll, ea,...." "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." "T'1—I'll do it." And she did. Maggie McGee's eyes were rather tear-dimmed as she wrote the names on the slips and pasted them on each bottle. She kept telling herself that the money went into the Relief Society fund. It wasn't as if she were selling the pickles for herself. Of course she didn't have a lot to live on, but the Lord provided the necessities of life for her, she didn't need money, though she would like to travel a bit. The crowd at the pickle booth The Pickle Booth passed in a steady stream as the bazaar progressed during the evening. Many bottles of pickles passed over the counter. Many more were tagged ready for pickup when the bazaar ended. Still, there remained a large supply of jars of pickles on the shelf behind her. Yes, she had overdone the pickle business. "If they don't sell tonight, they'll keep." Maggie McGee sighed and shrugged her shoulders. But the selling continued. Maggie had a moment to look up and around. Who was the strange man walking across the hall with President Clayson? Why they were coming directly toward the pickle booth. What could such a distinguished man be wanting? "Mrs. McGee," President Clayson began. Why, she always called her either Sister Maggie or Sister McGee. Why the formality? "Mrs. McGee, I want you to meet Mr. J. R. King of the King Food Corporation. He wants to sample your pickles." Maggie McGee smiled. "Sure and I'm glad to meet you, Mr. King." Others bought the jar on face value. They did not require a sample, a taste. But it takes all kinds to make up a world, she thought. "T am sorry that I do not have a spoon, nor some bread and butter for tasting. But you are welcome to have a full jar to take on your way, sir." "T brought over a spoon from 'the kitchen, Sister McGee, and a plate with a slice of bread and butter." Mrs. Clayson was smiling her reassurance. 423 June 1968 The crowd seemed to be watching what took place at the pickle booth, but they kept at a distance, as if this were a most important event, and they did not wish to spoil it. Mr. King unscrewed a jar. He spread the pickles generously on the slice of bread, and put it to his mouth. It reminded Maggie McGee of a hungry boy made suddenly happy with good food. After several large bites, Mr. King spoke. "Very good! Simply delicious!" "Sure and I'm glad that you like them, and would you lke to buy a jar from the society?" "Mrs. McGee, I might as well get right down to business. I am always searching for new foods. Especially am I looking for new pickles. That is my business, you know. I want your recipe." "T'll be glad to share it with you. Most folks are sort of lazy when it comes to making pickles. They prefer to pick up a jar ready for the table. But if you wish, you're welcome to my recipe. It is my own, you understand?" "That is what Mrs. Clayson told me. You have originated this bread-and-butter pickle? "Sure and I did." "We pay quite well for a new "You needn't sir. I haven't given it out, but I'm not one to be selfish." "Tt isn't just the recipe we pay for. I want you to go to Chicago and oversee the making of the pickle in our factory; the first batch, that is. The trip is paid both ways, and your expenses while in Chicago. You'll have a franchise on the recipe— royalty on every bottle sold, you understand?" Maggie McGee didn't exactly understand. But she had always wanted to travel. She hadn't left the valley since she came from dear old Ireland as a child. If Mr. King was willing to pay her way to Chicago so she could show them how to make her pickles, she could hardly pass up such an offer. "Would you be willing to sell your recipe under these conditions, Mrs. McGee?" "Tt's the luck of the Irish and the blessings of Heavenly Father, and m glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. King. I think that I shall enjoy a trip to Chicago, and I'm free to leave at any moment you would be wishing for me to do so." Maggie McGee's smile was her nicest Irish smile. Mr. King returned her smile with that "Little boy with bread-and-butter pickles" grin. Recipe." Raindrops Are silver words To earth. SUMMER SHOWER «) Speaking from the high skies Of heaven, fragile links of love s —Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 424 Buc * If Spri =( ng Be Late-~ Mabel Harmer Chapter 3 Maureen Taggart, a librarian, decides to go to Britain to do genealogical work, travel, and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is a joint heir. Just before leaving she meets Steve Madsen and is very much attracted to him. On board the boat she _ befriends Diane Curran. Both go _ to the home of Maureen's cousin, Bruce Taggart. # As Maureen awoke to a chilly November morning, her first clear thought was a yearning for the electric blanket at home. But I don't have it, she reminded herself philosophically, so Ill just have to add more clothing— night as well as day. She was sure that it would take years, if not a lifetime, to get used to this penetrating island cold. Diane was already up and dressing. The girls had _ been offered separate rooms in the big house, but had decided to share a bedroom for warmth and companionship. "Why so early?" asked Maureen, curling up into a_ ball beneath the covers. "It's. Still dark outside." "Mrs. Taggart is taking me to meet the Markham person. I must get there early before someone else lands the _ job. Anyway, it isn't nearly as early 425 June 1968 as it looks. I suppose that we are so far north here that there is less daylight in the winter." "So we are,' Maureen assented, venturing one foot out into the cold. "As for the job—from all they say, I doubt if you have to worry. Perhaps your real worry should be that you will get it." "T have to get it—as you well know," said Diane, emphasizing her words with a vigorous brushing of her light curls. "If I don't find something right away Sydney will insist upon quitting school so that we can be married. Of course, he has no idea how really short I am. His parents would always hold it against me, if he quit school on my account, and I don't want to start off with that handicap." "And you're right, of course," agreed Maureen, taking the plunge into the cold room. "And, if Mrs. Markham proves impossible you can look for something better later on. Which reminds me that I had best get ready to do more looking. I found a few interesting leads at the Public Records Office yesterday, but it's rather different from my own library experience at home." "Do you find this research at all interesting?" "*Oh, yes! In fact, I find it quite fascinating. And so do many other people, from the looks of the crowds there poring over the books. As you know, I have a very definite purpose in tracing my family lines and it amazes me to see how many people are there doing research merely to trace family lines and ancestors." "Perhaps they are hoping for 426 another castle—such as yours." "Perhaps," smiled Maureen. "On the whole, I think it is just an urge, but a very fortunate one for those of us who can profit by their efforts." (C ownstairs, they found only Catherine and the girls at breakfast. Bruce had left early for school and Mrs. Murch was out visiting. "At this time of day!" exclaimed Maureen. "Oh, the time of day means nothing to her, poor dear," said Julia. "She will have breakfast with her friend Mrs. Marble down the lane and help her to do whatever needs doing. There's always something. Of course, she will spread the glad news of our castle." "Tt can't make too much difference, can it?" asked Maureen. "After all, the news was bound to get out sooner or later." "No," agreed Catherine. "It can't make too much difference. Most of our neighbors won't believe it anyway. They'll say, 'The Taggarts inherit a castle! Ridiculous!' and that will be the end of it." "Oh, I hope not!" cried Kitty. "T am planning to impress my school friends ever so much. In fact, I hope that Mrs. Murch makes an awfully good thing out of it. I can't, in good conscience, do so myself." "Indeed, you cannot," agreed her mother. "Incidentally," she said, turning to Maureen, "we are expecting a visitor today who will be of interest to you—a Robert McPherson who lives on the estate. He is an artist and has some paintings on exhibition (Continued on page 451) AN ISLAND CONTINENT IN BLOOM Wealtha S. Mendenhall Former Member, General Board of Relief Society = May I come into your home and visit with you about the island continent, Australia? In the Southern Hemisphere, in the southwest area of the Pacific Basin, some 1274 miles across the great Tasman Sea from New Zealand, lies the remote island continent, Australia. My husband and I left California in 1952 for an extended tour around the world. We traveled on a luxury liner and leisurely sailed the beautiful blue Pacific, feasting our eyes on the sun-spangled waters, flying fish, cloud formations, stars, Moon, and the sunset in the evening sky. At the close of day, we were lulled to sleep by strains of soft melodies. What a relaxing, restful journey! EARLY EXPLORERS As a comparison, my thoughts turned to those early explorers and diligent voyagers of the sea, who sailed great distances across uncharted waters in open ships, with limited navigational instruments; and of their struggles to survive the elements, scarcity of food and water, sickness, and at times, mutiny. Many of them died and were buried at sea, while others bravely struggled onward, determined to reach their destination. Among these was Louis Vaes de Torres—the Spanish officer after whom the Torres Strait, which flows between Australia and New Guinea, derived its name. This was sailed in 1606. Captain William Jansz and some of his crew members of the yacht "Duvfken" were successful in reaching the Australian shore; but, they were met by the rich chocolate-brown skinned, dark-haired early inhabitants of that land—the Aborigines—who at that time were not blessed with an abundance of hospitality. Australia was, to the Aborigine, his grounds, his place to live undisturbed. The privacy of his small lean-to or hut type home, made of branches or a combination of wattle and daub, had not been infringed upon before. The vast plains were his to roam freely with his dingoes (dogs), woomers (throwing sticks), boomerang (angular throwing stick), and nets, in search of food, (wallabies, fish, kangaroos, wild herbs, roots, and fruit). In 1916, the commander of the "Bendragt," Dick Hartog, reached the coast, for later, a round platelike marker with such an inscription on it was found attached to a post. In 1642, that well-known Dutch navigator, Abel Janszoon Tasman, sighted the western coast of the island which is now known as Tasmania. This lies approximately 140 miles off the southern coast of Australia, and is today one of her six states. Other great explorers, many whose names are not known, preceded these, and there are interesting records of those who followed, including that heroic and colorful voyager, Captain James Cook. In 1770, he drop- 427 June 1968 year that the first European colonists settled in Sydney, and, it was in 1801 that Australia officially became a full-fledged member of the CommonThe anthem "Advance Australia Fair," States in the first and second Australia's sons, let us rejoice When gallant Cook from Albion sailed For we are young and free; To trace wide oceans o'er, We've golden soil and Wealth for toil, True British Courage bore him on Our home is girt by sea; Till he landed on our shore; Our land abounds in nature's gifts, Then, here he raised old English flag, Of beauty rich and rare. The Standard of the brave. In history's page let every Stage With all her faults, we love her still Advance Australia Fair. Britannia rules the wave. A LINK WITH THE PIONEER PAST a road, village, hospital, doctor, school, industry, or even a store, to Satisfy the smallest need. Was discontinued by 1831. The discovery of gold and the gold rush in the Settlements were established in areas other than Sydney, and before long colonies developed. Then came the birth of States and Territories. At present, six States and two federally controlled Territories Occupy this area—the land down under, GOVERNMENT The six States are Western Australia, South Australia, Queensland ew South Wales, Victoria, and asmania. The orthern erritory js THE COUNTRY AND THE CITIES This sreat expanse of water Stretching far away into all horizons ls hockey, cricket, rugby, golf, and bow ing on the green. SYDNEY June 1968 Australia and New South Wales. I was also impressed by the steel-arch bridge which extends gracefully across the harbor. CANBERRA I was more than impressed by the newness and simple beauty of the capital, Canberra. The wide open tableland at the base of the Australian Alps no longer basks in its look of yesteryear, but has emerged, according to the design of Walter Burley Griffin, an American architect, into the unique and impressive Canberra of today. Much of the bush and also the barren areas have been developed into landscaped gardens and parks. Streets are lined with brilhant yellow wattle and other lovely plants and flowers. Modern homes have been built and are surrounded with carpets of green grass. We find at Canberra the Federal Parliament House, Government buildings, museums, and a manmade lake, a thing of beauty. In the new city (and I say new because work did not commence on it until about 1913), we find the Academy of Science, which is a great help not only in the development of Australian lands, but also those of other countries. VICTORIA Melbourne, the capital of the state of Victoria, is one of my favorite cities. This metropolis has a lovely setting, as it was born on the green banks of the River Yarra, and its sprawling Dandenongs, dressed in forest and fern, furnish its eastern landscape. Melbourne has blossomed into the second largest city in Australia, and together with Sydney, the two cities have within their boundaries more than one-third of Australia's 11,000,000 population. QUEENSLAND In the United States on Thanksgiving Day, the people pause to give thanks to their Heavenly Father for the bounties of life and for their many blessings. In Queensland, the second largest State in Australia, and one of the most prosperous, a series of festivals is planned and conducted yearly in appreciation of the many blessings received. These industrious people celebrate the successful harvest of maize, apples, sugar, tobacco, grain, pineapple, flowers, and other items. The festival in Southern Queensland, when the apple trees are in full bloom and flower arrangements adorn the homes, hotels, shops, and streets; and the flower festival in Toowoomba, when flower gardens are a maze of color, are indeed unforgettable sights, a glimpse of peaceful beauty in color. Queensland falls mainly in the tropical belt, thus mother nature is liberal with her blessings. The largest coral reef in the world (the Great Barrier Reef) stretches about 1250 miles along her coast in the Coral Sea. Brisbane, a most beautiful city, is the State's capital. TASMANIA The island of Tasmania is the nation's smallest State, but offers a fascinating variety of scenery, ranging from the Russel Waterfalls, in the Mount Field National Park, to the peaceful quietness of Lake St. Clair at the base of Cradle Mountain. At apple blossom time, the sweet spicy perfume from the productive 430 Australia—An Island Continent in Bloom and beautiful valleys of Huon and Derwent is wafted through the air. How majestic is Mount Wellington as it stretches upward, ever hovering over and making a green backdrop for the capital city, Hobart. A delightful climate and an ample supply of water greatly aid the crop yield in this area. In Tasmania, we find a touch and certain charm of the past, as well as a modern and progressive present. The handsome public buildings, homes, and gardens bespeak the enterprising spirit and the busy wharf. WESTERN AUSTRALIA Whether one desires solitude and freedom from rigid routine or the hustle and bustle of city life among an enthusiastic, friendly people, it can be found in Western Australia. This State occupies one-third of Australia's land (or a million square miles) and has about three-quarters of a million inhabitants. Here, large areas of land are being brought into productivity yearly, and steps are being taken to harness water wealth for the good of the land and her people. The well-organized air service, not only in Western Australia, but throughout the continent, has shrunk the vast mileage until it is possible for people to cover these great distances in a short period of time. Thus, sheep and cattle stations, once isolated, practically reach the thresholds of each other's doors. They also have a very efficient Royal Flying Doctor Service which supplies medical aid to those faraway places, and, in case of emergency, flies patients to the hospital for needed treatment. Perth, one of the continent's most beautiful, sunniest, and prosperous cities, is the capital of Western Australia, and is located between the Swan River and the Indian Ocean. Perth has wide streets, tall buildings, an art gallery, a museum, fine shopping centers, well-dressed people, and is the home of the University of Western Australia. Kings Park, alone, comprises 1000 acres in the heart of the city. The people here are friendly and are proud not only of Perth, but also of their State. SOUTH AUSTRALIA If you are sightseeing in South Australia, I recommend the leisurely climb up the wandering pathway, through lush mountain scenery of the Mount Lofty Range to Morialta Falls—a waterfall of exceptional beauty. As one rests and becomes attuned to the splashng water, scenery, the various scents from foliage, trees, and flowers, a sensation of peace seems to be everywhere. How befitting it is to look down over the City of Churches, Adelaide, the State's capital, and see chapels and more chapels, as well as the well laid out city, with its wide streets, avenues, hillside resorts, Koala Bear Park, Torrens Lake, beaches, gardens, factories, and the University of Adelaide, one of Australia's oldest universities, established in 1874. The main industries of South Australia are ship building, wool, wheat, and wine. Here we find large areas of arid plains, but the owners of the sheep and cattle stations are struggling to bring them into productivity in order to furnish more feed for livestock. The children living on these sheep and cattle stations, and in other isolated areas, do not attend school as do children in the cities, but receive their education through "The School of the Air," over a two-way radio which not only affords the children an opportunity to hear the lessons, but also to respond. 431 June 1968 NORTHERN TERRITORY to do so in the Northern Territory, for there are many Aborigi Native habitat On the Aboriginal] Reservations Some of them are Progressing from their Primitive Ways by attending School, Others are gti: and work With the People around ¢ em, to improve themselves and their heritage and to fit Into our modern Society, In the Northern Territory, we find req and Orange rocks and ground t Y faith and by Works, the People of Australia are fast ©vercomin the barriers and Obstacles they inherited, and they have brought the island Continent Into bloom. THE CHURCH IN AUSTRALIA How Very gratepia] we are that The Church of Jesus Christ of day Saints js firmly established In Australia, and that its teachings have elped to build faith and testimonies In the lives of Many of its izenship, There Was a Spiritual] Awakening as Prophesied, and on July 3, 1955, the Mission Was divided and the Southern Australian Mission was formed. In JUSt five Years, on March 27, 1960, the Sydney Stake Was formed. Then the Brisbane Stake Was Organized on Octobe; 23, 1960. In the Same month On the 30th, the elbourne Stake Was created Later, on February 23, 1966 Was Organized, and then the Sydney South Stake on May 14, 1967. Perth Stake Was Organized November 28, 1967. 432 Sydney Harbor, with the city in the background, and a view of the far reaches of one of the world's most beautiful and useful harbors A view of one area of Sydney Harbor with impressive buildings in the background, and the Manly Ferry in the foreground ne oe io VS eee oe.:- - ~ A = i. —s - wA2T) 4 MEETIIIA ab aT. $6 ba! 9.990% 06 o_—————— b.. 8 be tee oe The ''Coat Hanger' Bridge, a magnificent steel arch of which the Austrialians are justly proud Begonias in Ballarat, approximately one hundred miles from Melbourne in the State of Victoria A view of Queensland on the Pacific Ocean Adelaide in South Australia <a — Aboriginal children enjoying sun and water Shaw "The "Outback" in Southwest Australia Landscape in front of the Mission Home in Sydney, Australia i se >, en - 4 & e Durban Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Pat Pel, First Counselor; Pat Robinson, President; Renee Kee, Secretary-Treasurer; Maureen De Wet, Second Counselor. Three-tiered birthday cake at celebration of Relief Society anniversary. Radiant flowers, always abundant in the subtropical Durban climate, add lovely decoration to the table Eleanor A. Badger, Supervisor SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION South African Mission Relief Society Mowbray Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Margaret Park, visiting teacher message leader; Ivy Fourie, President; Philippa Harrison, Counselor; Maria Maritz, homemaking leader; Joyce Bester; Marjorie Woods. Second row, left to right: Betty Botha; Valerie Hubert; Marietta Maritz; Veronica Dallender. Picture shows a display of beautifully decorated cakes which were sold and the proceeds used as a contribution to the branch building fund. (Photograph by Dennis Woods) "OPEN THE DOOR Irene W. Buehner, Member, General Board of Relief Society, | theme chosen for the 1967 Relief Society Annual General Conference Magazine display. Five stakes were selected to prepare displays depicting the values to be found in the various sections of The Relief Society Magazine. These exhibits revealed the resourcefulness of the Stake Relief Society leadérship and provided tangible evidence of the professionalism which may be achieved by sisters who work lovingly together. Most of the displays were also used in the local stake leadership meetings and proved a great stimulation to the sisters in encouraging increased 4 » "Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine." This was the GENERAL FEATURES Transparencies by J. M. Heslop East Millcreek Stake President—Quanta Howells; Magazine Representative—Lola Condie. A dark green felt cloth formed the background for this dignified portrayal of the ''General Features.'' The mail box poured out letters of testimony from ''Near and Far.' The ''Birthday Congratulations"' page was attractively framed. The ''Editorial Page,' 'Woman's Sphere,'' and 'Notes From the Field" were all pointed out in this impressive display. 438 | THROUGH THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE"' Chairman, Magazine Display, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1967 subscriptions, more careful reading, and greater utilization of the Magazine. Three of the five exhibits are illustrated below. We regret that we are unable to show the excellent displays done by the Phoenix and Olympus Stakes. The Phoenix Stake, under the direction of Relief Society Stake President Ruth Stapley, beautifully portrayed the many facets of "The Lesson Department." Spiritual Living, Cultural Refinement, Social Relations, Homemaking, and Visiting Teaching were artistically illustrated on their gaily bedecked table. In the center, and slighthly elevated, was a lovely doll which represented a woman whose life was strengthened through the —_ -, Ye WB) FICTION AND POETRY University Stake President—Amelia S. McConkie, Magazine Representative—Brigitte Porter. The white cloth, dotted with green plants, balanced the rising Magazine-covered stair treads. The risers were imprinted with virtues, quoted from the Magazine, to be learned in life's journey upward. Dolls, dressed in blue and gold, stood as the sentinels for the Poetry and Short Story Contests, lighting the way to higher goals of achievement. 439 June 1968 influence of Relief Seciety participation. Olympus Stake Relief Society President Iola Peterson and Magazine representative Alforette Liddle developed a very artistic table with ideas from the "Special Features" section. An elegant green corduroy tablecloth was enhanced with blue color accents used to portray the Magazine Honor Roll, articles written by General Authorities, the poetry contest winner (who, incidentally, was from their stake), as well as the addresses of special speakers taken from issues of the Magazine. It was a symphony in color. The General Board is grateful to these five stakes for so effectively carrying out the theme assigned to them, and for sharing their talents and ideas for the benefit of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Pasadena Stake President—Jasmine Ballard; Magazine Representative—Rose Simper. A woodpaneled house, with Magazine-covered pillars supporting the roof, reflected the influence of The Relief Society Magazine in four generations. Miniature paper-maché family figures were so lifelike as to seem irresistible. A tiny handmade grandma sat busily knitting, surrounded by her handwork_a sweater, braided rug, and knit suit, all scaled to size. A petite mother is shown, taking an actual cake out of the oven, while baby is being tenderly consoled by great-grandmother. Magazine helps for cooking, sewing, cleaning, and handwork were all depicted in a delightfully whimsical way. Every detail was carefully worked out to perfection. 440 CACTUS RADIANCE ON DESERT DUNES Claire Noall « From utter desolation, radiance springs when the nurture is right. Flamboyant beauty rises from the seemingly hostile sands of time. Some species in the plant kingdom say, or seem to say, "Here I am. Look! I have come into being. Life against death, when the rains speak. Brief, but all-giving, in exquisite form. Don't touch. My fragility is protected. Do not use the sense of feel except through sight. Live in my short moment forever through the memory of vision. You will never forget my scalloped cup on desert tracts in thorn and prickle. I am here. Stand your distance, but drink deep and full, forever to slake your longing for the exotic. I am fragility in the midst of thorns. Anything exotic spans but a passing moment of rare light, of translucent color, contour, cloud, or shadow. Ease the drouth of level lands in the landscape of the soul, when the rains of the dunes bring me to floral space. I am needed. I am needed for the perfection and for beauty, in the processions of the seasons—in the radiance of time." ee WILD AND CULTIVATED GARDENS « Flowers and shrubs and grasses grow intimately and harmoniously together in the wild gardens of | mountains and valleys. They make their own designs of color and spacing, of height and ground cover. They grow, in competition as best they can, reaching for the sun and sinking their roots into: water. Home gardeners and landscape artists may observe the natural gardens and evaluate the possibilities of using some of their patterns for the home grounds. Some gardeners work out precise and formalized designs of great beauty, and others combine a natural setting with some elements of planned arrangement. Many rock gardens, colorful and pleasing to the eye, are results of such combinations. Contours, color harmony, and providing for blossoms throughout the growing season, are items which gardeners—from the professional landscape artist to the homemaker—may well consider in thinking of the garden as a portrait in form and color and design. These principles would apply to all gardens, formal, informal, and rock gardens, and those gardens which simulate the wild design. 442 the soil, searching for food and Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts Formal design in the Portland, Oregon, Rose Garden. Note the open space of grass, the steps accented by carefully trimmed evergreens arched with yellow roses. Color is provided by massed rosebushes. The background of tall dark Douglas firs establishes the principle of contrast. Formal garden west of the Latter-day Saints Church Administration Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Greenery and a variety of color contrasted against the gray walls of the building. Sego lilies growing in a wild garden. For many years the women of Relief Society have looked upon the sego lily as an expressive symbol of the beauty and usefulness of the organization. When the pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley after their long journey across the plains, they found myriads of white-blossomed sego lilies festooning the foothills. The bulbs were also used as food. Rock garden, Salt Lake City, Utah, showing an artistic combination of some elements found in wild gardens, and evidence of a planned design in selection and placement of colors. Note the border of compact (spreading) lobelia (ultramarine blue) which accents the area of yellow blossoms (Basket of Gold—Alyssum saxatile compactum). A wild desert garden. Radiant against the stark landscape, the rich blossoms of dock decorate the sand dunes and reveal the triumph of plant life in an arid land. Close-up picture, showing detail of the crown pattern in the center of the quilt A QUILT FOR A QU EEN Jean S. Groberg, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society # The Relief Society sisters in the Tongan Mission recently had the opportunity of making a quilt for a queen! The occasion was the historic coronation of King Taufa'- ahau Tupou IV of Tonga and his lovely wife Queen Halaevaly Mata'- aho. The king-sized "queenly quilt" was especially designed for the occasion, with a large replica of the § Tongan crown and laurel wreath worked in fine quilting in the center of the quilt. The date of the coronation day was also worked into: the pattern and a regal scroll Jean S. Groberg, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief, Society, presenting the quilt to Queen Mata'aho. Work bordered the edges. A" 2 Q a The Tongan Mission Relief Society chose this beautiful handmade quilt to present to the Queen as a representative token of the ideals of the Relief Society organization in expressing to their new Queen their loyalty and support throughout her reign. She was also presented with some exquisitely fine and beautiful pieces of tatting made by Relief Society sisters. Queen Mata'aho graciously received these gifts and expressed sincere appreciation for them and admiration for the fine quality of work. Another interesting coronation time activity was carried on by the Liahona Branch of the Tongan Mission. These sisters made dozens of Tongan dolls to sell to the tourists who poured into the little kingdom at coronation time. The dolls were dressed in typical Tongan styles, complete with miniature "ta'ovalas" and "kiekies," the woven mats and ornamental waistbands worn by the Tongans. The dolls were very popular and were all sold in a few hours. Many tourists taking home with them these cute re-. Membrances of their visit to the Friendly Islands, read the little tags sewed into the dolls' clothes, ""Made in Tonga by the LDS Relief Society." 444 Some of the sisters who helped to make the quilt for the Queen, Tu'avava'u Mapa, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, fourth from right Tatting pieces also presented to the Queen, displayed by tatting expert Laiana Folau and Sister Mapa Tongan dolls made by Liahona Branch Relief Society 7h oe aa FASHION SAYS! Maxine Grimm Fashion says knees But we extend pleas To cover the knees, Please! A As I started to write this article, I could not help but remember the complaints of Brigham Young concerning the length of women's dresses. He was lamenting the fact that they were so long that they gathered up the dirt from the streets. He suggested that they might be shorter—"... Do not be extravagant and cut them so short that we can see the tops of your stockings— [surely a prophet was speaking! ]—but bring them down to the tops of your shoes and have them so you can walk and clear the dust and do not expose your persons." (Journal of Discourses, Brigham Young, 12:299.) Here I am, a century later, trying to design a dress to cover the knees when you sit down. At least in one respect Brigham Young would condone my efforts. This dress is handloomed, and he always stressed weaving and sewing and creative work. "Let the beauty of your adorning be the work of your hands." (Ibid., 19:75.) (continued on page 450) Transparency by Dorothy J.. Model Kathleen MacKay 446 AN OLD TRUNK CAN BE REJUVENATED Olive W. Burt a One of the little-recognized forms of extravagance is that of having usable articles stashed away and lying idle. It is a kind of wastefulness that would have shocked our pioneer forebears. Our grandmothers used everything; they let nothing go to waste. Scraps of cloth were pieced into quilts; rags were woven into rugs; empty cans were covered with scraps of carpet to make footstools; leftover foods were conjured into delectable dishes. We need not follow their example exactly. Many things they used would be out of place in today's homes. But still most of us have many things stored away in basement or attic, in chests or dresser drawers that could be brought out and put to good use in even the most modern dwelling. Old trunks, for example. Many a descendant of pioneers has an old trunk or chest which should have a greal deal of sentimental value. Often these have been badly damaged and have deteriorated over the years so that, though we cherish them, we keep them out of sight. Such a trunk or chest can easily be made into a decorative piece of which anyone would be proud. I had such a small trunk in the basement, filled with odds-and-ends, better thrown away. I know this trunk didn't come across the plains with my grandparents, but it has been in the family ever since I can remember. Covered with a metal sheeting, silver-colored, with an overall design of leaves in black, it was badly rusted; the wooden reenforcements dirty and broken; the lock and handles gone. The inside was a disgrace. (continued on page 450). 7 i " 7 — ee ee ee "CHESTNUT TREES" by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906), French (Minneapolis Institute of Arts) Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University s Each style of art had its inventor. Each artist believed implicitly in the importance of the truth for which he was searching. Each tenaciously clung to his concept—sometimes at great personal expense in other areas of his life. It has been said that great revolutionary leaders are men with a single and simple idea, and it is the very persistency and discipline with which they pursue this idea that endows it with power. Paul Cezanne was one of these. In spite of his great desire to have his work accepted by the officials of the art world, and the public who rejected and often ridiculed it, he gave up trying to be accepted and pursued his single idea the rest of his life in semi-seclusion. Herbert Read, well known art critic, described this single idea as follows: There is no doubt that what we call the modern movement in art begins with the single-minded determination of a French painter to see the world objectively. World, or that part of it he was contemplating, as an object, without any intervention either of the tidy mind or the untidy emotions. His immediate predecessors, the Impressionists, had seen the world subjectively—that is to say, as it presented itself to their senses in various lights, or from various points of view. Each occasion made a different and distinct impression on their senses, and for each occasion there must necessarily be a separate work of art. But Cezanne wished to exclude this shimmering and ambiguous surface of things and penetrate to the reality that did not change, that was present beneath the bright but deceptive picture presented by Cezanne believed that even though each brick and timber in a piece of architecture is important in its construction it is the building as a whole we see. Likewise, in a painting each part must contribute to the whole. He thought that in all nature—the landscape, the still life, and the human figure, there is reality which exists in substance and is more than surface. He tried to get away from the decorative element and present what was real. His struggle to do this was often very frustrating and he destroved many of his paintings to try again and again. In the painting "Chestnut Trees at Jas de Bouffan" you sense that the artist was struggling with technical difficulties—that it was not easy. You notice how he broke up the surface into separate independent colors. These in turn serve to build an architectural structure which gives the appearance of solidity—of existing in space—of being real, a generalization about nature rather than a literal reproduction of nature. CHESTNUT TREES AT JAS DE BOUFFAN" by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906) - French The Minneapolis Institute of Arts 449 June 1968 FASHION SAYS (continued from page 446) Because fashion, at this time in many areas, calls for straight short dresses—by the way, Brigham Young said, "Create your own fashions and make your clothing to please yourselves, pleat is inverted, with three pleats on each side of the center inverted pleat. When standing, the pleat appears to be an ordinary kick-pleat, but when you sit it spreads out like a fan over the knees. Independent of outside influences..." He also said, "As for fashion it does not trouble me, my fashion is convenience and comfort." (Jbid., 12:202, 14:21.) It should be ours also. This dress is woven by hand with 20/2 cotton warp, honeysuckle design, with novelty cotton threads in the woof. I have always found a coat-dress wardrobe wearable and comfortable, but short straight styles present a new problem, hence the pleat. This pleat is a complete circle made into a pleated fan with stitches on the edge of each pleat on the under side, to keep the pleats secure. The circle must be cut through from one edge to the center to form the fan. The center AN OLD TRUNK CAN BE REJUVENATED (continued from page 447) I scrubbed the trunk well, inside and out, with soap and water. When it was thoroughly dry, I went over the entire metal surface with aluminum paint. I rubbed this off, to uncover the black design. Using a very small brush and black metal paint, I went over every design. This took a little time and patience—but only a few cents worth of paint. The portions that had always been black, I repainted in that color. The wooden reenforcements I painted first in a dull green. Then I "antiqued" them with a coat of black paint, quickly rubbed off. The "silver' rosettes and clasps I repainted with aluminum paint. I found among the odds and ends in my husband's workbox, a pair of old brass handles, which I put on each end. An old chain made a good catch-hold for opening the lid. There are many ways to finish the inside of such a trunk. Some are quite lovely, but difficult. I like easy-to-do-jobs, so I purchased some quilted calico, black, with a tiny rosebud design. This I simply tacked into place, using rather large-headed tacks. They did not show against the black calico—and the work took only a very short time. I lined both lid and bottom, as both were badly discolored by age. Now I have a small, attractive trunk in my bedroom, in which to keep, without crowding, my very best, hand-embroidered guest linens, or anything else that I wish to have handy. 450 (Continued from page 426) in London. We are eager, of course, to hear what he can tell us about the property." "Eager!" cried Kitty. 'We are simply dying of curiosity. So, be sure you don't get lost in the files and forget to come home in time for dinner." "T'll be here,'"" Maureen promised. "I'm probably just as eager as you to hear his report." Catherine arose from the table. "Well, Diane," she said, "if you're ready we'll go and beard the lioness in her den." "Tm ready—for said Diane. They all put on their wraps and left together—Kitty for her school, Maureen to the tube to catch her train for London, Catherine and Diane for Mrs. Markham's. The sun shone wanly through a light fog and Maureen could not help thinking back to autumn in Utah as she had left it, with the beautiful sights and smells of October. Had it really been as lovely as she now remembered, or was it the companionship of those last days at home that now made it seem so desirable? She had thought often of Steve Madsen— how well they had "hit it off," so to speak. They seemed to have so much in common and to enjoy each other's company so much. She remembered with a glow of happiness the flowers he had sent to the boat and the two letters she had _ received since her arrival in England. In each he had mentioned that he was looking forward to her return. In the city the streets and buildings looked unusually gray. Anything," If Spring Be Late Now there was no sun at all. She thought back to some lines she had read long ago "No leaves —no flowers—no sun—November." To herself she added, "'Especially November in London on a foggy day." For no very good reason, unless it was the weather, she stopped and bought some roasted chestnuts from a street vender. She walked the few short blocks to the Public Records Office on Chancery Lane and hurried inside, hoping for light and warmth. Yesterday she had returned the book, on which she was working, with a word to the librarian that she hoped she chould get it again soon. To her great surprise and pleasure, she found the book on the same desk where she had been working and which had been reserved for her use. There was also a reminder that she would need a sponsor if she planned to work at the library for more than a week. She was sure that Bruce would be able to fill that need, and she settled down to work on the line of Sara Martin, a seventeenth century ancestress. Avtier a brief stop for lunch, she returned to her work with such interest that she failed to realize how the time had passed until she looked up and saw that the room was almost deserted: Glancing out of a window, she could see almost no daylight, although her watch showed the time only half after four. It shouldn't have been so dark even for London, she told herself. Hurriedly, she turned in the book and put on her wraps. 451 June 1968 As she went outside she was astonished to see how foggy the day had become. Another worker, just leaving, turned and said, "A regular pea-souper this, eh Miss?" "T'm afraid so," she replied, adding to herself, I'm almost afraid. Barnia growing darkness, she hurried to the station and caught the next train out. There were half a dozen passengers, besides herself, who left. The train at Bahlen. She looked about anxiously to see if there was anyone she could recognize at all who might be going in her direction. There was no one and, within seconds, they had all disappeared into the fog. It was so heavy that she could not see across the street. "At least I know the right direction for starting," she told herself. "How long I can keep going is something else again." She went on for a block or two, but couldn't be at all sure of where she was to make the turn towards home. Home, she thought longingly. True, there were fogs, at times so bad that planes couldn't land, but there was nothing like this. At home, too, she knew her way about in the worst of them. Now, she might wander for hours. Occasionally, someone passed by, and there was an automobile or two that crept slowly along, the driver evidently trying to follow the line in the street. She was rather sure that none of them wanted to stop and take on a passenger, even if she had dared to ask. She came to a turn in the street that she could feel, rather than see, was unfamiliar. She turned and started back again. At the next turn she hesitated. She hadn't the least idea which way to go. As she stood trying to make up her mind what to do next she saw someone approaching. "Can you tell me?" she began, but was interrupted by a familiar voice calling "Is that you, dearie?" "Oh, Mrs. Murch!" cried Maureen. "Am I ever glad to see you. But, how did you happen to come here?" "It was no happening, my love," was the reply. "I was fearful you might lose your way in this fog, so I came to meet you." "How wonderful! I can't tell you how relieved I am. I was becoming more frightened every minute. But how did you know when to come?" "Oh, I just guessed," she answered in a matter-of-fact tone. "If you hadn't been on_ this train I could have waited for another." Maureen took her arm and they headed for home. Poor, dear, foolish Mrs. Murch, she was thinking. Perhaps she had become used to meeting trains over the years in the hopes that Cynthia would be coming on one of them. Whatever the reason, Maureen was ever so grateful that she had come to meet this one. "I hope the family wasn't worried about me," she said. "Well, I rather think they were. Even one who knows her way about can get lost in these pea-soupers. Then, they thought there was a fair chance that you might have decided to stay in town. To be sure, they were so taken with this artist fellow that they didn't think too much about anything else. That would be my guess, anyway." "Oh, yes, of course! You mean McPherson, the artist from Scotland. I had forgotten that he was to be here tonight—and If Spring Be Late with news of the castle. I'm awfully glad that I didn't stay in town, although I most certainly would have done just that if I had realized how frightful this fog can be. If it hadn't been for you meeting me, I might have wandered about for hours. Unless I could have met another good Samaritan, that is." She was almost surprised to find herself presently standing at their own front door. When it was opened the scene of cheer and warmth was such a contrast to the bleak outdoors that she gave an involuntary gasp. A bright fire burned in the living room hearth, as well as one in the dining room on the other side. The family was gathered around the hearth, looking just as bright and animated as the blaze itself. They turned quickly to welcome Maureen. Catherine came out into the hallway. "We thought that you must have decided to remain in town when you didn't get here earlier. We couldn't imagine that you would try to come home in this fog." "IT came only because I didn't quite realize the depths of your British fogs," replied Maureen. 'Another time I shall certainly come earlier—or not at all. If it hadn't been for Mys. Murch, I might still have been wandering about, completely lost." "We didn't know that she had gone out either," said Catherine, "or one of us would have gone with her. Do take off your wraps now and come in and meet our guest." Maureen did so as quickly as possible. Upstairs, she freshened her makeup and returned to the 453 living room to greet "our tenant," she thought with a whimsical smile. As the two men arose, Bruce said, "May I present Robert McPherson who rents our cottage, guards our lands and paints our landscapes—my cousin Maureen Taggart." McPherson clasped her hand and said warmly, "I'm so happy to meet such a charming landlady. I trust that you will be satisfied with my accounting." Maureen smiled. "I'm sure that I shall be. I had no idea that there was an account of any kind." "As a matter of fact, there are no accounts so far," he conceded. "But there well may be in the future. It will all depend upon what you want to do with the estate—or can do with it." "T'm simply dying to learn all about it," said Kitty. "Especially all of the elegant things in the castle so that I can impress the girls at school. Is there a ghost, for instance?" "To be sure," he replied firmly. "Every castle in Scotland has its ghost—the: older and more decrepit, the better. I mean the 'castle, of course, and not the ghost." 454 "Then I imagine that our castle qualifies for a first-rate ghost," said Julia, "since it is practically a ruin, from all I've heard so far." "Before we start on it," said Catherine, "do let us have our dinner. Cook has been making signs to me the past quarter hour. Then we can hear all about it at our leisure." On the way into the dining room Maureen had a chance to whisper to Diane, "What about the job?" "T took it, of course. I had no choice." "Would you have taken it otherwise?" "Perhaps," Diane gave a small shrug. "It's too soon to tell. Anyway, I worked all day. Just that alone, and under any conditions, gives me a good feeling." "Yes, I know." After dinner, they returned to the living room to hear more about their castle. As they settled down again around the hearth, Mr. McPherson said, "I suppose you know that it hasn't been lived in for at least twenty years. In fact, part of the wall on the northeast side is missing entirely." "But there must be a great deal left," said Julia. "Surely some of it could be made livable." Yes, indeed," he agreed. "Much of it could. There are a number of rooms in which the furniture still remains. There are cupboards and closets that have never been opened since the death of the late Lord Angus Taggart. I go through once in a while just to see that nothing is disturbed." "And do you ever see the ghost?" asked Kitty, wide-eyed. "Let me think, now. No, I guess that I have only heard him—or her. Unless, of course, it was the wind I heard rattling the loose boards and tiles about." "No, indeed," Kitty insisted. "It has to be the ghost." "Very well," he agreed, "as you wish." "What about the grounds?' asked Bruce. "Is there any way that we might use them for profit?" "Oh, yes. Much of it is used now for grazing sheep—and some cattle. No one has paid for the privilege for years. You'll have to institute some very strong understandings." Bruce frowned thoughtfully. "Do you have any idea how much money it would take to put part of the place into some kind of condition so that a family could live there. Just a few rooms, say?" "Oh, I should say a few thousand pounds, for a start." Bruce whistled. "A few thousand pounds! And I, a_ poor schoolteacher. "And I a poor librarian," added Maureen, smiling. Suddenly, Mrs. Murch, who! F Spring Be Late had sat by all evening saying nothing, as usual, broke the silence by saying calmly, "I have money. You're welcome to use that." No one paid very much attention. Catherine merely answered, "You're very kind, but you have a need for that money you have." "Well not all of it," said Mrs Murch. "It's been in the Bank of London all these years. And I haven't had to spend any by living here." "Thank you very much for the offer," said Bruce. "If we find that we can do anything with the castle, we'll call on you." She seemed satisfied with that, and the matter was dropped. 'The talk then turned to McPherson's pictures and the exhibit that had brought him to London. "T do hope that some of you can come up tomorrow and have a look," he said. "Many of them were painted on your castle grounds and would give you some idea at least, of what it looks like." "Tomorrow is school for me, of course," said Bruce, "But I'd like to come on Saturday. It will be open then, I suppose." "And I have to work," said Julia. "Kitty's in school. So, how about you, Mum?" "T have a meeting of the garden club to settle the past season's business. Anyway, I'll wait and go with your father on Saturday." "Not a soul free!" exclaimed McPherson, "I really am _ disappointed." "Why, there's Maureen!" cried Kitty. "She goes up nearly every day anyway. I'm sure 455 June 1968 she'll be delighted to go with you." Maureen blushed slightly at Kitty's candid invitation, but McPherson's face lighted up with. Pleasure. "Would you indeed, Miss Taggart?" "To be sure," she agreed. "I'd be most happy." "Good!" he exclaimed. "You are sure to enjoy the scenes of the castle—even though they are somewhat idealized. You may even enjoy seeing the rest of the exhibition. There are some very good artists appearing." "T'm sure that I shall enjoy all of it," she said. After they had gone to their room, Diane asked, "Well, what did you think of him?" "It was very interesting," Maureen answered easily. "It was rather fun to hear something about the castle from one who actually lives there." "Skip the castle! I want to know what you think of McPherson." "He's very attractive,' Maureen replied. "He is quite different from our American men, of course." "And you just might be interested in this bit of information. The gentleman is unmarried." "He is!" exclaimed Maureen. "T thought that would wake you up, I took pains to inquire. He's a widower with twins, seven years old—a boy and a girl." "My interest is still strictly in the castle," declared Maureen. "Okay. After your trip to town tomorrow, we'll hear if there is any change of heart—or interest." Maureen did not answer. They lay quiet, each thinking over the events of the day. For Maureen, 456 the nightmare of the fog was almost forgotten in the pleasure of the evening and in the anticipation of a pleasant day on the morrow. It would be fun to spend a day in London and to see the exhibit with an artist who could explain the pictures to her. Just as she was drifting off to sleep, Diane said, "You know— wouldn't it be something if Mrs. Murch did have money—real money, I mean? Just imagine what it might be, lying in the bank all these years and drawing interest. And her living off the Taggarts all these years. Isn't life strange?" "Strange and interesting and full of surprises. But most people are awfully nice.". "Even Mrs. Markham — I hope," sighed Diane. 'Yes, there is hope that even Mrs. Markham will turn out to be a human being." "Ts she really such a terror? "No, not at all, really. She just expects her secretary to do all the work. She writes this syndicated column, you know, on etiquette. Evidently she figures that as long as she has made the contacts, the hired help can do the rest. She has shelves of books, and I had to find the answers to every question that came in. Anyway, it's a job, and I'm grateful. And, while I'm drudging away, Ill think of you out seeing the glories of the art world with a fascinating stranger." "T just hope it's half as exciting as you make it sound," said Maureen. The warm glow in her heart made her feel that it might easily be just that. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Former Relief Society Officers Honored Former officers of Portneuf Stake Relief Society, front row, left to right: Nellie C. Christensen, SecretaryTreasurer; Esther L. Bishoff, First Counselor; Dora B. Christensen, Second Counselor; Fern T. Hartvigsen, President Present officers, back row, left to right: Helen H. McDaniel, Secretary-Treasurer Elda R. Nielsen, Second Counselor; Dora M. Johnson, First Counselor: Helen G. Toler. President. Sister Toler reports: "At a recent leadership meeting the outgoing Relief Society presidency was honored for the many years of outstanding service they have rendered. A special reading about each sister was given, and each was presented a copy of A History of Relief Society. These sisters had served for eight years." 457 June 1968 Idaho Falls (Idaho) Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert —> "These Things We Love," February 26, 1968 Alice B. Jones, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society President, reports: ''The theme for the concert presented by the Singing Mothers of our stake was 'These Things We Love.' The program was woven around showing love for the home, family, community, region, and ended with a patriotic section showing love for the nation. "The stake center was decorated with large bouquets of red and white ribbon roses, flags, and drums, accented with golden eagles. A large and appreciative audience attended. "The music was under the direction of Jolene Wright, stake chorister, and Florine Berntson, stake organist. (Both are seen standing, front row center.) Donna Pieper was narrator for the script written by Helen Romrell, First Counselor. May Schwendiman, Second Counselor, was general chairman. Eighty Singing Mothers participated and all felt that it was a most rewarding experience." Ankara Branch Kuwait Branch Northern Mexican Mission, Monterrey District Visiting Teachers Convention —> February 17, 1968 Beginning fourth from left. Front row: Maria Dolores G. De Almaguer, President, Monterrey District Relief Society; Ada J. De Whetten, assistant supervisor, mission Relief Society; Juana G. De Vallejo, mission Relief Society President. Pauline M. Green, Supervisor, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "We have had some very successful visiting teacher conventions under direction of Sister Vallejo. She presented certificates. Of recognition to all visiting teachers with one hundred per cent completion of assignments this past year, as well as Family Home Evening manuals. "This picture is of the Monterrey District visiting teachers. This convention was held in conjunction with the district quarterly conference."' 458 ¢ Swiss Mission, Kuwait (Arabia) and Ankara (Turkey) Branches Active in Relief Society Members of the Kuwait Branch Relief Society, left to right: Loya Hullinger, President; Karon Curtis, First Counselor; Carol Cahoon, Second Counselor; Jane Warford, homemaking leader. These sisters are displaying Christmas wreaths made from IBM cards. Members of the Ankara Branch, front row, left to right: Sermin Celibey; Barbara Knight, Linda Novakovitch; Tonny VanderHoeven; Carol Rogers; Helen Jonsson. Back row, left to right: Evelyn Analla; Phyllis Ames; Ann Schulz, SecretaryTreasurer; Roberta Peterson, President; Donna Woodland, Second Counselor; Mable Bird, First Counselor; Darlene LeBlanc, spiritual living class leader; Helen Penfield, social relations class leader. Rachel W. Mabey, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society, reports: ''We are proud of the branches of Relief Society in the Middle East. They are composed mostly of Americans involved in the oil business, government, and research. There are only four members in the Kuwait Branch Relief Society, but they are active and productive. In Ankara there are often visitors from the town who are impressed with the sisterhood and the work of the Relief Society. "President Mabey and | had the opportunity of visiting the Middle Eastern branches recently, and we throughly enjoyed the conferences we held with the members there, and were impressed by their spirit and the work they are doing." HIHZIHZIH HEHEHE ZHIHZHE ZHIH RHIHZHIH HEH % * Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Concerts —> February 23-24, 1968 Cora O. Allen, President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Our chorus of seventy-five Singing Mothers presented a two-night concert, 'Let Freedom Ring.' "It was an evening that listeners will long remember as they heard and watched the history of America unfold. Everyone was thrilled and inspired, and there was a renewal of love and pride in country as the program, through narration, songs, and slides unfolded commencing with the discovery of America by Columbus and highlighting important events in American history, reflecting the moods and strengths of the populace. "The script, selection of music, and slides were written and correlated by Francille H. Hansen, stake chorister, who was assisted by many talented sisters "The concert proved to be an excellent missionary tool, and a thrill to the participants. Many requests for repeat performances have been made."' Notes From the Field @ St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Visiting Teacher Convention March 9, 1968 Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were very gratified to have forty-six per cent of all visiting teachers in our stake attend our visiting teacher convention. Winning the prize for highest percentage of attendance was the Ramah, New Mexico Ward, which is 110 miles from St. Johns. "This skit, 'A Light Shining,' was presented under the direction of Lora Parker, visiting teacher message leader, with narration by Nellie S. Slade, social relations leader. Six wards participated in the singing part of the skit, under direction of Mary J. Sherwood, chorister, and Rozelda Wilkins, organist. We hope that the inspirational message of the skit will carry over into the visiting teaching program of the wards."' ¢@ Layton Stake and Layton East Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Combine For Spring Concert, March 8, 1968 Standing in first row of center section, left to right: Janice Dawson, narrator; Marianne H. Call, President, Layton Stake Relief Society; Florence J. Madsen, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ruth C. Moss, President, Layton East Stake Relief Society; Mary Lou Lewis, stake organist; Lahoma Lindeman, stake chorister. Sister Moss reports: ''The Layton Stake was divided a few weeks before the concert. SO it was carried out on a combined stake basis "The theme of the concert was 'Prelude to Spring.' Songs and poetry which brought out the moods and beauties of springtime were used. Twelve choruses participated, each singing one number, directed and accompanied by the ward choristers and organists. The finale was sung by the combined choruses. Approximately 230 sisters participated. "An art exhibit was displayed in the cultural hall featuring the paintings of fifty Sisters from the two stakes. Refreshments were served to more than 600 guests at the close of the concert." 461 June 1968 North Seattle Stake (Washington), Tenth Ward Quilt Making Project —> Left to right: Arta Coy, President, Tenth Ward Relief Society; Lula Y. Smith (inset); Catherine H. Roper, quilting chairman. Wanda B. Bean, President, North Seattle Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For the past several years, the sisters of the Tenth Ward Relief Society have made baby quilts as well as several large quilts. This year they have made forty crib-size quilts as well as several large ones. The latest large quilt to be completed is the Cinderella quilt in the center of the picture. This quilt was appliqued and embroidered by Sister Lula Smith, who is in her eightieth year and who served as president of Cache Stake Relief Society for seventeen years (1918-1935)." * ' i Pe. Iet Avo Sone chars We year ns! I Uintah Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention —» March 8, 1968 Norda G. Cook, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held a very successful visiting teacher convention, with luncheon being served to over 160 guests. "The theme for the convention was Happiness Is Service,' with tables decorated in keeping with the theme. A lovely program was presented. "Bonanza, Naples Second, and Vernal Fourth Wards were recognized for achieving the highest percentage of attendance at report meetings during the year. Special awards were given to sisters for outstanding achievements in visiting teaching." 462 4 Columbus Stake (Ohio) Adds Charm to Relief Socievy Loraine M. Raiser, Homemaking Counselor, Columbus Stake Relief Society, with charm bracelet she prepared for January leadership meeting. Dorthene B. Richardson, President. Columbus Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme tor our leadership meetings during 1967-68 has been 'Show Me,' in an effort to demonstrate and illustrate the programs of Relief Society discussed each month. "The January theme was 'Show Me—Little Things Mean a Lot.' This charm bracelet illustrates that music, The Relief Society Magazine, greeting at the door, officers seated together, dignity in conducting, planned nurseries, publicity for special events. Pleasant room arrangements, and starting and ending on time, all of which are very important 'little' things, add charm to Relief Society. "Consistent attendance and support by dedicated Relief Society officers and teachers in our stake have made each of our leadership meetings a rewarding experience HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 12—The Life You Save Mary Ellen Edmunds Faculty Member, Brigham Young University College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1968 Southern Hemisphere: February 1969 OBJECTIVE: To instruct Relief Society members INTRODUCTION A young child became tangled in the bedding and suffocated. A young Scout, on a trip with some friends, fell out of the boat while fishing; when he was pulled out of the water, he had stopped breathing. Fortunately, in both cases, a life was saved. The mother of the young child had _ received training in mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and was able to revive her. The buddies of the Scout had received the same training in their scout troup and saved their friend's life. This technique of artificial respiration is important not only for mothers, but also for members of the family. Many cases are recorded where lives have been 464 in the technique of rescue breathing. Saved by young children who had received instruction in rescue breathing. For these reasons, this lesson has been included for the benefit of Relief Society mothers and their families everywhere. GENERAL RULES OF FIRST AID CARE Some general rules of first aid care might well be included before actual instructions in rescue breathing are given. These rules include, as perhaps the most important initial action in giving first aid: Keep calm. Much additional damage can be done by hasty, needless actions in the face of an accident. Actions must be made quickly but efficiently. When an accident has occurred, the victim should not be moved, unless it is absolutely necessary, until the extent of injuries has been determined. Breathing must be restored if not present. Bleeding must be stopped. Burns should be covered and kept as clean as possible. Poisons should be diluted as soon as possible. Each of these could be covered in much more detail, but the purpose of this lesson is to instruct mothers, more specifically, in the technique of rescue breathing. WHEN TO APPLY ARTIFICIAL BREATHING The body does not store oxygen, but has to receive continually a fresh supply through the lungs and the breathing process. Sometimes certain accidents and illness can cause breathing to stop, and in such cases, artificial respiration may be _ life-saving because it supplies oxygen to the body until normal breathing can be restored. Some of the conditions which might cause a person to stop breathing are drowning, choking, strangling, partial obstruction of the passages, electric shock, and poisoning. One thing you might first notice is cyanosis, or a bluish color of the skin, particularly the lips. There are, occasionally, conditions where it is not possible or advisable to use rescue breathing. An example of this type of situation is when the victim's face has been burned or otherwise injured so as to make the armlift method more practical and advisable. Instructions in this method of artificial respiration may be found in first aid manuals put out by the Red Cross. Lesson Department HOW TO APPLY RESCUE BREATHING The actual method of rescue breathing begins by moving the victim so that he is lying on his back. Make certain that the air passage is clear, or else all the "breathing" that you might do for the victim would be of no use. Foreign material can be removed from the victim's mouth with your fingers. Tilt the victim's head back, with the neck extended. (See illustration 1.) Next, you need to push or pull the jaw into a jutting position, so as to prevent the tongue from falling into the back of the mouth and blocking the air passage. This can be done by shpping your thumb into the mouth and pulling the jaw forward. Now you place your mouth over the victim's mouth. (See illustration 2.) If the victim is an adult, use one hand to pinch off the nose, to prevent the air from coming out the nose instead of going into the lungs; if a child is the victim, place your mouth over his mouth and nose. Your mouth should seal the victim's mouth so as to prevent air from escaping as you breathe. Now, taking a deep breath first, place your mouth over the victim's and blow vigorously. Turn your face to the side and inhale then repeat, twelve times a minute for an adult, twenty times per minute and not so vigorously for a child. Watch for the chest to rise. If you are unable to get air into the lungs of the victim, and you have done everything else correctly, some foreign material may be lodged in the throat. If a 465 June 1968 child hold him with his head down and slap sharply between the shoulder blades. If an adult, hold him on his head turned to the side, and use the same procedure. -Then, after the object is removed, proceed with rescue breathing. You must breathe deeply before blowing air into the victim's lungs, so as to get more oxygen to them (when you exhale, less of the air is made up of oxygen than when you inhale). If you become dizzy or "light-headed," decrease the number of times you breathe each minute and you will feel all right. The rest of the lesson period is for practicing this method by which you may save a life. HOME NURSING Mouth to Mouth Resuscitation BILL BLOW An inexpensive devise to use in the practice of mouth to mouth breathing is the new training' mannequin called "Bill Blow."' Instructions for making and using ''Bill Blow' are given. Materials Needed 1 Plastic bleach bottle (2 gallon with hollow handle) 1 Easy-Flow nipple 1 Piece of rubber tubing (8 inches long and 42-inch in diameter) 1 Small tube of latex rubber adhesive or household cement 1 Black felt pen 1 Plastic refrigerator bag (2 to 4 quart) 3 Rubber bands 1 Hinge 1 Cork (% inch in diameter) 1 Piece of wood (% inch thick, 2% inches long) Piece of wood (% inch thick, 914 inches wide and 16% inches long) Nails (3% inch) or pushpins Wire (42 inches long) Book (3 to 4 pounds) Screws Domes of Silence or Felt pads How to Make It —y fPPhWre ke DY Refer to the illustrations and directions to make a working dummy. On Tilt Head Far Back and Pull Chin Upward Iustration 1 Mouth to Mouth Mouth to Both Mouth to Nose Wlustration 2 466 = —— ha >5 = 7 5% a mezzo SSE SSS SSS SSS an hinge \ rubber band SIDE VIEW HEAD FLAT hinge + 8" —_-| dome of silence @~ & felt pod ' = a BOTTOM VIEW the side of the plastic bleach bottle opposite the handle, paint on facial features—such as closed eyes, ears, hair and mouth. Cut openings for the mouth and nose. Insert the Easy-Flow nipple at the upper hole to form the ''nose."' Cut and remove the portion of the handle as indicated in the illustration. Plug the lower end with a shaped cork or wood stopper held in place by rubber adhesive. Attach the rubber tube 'to the cut end of handle near the neck of the bottle. Replace the bottle cap. Insert the opposite end of the rubber tube into the gathered end of the plastic bag and fasten with a rubber band. Attach a hinge to connect the large piece of wood to the narrow end of the smaller wood strip. Bend the wire and fasten each end to the large piece of wood forming a loop as shown in the illustration. Adjust the length of the wire so that when it is looped over the screw in the small piece of wood, the hinged ends of the wood will be raised approximately three inches. Attach the "head" to the wood strip with a large rubber band looped around the ''foreLesson Department head"' and a smaller rubber band over the plugged end of the handle. Spread the plastic '"'lung'' bag evenly over the large board. How to Use It As in_ actual resuscitation, the dummy''s ''nose'' must be pinched in order that all air blown is directed to the "'lung.'' Also the ''head'' must be tipped back in order to ensure an open airway. To tip the head back, lift both hinged ends of the wood and foop the wire from the large piece of wood over the screw in the small piece of wood. This will straighten the otherwise pinched tube and provide an open airway. Place a 3 to 4-pound book over the plastic bag and hold in place with two % inch nails or pushpins on the bottom edge of the board. The weight of this size book will deflate the plastic bag at the proper rate and simulate the natural action of the '"'lungs.'' Blow the air in and let it out at a rate of about 12 times per minute. To provide each operator with a sanitary surface area around the dummy's "mouth,'' use a fresh sheet of aluminum foil over the ''mouth"' of the dummy. This material is easily available in rolls at all supermarkets or grocery stores. Cut the aluminum foil into 6-inch squares with a l-inch hole in the center to blow through. This material sticks to the plastic bottle and provides a clean surface. (Adapted from an article in ''Boy's Life' by the Primary Association, and published in the 'Supplement to the Guide Patrol Handbook."') USING "BILL BLOW" 467 . Bh ory wreteterenees Due dsryfoye AA AA AD + gle + > + she + at te +a ale aay Previews ns é » Don Dn Ada WF. Aas baer eeu os oy NN OY YY SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Elder Roy W. Doxey The nearly five-year period from July 1838 to May 1843, when Sections 119 to 131 were given was one of great trial for the saints as well as being a period of tremendous doctrinal importance. Four events of major importance in the history of the Church occurred at Nauvoo in the two years 1841-1842. In Section 124 January 1841), the Nauvoo Temple was commanded to be built where work for the living and the dead might be performed. In March 1842, the Prophet wrote the Wentworth Letter containing the Articles of Faith (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1949), Vol. IV, pp. 535-541 [commonly called Documentary H istory of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}) and, on March 17, 1842 ([bid., 4:552) the Relief Society was organized. Finally, on August 6, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the remarkable prophecy concerning the saints being driven to the Rocky Mountains where they would become a great and a mighty people. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1953, p. 324; see also pp. 212- 237.) Lessons for the year 1968-69 begin with the commandment that, if lived, will help the saint to fulfill his financial obligation to build Zion upon the earth. Due to persecution and other factors, the Lord revealed the condemnations which would be visited upon the heads of those who persecuted his people and also upon those who left the Church as apostates. He also promised blessings upon the member of the Church who follows the principles of the priesthood. Because of the persecution upon the Prophet and the saints, the Lord revealed the purpose of adversity in this earth life. The remaining lessons are concerned with doctrines and _ practices of the Church. The principles of exaltation received in the House of the Lord; the doctrine of salvation of the dead; counsel on how to detect false and genuine angelic ministrations; and, 468 Lesson Previews finally, many doctrinal instructions that, if assimilated, confirm faith in the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. The 1968-69 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 89—The Law of Tithing (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman views the payment of tithing as a privilege. Knowing that eternal blessings are the result. Lesson 90—The Fruits of Apostasy (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 121:11-25; 123.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman searches her soul to root out any seeds of apostasy, that she may remain true and faithful. Lesson 91—The Blessings of the Priesthood Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman resolves to use her influence in harmony with the great principles of persuasion, gentleness, and mildness, as set forth for the priesthood to exercise. Lesson 92—Adversity (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 121:1-10; 122.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman remembers in adversity the promise of the Lord ''if thou endure it well... Thou shalt triumph over all thy foes..."' (D&C 121:8) and she generates renewed strength to endure. Lesson 93—The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 124:25-44.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman prepares herself for the higher ordinances of the temple as her circumstances permit. Lesson 94—Salvation for the Dead (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 127-128.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman meets her responsibility of making possible the baptisms of her progenitors. Lesson 95—The Ministry of Angels (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 129; 130:1-11.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to understand better how she may keep from being deceived by evil spirits. Lesson 96—Doctrinal Instructions (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 130:8-23; 131:5-8.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting. May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman devotes herself to gaining more knowledge through diligence and obedience. 469 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Preview of Messages for 1968-69 Alice Colton Smith For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. (P. Of G. P., Moses 1:39.) And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. (John 17:3.).. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. (D&C 6:7.) The mass media of our day extol the desirability of the riches of the earth. As soon as one can listen, understand, or read, one discovers that the constantly repeated values of the world emphasize power, wealth, comfort, position, status, pleasure, beautiful homes and furnishings, cars, the advantage of material things of all kinds. Amid the clamor of these insistent urgings to spend, buy, own, be, and do, comes the advice of our Savior and King, "... He that hath eternal life is rich." We know that at death we leave behind wealth, power, status, and material things. Why, then do we spend so much of our energy and time in pursuing that which is so briefly ours? Why do we not listen to and act on the words of our Savior with greater devotion? He instructed us through the prophet Jacob:. Before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted. (Jacob 2:18-19.) Thus, God does not condemn riches, it is the unrighteous acquisition and use that are displeasing. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the gospel of hope. In a world where all men and women are faced with difficult problems, there is a never-ending need for assurance that good solutions are possible. Each generation exhibits the necessity of a prophetic interpretation of the word of God to assure it that justice, mercy, and love will be ultimately triumphant. This year we will explore anew the meaning of eternal life and the gospel of hope, and how we can be partakers of them in this life. Message 1—Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To understand that many of the riches of eternal life are available to us at this time. 470 Lesson Previews Message 2—''Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself' (D&C 38:24-25.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To realize that there is a universal need to be esteemed and to esteem. Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To show that acceptance encourages growth. Message 4—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted * Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To help us remember that compassion biesses the giver and the receiver. Message 5—Effective Communication. Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show how effective communication is an avenue to successful relationships. Message 6—''Draw Near Unto Me and | Will Draw Near Unto You..."" (D&C 88:63.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To realize that our lives are more meaningful if we are close to our Heavenly Father. Message 7—''... And |, the Lord, Remember Them No More." (D&C 58:42.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: To understand that true repentance results in complete forgiveness by the Lord. Message 8—''... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled'' (D&C 42:88) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Objective: To show that reconciliation is more than forgiveness. HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Preview of Discussions for 1968-69 Celestia J. Taylor When we open the doors to our homes, we want those who enter to find an atmosphere of warmth and welcoming hospitality. We want them to feel that here is a place where they can be comfortable and at ease in attractive surroundings. When they do feel this way, we can consider it to be. A personal compliment, for, as we have learned, a home reflects the personalities of those who live within. This is equally true whether it applies to a small cottage, a mansion, a city apartment, or a farmhouse; and it is equally true no matter where or in what country we may be located. Some of us may say, 471 June 1968 "What if I don't have that kind of personality? What hope is there for me?" There is hope for any woman who has a desire to improve her surroundings, inside and out, so that they reflect qualities of beauty, good taste, and suitability. These qualities are, in a sense, inseparable, for nothing can be beautiful if it is not in good taste, nor in good taste unless it is suitable for its surroundings. It is comforting and reassuring to know that these qualities can be more easily developed at home than anywhere else by the application of simple principles and practices of family life and manners as well as environmental surroundings. This year's discussions will be concerned with these principles and practices whereby we can learn how to achieve beauty and good taste in our home environment and in our family relationships and thereby contribute to the development of spirituality in the home. Discussion 1—Preparing for the Sabbath Day Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To show that in order to keep the Sabbath day holy, physical preparations should be made. Discussion 2—Christmas Traditions Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 Objective: To show that establishing family traditions can make Christmas a time of joyous anticipation, happy association, and spiritual renewal. Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous compilation of significant family events. Discussion 4—Let's Be More Courteous; Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To show how acting courteously in our homes and in public and being reverent in sacred places are the marks of a cultured person. Discussion 5—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To show how we can teach our children to be habitually courteous and well mannered. Discussion 6—Take Pride in What You Have Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show how, by becoming aware of our environment, we can appraise our homes and determine any necessary improvement. Discussion 7—Let's Go Inside Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on picture groupings and other wall accessories. Discussion 8—Let's Go Inside (Continued) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 472 Lesson Previews Objective: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on furniture arrangements and use of accessories. Discussions for Summer Months: June—Outside Housekeeping August—House Plants Northern Hemisphere: June 1969 Northern Hemisphere: August 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: January 1979 July—Gardening Appearance September—Garden Convenience and Safety Northern Hemisphere: July 1969 Northern Hemisphere: September 1969 Southern Hemisphere: December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: February 1970 SOCIAL RELATIONS Immortality and Eternal Life Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Alberta H. Christensen Thomas Carlyle once said, "The history of the world is but the biography of great men." (Heroes and Hero Worship.) Whether this statement be literally true or an accepted generalization, may be of little concern to all who acknowledge the influence of outstanding men. In life, they lead and direct, and, in memory, they still may motivate both thought and action. Such men are not only involved personally in some area of human relationship, but they may leave a written record of their problems, their aspirations, and their beliefs. These writings constitute an important factor in the profile of their lives, for in the sum of these writings, surely, the character of the writer must be recorded. The 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons are taken from the writings and messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.—a wise and influential man and a member of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from April 6, 1933 to October 6, 1961. The companion Relief Society lessons will likewise be based upon the writings and messages of President Clark. The lessons will be concerned with people, with the Latter-day Saint woman as the central figure. They will be channeled in the direction of her relationship with her Father in heaven, her family, her neighbors, and with her more casual acquaintances. As in previous lessons, the correlation with the priesthood manual lessons may be close in some cases; in other lessons, a single idea or religious principle may be developed in the direction of application to a woman's life. Social relations class leaders who have found the "within-thelesson" suggestions for class involvement a valuable stimulus for discussion, will welcome their continuance. They know that active class participation may result where pertinent questions and realistic fragments of conversation are wisely used. They have found 473 June 1968 that apt and convincing illustrations not only create interest in the subject, but may help class members more clearly to evaluate their own similar situations. New class leaders are urged to make full use of these involvement suggestions. Although tremendous strides have been made in the fields of scientific discovery, in the development of undreamed of mechanical devices, and in mental concepts, the peoples of the world have not learned how to get along with each other. Consequently, to understand and to know how to better our human relationships still are our major problems. Frustration, tensions, and unrest are everywhere apparent. Even the optimistic acknowledge the need for an increased spirituality and a strengthening of the home. The overall objective of the social relations lessons is to help the Latterday Saint woman meet life situations more maturely and to improve individual-to-individual relationships of which she is a part. Titles and objectives of the forthcoming lessons follow: Lesson 1—Profiles Remembered Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To point out gospel teachings that influenced the life of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and to indicate how his life and writings may influence other lives for good. Lesson 2—The Questions Every Woman Asks Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To point out that the questions which every thoughtful woman asks regarding her responsibilities and destiny are answered in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lesson 3—Lighting the Way Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the basic aspects of human relaticnships. Lesson 4—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objectives: To consider issues which present new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman and to suggest ways of meeting some of them. Lesson 5—Look for the Guide Line Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To point out that the Latter-day Saint woman need not be deceived by false values and standards of today, if she will look for and heed the guide lines of gospel teachings. Lesson 6—That We May Be One Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To emphasize the value of unity in the home and in various Church activities involving the Latter-day Saint woman. 474 Lesson Previews Lesson 7—''Not Where You Serve, But How" Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: To stress the importance of President Clark's statement, ''In the service of the Lord, it is not where you serve, but how."' Lesson 8—Are We Preparing? Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Objective: To point out that being prepared for tomorrow may require diligent effort today. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4: The World Around Us by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas.) Preview of Lessons—1968-69 With Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books we view home and family in larger perspective. Earlier courses of study in this department have focused upon home and family rather specifically. The qualities which have set the theme for each lesson have turned our attention to the individual as part of a family and to the family as a basic unit. But no family really exists in isolation. All must establish some relationships within the societies of which they are a part. The missionary emphasis of the Church keeps us reminded that the gospel must be shared, and the very concept of a church suggests that certain principles can be best lived with others instead of apart from them. The scriptures warn us, however, that we must not be of the world, that is, let those who do not share our belief set the standards by which we live. In our anxiety to avoid the temptations of the world, however, we should not assume that the answer is withdrawal. In his classic essay on freedom entitled "Areopagetica," John Milton warns us that a "cloistered virtue" may not prove adequate to the stresses which the evils of the world may subject it to and which, practically, cannot be completely avoided. To be aware of evil, however, does not require participation in it. The emphasis of this year's course will be upon ways in which we can positively prepare ourselves to live in the world without succumbing to it. As in former years, each section will contain more material than can easily be used in a single lesson. That which cannot be fully 475 June 1968 covered in the lesson could be used in a home reading program. A sketchy survey of all the material offered is never as effective as choosing one or two selections which really touch the lives of class members. With the experience of the past two years as a guide, we hope that the art and music which are intended to supplement each lesson will be carefully integrated into the whole and not merely used as ornament. The skills by which literature is evaluated are encouragingly similar to those required in appreciation of art and music. The critical approaches discussed in detail in Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books are applicable to any cultural medium. Cultural refinement class leaders might well take as one of their goals, during the coming year, not only helping class members understand what they read, see, and hear, but getting them emotionally identified with concepts which can literally transform the world. No artistic expression has its full impact if it fails to arouse an emotional response in those who are being introduced to it. Leo Tolstoy suggested that great art—whether painting, music or writing—should always be infectious; that is, it should transmit a feeling from one person to another and, in so doing, unite them. If the selections included in this year's lessons can be used in such a way that they modify the emotional identification of Relief Society members and unite them in support of positive personal and family development, they will indeed affect the world. Lesson 1—The Excitement of Discovery "One truth discovered is a link with the immortal.''—William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To show that the world in which a woman serves is limited by the extent of her desire to discover. Lesson 2— The Power of Discipline "A stern discipline pervades all nature, which is a little cruel that it may be very kind.''—Edmund Spenser Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To stress that control is the focus which gives energy its direction. Lesson 3—The Comfort of Faith 'The saddest thing that can befall a soul is to lose faith in God...." —Alexander Smith Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To emphasize that a life built around faith brings to a woman greater happiness than a life without faith can bring. Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth "We are born to grow and can only develop by keeping ourselves in vital communication with the world without and within us.''—J. S. Spalding Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To show that, in true development, increasing complexity is matched by enlarging capacity. 476 Lesson 5—The Appreciation of Beauty "| pray Thee, Oh God, that | may be beautiful within.'' —Socrates Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show that beauty enriches living and that a life in harmony with truth and virtue is the most convincing manifestation of womanly beauty. Lesson 6— The Reward of Persistence "Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure." —Edward Eggleston Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: A woman should radiate confidence, for discouragement and undepend.- ability are greater hindrances to success than lack of ability. Lesson 7— The Achievement of Serenity "Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles."' —Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: A woman should help all within her influence to see that wholeness of life is characterized by positive acceptance rather than negative resignation. Lesson 8—A Review of the Year's Lessons Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR a OP HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 As July 27—August 17 Portable * CANADIAN ROCKIES AND! As the NORTHWEST TOUR RB k! New, compact August 19—September 1 OOK: BOOK OF MORMON * (and much more vivid) Hinmeyters BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR © Complete and unabridged A t 18-25 e 50 — 7" LP. Gold vinyl records ae: e A must for every missionary present & future MESA VERDE & NOW ONLY $34 95 CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR Write for free catalog TERMS September 21-28 v Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive RECORDINGS INC. Amie Mf 'See your local book or record store. 477 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 1470 South State St. Salt Lake City, Utah June 1968 WHEN ONE MUST DIE When one must die Oh, let it be As the felling Of a great tree That has known well The slash of rain, Fury of winds, The lightning's pain. Yet, has known, too, The young bird cries, The warmth of sun, And endless skies. —Christie Lund Coles Tour-ific! * HAWAI] weeny —8 days $287 * HILL CUMORAH paceant 17 Days — $279 19 Days — $319 23 Days — $369 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR 14 Days — $259 * M EXICO 14 days from Salt Lake, as low as $198. (Mexico City, Cuernavaca, Taxco, Acapulco) * ALASKA * SOUTH AMERICA For all travel and ticketing arrangements! GARET lly WP TRAVEL Inc. %; 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah. $8898; 295.088 3 Mesa 964-5283 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective March 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mait or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 __.80 JZone5 __-_-_ 1.20 "omens. - - 595 Zone6 ___-_ 1.40 Zone 4 __-. 105 Zone7 __-_-W_ 1.60 Zone8_____.1.85 as PESERET [REwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 478 SNAIL Armored but unarmed, You creep through a hostile world. Fragile the spiraled shell Wherein you lurk, close-curled. Suspect, the outspread feast. The gardener's heavy sole Would crush without a qualm. That goose would gulp you whole! Yet, what from peril to peril,. Can make survival sweet? You have no song, no friend. Here is a blossom, Eat. —Ethel Jacobson Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Something wonperruL happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill and loving care deserve two things... The perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the | nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass." Ask your grocer. You'll love it! 'sahil 14am yalllaha 0s ff - Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 Mrs. Effie Jane Kiplinger Meyer Seattle, Washington 95 Mrs. Minnie Bedell Banta Sacramento, California Mrs. Esther Ada King Loveland Bancroft. Idaho 94 wis. Leota Woodall Bilyeu Oronogo, Missouri Mrs. Emma E. Metcalf Brown Orem. Utah Mrs. Elthora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Frances. Mary Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily White Parker Kennewick, Washington 92 Mrs. Freda Johnson Christensen Kearns, Utah Mrs. Anabel Rowell Clark Lindfield, N. S. W., Australia Mrs. Sarah Jeppson Jensen Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Ellice Moffitt Manti, Utah 84642 Mrs. Elizabeth Collings Parrish Centerville, Utah Mrs. Harriet Butler Pulsipher Eagar, Arizona 91 Mrs. Emma Ray Riggs McKay Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Sophie Schinder Cundick Midvale, Utah Mrs. Mary J. Lewis Ogden, Utah Mrs. Katherine Jensen Olsen E! Monte, California Mrs. Ellen Phylis Hurley Sneddon Brisbane, Queensland, Australia Mrs. Margaret Boyle West Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Viola Twede Allen Springville, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann May Arbon Snowville, Utah Mrs. Johanna Agatha Bonner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lizzie M. Thompson Bunny EI! Monte, California Mrs. Catherine Mabel Woodbury Eldredge Granger, Utah Mrs. Louise Kreutzer Guerich San Diego, California Mrs. Sena Rassmussen Richfield. Utah Mrs. Eva Elmira Penrod Sabin Nampa, Idaho Mrs. Lillie A. Sorensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith L. Drake Tingey Centerville, Utah Mrs. Tessie Oliva Bolinder Turpin Murray, Utah (— ENDURANCE Rugged mountains we ascend with care For many pitfalls that are there. One must search for a. Guiding star To find safe refuge from afar. A smoother pathway straight and sure Will come through trials we endure. Then peace and rest so freely given Will gently jead us back to heaven. —Catherine B. Bowles: SD) 480 for all L. D. S. Wives and mothers $2.95 by Caroline Eyring Miner A delightful new collection of prose, poetry, wit, and wisdom — especially for mothers. This colorful gift publication will make an ideal surprise for any mother on a birthday or other gift-giving occasion. ( $3.95 by Frances Grant Bennett Here is a delightful biography by a daughter of the late President Heber J. Grant, whose husband is Utah's senior senator, Wallace F. Bennett. This intimate, personal glimpse into the lives of the Grants and the Bennetts will provide fascinating reading for all those interested in these two outstanding families. 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah 841 10 OR 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send: (] THERE'S ALWAYS MOTHER [GLIMPSES OF A MORMON FAMILY Total cost of purchase $...........---This must include 3'2% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake; OR 5% sales tax from Calif. Residents ordering from Orange. Paid by check (] Money order (J Charge established account [] RS. JUNE '68 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ML Pee S SOO SEE SESSSSOSEHSSHHHHHHSHHHOHOCE Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah "Happiness 15... A bowl of berries..... Topped with energy: rich SU and I Sugar the sugar from Sugarplum Land that makes your life sweeter TY G "and every spoonful you use, sweetens the local economy!" The IRSIlief Society Magazine JULY 1968 AXE AT THE ROOT They built a country with logs, The kind that grow in forests So untouched that only wild things Pathed there. The logs went into houses For people to be born in And die in. In between these events they Cut down more logs For schoolhouses, say Or meetinghouses, say Or townhalls, say.... They learned to read and Write in the schoolhouses On the log benches. This country went to church On Sundays, To log churches, To log benches And trembled at the thought of God's wrath. The trembling made them clean And gave them wisdom. Then the log hewers And the log builders And the log sitters Went home to their milk and bread Suppers, and planned for their children What they would build for them. — Margery S. Stewart The Cover: » Majestic Peaks of the Colorado Rockies Transparency by Hal Rumel Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: © Cabin in Salt Creek Canyon, Utah Photograph by Lucien Bown Art Layout: | Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes 481 i ae aN (SIOZ When | arose this morning, | saw the beautiful April Magazine tying on the table in the sunlight. The ''Symphony of Blossoms" is lovely on the cover (transparency by Camera Clix). The frontispiece photograph (''Nest in the Blossoms,"' Luoma Photos) and the poem ''Love Comes on Little Wings' are a delight. | particularly liked the editorial ''On Graciousness,'' by Marianne C. Sharp. We could all use more of graciousness. Elizabeth C. McCrimmon, Long Beach, California | have been meaning to write sooner to let you know how much | enjoy the Magazine, but | am like most people, | put off writing the words of appreciation. | have a serious heart condition, and my sweet daughter, Mrs. Sheryn Beck, prescribed the Magazine for me. | receive it every month and read every page. | keep all the Magazines, and eventually present them to the hospital here. Mrs. Roy Green, Sparks, Nevada Please accept my thanks for publishing my articles and stories in The Relief Society Magazine. Because | teach school during the day, | do not have the opportunity of going to Relief Society, but our wonderful Magazine brings to me each month so much that is good and beautiful in each one of the inspirational lessons that | feel grateful for this priceless publication. And the editorials have no peers. Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah Having been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for about twenty years, | have found many thoughtful and rewarding hours reading the splendid material. | have always felt that the Magazine is read more thoroughly than any other magazine in the Church. Mildred N. Israelsen, Logan, Utah Out here in the mission field, we hold precious every part of the gospel. The Relief Society Magazine is like a beacon light to us. It gives us strength to hold fast to the gospel. It is our lifeline with Zion. Loretta A. Barlow, Bay City, Texas The article describing the Homemaking Department at Relief Society Annual General Conference (by Edythe K. Watson, March 1968) is an impelling incentive to more gracious homemaking. The pictures are tempting. We have always been a people with a desire to restore and preserve anything lovely, praiseworthy, or of precious value. Here we are again, reclaiming treasures from the past to enhance the beauty of today's handiwork. Wanda Rhodes, Logan, Utah Thanks for the thrill of seeing my story in print ('A summer's Day,'' March 1968), and | thank Mary Scopes for her lovely illustration. Ruth Pepper, Corrimal East, N. S. W. Australia How can | express my love for The Relief Society Magazine? It has added so much to my life. Each article, poem, and story has its own special effect. Elma C. Palmer, Tiffany, Colorado | enjoyed the story by Janice T. Dixon ''Say Peanut Butter,' in the May issue of the Magazine. It was interesting in looking over the Magazine Honor Roll to see how many readers the Magazine has now—imagine, the Magazine in 271,400 homes. Frances C. Yost, Bancroft, Idaho | must tell you that | made two gingerbread houses from the recipe in the December Magazine (by Berta Mae Peek). | gave one to some little friends of mine and the other to my own children. Al! Were delighted. | was surprised to find how easy it was to make the houses and how beautiful they were. | am planning to make more cakes next year. June Erskine Booth, Ames, lowa The Relicf Society Magazine volume55 July 1968 + Number 7 — Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Feature 484 The National Council of Women Observes Eightieth Anniversary Belle S. Spafford 486 After Eighty Years Belle S. Spafford Fiction 492 Aunt Elly's Mirror Mary Alice Moore 499 As Sounding Brass Jody Shields 518! F Spring Be Late—Chapter 4 Mabel Harmer General Features 482 From Near and Far 495 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 496 Editorial—Preparing for the Later Years Marianne C. Sharp 526 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 498 The Song of the Hills Helen Mrovka 506 It's Catching Leone W. Doxey 508 The Lady Who Bakes Cakes Ruth C. Ikerman 510 Quilts for all Occasions—Mildred Prince Wright 511 Just By Chance Cora Hill Arnold 512 Casseroles for the Picnic Alice Willardson 514 Grandfather's Day Evelyn Fjeldsted 515 Home Olga Milius 516 It's in the Bag Shirley Thulin Lesson Department 534 Spiritual Living—The Law of Tithing Roy W. Doxey 540 Visiting Teacher Message—Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Alice Colton Smith 541 Homemaking—Preparing for the Sabbath Day Celestia J. Taylor 544 Social Relations—Profiles Remembered Alberta H. Christensen 551 Cultural Refinement—The Excitement of Discovery Bruce B. Clark Poetry 481 Axe at the Root Margery S. Stewart The Weaver, Alice Morrey Bailey 491; The Maker of Hills, Annie C. Esplin 498; Over the Marsh, Gladys Hesser Burnham 505; Dagger Points Times Five, Kathryn Kay 506; Memory Returning, Christie Lund Coles 507; Retrospect, Annie Atkin Tanner 511; Sweethearts, Ruth G. Rothe 515, Moon Magic, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 560. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year: foreign. $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuScripts. | LC] es THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES OBSERVES EIGHTIETH ANNIVERSARY President Belle S. Spafford » The grand ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City was the setting, on April 1, 1968, for an auspicious occasion in the history of the National Council of Women of the United States. A beautifully appointed luncheon meeting designated as, "A First Lady's Luncheon," marked the eightieth anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States and, at the same time, the founding of the International Council of Women. Established primarily in the 484 interest of woman's suffrage, the N. C. W., through the years, has extended its interests and influence in harmony with the preamble to its constitution adopted at the organization meeting, which embodies the governing principles of the institution today: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The precise measure of the accomplishments of the Council would be impossible to determine. We must concede, however, that, for over three quarters of a century, it has had a far-reaching influence for good in the life of the Nation and in the wellbeing of womankind. The' eightieth anniversary function was sponsored by the Council with Mrs. Louis J. Robbins (Millie) presiding and conducting. Seated with her on the dais were the present officers of the Council, the president of the 1. C. W., Mrs. Erwin Schuller, the program speakers, and a few women who received the Council's "Woman of Conscience" award for distinguished community service. There were more than 700 women in attendance, with sixtyone countries of the world represented. There are sixty-two countries with organized national councils which are members of the I. C. W. Of these sixty-two | councils, forty-one were represented at the luncheon meeting honoring the N. C. W. Of the United States which was the first national council to be established in the world. The achievements of woman and the scope of her interest and services were evidenced in the following professional groups represented by _ distinguished leaders at this impressive anniversary function: music; art; the theater; fashion designing; interior designing; law; public relations; publishing; advertising; economics; medicine; nursing; government—one ambassador, two city mayors, and other governmental units; department store officials; stock brokers; industries; secretarial groups; and volunteer organizations. The program aimed to recognize the past in the world of woman, her place today, and what may be expected of her tomorrow. Relief Society was highly honored in having its General President, Belle S. Spafford, the featured speaker. Billed on the printed program "A First Lady" in civic work, her subject dealt with the founding and history of the Council and was designed to show how the past influenced the present. Cornelia Otis Skinner, well-known author, actress, and lecturer, billed "A First Lady" in the arts, delightfully described what the theater was like across the country eighty years ago. Dr. Benetta B. Washington, director of the woman's job corps, billed "A First Lady" in education, impressively depicted how the present influences the future. Speakers were introduced by The National Council of Women President Robbins—poised, dignified, and charmingly attractive in a modest, fashionably designed sunshine-yellow dress enhancing her simply styled dark hair and sparkling eyes. In introducing each speaker, Mrs. Robbins referred to her major interests, activities, and leadership achievements in areas of concern to women. Her introductions reflected her depth of understanding of the purposes of the Council and her earnest conviction that organized women can contribute toward a better world. This anniversary meeting came at an uneasy moment in the history of our Nation and at a critical world period. Sensitive to conditions, the notable, seriousminded women leaders assembled in honor of the founding of the Councils of Women, came not in a spirit of celebration, but in a spirit of dedication—dedication to intensified and _ intelligently directed efforts that would contribute toward resolving the causes of national unrest and world crises. Relief Society and The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, both of which were charter members of the N. C. W. Of the United States, and by virtue of this membership, affiliates of the International Council of Women, were represented at this important gathering of women by their respective presidents, as well as by other Latterday Saint women leaders. A natural pride was felt in seeing on the dais in her position as Fourth Vice-President of the Council an outstanding Latterday Saint woman, Mrs. John Q. Cannon (Anna Laura Stohl)—a 485 July 1968 daughter-in-law of Annie Wells Cannon, lovingly remembered and honored by Latter-day Saint women for her Church and community service; a granddaughterin-law of Emmeline B. Wells, fourth General President of Relef Society and one of the foremost early-day suffrage leaders, an intimate friend of Susan B. Anthony and an active participant in N. C. W. Affairs during her day. These two Church women's auxiliaries—the Relief Society and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association are two of the remaining three charter members of the Council. A simple but effective exhibit of the work of both organizations was displayed in a room adjoining the ballroom, along with displays of other member organizations of the Council. They attracted considerable attention. Through the years, Relief Society and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association have benefited through their membership in the Councils and we trust they have contributed to the accomplishments of their great purposes. Council of Women of the United States, held April 1, 1968, at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York, N. Y.) A newspaper columnist, speaking recently of the present day, referred to it as "woman's era—her triumphant day of achievement." Certainly it is a day when, in most countries of the world, discrimination against woman because of her sex, In large measure, has been removed. Today she is a person of consequence in national and international affairs. In our own great Nation, doors of opportunity are invitingly open to her in the fields of business and the_ professions, and she is steadily making inroads into the top policy-making levels of government. There is scarcely any field of human endeavor she may not enter if she wills to do so. Her opinions are sought and respected, and her influence on national attitudes, programs, and 486 practices, on American home and family life, as well as on social and economic conditions generally, is a potent one. While woman points with pride, and justly so, to her position of dignity and influence today, she is not unmindful that this position was hard won; that it was not conferred upon her merely through the good graces of change. She knows that each forward step has been taken over a rough and rocky obstacle course. She knows, also, that preceding her was another woman whose vision, courage, and determination enabled her to carry the lighted lamp and level the rugged ground. It seems appropriate, as we observe the 80th Anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States, and also the International Council of Women, that we look back a moment at the road that has been traveled and at the woman of yesterday whose efforts brought us to this triumphant day of achievement. It is appropriate inasmuch as one of the avowed purposes of the Councils was to unite, as a body of women, to "devise new and effective methods of securing equality and justice for woman." In the early part of the 19th Century, a woman's world, in large measure, was her home and _ her church with, perhaps, a few humanitarian services extended to her immediate community. Life for the average woman was hard, and many shackles bound her in the development of her talents and in the exercise of her abilities, as well as in the exercise of her Godordained free agency. There were rigid barriers of law against property holding and guardianship of children. Most industries refused to employ her and those which did employ her, offered only routine labor with long hours and low pay. The taboos of society on education and public expression, along with the prevalent superstition which held, 'the weak, feminine brain, incapable of serious thinking..." shackled her personal development. The advantages of education were extremely limited. Colleges of higher learning did not admit her. The political privileges of woman were nil. There had been sporadic woman's clubs of a sort—neighbors meeting together for sociability and the exercise of their minds— with some groups working in a haphazard fashion for the public good. These clubs were poorly organized, however, and affairs were largely controlled by husbands of the members. The National Council of Women In 1833, a few bold women formed the first woman's club with a political purpose—the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society. The furor which this aroused is described in the book, Angels and Amazons, issued by the National Council of Women of the United States, in 1935. It states that the woman who identified herself with this group was regarded as bold and unwise indeed, for a_ respectable woman did not speak in _ public, nor did she organize in behalf of any political cause. At the first convention held by this group, a mob roared outside the meeting place, and following the meeting the building was burned. Woman was not to be deterred, however, in her efforts for emancipation. Early in 1848, Elizabeth Cady Stanton joined with Lucretia Mott, Martha C. Wright, and Mary Ann McClintock in calling what is regarded as the first Woman's Rights Convention. It was held July 19, 1848, in the little Wesleyan Chapel at Seneca Falls, New York. In the book, Angels and Amazons, we read that the word "convention," as a term for this meeting "expressed hope rather than _ fulfillment.... It was practically a small assembly of neighbors." It thrashed out, however, the first public "Declaration of Independence _ for Woman," with which most of you are familiar. This "Declaration" was the offspring of the pen of Mrs. Stanton who, in reality, was the chief agent in calling the convention. Forty years later came _ that highly significant event—a_convention convened March 25, 1888, in Alboughs Opera House in Washington, D. C. To observe the 40th Anniversary of the first public declaration of women's rights. The convention was called by the National Woman's Suffrage As- 487 July 1968 sociation with two giants of the early suffrage movement—Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony —as the key figures. Their primary purpose in calling the convention was to further the cause of woman's suffrage. So strong were the convictions of Mrs. Stanton on the importance of woman's suffrage, that, according to one of her biographers, Theodore Tilton, "... She would willingly give her body to be burned for the sake of seeing her sex enfranchised." While Susan B. Anthony, according to one of her biographers, Ida H. Harper, "stood ready to sink all personal feelings.. For the sake of promoting this cause which she placed above all else in the world." It was a day of rejoicing for these two great advocates of woman's rights when Frederick Douglass, a _ respected and influential community leader of the day, who had been invited to speak at the convention, wrote: "The cause of woman's suffrage has under it a truth as eternal as the universe of thought, and must triumph if this planet endures." Invitations to the 1888 Washington convention were issued to seventy-seven women's organizations selected as being of either national scope or of national value. Of this number, fifty-three accepted. In addition to the delegates from the United States, there were representatives from England, France, Norway, Denmark, Finland, India, and Canada. Eighty speakers addressed the convention. The central figure proved to be: Susan B. Anthony. In her black dress and pretty red silk shawl with her gray-brown hair smoothly combed over a regal head, she was every inch a stateswoman. In addressing a meeting preliminary to the convention, Susan B. Anthony, with all the earnestness of her strong nature and in 488 a voice vibrating with emotion, set forth far-sighted views. With regard to the platform—views which maintain today in the National Council of Women. Said Mrs. Anthony, "We have now come to another turning point and, if it is necessary, I will fight forty years more to make our platform for the Christian to stand upon. Whether she be a Catholic who counts her beads or a Protestant of the strictest Orthodox creed... These are the principles I want to maintain: that our platform may be kept as broad as the universe; that upon it may stand the representatives of all creeds and of no -creeds—Jew or Christian, Protestant or Catholic, Gentile or Mormon, Pagan or Atheist." (It may be of interest to you who know the price of your seat at a table today, to learn that, for the opening session of the 1888 Washington convention, 25c was charged, with 50c for seats in the reserved section.) In the book entitled, The Life and Work of Susan B. Anthony, by Ida Husted Harper, published in 1898, the Washington convention is referred to as "the greatest women's convention ever held." Certainly, we must concede that this convention remains among the greatest woman's conventions ever held as we contemplate that it was utilized as the springboard for the formation of the National Council of Women of the United States and the International Council of Women, whose continuing influences over a_ period of eighty years have reached into hamlet and city, touched for good the lives of people of many nations and all races, helped win for woman in our own beloved Nation the right of suffrage through the adoption of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution in 1920; helped woman in other nations toward suffrage; helped open for woman doors of opportunity and service; effectively contributed toward lifting woman to a position of dignity, trust, and responsibility in community life and world affairs; and. Perhaps, most important of all, helped woman to realize her own potential as a thinking, feeling, producing and contributing human being in a world where such is sorely needed. So today we pay tribute to those stalwart women who launched the so-called "women's movement"; we honor those who called the 1888 convention; we _ revere those whose foresight and genius conceived the Councils of Women and set the sails that bade them where to go: Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Mott, Lucy Stone, the Grimkie sisters, Frances Willard, Clara Barton, and others of immortal memory. We pay tribute to those other women of lesser prominence who caught the vision, played well their respective parts in the founding of the Councils, and in the advancement of the cause of woman. Without them the convention could have failed in its purposes. These were the delegates who came, who listened, who were convinced, and who went forth to act in their respective spheres of influence. They, too, were women of stature —enlightened, courageous, tireless in their dedication to the cause they espoused. One such woman was Emily S. Tanner Richards, the official delegate to the convention from the organization which I represent today. May I present a brief word picture of Mrs. Richards, with the hope that in so doing, you may also see the other delegates, how they worked, and the magnitude of their contribution. The National Council of Women Mrs. Richards' place of residence was in Salt Lake City in the heart of the Rocky Mountains. By nature she loved freedom and by environment she enjoyed it. Her husband was an attorney whose affairs took him often to Washington D. C. Mrs. Richards usually accompanied him. While in Washington, she had rare opportunities to be instructed and inspired by the great suffrage leaders. These influences, together with the teachings of her Church, which accepts free agency as a God-given right, and which at the time of its founding granted woman the religious vote, made of her a strong advocate of the rights of woman and a consistent believer in the obligations that accompany these rights. Her supporting voice was clearly lifted at the Washington convention. Upon her return home, she was appointed by the National Suffrage Association as chief organizer for Utah. With intelligence and courage, she led this organization, rallying to her many prominent and_ capable women dedicated to the cause of national suffrage. With conviction as to the place of women in public service, she organized women's charity societies, establishing in that early day a child placing service. She organized a_ political education society known as_ the Utah State Council of Women. There then came into being the organization of The League of Woman Voters to which she lent her great administrative strengths. She won appointments to school and library boards, and_ helped other women of competence to do so as well. She influenced legislation. Step by step, she and her associates established in community leaders a confidence in the ability of woman to take her place at the side of man, at length receiving responsible assignments and special 489 July 1968 honors from Utah's Governors. Thus did Mrs. Richards advance the so-called Woman's Movement in Utah. Similarly, it was advanced throughout the width and breadth of the land by other delegates to the Washington convention. Today we also pay tribute to the National Council of Women of the United States and to the International Council, which for eighty years have consistently made their organized contributions to the achievements of woman. We honor them for the way in which they have held to the original concept of an aggregation of organizations extending their influence and power by uniting as a single body on matters of common concern. We respect them for their integrity with regard to suffrage, and for their readiness to lend their influence in its behalf wherever it has been denied to woman. We admire them for their achievements and for their continuing concern for human well-being. True, new interests and activities engage the Councils as times and needs change, but throughout the years they have held firm to a body of principles which was patterned by Elizabeth Cady Stanton who penned the first "Woman's Declaration of Independence: Good home and family life, proper care of children, temperance, woman's suffrage and the widening of woman's sphere, indignation against all forms of oppression, love of liberty and love of justice, respect for human rights and human dignity." Just as the beginning years of the woman's movement claimed great and enlightened women leaders, so have the advancing years. We pay tribute today to such brilliant and distinguished women as May Wright Sewell, Dr. Anna Garland Spencer, Mary McLeod Bethune, Eleanor Roosevelt, to 490 mention but a few. Nor do we lose sight of the dedicated leaders among us today who generously devote their time, energies, talents, and means to the great purposes of the Council. We pay special tribute to our present dynamic and capable president, Mrs. Mildred Robbins. In a day referred to by the columnist as woman's triumphant day of achievement, let us rejoice in the accomplishments of the past and the good of the present, and let us look with clear vision toward the future. None would deny that we are living in a day of turmoil, upheaval, and _ confusion; and that the action of today will leave its mark on the world of tomorrow. Let us then remind ourselves that the struggles and sacrifices that have brought woman to her present position of influence and power require that she shall use these strengths to dissipate hate and _ prejudice, allay fear, promote understanding; that she shall stand firm for respect for law and order; that she shall intelligently exercise her hard-won rights of suffrage in obtaining everimproved laws and honorable and worthy government; that she shall engage in intelligent and_ welldirected action that effectively will contribute toward building a better world. Today our focus must be on _ our _ responsibilities rather than on our rights. Power is in our hands. How best to use that power is the challenge before us. Can we not meet this challenge with the same degree of success that the women of the past met the challenges of their day? Can we not do so with confidence, working unitedly under the aegis of the National Council of Women which for eighty years has performed with integrity and honor? I believe we can. MONUMENT VALLEY by Josef Muench fe. 4 THE WEAVER The woman's days are patterned as the sand Where wind has blown. From dawn''s first coral to the evening's deep Vermilion tone She weaves a weft of footsteps on the land Behind her flock Where sun has made a moving warp of shade From standing rock. She sees the night, the lightning's jagged thrust In black and white And steps around the cacti bush whose blooms Are flaming bright. In burning summer sun or hogan's dusk Of winter gloom She deftly weaves the pattern of her days Upon her loom. —Alice Morrey. Bailey 491 s That morning I was at the kitchen table writing to my folks, when my husband banged in through the back door. "Guess Ill begin plowing that west forty this morning," he announced. "Yeah?" I managed vaguely, without looking up. "Be time to plant now before I'm ready." He stood there waiting for me, I knew, to show interest in the west forty, but I went right on with my letter. "... It seems like six years, instead of six months, since we moved out here. Sometimes I'm so lonely I could plain die." The back door opened and closed. Ron had gone to his plowing. Quickly, I pushed away from the table, went to the window. He was standing at the back gate, looking at the west forty. What a handsome man he was, tall and strong, the active, outof-doors type. He belonged here in Wyoming, on the land. I was selfish to expect him to spend 492 f f+}: ' a oO ee - \ ye - F «yi ]: sy,, * f # ~~ | Pa }. Y 2? His life back home in an office, at a desk. I wanted to go to him, to crook my arm through his and walk with him to the barn. Instead, I turned away, went into the living room, stood in front of Aunt Elly's mirror. From our home in Massachusetts, we had brought to Wyoming only two pieces of furniture, my piano and Aunt Elly's mirror. Because she had no daughters of her own, Aunt Elly had given the mirror to me, I loved it and had insisted on bringing it to our new home, although reaching from the floor almost to the ceiling and filling the entire space between the fireplace and the west wall, it looked entirely out of place in our little house, too big and too elegant. — I swung through my exercises in front of it, along with the teacher on television. I danced, pretending I was back home with partners lined up waiting for me, clutching a pillow to my body. In Aunt Elly's mirror I could see my books on the shelves Ron had built for them, and, of course, my piano. What if we were ten miles from Rincon, the nearest town? And five miles from a neighbor? Could be I wouldn't have too much in common with the people out here if I did know them. And, goodness knows, I had plenty to keep me busy right here in my own little house. Right now I must finish my letter, then bake a cake, then, I decided, I'd put up a picnic lunch and eat with Ron down at the west forty under those trees along the river; make up to him for this morning. With a final look into the mirror, I went to the kitchen, sat again at the table, and went on with my letter. The next Friday, when, as usual, we went to Rincon for supplies, I had an airmail reply. Trudy's wedding date was set for early in June. "After all," Mother wrote, "she's the only sister you have. She'd be brokenhearted if you were not here for her wedding." After dinner that night, when Ron was settled by the fire, his long legs stretched out to the blazing logs, I perched myself on the arm of his chair. "Could we go to Massachusetts for Trudy's wedding?" I begged. "T can't," he said without a minute's hesitation. "I'm way behind with my work now. But there's no reason why you can't go. I'll take you to the plane in Cheyenne any day you say." Then he reached for his paper. "Well!" I exploded, bouncing up from his chair. "I guess you wouldn't even miss me around here!" Ron pulled me down onto his Aunt Elly's Mirror lap. "Of course, I'd miss you. How silly can you be? But you can't let Trudy down. When do you want to start?" Back home, the wedding was followed by two weeks of family dinners, parties, dances. Then one night I knew I had to see my husband. When I told my family at breakfast I was going home the next day, if I could get a reservation on the plane, my mother said, "But how can you? Ron wouldn't know to meet you in Cheyenne." But I had figured that out in the night. "Tomorrow is Friday. Ron never fails to go to Rincon on Friday for supplies,' I explained. "I'll wire Mr. Gross, at the store there. He'll tell Ron." In Cheyenne, Ron was waiting at the plane. In Rincon, when we left the store we passed the httle white church. I'd gone there a few times and the people had been friendly enough, but it wasn't like church back home. I hadn't been for weeks now. When we were almost home, Ron glanced across at me with that secretive, boyish look on his weather-brown face. "I have a surprise for you," he said. Had he put up the extra pantry shelves I'd been asking for? "What is it?" "You'll see when we get home." We went in at the back door. In the kitchen window, between the ruffly white curtains, my red geranium was in bloom. How wonderful to be in my own house again! "Come in here," Ron called from the living room. From the doorway I expected to see myself as usual in Aunt Elly's mirror on the opposite 493 July 1968 wall. Instead, the whole out-ofdoors looked in at me; the side yard, the white picket fence, the trees, the plowed fields, even the mountains beyond. "Tike it?" Ron asked, smoothing his big hand along the unpainted casing of the new window. "It's not quite finished. I did it at night. I had to hurry. But see how much lighter it makes this room?" | crossed to the new window and stood beside my husband. Two children were coming toward us, along the edge of the plowed field. "They're the Gilligan children," Ron said. "They come this way from their school bus." "Who are the Gilligan children?" "They've moved into that place down by the river. One day while you were gone the man came over to where I was plowing. Seems like a nice person. Look up the canyon to your left. See that little white house on the side of the mountain?" "Y-yes." "Gilligan says a family lives up there, too, and that some people have moved in down the river from his place. He wondered whether we neighbors could get together—have a pot luck—get acquainted." He glanced toward my piano. "If they met here, we could have singing and maybe dance." Now the Gilligan children were passing our house. They saw us at the window and waved back to us. "Why couldn't we have a Sunday School here for the children," Ron went on, "since we 494 have the piano? You taught in the Sunday School back home." I went into the bedroom to take off my coat. In the excitement of the new window, after that first realization that it was missing, I had forgotten Aunt Elly's mirror, had forgotten to ask what had become of it. But there it was, flat against the wall at the foot of our bed, only the upper half of it visible. For one instant I resented Ron's having poked it off here in the bedroom. How would Aunt Elly like that? And how could I live without my mirror? How could I see myself from head to toe without it? Then I knew Ron was right to cut the window in the side of our house. Instead of seeing reflections in Aunt Elly's mirror, my books, my piano, my own selfish way of life, I could look out now and see the trees, the meadows, even the mountain—a world I had _ scarcely known was there. Now I could watch for the Gilligan children coming from school. I could look up the canyon and see the little white house on the side of the mountain. Ron stood in the bedroom doorway. "How would you like to go over to Gilligans' this evening?" "Let's, Ron. We can talk to them about the neighborhood party, and about the Sunday School." Ron came to me, put his strong arm around me. "you don't really care about my taking the mirror from the living room, do you? There was no other way...." "Care, Ron? I am deeply grateful." Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Thalassa Cruso, British-born horticulturist, conducts a twice-weekly television show called: ''Making Things Grow,'' which is carried over five educational stations in New England. Mrs. Cruso has the remarkable gift of making garden chores and the care of houseplants appear as an intriguing adventure. Initially trained as an archeologist, she is the wife of Hugh Hencken, curator of European archeology at Harvard's Peabody Museum. She declares that she has changed her archeological ''digging"' in favor of working with plants and studying their requirements for maximum growth, beauty, and productivity. Mothers whose children are hospitalized at the University of Kentucky Medical Center at Lexington, are allowed to live in with the children who are undergoing treatment or recovering from surgery. The mothers are instructed in nursing procedures and are able to give comfort, care, and emotional support to their children while they are hospitalized, as well as being prepared to give home care after the children leave the hospital. Dr. Sylvia Earle Mead is a researcher at Harvard University, currently making a study of seaweed which she gathered off the coast of Chile. A marine biologist, Dr. Mead studies the chemical composition and possible uses of seaweed. Her husband, Giles Mead, is curator of fishes at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard. They are the parents of two young daughters. Helen Quach, twenty-seven, is an assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. She is a five-foot-two Chinese girl, born in Saigon and reared in Australia and was graduated from the Sydney Conservatory of Music. Last year Miss Quach was one of four winners of the Dimitri Mitropoulos International Music Competition. When conducting, she wears a classic Chinese gown. Charlotte Montgomery, nationally known as a reporter of news and problems concerning the American housewife, represents the Women's Conference on the Board of Directors of the National Safety Council, and is a trustee of the Better Business Bureau's Educational Foundation. She is a mother and a housewife, vitally interested in better homes and better training of children. Marie Morisawa, a geologist and researcher in the earth sciences, at Antioch College (Ohio), is the author of Streams: Their Dynamics and Morphology (Antioch publications). The book is a supplementary text for introductory courses in college geography, physical geography, and geomorphology. Karen Ann Ottesen of Burley, Idaho, is Coordinator of Research and Development for the Idaho Falls, Idaho, School District. She was an outstanding student in music at Brigham Young University, and received the James E. Talmage Medal for the College of Fine Arts and Communications. She was graduated from BYU in 1967. 495 Volume 55 July 1968 Number 7 = Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor w Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love 496 Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Preparing for the Later Years ws All one's earlier life is preparation for later years, but how different is the contemplation of later years in the bloom of youth and the realization when the later years are reached! To the young it seems unthinkable that the problems of later life would test and try one, sometimes almost to the breaking point. When one has lived to later life, it would appear that one has acquired wisdom and overcome temptations for so long that the way would be easy. One finds, however, that each age presents problems, and that they do not grow less as the: years advance. Change is the essence of life at all ages today. No longer can one count on living out his life at the place of his birth. It does not even present itself as desirable to many people. Physical and environmental changes are inevitable for many families whose husbands are in industry, which makes a practice of moving its employees to different locations. When young, such changes are considered normal, as a means to progress and greater financial return. The selling and buying of homes (usually to a more desirable one) is a change which is welcomed as the family grows. Finally, the time is reached, however, which presents the other side of the coin, with an opposite phenomenon. Instead of an enlarging world of responsibility, one's responsibilities begin to shrink and continue to do so until all the children are married. A couple is left alone to face life together, then, as they started out many years before. A wife is then approaching, or is in her later years, and, in surveying her future, she may question whether or not she has made proper preparation for the years ahead. She also faces the possibility of being left alone and losing her dearest companion. A change of residence, then, is not a joyous occasion as in earlier years. It is usually a move from a large, beloved home, made dear by cherished memories of children and teen-age activities, to a smaller home or apartment. Just what is the preparation needed to fortify a woman in later years? Basically, it is the growth and strengthening of her testimony which will give her the needed support. Her knowledge and obedience to the gospel principles and acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all the vicissitudes that may come to her, are the main supports on which she will lean to sustain her. Continuing service in the Church will bring continuing satisfaction and joy, and although a woman may be far from her loved ones, Relief Society will offer her the love and understanding of many sisters in the gospel. She may fill lonely hours with good works. Where a temple is nearby, she may perform saving ordinances for her progenitors, but where there is no temple, still she may search out her ancestors. This is a rewarding work. If a woman, on the other hand, has frittered away her time, as her children grew older, on pleasures of no enduring worth, those pleasures will continue to be the avenues to which she will turn for enjoyment. She may, under these circumstances, however, miss the tranquil joy of contentment in the knowledge that she is about her Father's business. She has not prepared for the greatest return. The storms beat upon every woman as a part of the testing and probationary period of this life. Blessed and safe is she who has built her house on the rock of love of the Lord. He tells every woman ''If ye love me, keep my commandments." (John 14:15.) As a woman keeps his commandments, added strength comes to her. As she obeys his word ''Search the scriptures,"' she may be rescued from despondency and despair. She will rest in the love and peace the Savior promised the righteous in her later years. —M. C. S. 497 The Song of the Hills Helen Mrovka = There were many sounds in the song of the hills. There was the murmuring of the brook that flowed gently past the old house that stood on the hilltop. There were the wind sounds which whistled through the rafters, and rattled the window panes, and the raindrops which pattered on the roof, the rustling of wild pigeons as they flew over the canyon, the eerie howl of the coyote that was heard in the hills after dark, or of a lion roaring on the mountain top. There was the tinkle of cowbells as the cows came up through the pasture at sunset to be milked and fed, and the men's footsteps as they came in with the milk to be put away. There was the gentle voice of the mother, as she called to the children to come in to the evening meal or to do a chore. There was the crowing of the old black rooster at the break of day, and the clucking of hens in the barnyard, sounding like little old ladies at a sewing bee. The hoot of the owl in the old oak tree, and the harsh calling of crows to each other in the old fruit orchard were heard. There was the music of violin and guitar, that was played at the Saturday night dances in the old schoolhouse. There were these and many more sounds, but now the song is ended, and only the melody lingers on in the music of the hills. THE MAKER OF HILLS 1 look to the hills—dear hills of home— Untouched by winter's frigid blasts, Ageless, steadfast, they give me strength; | Summer's lightning and crashing thunder, Bulwarks of majestic splendor, Serenely they triumph, keeping vigil; impressively stretched the valley's length. Their constancy dissolves my fears away. As dusk envelops my universe, They hover protectingly near and strong; | whisper. A plea to the Maker of hills— Extend thy peace, and thy love prolong. Ng.;. I > \ —Annie C. Esplin r As Sounding Bras: Jody Shields « The sign at the side of the road read: "Welcome to Danville —Pop. 8,527." Madge Hilliard sighed. The trip was almost finished. She had been on the road for four and a half hours, and she was feeling the effects of driving a far greater distance than she was accustomed to. Not only was she not used to driving for such a long time, but the trip had been anything but pleasant for her. "And it's sure to get worse," she told herself as she turned the car off the main highway toward the older, well-established residential area of the town. The entire four and a half hours had been a turmoil of doubt and indecision. As a result, Madge was feeling tense and nervous as well as the driving fatigue. She had gone over and over in her mind the events leading up to this trip to Danville, and, although she was still unwilling to change her original decision, she could not reconcile her mind and conscience to the fact that it was the thing she should do. Perhaps Lyle's attitude contributed to her chaotic state of thought. Not that he was against her insistence not to move, but more that she knew he wanted to move. She remembered again their conversation as he walked her out to the car. "Well," he had asked, "what are you going to say to them?" "Really Lyle," she had replied, "don't you think it's time they stopped running my life?" "What is that supposed to mean?" he asked, looking as if he would like to penetrate her mind and find the answer for himself. "Oh, nothing, I guess," she faltered, "I... I just resent the way they put it in the letter... 499 July 1968 almost as if I were a pawn for them to move about as they wish." He laughed then, a rich, fullbodied laugh that made his eyes crinkle at the corners, and made her lips draw into a tight line. "Come now, honey. Aren't you being a bit melodramatic? I mean, after all, your mother will need a professional nurse, and the town has needed another good doctor since your father died. You are a nurse, and I like to think I'm a good doctor. Besides, you know I've always wanted to practice in a small town." "Humph!" was would say. "Well," he finished as he gave her a parting kiss, "do whatever you think best, dear. Just don't say anything you'll be sorry for later." all Madge A; she pulled out of the driveway and started on her way, Madge kept hearing Lyle's words echo in her mind, "I've always wanted to practice in a small town." "That's just it!" she retorted to herself. "I don't want to get smothered in a small town again. I grew up in Danville. I know what it's like. Everyone knowing everyone else's business. No one ever really having any private thoughts or being able to do anything without someone or everyone knowing about it. "And when it comes to making a decision! Well, everyone has an opinion, and no one hesitates to let you know what should be done. No thanks," she said to herself, "Tl take the anonymity of a big city. Thank you, but I prefer to live my own life." 500 She wouldn't have said that to Lyle, though he, too, was reared in a small town. He had nothing but praise and adulation for small town living, however. Even before he finished his internship, he had talked of moving to a small town to practice. Madge had never openly opposed the idea, but she had been very conscientious about making sure things didn't work out that way for them. Madge had worked for several years at the Lakeside General Hospital and knew many of the older, well-established doctors. When she learned of one who was looking for a young doctor to form a partnership with him, she immediately recommended that he ask Dr. Lyle Hillard. Lyle, just finished with his internship and looking for a place to practice, was grateful and appreclative for the chance to start out in such a good position. He was a good doctor, and the older doctor was well pleased with his work, so the Hilliards — prospered. Madge was perfectly content with her life. She had quit nursing to become a fulltime mother to their three children. She was active and busy in church work, with civic volunteer work, and PTA. For the first time in her life she felt she was a person of individual worth and accomplishment. Then came Carol's letter. Dear Madge and Lyle: We realize we should have phoned you again, but after our first assessment of the situation, we decided to write instead. Mother's stroke was rather serious and she will need to be in the hospital for some time. Even after she comes We & old family council and decided the most desirable arrangement would be for you and Lyle to move to Danville. We realize town, and Danville surely could use more good doctors. You could move into the old house. It's always been such a nice, roomy place. Mom and Dad reared five children there and had room for We would all help out, of course, but Mom will need the kind of professional care that you can give, Madge. We thought of hirmg 4 nurse, but felt that she wouldn't be as dedicated and concerned about Mother's wellbeing as you would be. Then, too, there's Grandmother. She's not really a problem, but she would surely resent a stranger moving unto the house. - - - on, very persuasively outlining the details and suggesting possible problems ith their logical solutions, and so on. All that redo it!" She had stormed. "They can't make me! What right have they even to suggest such a thing!" She had thrown the letter down and stamped out of the retrieved the calm. "What right have they- - ia Madge asked herself angrily. "They have always done that, and now they are trying to do it again. Well, it won't work now. Tm nota little girl now. - trying to choose between chocolate or As Sounding Brass strawberry ice cream, OF picking which dress to wear on the first day of school." For many years Madge had felt that her older brothers and sisters were running her life. At first, she had conceded that was her burden for being the youngest. Attention and petting receive from four 'older children, but the time memory of the older children's scornful laughter when she had expressed her opinion on several occasions. She soon learned,, not to say anything even though Father made a point ofasking something about not becoming 4 died, suddenly, of a heart attack, a family council " Madge was 4 senior in high school, and she would never 501 July 1968 should happen to that piece of equipment, what should be done about the financial state of the widow and child still at home. Medical school was ruled out. There would not be enough money. Instead, Madge could enter the medical profession as a nurse. The training would not take as long, nor be so costly. It had all been taken care of with precision and dispatch. The family had decided the course of her life, and she had just sat there stunned and silent. But she had not forgotten. She had gone to nursing school. She had become a nurse and gone to a large city to work. There she had met a young student doctor, Lyle Hilliard. They had married and Madge had begun to climb out from the cocoon of being the pampered and petted little sister. And now, here they were, trying to get her back under their influence. Not willing that she should live her life herself, here they were making decisions for her again. Well, she just wouldn't do it. Now that her anger had cooled somewhat, she went back into the living room and told Lyle her decision. "IT don't know why it upsets you so much," he had said. "It sounded pretty reasonable to me." "T don't expect you to understand. Just let it be that I don't want to move back to Danville. Okay? I just don't want to. I'm happy here and that's that. I'll go and help out at first. ['ll arrange for a nurse and do whatever I can, but I'm not going to move back and that is final!" 502 Lyle had shrugged and said, "I guess it's up to you, honey. After all, it's your mother and your family." Now Mother was ready to come home from the hospital and Madge was driving to Danville to help. She had not answered Carol's letter any more than to call and tell them she was coming, and that she wanted to meet them all together that evening. She planned to tell them of her decision then. Mother wouldn't be home until tomorrow, and she would have time to rest and set the house in order this afternoon before facing the family. Madge stepped from the heat of the sultry summer day into the coolness of the old house. She had almost forgotten about Grandma and had been slightly startled to find the house so cool and comfortable. Grandma still lived with Mother in the big rambling house where her family and her son's family had been reared. She had a small apartment of rooms on the second floor, although she had always been given free run of the house. She preferred her own rooms and often received friends and visitors in them instead of using the family living room. "Ts that you, Majesty?" Grandma's old wrinkled face peered over the balustrade of the second floor balcony. Madge smiled at the nickname. Only Grandma and Father had called her that. Everyone else thought it too pretentious sounding. "Yes, Grandma,' she answered. "Well, come on up and see me!" It was together an order and an invitation, and Madge found herself almost bounding up the stairs as she had often done as a child. She reached the old woman as Grandma was about to enter her small apartment. Madge slipped her arms around Grandma's shoulders and gave her a quick hug. "Oh, Grandma," she said, as tears gathered in her eyes, "it's so good to see you." "Tut, tut!" replied Grandma turning away from the hug and entering her sitting room. "Come in and talk awhile. I hear they asked you and Lyle to move here and take care of your mother. Don't remember hearing if you said you would, though." That was typical of Grandma. Right to the point, without wasting breath on any small talk. "Well, what kind of a greeting is that?" Madge asked, parrying for time. "What kind of an answer is that?" Grandma glanced sharply at Madge, "Never mind. Sit down. Tell me what you've been up to lately. How are Lyle and the children?" They chatted for awhile about life in the city, but Madge knew it would not be long before Grandma would get back to her original question. "Well, what are you going to do? Move back or assert yourself and refuse to be bossed around?" Grandma asked suddenly. "Why, Grandma," Madge stammered, completely taken by surprise. "I don't know what you mean." "Oh, fiddlesticks, Madge! Of As Sounding Brass course you do. I've sat down in that kitchen often enough to know what goes on in those family councils. I've seen the hair on the back of your neck rise often enough that I know what goes on inside your mind, even if you never have had the courage to say anything." Madge could only stare. She couldn't think of anything to say. "T'm right, am I not?" Grandma demanded, then went on without waiting for an answer, "T can just see your face when you got the letter. I'll bet it made you real angry." Grandma chuckled. "I'd like to see you react like that in front of them just once. You've always been such a jelly-fish. Well, I see you've grown some. I can see it in your eyes; in the way you walk and move; in the way you hold your head. I rather imagine you're going to let them have it this time." Madge found her voice enough to stammer, "I was planning to tell them it was impossible.. I mean, we just can't move back." "You mean you won't move back. I bet Lyle would jump at the chance." Grandma_ gazed out the window. "More's the pity you had to get your backbone now." "T don't understand. I thought you said you'd be happy to see me stand up to them?" Madge was completely puzzled by the old woman's frankness. Grandma had never talked to her like this before. "I admit I'd like to see you stand on your own feet, but your mother needs you now. I'm 503 July 1968 an old woman, and I can't do much except get myself from here to there and back again. I'm not much at cooking and cleaning, and I wouldn't be worth a hoot at taking care of her." "But we can hire someone...." "Hire..." Grandma scoffed. "Your mother needs you, not some impersonal hired woman who will come hustling and bustling in and out and want to turn everything upside-down and even backwards." "Then you think we should move here?" asked Madge beginning to get angry. "No. I just think you should do what's right." "What do you mean?" asked Madge. "First you say I should stand up to my family, say what I think. Then you say Mother needs me. Then you say we shouldn't move here...." "Tt didn't say you shouldn't move here. I just said that I thought you should do what is right." "You're certainly not making any sense." Madge found her anger rising, despite her wish to remain calm. The whole conversation was queer. Madge began to wish she had gone to her room to rest instead of coming here to talk with Grandma. "T always thought I did what was right, Grandma. When haven't I done what was right? What have I done that is so wrong?" "Oh, yes, Majesty. You've always done the right things. But why? Stop and think. Hasn't it always been to gain approval, or because you were afraid of what would happen if you did wrong? Isn't that why you've always let others make your 504 decisions for you? Oh, yes. You've always done right, but think! It may have been for the wrong reason." "Now you have lost me! Completely!" Madge stood up angrily. "Til go now." "Wait, I'm sorry, Majesty. I guess I've been a bit hard on you. [ll try to be more clear. ''m sure you've had a fight with your conscience over this, too. Wanting to do right and still live your own life. I don't want to impose my will on you any more than I want your family to impose theirs. You have to want to do it to make it right. If it's what you want to do, then it's your life and your decision." "Now, Majesty," she hesitated, "read I Corinthians, 13. Paul says it better than I could." "T...[ don't know, Grandma. I'm tired, I guess. I think I'd better go rest." Madge turned from the room and walked slowly to her own room. Someone had fixed it up for her arrival. It smelled fresh and clean, and the bed looked smooth and inviting. She lay down and closed her eyes, but she could not sleep. Her conversation with Grandma kept running through her mind. "Read I Corinthians, 13... Paul says it better...". Says what better? Madge sat up suddenly and reached for the Bible on the bedside table. She thumbed through the _ pages quickly and began to read: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, tt profiteth me nothing. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity. Charity! The pure love of Christ. Charity that is not vain or puffed up; that. Suffers long and is kind; that thinketh no evil, but endureth all things. Charity! That was it. That was what was missing in her life. Madge could see it now. All these years she had been feeling sorry for herself; feeling her family ran her life and smothered her efforts to be an individual. All these years she had been at fault. She had not developed the spirit of charity and love for others. She had just been concerned with her own wants and desires. What was it Grandma had said? "You do the right things to gain approval or to escape punishment. Those aren't the right reasons for doing good." Madge rose and walked to the window. What would be so As Sounding Brass hard about moving here? Grandma was right. If it was what she wanted to do, it would be her decision and her life. In_ her heart, she knew it was the right thing to do. Her mother needed her. It was what Lyle would want, too. Actually, wasn't she doing to Lyle what she had accused her family of doing to her; forcing her will on him? Hadn't he wanted to practice in a small town all his life? It was her forcing him to stay in the city because she wanted to. All the time she had been selfishly thinking only of herself. "Well," Madge told herself firmly, "I can't think of any reason why I have to go on living this way. I can change, and I will. The first thing I'm going to do is call Lyle and tell him I've decided to move to Danville." She laid the Bible back on the table and stepped toward the door. As she walked from the room, she felt a peace inside that she had not known for a long, long time. It was like embarking on a great new advenr OVER THE MARSH Over the marsh the loon's lost, lonesome calling Echoes across the lake's quiescent face. Nostalgically thoughts drift to shadows falling From sedge and cattails mixed with Queen Ann's lace. The air is hushed and drowsy with its sentience, Sun glistens on the pond, then scatters sparks, As fish jump, sending spray of drops cascading. A drake wings leisurely. A meadowlark's Sweet trill awakes the hush. The shadows deepen And cooling zephyrs lull the marsh to sleep. Again that toon's sad call blends with the landscape Making haunting memories to keep. Ture. An adventure in love. —Gladys Hesser Burnham 505 — f ~ £ ~ L T We Leone W. Doxey Let your children be happy. Laugh with them, never at them. Good humor is kind, never bitter or sarcastic. Laughter ls infectious. Let your children do some giving. Try not to do all the giving yourself. It is more blessed to give than to receive. Blessings will spread. Let your children know that you love them and that you accept them as they are. You may not accept some of their actions, but you will accept and love them always. Love is contagious. Let your children do something. They may not do that something as well as you can do it, but some day, by persistent doing, they may do it better than you. Success is communicable. Let your children respect you. They will when you are the kind of person they can respect. Respect is catching. Ome arrene ae an ee = a | DAGGER POINTS TIMES FIVE Let me remember, let me gather love-brimmed thoughts culled from the shining of companioned years, small incidents to be blue-bright forget-me-nots to light my lonely dark of unshed tears. Our understanding forms a bond, a lasting tie, infrangible, which time cannot destroy. | You live still in the thoughts which diamond-stud my sky | with stars full quintupled with pain as well as joy. For | have learned that each star has jagged points, sharp, and ancipital to pierce my calm, but, also, | have learned each passing year anoints | the painful wound with time's hurt-healing balm. Each star has dagger points times five, and yet 1 let me remember—let me not forget! —Kathryn Kay - 506 v a MEMORY RETURNING Memory returning was like fragrance: pine needles in the dawn; apple blossoms after sudden rain; lilacs, evening sweet. It was like color seen for the first time in rainbow spectrums; in sunset's orange, its pink, mauve, and yellow; like green against day's sky. And it was like music, melodious and kind; filled with new peace, with wild, young rapture; lifted anticipation, filled with all of knowing. It was joy and pain, ecstasy and sorrowing, this silken moment of memory returning. | _.=Christie Lund Coles Wheel and Woman ~ Willard Luce Fj Ruth C. ITkerman # "Come over to my house and see my beautiful butterfly cake," the excited voice of the eight-year-old friend sang into the telephone. She sounded much stronger than for many days past, for she had been seriously ill. It seemed that a neighbor had stopped by with a large blue plate completely covered by a cake baked in the shape of a butterfly. It was frosted in delicate blues, yellows, pinks, and greens, and had lifelike feelers, and wings spread for flight. Now the little girl was happily calling friends and relatives to admire the cake before her mother should cut and serve it. Her father was taking a colored picture of this special cake, so the family could always remember how beautiful had been this unexpected gift. When I had opportunity to tell the cake baker how much joy she had brought to me and to so many others by this lovely cake to the little girl, she smiled. And said: "Then I am well repaid for the time spent in shaping and decorating the butterfly." She grew silent in reflection and then added, "And I have helped fulfill a long-standing promise made when I myself was a little girl." The cake was a memorial to a very special spiritual experience. 508 The Lady Who Bakes Cakes She said when she was small she had encountered a severe illness, and time had hung heavy on her hands in recuperation. She grew discouraged and fretful, for her family was busy at other tasks, and could not spend all their time at her bedside, and she grew lonely. One day a neighbor knocked at the door and said she had a cake for a little sick girl. The entire cake was intended for the little girl trying so hard to get well, the neighbor said. The sick child could do with it as she pleased, but perhaps she would want to share it with her family. My friend recalled that it had been just a simple, plain white loaf cake. "In those days people didn't decorate cakes as lavishly as we do now. Indeed, we didn't have all the coloring and special candies to make cakes pretty that you find in almost every market or corner grocery store in these days. But this freshly baked cake seemed to me the most beautiful cake in the world because it was all my very own.' Lying in bed and looking at the eal on the window sill, she began to think of how others had tried to tempt her to eat, and now she wanted to share with them what she had to give. "As I began to think about others, even offering them a piece of cake, I began to get stronger. Soon I was up and around the room, and then well enough to go outside to play, and return to school." Later, when she had tried to thank the woman who had baked the cake, this wise neighbor had said, "Some day you must bake a cake for some other little sick girl, and pass along your joy in this cake." Now, many years later, a butterfly cake had cheered my young friend. The original recipient had never forgotten the incident, and now she has a happy reputation as "the lady who bakes cakes." People love to know that she is to be on the refreshment committee for club or church, for it may mean that there is a special cake to be used as a centerpiece. There may be a club or church party hie one of the prizes is a cake shaped like a lamb encircled by a candy fence. Or fresh violets and tiny pink rosebuds may have been dipped in egg white and sugar before being placed on frosting peaks to produce a cake with a fresh, colorful nosegay. The original gift of the woman who helped a little girl has blossomed into many dozens of cakes across the changing years. Moments of happiness from the gifts of cakes have lightened the loneliness and sorrow in the loss of loved ones, and have given encouragement and comfort to the ill and the homebound. The cake baking has become a rewarding hobby, leading to rich fellowship and. New friendships. It is a hobby open to all women, young and old, rich and poor, especially in this age of easy-to-prepare cake mixes. The necessary ingredient is the wish to think of others and make them happy. Are you lonely and bored or unhappy today? Then maybe you should go into your kitchen and bake a cake for someone to enjoy. 509 " It was just by might have misse My two sons went west, inste chance tha d it. T we saw the valley. | can't bear to think we Many miles out of Our way. The home they we r re guarding. RETROSPECT No one saw the moonlight Tangled in the myriad blossoms. Or heard the wind Singing in the night. No one knew the tree | planted Still dropped petals on the lawn, Nor heard the muted voices Saying, "All are gone." No one listened to my footsteps ~ As in memory | walked alone, Back into the yesterdays Of my childhood home. —Annie Atkin Tanner S11 Casseroles for the Summer Picnic Alice Willardson s "Dinner-in-a-Dish" is so easy to serve. It can be prepared beforehand for company or Sunday dinner. It can be baked in any sized baking dish, a big one for the family, or to take to a home where the mother is ill; or divide the recipe and bake one today and freeze the other to use later. It is fun to fill one or two individual size baking dishes and take them to a sick person or to someone living alone. They are more welcome than sweets. You can use any kind of meat, poultry, or seafoods. Leftovers are not leftovers anymore, if you put them in a tasty casserole. Cold roasts, tuna, chicken, turkey, ham, sausage, or even bacon crisps are delicious. Rice, spaghetti, egg noodles, are all good bases, but so are vegetables like potatoes or parsnips. Corn, peas, and beans can substitute as part of the base and add flavorful nourishment. Of course, onions, peppers, mushrooms, tomatoes, herbs, and spices are all at your command. Asparagus or broccoli and parsley will add color. There are a variety of sauces, from plain white sauce, or cheese sauce, to mushroom or cream of chicken soup, and don't forget to use the stock from chicken or roast meats, or any kind of gravy. Buttered bread crumbs, crushed potato chips, or cheese dress up the top and hold in all those good flavors. So be original, have a change, try a delightful, big casserole for that summer picnic or for any other occasion! TUNA CASSEROLE 1 c. Diced celery 1 can (3 oz.) Chinese chow mein noodles 1 c. Chopped onions 1 can (10% oz.) cream of chicken soup 1 pkg. (% c.) salted, roasted cashew nuts___1 can (10'% oz.) mushroom soup 1 can (7 oz.) tuna fish or 2 c. Cooked chicken Boil celery and onions in 1 c. Water for 10 minutes. Combine all ingredients in casserole dish, top with crumbs, cheese, crushed potato chips, or any preferred topping, and bake in 350° oven for 30 minutes. Serves six. RICE PILAF 1 can (10% oz.) mushroom soup pinch oregano 1 can (10% oz.) bouillon 2 Ibs. Cubed or ground beef, browned 1 tsp. Salt 3 onions, finely chopped Y% tsp. Thyme 1 c. Diced celery 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 c. Brown rice Combine soup, bouillon, and seasonings and bring to a boil. Add remainder of ingredients. Place in casserole dish and bake at 325° for two hours, checking for moisture. If casserole becomes dry, add small amount of water. Serves eight. 512 Dorothy J. Roberts CHICKEN CASSEROLE 2 ats, uncooked poultry dressing 1% \b. Cooked, cubed chicken Sauce > c. Melted fat salt to taste 2 tbsp. Flour 3 eggs (optional) 1 qt. Chicken broth Combine flour with hot fat, chicken broth, and salt, stirring until smooth. Add beaten egs yolks. Beat egg whites until stiff. And fold into mixture. Place a layer of poultry dressing in bottom of baking dish. Then a layer of chicken, and a layer of sauce. Repeat until the dish is nearly full, finishing with chicken and sauce. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs, and bake at 350° for 30 to 40 minutes. Serves iW CHOW MEIN 2c. Dry spaghetti or wide noodles 1 c. Drained peas 1 Ib. Ground beef and 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Cubed cheese 1 green pepper, chopped 1 pint tomato juice Cook spaghetti (or noodles, whichever you wish to use) in salted water and drain. Sear meat and fry chopped onion and pepper with meat. Combine all ingredients. Buttered bread crumbs with grated cheese make a good topping. Bake 45 minutes in 350° oven. Serves 6. HAM CASSEROLE 2/3 c. YICe, uncooked 1 can cream of chicken soup lA c. Chopped celery 2 ¢. Diced ham 1 medium-sized onion, chopped Cook rice in boiling salted water, drain. Boil celery and onion together in one cup water for 10 minutes. Combine all ingredients, top with buttered bread crumbs, and bake 30 minutes in 350° oven. Serves 6. 513 GRANDFATHER'S DAY Evelyn Fyeldsted CS, ef 1 » Growing old, (i at Grandfather said, a was like coming to the close of a long, eventful day, a day of great blessings and many and varied Vi experiences. Always there had been the N pg need for prayers. This was a time when the young folks were leaving to make of life a long, venturesome day for themselves, but Grandpa said their nearness would always remain, with the knowledge that they would return, if ever they were needed. Wherever Grandpa was, there seemed to be a kind of peace, and whenever he entered a room, there was that same quiet reassurance. It was as if he, having lived long, had found something that we had not yet known. Daylight was like the light of evening for Grandpa, and so he had come to rely mostly on insight. He said there was not need for hurry or for worry, for time was on the side of those who had lived long—a time when life was better understood. The time had come when Grandpa could nap undisturbed, which he did quite frequently. He would awaken always with a sense of peace, which must have come from this deeper understanding and which seemed to have become almost a part of him. At times he still played his violin—the violin that had made so much merriment for the people in the valley long ago. The musicmaker of his time, who had played in such a lively fashion, could still imagine the young people and older ones dancing the waltz and the square dances that were so beautiful at that time. To him it could have been only yesterday. He could be remembering the time when he was just a boy carrying water to the soldiers who were stationed at the Racky Point during the Indian Wars in Sanpete County. Sometimes two other grandpas, two other Indian War veterans, would come to visit with him. Grandpa would awaken and welcome them. They would place their chairs close together. They could not hear each other very well, but they would talk and laugh about many things. Sometimes their talk would take a serious turn. A sadness seemed to touch them for a little while, but mostly they would have a good time. When they were gone, Grandfather's quiet peace still seemed to be there, the peace that he bequeathed to us. <)) 514 Olga Milius " — = I came from the sea—from horizons far flung over tossing, billowing waves. From a land of green rolling hills, perfumed flowers, and softly falling rain that made the air as soft and fragrant as the blossoms it nurtured. I crossed the ocean—a thousand miles of turbulent blue—and gray— and green, for its colors changed with its moods, as a woman's eyes may darken with anger, or brighten with joy. The spray of the storm on my face made me a part of the elements, and brought me closer to God than I had ever been before. I saw the New York skyline—the new world rising above the endless ocean, and Liberty holding her torch on high. I saw the great cities and the small towns of America. I crossed her plains and her prairies, and came at last to her fabled West, where jagged mountains cleft an azure sky. I came to Utah. For years I had sung, "Come, Come Ye Saints" and "O Ye Mountains High." Now I walked where the pioneers had trod, and saw the valley, and said, "This is the place." And in a quiet square, in the heart of a city, I saw the temple spires, I heard a mighty organ. I saw a prophet, and I heard him speak—and I was home. SWEETHEARTS There are few things nicer than falling in love When you're young and fancy-free, But one of them is, during twilight years Still to love devotedly. - —Ruth G. A 515 It's a This apron also serves as a tote bag. It gives you service wherever you go, from Aunt Millie's parlor to Relief Society, to the beach, and even || fishing with Father... That is, if you'd rather knit or sew than fish. When you sit for an hour or two the knitting or embroidering, you tie the apron bag around you, and your thread, thimble, yarn, and scissors stay neat and clean and handy. Ag Knitting yarn stays untangled in the big pocket (the bag) in your lap. If Shirley you are called to the phone, or to the Thulin kitchen to fix another sandwich, you quickly tuck your work in the bag and stand up without anything dropping to the floor, or without having to unwind yourself from your work. When you have finished your work, you merely untie the apron from your waist and tuck the strings and upper part of the apron into the pocket. Pull the drawstrings, and you are carrying a neat bag. No one would even suspect it is an apron. This apron bag can be made from _ sailcloth, denim, or corduroy, or a heavy silk. It is very nice if you line it, but it is not necessary. WHAT YOU NEED: One piece of floral or other print fabric 15 inches by 32 inches. This makes the bag. You can use two smaller pieces, 15 inches by 16 inches, but you will have a seam across the bottom of the bag. You will need some plain fabric the same size as mentioned above for lining the bag. Next, you will need a piece of print fabric 7 inches by 16 inches for the apron part. This does not need a lining. Now you need two apron strings about 3 inches wide and 22 inches long, and a strip for a band 3 inches wide and 13 inches long. To make small pockets for thread, thimble, and other sewing accessories, cut a strip of the printed fabric 8 inches by 16 inches long. You will need some bias tape of matching or contrasting color for drawstrings and for trim. TO MAKE: First, make the bag _——— by folding the 15 by 32-inch piece of material in half, right sides together and stitching up the sides (figure 1). Sew the lining the same way. Now put the lining and the bag wrong sides together and turn about a one-inch hem all around the top of the bag (figure 2). This makes the casing.. WRONG SIDE Swe eww eH ee em eae = = 516 It's In the Bag FIGURE 2 Make two buttonhole openings in the side seams at the top of the bag to run the drawstrings through. You will need two drawstrings, each about 42 inches long. One string goes in one buttonhole and all the way past the opposite hole, and back out the same place it began. The second string begins at the other buttonhole and is threaded the same way. Thus, the bag can be closed by pulling on both loops at the same time. Make the apron by first folding the 8-inch by 16-inch strip (wrong sides together) in half the long way. This gives you a double strip 4 inches by 16 inches. Pin this strip with the raw edge along one raw edge of the apron piece. Now pin along the 4-inch edges to the apron. Stitch this strip to the apron as you wish in order to make pockets. Bind the two side edges of the apron and pocket strip with bias tape (figure 3). Now sew the band and strings on the apron as you would for any apron. Join the apron to the bag by turning the bottom raw edge of the apron and pocket strip up about %-inch and stitching across one side of the top inside edges of the bag so as not to interfere with the drawstrings of the bag (figure 4). You may want to make several of these apron bags, for they will be the hit of any bridal shower, or a best seller at your bazaar. A LINING OF BAG FIGURE 4 517 if Spring Be Latee= maset tarmer Chapter 4 Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to do genealogical research and look over an estate in Scotland to which she ts joint heir. Just before leaving, she is attracted to Steve Madsen. On board the boat she befriends Diane Curran who also is a guest of the Taggarts. =» Maureen stood at her bedroom window and looked out upon a world still shrouded in fog. The vanquished November sun barely outlined the pear tree, only a dozen feet away. She turned away with only the slightest shrug. The state of the weather did not matter today. She was off on an adventure. Ahead was a day in London 518 with an attractive companion. Not only that, but she would get her first glimpse of the castle —after a fashion. No doubt Robert McPherson had put the best side forward. But, perhaps not. She had seen the work of artists who loved to paint ruins. Then, if there was time, she would ask him to take her to the National Art Museum. She had spent a couple of hours there when she was wandering about Trafalgar Square, but it would be ever so much more interesting, and certainly more instructive, to see it with an expert. She put on her red knit suit. It not only looked warm, it was warm. Her tweed coat, purchased in England for an English winter, would give her the additional protection she would need. As she watched Diane slip into her sweater she asked, "Is the Markham menage colder—or just plain cold?" "It isn't so bad, really. The study is small and the library can be well heated. So far, that's the best feature of the entire place. Just the same I'm wearing a cardigan on top of this pullover. Everyone tells me that by the time winter is over we'll be so used to this climate we won't know the difference." "Yes—when winter is over," Maureen agreed. "I wish that you were going into town with us. "Why the very idea! I wouldn't dream of it, even if I were free to go. I'm sure this is one occasion when three would definitely be a crowd." "I'm sure I don't know why you would think so. Remember, it was Kitty who made the arrangements. At least, it was she who first suggested them." "Agreed," said Diane. "But the gentleman pursued it with such alacrity that I should still decline—even if I were free to go. Instead, I shall be poring over books so that I can inform a bride just what her financial obligations are for the wedding —who buys the flowers, etc. Etc. At the same time, I shall be earning enough to pay for my own wedding some day, I hope." "IT would suppose that Mrs. Markham has answered that question so many times by now that she could just toss it off." If Spring Be Late "So you would think. And I daresay she could if she cared to. Unless, that is, the secretaries have always done all the work. Or it may be that she figures it as part of my training, and she may be right." Robert McPherson, who had stayed overnight in a nearby rooming house, arrived in the mid-morning to call for Maureen. Julia had waited to ride into town with them. A; they settled down for the brief trip, she said, "You know I've been thinking about what Mrs. Murch said last night, and I'm going to have Mr. Edmunds look into it. He's a solicitor," she explained to Robert. "Taking a hard look at the facts of the case, we have to agree that, if she does have some money, and no survivors, it might as well go to us as to go for death duties. Then, too, we have kept her for twenty-five years, which could call for a settlement of some kind. We've been glad to do it and, what little money she has made from the sale of her afghans, we have always been more than willing that she should keep for her own use." "How did you get her in the first place?" asked Robert. "isn't she related in any way?" "In no way whatever," Julia replied. "We had never seen nor heard of her until she showed up one day during the Blitz. She came with nothing but the clothes on her back. We found her wandering about in a daze and took her in. She has been with us ever since." "And had she no other family?" "As far as we know, there was 519 July 1968 just a daughter—Cynthia. Mrs. Murch has been so sure that Cynthia would come here that, for months, she met the train every day. Any new girl who comes to the house may be her daughter—or so. She _ thinks. Except for that, she is perfectly normal and the best soul on earth." "Well," said, Robert, "it is easy to understand how escaping from the Blitz could have upset anyone's mind, to some extent. I know, because I lost some of my family that way." "Tt must have been a dreadful time," said Maureen. "It is amazing that we see so few scars now. I understand that the city of London proper was almost completely destroyed." "That's right," replied Robert. "Even as late as ten years ago there was some rubble left. Let us hope and pray that it never happens again." By now they had arrived in the city. Julia bade them goodby, saying, "Have a good day. Have fun for me, too." "Thank you. We'll do that," replied Maureen smiling. Miaoch to her surprise the fog, in the morning lhght, made London look almost lovely. The buildings had lost their stark gray outlines and seemed to be veiled in a silvery gold mist. The lights on the streets were wreathed in halos. "T wouldn't have believed it possible," she said. "Last night this was a dark, dense terror." "And may be again tonight," said Robert. "Back in '52 there was one that lingered on and became so dense that all traffic 520 came to a halt and over 4000 people died in one week." "Were you here?" "No, fortunately. It is much brighter in the Highlands of Scotland, and much more comfortable merely to read about black fogs in the newspapers." "Have you always lived in Scotland?" she asked. "No, my love affair with Scotland began a year or two before that, when I went over to paint the lakes and remained to paint much of the rest of it, including your castle." In spite of the fog, there seemed to be as many people as ever rushing about. Robert took hold of her arm to guide her through the crowd. "The gallery is on a small street just off from Piccadilly Circus," he said. "It is a small gallery." They climbed some _ rather dingy steps to a second floor, but, inside the gallery, there was light and warmth. There were only a dozen people about, since it was still early in the day. "Most of these, no doubt," said Robert in a low voice, "are artists who have come to admire their own work, or else brought captive admirers, as I have done." "But such a willing captive," smiled Maureen. "T do hope so. I also hope for a frank and honest opinion. My paintings are over here on this south wall." Maureen went over eagerly, admitting to herself, at least, that she was more interested in a look at the castle than in the quality of the artist's work. So far, she had not even seen a snapshot. The first picture showed it rising in the morning mists within a field of heather. "Why it looks hke a fairy castle!" she exclaimed. "It can't be this lovely!" "You are quite right. It can't and it isn't. This is the good side, if you know what I mean, and even this has been beautified. I have one of the bad side farther down. I even have the ~ broken wall." The next picture was of a charming cottage. There were windows of small panes with boxes of gay flowers on the sills. There were hollyhocks growing in profusion and a gate entwined with morning-glories. "How perfectly lovely!" exclaimed Maureen. "T'm glad you think so," said Robert. "That is my _ home. Actually it is your home. It belongs to the estate. However, for the present I am living there. And this picture is not idealized. The cottage really looks just like that in the summer. It is the only part of the property that has been kept in any kind of repair." Moving on, he said, "Now take a look at this. Here is another side of the castle. It doesn't look to be very livable, does it?" "No," she answered. "Not unless you're a fresh air addict, which I definitely am not. Let's see the others." There were a dozen paintings in all, and Maureen could honestly admire them very much. "But, I do hike the cottage best of all," she said. "So do I," he agreed quickly. "That's probably because my heart is in the cottage. It really is most charming. I hope that you can arrange to see it in the springtime." "Oh, I shall. We all-plan to come during the Easter vacation. That should be just about the right time." "Yes, it should. I haven't looked at the dates. I hope that Easter comes late in April this year." "It does," said Maureen. "I shall probably be leaving to do a bit of traveling on the Continent after that." 521 July 1968 They looked at the other pictures. There were many to admire, but none that Maureen liked as well as she did Robert McPherson's. As they were leaving, an attendant handed them a list of the paintings with the prices. Maureen tucked it carefully away inside her handbag. She had already resolved to own the picture of the cottage. She would make the purchase when she came into town on Monday. "They went to a small tea room close by for lunch. It was very cozy, with a young waitress in ruffled cap and apron, looking very much as if she had just been scrubbed. The lamps on the tables were lighted against the fog outside. Maureen ordered blueberry scones and hot chocolate. The scones were flaky and so delicious that she almost longed for seconds. "What now?" asked Robert. "The day is still young and it is all yours." "T would really love to go to the National Art Museum," she replied. "I've been there for a few hours, but it is so vast that it would take days to see it all. Anyway, it would be a real treat to go there with an expert." "Thank you. I'm not sure that I can meet all the qualifications that you expect—or might wish— but TH be glad to try. It will be a treat for me, too." They walked the short distance to Trafalgar Square and climbed the few steps into the imposing gray stone building. There were corridors leading to fascinating vistas in each direction, and Maureen turned to Robert for guidance. 522 "We can't see it all today," he said, "nor would you want to. If you simply walk through the rooms you don't see anything well. Let's take the Dutch painters. You've seen plenty of English today, anyway. Although I must qualify that quickly. You haven't seen the kind that you will see here." "Are there no great artists today?" asked Maureen. "Who knows? It is very seldom that a generation gives just recognition to the artist or composer within his lifetime. I think it one of the great tragedies of humanity that such men as Rembrandt have died almost penniless and, later, their works have become priceless. It is also true of people in other fields and even of statesmen." "Yes, I know," she nodded. "And, speaking of Rembrandt, do let us see some of his. I am going to Amsterdam especially to see his 'Night Watch.' At any rate, I am going to see that before anything else." "Believe me, it is worth going to see. And there are several here for which I can say the same." They spent a couple of hours viewing some of the paintings, and Maureen was delighted to have the highlights explained to her— the richness of the colors, the wonderful skin tones, the varied expressions in the faces. "You must also see some of Van Dyck," said Robert," although he is Flemish, rather than Dutch. But his portraits are justly among the most famous in the world." "Tf it is only for the Van Dyck beard," observed Maureen. "He certainly did well by King Charles. I trust that Charles did as well by him." By mid-afternoon Robert said, "We really should start back, much as I would like to stay here. We don't want to get caught in a black fog." "Indeed we don't," she answered quickly. "One such experience is enough for me, although you could probably find your way back all right." "No one can be sure. And I don't really know my way about Bahlen especially. We can come here again." "Oh, I do hope so," she exclaimed. "I want to spend some time at the British Museum, also. In fact, I hope to do some of my research there. I understand that they have almost endless bookshelves. It is most fortunate that I have all winter for my work." A; they went outside, they were no longer greeted by the silvery glow of the morning. There was now only the promise of another black evening. People were hurrying about to avoid having to grope their way home later in the darkness. They found the train crowded, but they managed to get on and even to find a seat for Maureen. Robert bade her goodby at the door, but said that he would return later that evening to talk with them about any further arrangements at the castle. There were still a couple of hours before dinner, and Maureen settled down by the cheery fire in the living room to await the others of the family. Kitty was the first to return home, and If Spring Be Late she was bubbling over with plans for moving to Scotland. "Perhaps we should follow the lead of the Earl of Bedford and have lions roaming about the grounds," was her first suggestion. "Of course, we might have a bit of trouble getting the lions in the. First place and keeping them in the second," said Maureen. "But those are small matters, I am sure." "You're not at all sure," said Kitty, "so we'll forget that one. Anyway, there may not be enough tourists to make it pay. Perhaps a better plan would be to put up a youth hostel for the people who are traveling about Scotland on foot. They could stay overnight, or as long as they wish. I understand that they don't expect much in the way of creature comforts. Some hostels allow people to stay, even if they are driving about in motor cars.", "And by the same token, we could not expect much in the way of remuneration, I daresay," her father commented as _ he came in to join the circle by the fireside. "Probably so," Kitty agreed. "But a shilling or so a head might prove worthwhile if enough people came. Then we could sell them fruits and eggs and vegetables. I believe the more complete the ruins of the castle, the better some people would like it. More romantic, you know." "And more uncomfortable," said Maureen. 'Well, we shall see. With your imagination I am sure we'll come up with something." "T hope so," said Bruce. "The 523 July 1968 Governors are taking a dim view of my prospects—or rather what they regard as my prospects for remaining at the school. They want to know at once if I plan to retire and move to Scotland, so that they can begin looking for a successor. I don't want to make any plans for a change until I have been over there— quite naturally. The facts are that one member would like very much to have me leave. I have been a trifle too modern in my methods to suit him, and he sees this as an opportunity to get in someone from the old, old school." "About 1910," said Julia from the doorway. "Don't give in an inch. It would be rather awful to have the school lose all that you have built up there." "Thank you," said her father. "You're home a trifle early, aren't you?" "Yes, I thought it best to get out of the city before the traffic was slowed down any more. And, thank goodness for the week end, although there are signs that the fog is beginning to lift. Now, what about that school situation?" "Only that Andrew Wharton sees an excuse for getting me out—if he can. But we shan't worry about it. What did you learn at the bank, if anything?" "Mr. Edmunds went over and found out that there definitely is an account for Mrs. Murch. Of course, they wouldn't tell him how much. After drawing interest for twenty-five years, it could be considerable. Now we have to prove that Mrs. Murch is the one who made the deposit. How do we go about that?" 524 "T'm not sure. As I remember, she came here with nothing but the clothes on her back. She may have retrieved something from the fire. We can ask." Aviter dinner, when the family was once more gathered around the hearth he said, "Mrs. Murch, we've been thinking about your kind offer to help us restore the castle—if such is possible. Julia's employer has found out that you do, indeed, have an account in the savings department of the bank. Do you, by any chance, have a passbook?" Mrs. Murch went on with her knitting, scarcely raising her eyes. "I brought nothing," she replied. "I was down in the tube when the Blitz came. The next morning the house was nothing but rubble. There's a bakery now where it stood. It's a very nice bakery. Sometimes I go there to see if any of my old neighbors are about. They never are." There was silence for a few moments. Then Julia said, "'Perhaps you will go into town with us on Monday. Mr. Edmunds will take you to the bank and find out what we can do to prove that the money is yours. Then, if you decide you would like to pay us something for your keep the past years, it would be rather nice." "Oh, to be sure," said Mrs. Murch easily. "Ill never need the money—so long as I live with you—of course. But I shall not go to Scotland. I'll have to stay here in this house—just in case, you know." "Yes, we know," said Catherine kindly. "Perhaps none of us will go to Scotland for more than just a visit. At any rate, we shall keep this place and it will be your home." "Well, I don't see how I can run a youth hostel all by myself," said Kitty, "Some of you will have to stay and help." "That's a long way off," said her father. "And we'll cross those bridges when we come to them. In the meantime, I can promise you this. You will not be left to run a youth hostel by yourself." Robert McPherson arrived soon afterwards, and they all spent a pleasant hour before he bade them goodby. As he took Maureen's hand in parting, he said, "Remember we_ covered only the Dutch and Flemish artists at the museum. There are still the Spanish and French —not to mention the English. I shall be back soon." "Good," replied Maureen. "Tl be looking forward to another delightful tour." In the room later that evening, Diane said, "I think that you have made a conquest. He had a very special look for you." "Nonsense," answered Maureen. "You're as bad as Kitty when it comes to imagination." "Well, we shall see what we shall see. But you must admit that you find him attractive." "Certainly. Pll admit it with no hesitancy or qualifications. And may I add—so what?" "So, he's an eligible suitor, and you are a beautiful heiress...." "With a broken-down ruin of a castle and no money," Maureen interrupted. "Not enough to restore it, anyway. How did your day go?" lf Spring Be Late "The same—work, work, work. That woman is_ impossible— almost. But I certainly am learning a lot." "And getting paid for it, said Maureen. "So you have something of a bright lining to your cloud." P "T have, indeed, and I'm grateful," said Diane. "Only, I wish that I didn't have to work tomorrow.. Everyone else gets Saturday off. However, I can be glad that she doesn't insist upon Sunday as well. Sydney is coming out to go to church with us." "Good. I hope that he likes it. I'm ever so glad that you do." "Oh, yes, indeed. I think that you Mormons are wonderful. I never have known anyone to be so kind. By the way, is your Mr. McPherson a Mormon?" Maureen laughed. "I am sure he is. But don't call him my Mr. McPherson." "Well, we shall see. As I said before...." "As I'm saying now, let's go to sleep. I've had enough excitement for one day." "Ah, so the day was exciting! Well, that's promising." Maureen made no answer. Nor did she drop off to sleep right away. The day had been most interesting. She would go back Monday and buy the painting of the cottage, if she could afford it. She would much rather have it than one of the castle. Come to think of it, she would rather have the cottage. It was simply enchanting. Maybe she would take that for her share of the estate and let Bruce have the rest. " (To be continued) 525 Relief Society Activities Nevada Stake, Lund Ward Singing Mothers Present Music for Ward Conference April 21, 1968 Front row, left to right: Margaret Gubler, director and accompanist; Elinor Gardner, chorister; Helen Paice, homemaking leader, Nevada Stake Relief Society; sixth from left: Harriet Ivins, stake visiting teacher message leader. Second row, fifth from left: Mattie Jean Kilmer, social relations class leader; seventh from left: Colleen Scow, President, Lund Ward Relief Society. Beverly A. Sandburg, President, Nevada Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The members of this ward are all faithful in attending practices and present outstanding musical programs. They are always willing to participate in stake activities when called upon." Florida Mission, Georgia-Florida District Annual Visiting Teacher Convention Georgia-Florida District Relief Society Board, seated, left to right: Jean Webb, spiritual living class leader; Melva Lee Brown, chorister; Ora Wilkerson, First Counselor; Ruby Fussell, President; Vela Hawkins, Second Counselor; Dora Solomon, visiting teacher message leader; Elizabeth Lott, social relations class leader. Those standing are visiting teachers. Marva Rudd, Supervisor, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The GeorgiaFlorida District held their annual visiting teacher convention. The theme was 'Improve the Shining Moments With Music.' We have much talent in this district and were favored with 'The Visiting Teacher's Song,' a lovely vocal solo, and an outstanding violin solo. A film strip was shown, and lunch was served by the board, assisted by M. I. A. Girls of the Douglas Branch." Hunter Stake (Utah) Hunter Seventh Ward Visiting Teachers Gain Outstanding Achievement Hunter Seventh Ward Relief Society officers, first row, beginning second from left: Janet Rabey, Second Counselor; Lurae Garn, President; Theone Rees, First Counselor; Lora Rushton, Secretary-Treasurer; Lucille Rushton, visiting teacher supervisor; eighth from left, Genesee Roderick, visiting teacher supervisor. Second row, at left: Vera Halbert, visiting teacher message leader. Florence K. Judkins, President, Hunter Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Hunter Seventh Ward was organized in 1965. At that time the Relief Society set a goal to achieve one hundred per cent visiting teaching each year. They have met their goal. "The leaders are proud of the visiting teachers and the efforts they have made, and they have encouraged them and backed their efforts fully. We are very proud of this ward and they are an example to the entire stake.'' 526 4%. 7, 2! Yi. Ieee ° =" he" te -" —_ 7. At VED Py PS Pd July 1968 North Rexburg Stake (Idaho), Hibbard Ward Relief Society Presents "A Call to Benevolence" at Sacrament Meeting March 22, 1968 Cast of '"'A Call to Benevolence," front row, left to right: Flora Belle Johnson, Second Counselor, Hibbard Ward Relief Society; Corrine Hendricks, First Counselor; Guinevere Taylor, President; Harriet Rigby, spiritual living class leader; Karen Reno, narrator; Marcene Sommer; Marie Sommer; Evelyn Cheney; Arva Robison.. Back row, left to right: Vera Orr, chorister; Venese Bowen, stake organist; Elizabeth Neville; Ellen Willmore; Nina Ricks, stake chorister; Helen Oldham, visiting teacher message leader; Ruth Willmore; Nina Morris; Jylene Josephson, soloist; Theda Neville; Emile Sommer; Alice Tuckett; Lorna Leatham; Thelma Clements. Mary R.-Rydalch, President, North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: ''This program, commemorating the 126th anniversary of Relief Society, was one of the outstanding events in our stake this year. We are proud of this ward and the ae that went into the presentation." South Bear River Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention February 23, 1968 Back row, beginning with gentleman partially blocked from view, left to right: K. H. Fridal, Stake Relief Society High Council Advisor; Jeanetta M. Rose, visiting teacher message leader; Mabel C. Anderson, First Counselor; Ruth J. Hunsaker, President; Donna B. Worley, Second Counselor; Alice C. Harris, Secretary-Treasurer. Gentleman in center of picture: George M. Kerr, Stake High Councilman who was principal speaker. Sister Hunsaker reports: ''Our visiting teacher convention followed the procedures of a political convention to the exact detail. "Groups from each ward were assigned a seating section. Enthusiasm ran high. Each ward filled its allotted five minutes with cleverly and appropriately performed songs, marches, banner waving, and resolves. "'Thatcher-Penrose Ward won the award for attendance, and all of the sisters of this ward appear in the picture, along with a representative group of five members from each of the other nine wards in the stake. Light refreshments were served. "It was the largest attendance ever for a visiting teacher activity, and the compilation of resolutions was indeed a forging of stronger unity and service for all.'' Roosevelt Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Sing for Conference and Present Concert March 10, and 23, 1968 Second row, beginning at left: Elizabeth Oliphant, director; Verda Mae Mortensen, organist; Helen Larson, President, Roosevelt Stake Relief Society; Carrie Wills, Second Counselor. Sister Larson reports: "This group of Singing Mothers provided the music for stake quarterly conference on March 10. On March 23, they presented a spring concert. The theme for the concert was 'The Promise of America.' "Each of the eight wards presented numbers, then the combined choruses thrilled the audience with well-presented numbers. The script was written and narrated by Elaine Hullinger and Nedra Nickell. "We were especially pleased to have in attendance, Sister Evon W. Peterson, General Secretary of Relief Society, and her husband." 528 . <. ~ j, " ir, f; A *.. I \ i an <,, a Z a aor uv ne '* roto. - % 4 aes CALICO Rime NNO July 1968 Ricks College Stake (Idaho) Sewing Projects Ricks College Stake Relief Society presidency, left to right: Jessie Morrell, First Counselor; Lisle L. Andrus, President; Lu Seba Peterson, Second Counselor; Lorna Tibbits, homemaking leader. Sister Andrus reports: ''At our leadership meeting in March, Sister Helen Lamprecht, who is affiliated with the college, gave a short talk on basic sewing and offered some practical instruction. The members of the stake board each made a dress, like those worn in the picture. They are called three-armhole dresses, a type of wrap-around dress without a zipper, buttons, or snap closing, and they are very popular on campus. "Each of the ward leaders took what she had learned back to her Relief Society, and in one ward, twenty girls each completed an article of clothing." Kaysville Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers April 19, 1968 Kaysville Stake visiting teachers honored for long service, front row, left to right: Alice Green, sixty-three years; Myrtle Cottrell, fifty-three years; Annie Maxfield, fiftyyears; Lillie Blamires, forty-eight years. Back row, left to right: Crilla Scoffield, forty-three years; Mildred Horne, fortyone years; Alice Meiners, forty-five years; Julia Webster, forty-two years; Clara Colemere, forty-years; Gladys Rentmeister, forty-three years. Adelia H. Rushforth, President, Kaysville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We honored the visiting teachers of our stake at a convention and luncheon. The theme for the event was 'Happiness is—,' worked around ideas, among others, of service, beauty, thrift, and creativity. Under direction of the stake homemaking leader, Bonnie Heywood, a lovely spring fashion show of home sewed articles was presented. "Highlighting the program was the tribute to the visiting teachers with long service. In addition to those pictured, thirty-eight other sisters were given recognition for more than twenty years service as visiting teachers. "Outstanding among these was Sister Alice Green, who has served as a visiting teacher for sixty-three consecutive years. At eighty-eight, she is the oldest visiting teacher in the stake, and is an inspiration to all." Hyrum Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers in Special Program January 25, 1968 Front row, left to right, Hyrum Stake Relief Society officers: Alda Walters, Homemaking Counselor; Alice Olsen, visiting teacher message leader; Berenece B. Darley, President; Angeline Smith, Secretary-Treasurer; Lylas Bailey, Education Counselor. The honored visiting teachers are standing in the second row. Sister Darley reports: "'Our 'Twilight Social' was a special event to honor all visiting teachers in the stake. Also, as guests, we had the officers and class leaders of each of the wards. A delicious meal was served to 350 guests. "Following the dinner, an inspirational program built around the theme Matthew 25:34-40, regarding the blessings of service, was presented. "Each ward selected their two outstanding visiting teachers (pictured), who were honored with a special gift. Wellsville Second Ward was presented with a special gift for having the greatest percentage attendance at the social. "A large majority of the sisters expressed that this was the most enjoyable and inspirational evening they had spent. We feel it was very successful in stimulating the visiting teaching program throughout the stake.'' 530 eae. OR > 'e. Bs = - iia Oe noo) ae) July 1968 Emery Stake (Utah), Huntington First Ward Relief Society Flower Display September 13, 1967 Ella Rowley, homemaking leader, Huntington First Ward Relief Society, pictured with flower arrangements created by members of the Huntington First Ward Relief Society. Opal L. Anderson, President, Emery Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The sisters of the Huntington First Ward spent their homemaking meeting learning how to arrange flowers artistically and attractively. Many beautiful arrangements were created. The flowers were grown in the yards of the members. The arrangements were on display in the Relief Society room." Benson Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Past Presidents At Anniversary Celebration, March 15, 1968 Former Benson Stake Relief Society Presidents, left to right: Effie A. Greene (1925-1932); Lula Johnson (1938-1942); Leona McCarrey (1942-1952); Mabel H. Pond (1952-1957); Norma C. Bodily (1957-1962); Afton C. Lewis (1962-1967); Ruth C. White, current President; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society. Sister White reports: ''It was a thrill for us to have President Spafford and Leone G. Layton of the General Board attend our anniversary celebration. We honored the past presidents of our stake Relief Society. "A special musical program, 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' was presented by forty-eight Singing Mothers. It was composed and directed by Thora B. Littledike, stake chorister. Accompanists were Myrtha K. Westover and RaNae W. Karren. Narrator was May Hill." Sevier Stake Relief Society (Utah), Richfield First Ward Honors Past Presidents at Anniversary Party March 12, 1968 Left to right, former and present presidents, Richfield First Ward Relief Society: Fonetta Barney, Dot Peterson, current President Helen Heinz, Rhoda Palmer, Rachel Dale, Mae Larsen, Pearl Hatch, Velda Barney. Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Seven past presidents of the Richfield First Ward Relief Society were honored at the Relief Society anniversary celebration and birthday party. These sisters have served since 1942, with the exception of one past president who has moved away. "Activities such as this were carried out in most of the wards throughout the stake in commemoration of the birth of Relief Society 126 years ago." Modesto Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present ''Moments to Remember" March 19, 1968 Seated on stage, beginning fourteenth from left: Betty Zwahlen, pianist; Nina Mineni, organist; Catherine Openshaw; conductor. Leona Hansen, President, Modesto Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A special program commemorating the birth of Relief Society was presented by individual ward choruses and the combined stake chorus which sang fifteen selected ballads and patriotic songs. "The theme for the concert was 'Moments to Remember.' The music depicted an appreciation of Relief Society, the joys of family life from early childhood to grandparents, and love of the Nation. "The music was highlighted by tableaus, novelty numbers, and dance numbers. The script and narration by Myrna Clawson and Velma Alldredge reminded the audience 'Why a Singing Mother Sings,' which was the opening number. "Over 450 people enjoyed the music and the birthday cake and punch which were served as refreshments." 532 SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 89—The Law of Tithing Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman views the payment INTRODUCTION The modern revelations emphasize the need for members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to build Zion on the earth. (D&C 6:6-7.) The earliest law of the dispensation to assist in the building of Zion upon the earth was the law of consecration. (D&C 42:33-36.) When this law was placed in abeyance, the Lord revealed the law of tithing as the next method of obtaining revenue for the growth of his kingdom. (Jbid., 105:9-10;119.) Before the law of tithing was fully revealed, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in 1834, committed themselves to the principle of tithing. (Joseph 534 of tithing as a privilege, knowing that eternal blessings are the result. Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, Vol. 2, p. 175 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) When this law was made known, in 1838, at Far West, Missouri, it came in response to this supplication: "OQ Lord! Show unto thy servant how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing." (Ibid., 3:44.) At an earlier period the law of tithing was prophetically mentioned in a revelation while the law of consecration was in force. The Lord said that it was '"'a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people..." (D&C 64:23.) (lbid., 64:24; Hyrum M. Smithand Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, rev. Ed.; Salt Lake City: The Deseret Book Company, 1957, p. 394.) A LESSER LAW The law of tithing became a schoolmaster to bring the members of the Church to the greater law of consecration, as the law of Moses anciently was the lesser law to bring ancient Israel to the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Melvin J. Ballard, Conference Report, October 1929, pp. 50-51.) Although a law may be thought of as lesser, it does not follow that the lesser of the two laws does not require obedience. In fact, all of God's laws are everlasting or eternal in the same way that the law of tithing is declared to be "a standard law unto them forever..." (D&C 119:4.) All laws remain forever, yet they may not all be in force at the same time, some serving as preparation to the living of other laws. AN ETERNAL INHERITANCE The faithful saint lays claim to an inheritance when the earth is redeemed and sanctified. (D&C 88:19-22.) Those who obey the law of tithing are acquiring an inheritance on the celestialized earth. Malachi said that those whose names are found in the book of remembrance are those "that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name.... And they shall be mine... In that day when I make up my jewels...." (Malachi 3:16-18.) Lesson Department THE LAW OF TITHING In answer to the prayer as to what constitutes a tithe, the Lord revealed that the members of the Church should pay "onetenth of all their interest annually." (D&C 119:4.) As Elder Howard W. Hunter has said: Interest means profit, compensation, increase. It is the wage of one employed, the profit from the operation of a business, the increase of one who grows or produces, or the income to a_ person from any other source... (Howard W. Hunter, Conference Report, April 1964, p. 35.) When the law of tithing was received, the Lord required that his saints should begin their tithing with giving all of their surplus property to the Church, and thereafter to pay one-tenth on their income. (D&C 119:1.) A GIFT OR AN OBLIGATION? Whether or not tithing is a gift or an obligation may be answered with the reply that since the law is a commandment then it is obligatory upon all members of the Church who receive an income to pay tithing. If tithing were a gift, the saint would not be required to surrender the tithe, but he could pay it whenever he desired or not pay it at all. "Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require... Onetenth of all their interest annually,.." (@@id., 1197149) Tithing is, however, a voluntary offering because the Lord does not compel his people to live a commandment. This law is no different from the law of the Sabbath or any of the laws of the gospel. Each person de- 535 July 1968 cides whether or not he wants the blessing arising from obedience to the law. (/bid., 130:20-21.) DEBTS AND TITHING The Old Testament Prophet Malachi expressed the truth that when a person withheld the tithe from the Lord, he was robbing him. Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. (Malachi 3:8-9.) Expressed in the language of Elder Howard W. Hunter, we learn the following: The Lord has established the law of tithing, and because it is his law, it becomes our obligation to observe it if we love him and have a desire to keep his commandments and _ receive his blessings. In this way it becomes a debt. The man who doesn't pay his tithing because he is in debt should ask himself if he is not also in debt to the Lord. The Master said: "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness: and all these things shall be added unto you." (Matthew 6:33.) We can't walk east and west at the same time. We can't serve both God and mammon. The man who rejects the law of the tithe is the man who has not given it a fair try. Of course it costs something. It takes work and thought and effort to live any of the laws of the gospel or any of its principles. (Conference Report, April 1964, p. 35.) Class Discussion Elder Hunter suggests that the person in debt should pay his tithing. What reasons would you give for this counsel? BEWARE OF FALSE TEACHING What would you do if you were told by a good member of the Church that although you have an income from wages, rent, 536 and so forth, you should not pay your tithing? This is the way this question was solved by the widowed mother of President Joseph F. Smith when he was but a boy. When she arrived at the tithing office with a load of potatoes as her tithing, the clerk chided her for paying her tithing. Whereupon she said: "William, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Would you deny me a blessing? If I did not pay my tithing, I should expect the Lord to withhold his blessings from me. I pay my tithing, not only because it is a law of God, but because I expect a blessing by doing it. By keeping this and other laws, I expect to prosper, and to be able to provide for my family." In relating this story, President Smith testified that she had an abundance to support her family and that her family never lacked. Then he said: "That widow had her name recorded in the book of the law of the Lord..." (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, tenth edition, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1956, pp. 228-229.) RECORDS IN HEAVEN The Prophet Joseph Smith said that "Our acts are recorded, and at a future day they will be laid before us..."- (DHC 2:26.) The Church maintains an accurate record of the tithing paid by the members. Not long after the law of consecration was revealed, the Lord made known that a general Church record of all things that transpired in Zion should be made. The names of those who were not diligent were not to be recorded with the faithful. It was said that the "book of the law of God" (D&C 85:5) would not contain the names of this class. (D&C 85:1-5.) The faithful, on the other hand, were promised that they should have their names recorded in the "Lamb's book of life." (Revelation 21:27; D&C 128:7.) This record is maintained in the heavens and contains the names of those who have kept the commandments, including the law of tithing. Members of the Church should know that on many occasions during their lives they are judged by their bishops to receive blessings the Church may bestow upon them. The principle of tithing is a measure, with other commandments, to determine a person's worthiness. Class Discussion Why do you think that the Lord requires that a person pay his tithing in order to receive a temple recommend? ANCIENT PROMISES—BLESSINGS TODAY? Malachi's words have profound meaning for today. (Malachi 3:8-18.) His condemnation of the people for their having robbed God in their tithes and offerings reminds one of Elder Howard W. Hunter's | characterization of the non-tithe payer in these words:... In larceny there is an unlawful acquisition of the property, while in embezzlement the property which belongs to another is acquired lawfully and then fraudulently converted to the possessor's use. In order to memorize these distinctions [while in law school], I pietured in my mind, to represent larceny, Lesson Department a masked burglar, sneaking about under the cover of darkness, taking that which was not his. To represent the theory of embezzlement I thought of a _nontithepayer. The Lord's share came into his hands lawfully, but he misappropriated it to his own use. This seems to be the accusation of Malachi. (Conference Report, April 1964, p. 34.) The Lord has said that every man is only a steward over his earthly possessions, for all that exists belongs to the Lord. (D&C 104:13-14.) One may think of the tithe as the payment of rent for the air one breathes, the clothes one wears, or the food he eats; in fact, for all earthly possessions. A CHALLENGE The challenge of the law of tithing is expressed in these words: "... Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord. Of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." (Malachi 3:10.) "Prove me" by living my law and see the results! Elder James EK. Talmage expressed the point that since man has a need for the material things of the earth to support himself and family, the Lord has promised that the means of acquiring these things are available, but one's' life may not be one of uniform increase in substance and_ possessions. One pays the rental in accordance with the amount of increase received during a given year. As more is received then more is expected, but if less is received, then less is expected. Consequently, all the faithful, the poor or the rich, may be "ce 537 July 1968 stockholders in the great corporation of God. (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, Forty-seventh Edition; Salt Lake City, p. 527- 528.) Elder Melvin J. Ballard observed that one should not pay his tithing with the hope that he will be immediately benefited financially. He said the following:. I have listened to the testimonies of thousands in the mission field, converts to the Church, who have had faith in this law, and who have paid their tithing, and the Lord has manifested His good pleasure towards them by bringing a material increase that greatly relieved them of distresses that were pressing upon them. Do I mean to say that a man who has an income of a hundred dollars and pays ten dollars of it into the Church for the Lord's work, can make the ninety dollars go as far as the hundred? Yes, by wisely spending it, sometimes a good deal farther. I have observed it is not brains nor strength that brings material prosperity altogether. It is simply doing the right thing at the right time that leads on to success. (The Deseret News, December 17, 1927, p. V.) Class Discussion How may the payment of tithing lead to wise planning? "WINDOWS OF HEAVEN" One of the stirring episodes in Church history was presented to the Church by film under the title 'Windows of Heaven." The event occurred in the year 1899 when President Lorenzo Snow received the inspiration to take many of the General Authorities to St. George, Utah, to hold conference. While there he received a revelation on tithing. The saints in that area were discouraged because a_ severe drought had made it virtually impossible for them to plant 538 their crops. The Church was also heavily in debt. During one of the conference meetings, the Lord revealed to the President of the Church the means by which the people and the Church might be blessed. This account is given of that experience:.. God manifested to him there and then not only the purpose of the call to visit the Saints in the South. He told them that he could see, as he had never realized before, how the law of tithing had been neglected by the people, also that the Saints, themselves, were heavily in debt, as well as the Church, and now through strict obedience to this law—the paying of a full and honest tithing—not only would the Church be relieved of its great indebtedness, but through the blessings of the Lord this would also be the means of freeing the Latterday Saints from their individual obligations, and they would become a prosperous people. (The Church News, January 20, 1934, p. 4.) Subsequently, events proved that the promise of the Lord through President Snow was literally fulfilled in behalf of the members of the Church who accepted the Lord's challenge, and because of their acceptance of the law of tithing the Church came out of financial bondage. The prosperity of the saints and the accomplishments of the Church have resulted because of obedience to the law of tithing and all other commandments. Class Discussion Faith in and practice of the Lord's commandments bring happiness and prosperity. A WARNING A person who has covenanted with the Lord in baptism and then fails to pay his tithing be- comes spiritually sick. One of the sure signs of weakened faith and loss of spirituality is due to this cause. The neglect of one principle of the gospel invaribly causes neglect in other principles. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 15:163.) A purpose of the law of the tithe is that a person may receive soul growth from the practice. The law, faithfully observed, has the effect of uprooting selfishness and demonstrating loyalty to the kingdom of God. It testifies to the fact that one desires to become one with the Lord in working for his purposes on earth and in heaven. BUILD THE KINGDOM In addition to the growth of spirituality received by the tithepayer, the Lord's work prospers through the revenue from the tithing. The progress of the Church in the erection of meetinghouses, temples, welfare program, missionary work, and many other programs are provided from the tithes of the people. The dedicated Latterday Saint works for the building of the kingdom of God through the payment of tithing. IMPLEMENTATION The Latter-day Saint who obeys the law of tithing is living a spiritual law necessary for a successful life. Although tithing funds are used for the construction of material things, as buildings, nonetheless, the use made of those structures, Lesson Department such as a temple or meeting place, is for spiritual purposes. Not only is the tithepayer contributing to his own spiritual welfare, but also to the welfare of his fellow Church members. The Lord has said that obedience to this law sanctifies the land of Zion unto him and unto us. (D&C 119:6.) In fact, it is revealed that Zion is those who keep the commandments, including the law of tithing. Since the purpose of the members of the Church is to build Zion on the earth, it is impossible to fulfill this purpose without making a contribution of one's means by which revenue is received to further the Lord's work. The law of tithing has been called the law of inheritance. He who desires to receive a celestial inheritance must give full obedience to gospel requirements. There is no success in this life that does not include preparation for life eternal with the blessings of perpetual posterity in the celestial kingdom. President Joseph F. Smith has emphasized the importance of the law of tithing in the following statement: By this principle the loyalty of the people of this Church shall be put to the test. By this principle it shall be known who is for the kingdom of God and who is against it. By this principle it shall be seen whose hearts are set on doing the will of God and keeping His commandments, thereby _ sanctifying the land of Zion unto God, and who are opposed to this principle and have cut themselves off from the blessings of Zion... (Conference Report, April 1900, p. 47.) OO 539 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES —Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 1—Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Alice Colton Smith Northern Hesmisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To understand that many of the riches © of eternal life are available to us at this time. "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) The mass media of our day extol the desirability of the riches of the earth. As soon as one can listen, understand, or read, one discovers that the constantly repeated values of the world emphasize power, wealth, comfort, position, status, pleasure, beautiful homes and furnishings, cars, and the advantage of material things of all kinds. Amid the clamor of these insistent urgings to spend, buy, own, be, and do, comes the advice of our Savior and King, "Seek not for riches but for wisdom. Behold, he that hath eternal life, is rich." (D&C 6:7.) We know that at death we leave behind wealth, power, status, and material things. Why, then, do we spend so much of our energy and time in_ pursuing that which is so briefly ours? Why do we not listen to and act on the words of our Savior with greater devotion? He in- 540 structed us further through the prophet Jacob:.. But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted. (Jacob 2:18-19.) Thus, God does not condemn riches, it is their unrighteous acquisition and use that are displeasing. In our day, however, the Lord urges us not to seek riches but to seek wisdom. What are some of the riches of eternal life that are available to us in this life through our obedience to this commandment? They are wisdom, which may be defined as "the power of true and right discernment; also,-conformity to the course of action dictated by such discernment" (Funk and Wagnalls New Collegiate Dictionary); "ability to judge soundly and deal sagaciously with facts, especially as they relate to life and conduct..." (Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary, 2d _ ed.); the knowledge of 'the only true God, and Jesus Christ..." (John 17:3); the mysteries of God; the freedom of choice without coercion; communication with our Heavenly Father; the gift of the Holy Ghost; the peaceable things of the Kingdom; and Lesson Department greatest of all the gifts of God." (D&C 14:7.) Today is-a crucial part of eternity. Our whole future depends on what we believe and do here today and every day. Wisdom, the mysteries of God, the riches of eternal life, or the riches of material things—for what do we seek? "eternal life, which gift is the HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 1—Preparing for the Sabbath Day Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that in order to keep the Sabbath day holy, physical preparations should be made. INTRODUCTION What a happy, pleasant, holy day Sunday can be for the entire family when a feeling of order prevails, when things work smoothly because advance preparation and planning have eliminated most sources of frustration and irritation. Mothers have been heard to say that Sundays are the most difficult days, when actually they should be the most blessed and rewarding. How can we make them so? Consultation with several wonderful women who seem to have successfully solved this problem reveals the evidence that, as is usually the case, the busiest mothers are those who have most of the answers. To you mothers of small children who might feel that your problems are your own—as indeed they are—as well as to you who are the mothers of large families comprised of members of varying ages, the following discussion is directed in the hope that you may find some practical application to your own situation. HOW SHALL WE PREPARE? A sister, who is the mother of ten energetic and typically "nor- 541 July 1968 mal" children, gives us what she calls a "Basic recipe for a restful Sabbath day." I. Prepare the atmosphere in the home. A. Remember that "the Sabbath was made for man," and have the right attitude; make it a restful, happy day for yourself as well as for the family. B. Inspire your husband to play his role as patriarch of the family by supporting you in your plans and assignments for the family. C. Plan wisely. II. Organize yourself and your children to prepare for a day of rest. A. Organize meal planning, preparation, and cleanup. 1. For Sunday dinner plan an easy, simple meal to prepare. 2. Breakfast on Sunday morning is fruit juice and dry cereal. 3. Plan an easy evening snack, after sacrament meeting. 4. Each member is assigned a cleanup duty after each Sunday meal as well as on weekdays. B. Organize to have the house clean. 1. Each child is required to clean his own room thoroughly in addition to one other area either Friday or Saturday. 2. On Saturday evening the children are reminded to check their assigned areas. C. Organize the preparation of clothes and personal selves for Sunday. Another sister, the wife of a doctor and bishop and mother of eight lovely and exemplary children, says: I want only a minimum of work done on Sunday, and yet I cannot feel at peace or in harmony with the Lord if my house is disorderly. So we try to make a practice of having the house clean and neat before retiring on Saturday. Then all that I require of my children on Sunday morning is to see that their beds are made and their clothes picked up before they go to Sunday School. She also says: Well, suppose the house is clean and the clothes are ready, is the family prepared for the Sabbath? No, they are only prepared to be prepared. Now it is necessary to create the spirit and atmosphere of the Sabbath. I like to put on some of our Tabernacle Choir records or encourage some of my children to practice the hymns on the piano or even sing some of the familiar hymns myself. I was surprised one day as I was singing "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," to have my little three-year-old join in the singing and then beg me to sing it over and over again. A talented mother of ten equally lovely and talented children tells of her procedure in the physical preparation for Sunday as follows: I On Saturday A. Children bathed and hair washed B. Clothes checked by Mother C. Menu planned for Sunday ("I have never stayed home from Sunday School to fix a Sunday meal whether we have had guests or not.") D. House cleaned and set in order for Sunday 542 Lesson Department II. On Sunday A. Older children help the younger ones get dressed for Sunday School. B. Mother rises early to see Father and the boys off to priesthood meetings and the older girls to prayer meeting and to supervise others. C. The meat or entree course, if not prepared in advance,. Ls put on to cook and the kitchen tidied up after a light breakfast. D. After Sunday School certain children are assigned to set the table. ("We always Use our best lace or linen cloths and our best silverware and glasses on Sunday... We try to teach the children good manners and give them the opportunity to put them into practice.'') This sister sums UP her comments by saying: I would like my children to remember that Sunday was the happiest day of the week and that we all looked forward to its coming because we received food for our souls, renewed our covenants with our Father in heaven, remembered each other with more love and kindness, and received the spirit and peace of the Savior with reverence. To Discuss 1. What are my responsibilities as a mother in preparing for the Sabbath? 9. How can I adapt the suggestions ln the discussion to my own advantage? 3. Why is staying away from Sunday School and sacrament meeting no answer to the problem? CONCLUSION With the right attitude toward the Sabbath day and with the realization that careful and orderly physical preparation for it must be made, any mother, whether her family is large or small, can make the Sabbath a day of rewarding blessings for the entire family. R 7 MOON MAGIC Without This silver moon No ebony shadows, No silhouettes—blackness flowers From light. Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 543 SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 1—Profiles Remembered Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out gospel teachings that influenced the life of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and to indicate how his life and writings may influence other lives for good. INTRODUCTION Valuable as man's individual accomplishments may be for the immediate time and _ situation, not until they 'are viewed from the distance of years do they sometimes assume their proper perspective of importance. History also bears out the truth that the results of important action may persist through the years with continuing benefit. So it may be with the accomplishments of J. Reuben Clark, Jr., whose contributions were many and whose life spanned a productive period of ninety years. Here, native ability plus consistent personal effort and a protecting Providence, resulted in significant service to his Church, the Nation, and in the development of a noble character. Much has been written about President Clark. Articles, biog- 544 raphies, sketches of his appointments, newspaper _ editorials, and isolated comments are numerous. Some have come from the pens of individuals who knew him as a national and international figure. Some were written by General Authorities of the Church, others by newspaper correspondents or editors or friends. Some have come from loved ones to whom his intimate personal characteristics are a constant motivation and a priceless memory. Since the 1968-69 social relations lessons are based (as are the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons) upon his life and writings, it is appropriate that, in this introductory lesson, we meet President Clark personally. The various facets of his personality and his experiences -: President J. Reuben Clark, Jr constitute profiles of action that have inspired thousands and may yet motivate thousands more for good. This lesson, quoting much from others, deals with facets in the light of "Profiles Remembered." Space allows but a fraction of what has been said and written about his contributions, yet it is hoped that the robust vigor of his mind, the integrity of his faith, and the tender warmth of his personality will somehow shine through the factual account of his accomplishments. For a more chronological account of his life, see lesson 1 of the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1968-69; or if available, The Improvement Era, August, 1951, Vol. 54, pp. 560- 563, 592: Article by John A. Widtsoe, "President J. Reuben Clark, Jr."; The Relief Society Magazine; June 1951, pp. 373- 377: Article by Henry D. Moyle, "President J. Reuben Clark, Jr." PROFILE OF YOUTH Grantsville, Tooele County, Utah, 1871, was typical of many small Mormon communities in the western part of the United States in the late nineteenth century. Their populations were a composite of convert immigrants from many European countries brought together by a common love for the gospel of Jesus Christ which they had so recently accepted. These pioneers knew the meaning of toil, for work was basic to survival. With persistent zeal they labored hours that the stubborn desert might be subdued and converted into productive 545 July 1968 farm and dairy acres. Life was simple, wholesome, and fundamentally religious, the devotional Sabbath climaxing the week where family prayers were offered daily. Thought and serious conversation often focused upon the eternal truths which answered their questions concerning the purposes of life and an after-life existence. Into such a community (Grantsville) and into a home where work and love and religion were a happy blend, Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. Was_ born, September 1, 1871. "His parents, Joshua Reuben and Mary Louisa Woolley Clark, were pioneers of Tooele County..." (The Improvement Era: Editorial, May 1968, p. 416.) Young Reuben was always an avid reader. Evident, even in youth, his thirst for learning remained with him throughout life. Even in the pioneer home good reading material was available, although meager when compared to the voluminous library of his own home in later years. In his father's library "Reuben especially studied The Book of Mormon and took delight in looking at the large pictures in their family Bible. Many of Shakespeare's plays he read over and over, and also 'A History of Rome' and a biography of great men.... Any minute which Reuben could snatch from the many chores, inside and out of home, was usually devoted to reading." ("Born to Greatness," Marianne C. Sharp, The Children's Friend, September 1954, p. 361.) Following is a personal account which sheds a whimsical light upon his early teen-age interest 546 in books, at the same time it impresses one with the importance of early home atmosphere and training. I remember once when one of my brothers came to us, a good aunt came out to care for mother and the baby brother. She wanted me to do something. She hunted for me high and low, and at last finding me, she called to mother: "Here he is; reading again." I also remember that being the oldest, I had "to tend" the younger ones. We had an old fashioned cradle. Mother would put the babe in the cradle and set me to rocking it to sleep. This I did by lying across the foot of the cradle, legs on one side, head and shoulders on the other, and as I rocked the babe, I sang—and read. Sometimes the singing stopped in the interesting part and the babe would cry, then a call from mother brought me back to earth and we, the babe and I, started back and forth on our rocking again. This went on till the babe couldn't keep awake any longer, so went to sleep.... In my mature years I have come to understand how limited is my brain energy, how short ls my time, and how precious is my every moment. My rule now is—never read anything that is not worth remembering. I now know that all the wisdom of the past is for our use, and that the only place we can learn that wisdom which comes fom all that men have thought, and worked, and suffered, and achieved, is from good books; and wisdom is one of the most precious gifts that the Lord has to give. ("What I Read As a Boy," by J. Reuben Clark Jr., The Children's Friend, March 1943, p. 99.) Class Question How does this glimpse into President Clark's early reading and his mature reaction relate to the divine injunction, "seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith'? (D&C 88:118.) PROFILE OF ACCEPTANCE AND APPLICATION Willingness to work is a gospel teaching understood and con- sistently practiced by President Clark. In the Doctrine and Covenants we read: Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer. (D&C 42:42.) In his Grantsville home, young Reuben learned early that in work there is dignity and satisfaction as well as necessity. Being the eldest of the nine children, there were many chores and responsibilities within the home and upon the farm. At sixteen years of age he was in full charge of the family farm. He also herded cattle for his uncle, Samuel Woolley, driving them to the summer range every spring and back to the winter range every fall. He knew, therefore, the language and hardships of the cowboy, and what it meant to stay in the saddle all day and all night, and to go without rest or sleep for twenty-four hours at a time. (Bryant S. Hinckley: The Relief Society Magazine, April 1949, p. 252.) Class Involvement 1. Discuss briefly the value of establishing the principle and habit of work in youth, rather than waiting until later years. 2. Why do you believe that today's children, having less work to do, are apt to be more restless, even delinquent? President' Clark not only learned to work in youth but he accepted this early training with a positive attitude. He loved to work. As we follow him through a long and productive life we observe that no amount of labor seemed too much nor too arduous for the objectives he wished to Lesson Department achieve. One of his objectives was to obtain an education and this he did, overcoming many obstacles in order to do so. At nineteen he left Grantsville and, going to Salt Lake City, he entered the Latter-day Saints University and, later, graduated from the University of Utah. Although the allowance was small, an assistantship at the Deseret Museum under Dr. James E. Talmage helped him financially. Here alertness of mind and diligent effort made him a leader in student affairs. The same mental application and diligence brought recognition and the coveted degree in law from Columbia University in 1906. In words of guidance given to graduating students in a commencement address at the Brigham Young University in 1949, we see President Clark's mature thinking on the importance of work. Work is the nearest substitute for genius, and genius without work is barren. If more people had to work for a living, instead of talking for it, the world would be better off. That President Clark's formula for success was hard work, was well known by friend and diplomat. When he was appointed United States Ambassador to Mexico, in 1930, one newspaper printed the following: Mr. Clark stands among the few diplomats of the first order that the West has produced. It is somewhat unfair to Ambassador Clark, however, to say that the West produced him. As a matter of fact, J. Reuben Clark, the Ambassador, is the product of J. Reuben Clark, the student, the investigator, the worker and the faithful servant of the government. 547 July 1968 There is no finer example... In the whole history of the foreign service. Mr. Clark is responsible for his own success... ("President J. Reuben Clark, Jr...." Henry D. Moyle, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951, p. 374.) It is obvious that President Clark did not expect to reap a harvest of success without planting the seed of desire and then cultivating that seed through diligent effort. Class Involvement 1. How may his example apply to Latter-day Saint women who are successful (a) in their homes; (b) in Church or civic assignments? 2. How may we help our children to see the need for and benefit of work? PROFILE OF PERSONAL LIFE His family remembers President Clark as a husband and father who was devotion itself. He had a fierce love and pride in his children. He guarded them with every fiber of his being, and was their severest but at the same time loving critic. He demanded the best from them; pointing out errors in their thinking with a_ kindly bluntness that left no doubt as to his meaning. His approval was vital to them, and this was one of the great motivating factors for good in their lives. He lavished upon them what material comforts he could, but his foremost concern was the condition of their souls and to this he brought his keenest effort. To them he was a pillar of power and strength, and the center of their home which revolved around and honored him as the patriarch of his family. He delighted in any of their accomplishments and was si- 548 lently sympathetic with their failures. One of the most outstanding characteristics of his life was his deep respect and reverence for womanhood. His wife, whom he cherished with humble, unwavering love, and his daughters were tenderly sheltered and guarded by him with every force at his command. He stood almost in awe of mother-love nurtured by the deep love and esteem, almost reverence, which he felt for his own beloved mother, often declaring mother-love to be more like the love God feels for his children than any other. He was endowed with a keen sense of humor, and his spirit of acute discernment gave him uncanny insight into the lives of his three daughters, Louise, Marianne, and Luacine, and son Reuben III. He never minced words, but his children knew that at the base of every reprimand was unquestioned love and devotion to them. To his family he personified the righteous, God-fearing, obedient child of the new and everlasting covenant that he wanted them to become. PROFILE OF INFLUENCE ON THE INTERNATIONAL SCENE In order to evaluate the influence of President Clark in the fleld of human relations on the international scene, we must review, very briefly, a few of his many appointments to governmental positions. After receiving a degree in law from Columbia University, New York City, where he was a distinguished student and editor of the legal department of the Columbia Law Review, he was appointed assistant solicitor of the United States Department of State under Secretary Elihu Root. In 1910, after four distinguished years of service, he became solicitor, which is the chief legal officer of the State Department. Later, as Under Secretary of State, he "moved more and more into the field of international law, in which he became a foremost authority and is so recognized today." (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 1.) "In 1930 he was appointed United States Ambassador to Mexico. During his threeyear service he helped to settle many an international controversy, such as the oil rights of foreigners in Mexico, the correct boundary lines between Mexico and the United States... The division of the waters of the Rio Grande. Best of all, Mexico and the United States worked together as friends during President Clark's ambassadorship." ([bid.) What personal qualities contributed' to President Clark's diplomatic success? From Mr. Howland Cox, staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor, we quote: (Christian Science Monitor, September 1, 1931.) The Ambassador's seemingly unfailing knack of winning and holding friends stands him in good stead. Perhaps it is his willingness to listen to the "other fellow's side of the story" that endears him to the people of that southern republic. Perhaps it is his entirely sincere desire to place all cases fairly before his nation, and before the nation to which he is an accredited representative.... That is why Mexico trusts him. And why Mexico is willing to work with him. And why Mexico likes him. Lesson Department The article continues: To really know the man one must meet him in his home. He has a wife and a daughter, Luacine. [Other family members were not in Mexico at this time.] See them and it is not difficult to understand why the Ambassador looks upon the world through clear, friendly eyes. They are a versatile group. The Ambassador with his hobby of photography; Mrs. Clark with her work among the needy of Mexico City, and the daughter with her music. To hear them discuss their "tasks of the moment"... Is to wonder how anyone at all can remain idle. Class Involvement Questions 1. Why do you think empathy is important in international affairs as well as in personal relationships? 2. What other personal qualities gave Ambassador Clark the "knack of winning and holding friends''? 3. How may these qualities apply to you, to me, in all neighborhood problem situations? PROFILE OF CHURCH SERVICE The profile of Church service is considered last in this lesson because appointment to membership in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to apostleship came in the richly mature years of President Clark's life, after he had won distinction in the world of legal and diplomatic affairs. His service to the Church, however, actually began in Grantsville, as a boy. In 1925 he was appointed to the General Board of the YMMIA. Very many of President Clark's mature years, however, were lived away from the organized units of the Church. He was a consistent Latter-day Saint, and, at all times, lived in strict 549 July 1968 harmony with the standards of gospel teachings.... His work while in Washington was one of the finest examples of missionary work ever done, for he preached Mormonism in every act of his life.. (Editorial, The Improvement Era, May 1933.) In 1933, at the conclusion of his ambassadorship to Mexico, he was sustained as Second Counselor to President Heber J. Grant, whom he served for twelve years. He was ordained an apostle in 1934. Until his death October 6, 1961, he was a member of the First Presidency, serving also under President George Albert Smith and President David O. McKay. Elder Albert E. Bowen, an associate in the Council of the Twelve, characterized President Clark thus: The personal endowment and qualities which have made possible his varied and distinguished achievements are perhaps three, with their corollaries: First: A vigorous and discriminating intellect. His is the rare power of penetrating through all confusing, superficial envelopments to the root and marrow of a confronting problem. Second: A prodigious power of work— a constitution which seems able to respond to any draft that may be made upon it. Work is his vocation and his avocation, his pursuit and his pastime. Third: An uncompromising, undeviating honesty—intellectual and moral honesty. "Face the Facts," is a characteristic expression of his. He spends no time in working upon schemes of evasion.... (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951, p. 374.) To the member of the Church, perhaps the most important characteristic was the quality of > ws 550 his faith and humility, which radiated from his every conference address. In 1946 an editorial in the Deseret News states:... Those who know President Clark intimately know that he is guided and motivated in his Church leadership by as profound and simple a faith as is possessed by any man in the Church. The Standard Works of the Church are his guide, and he accepts without question the word of the Lord as contained therein. The experiences of Joseph Smith are as real to him as any of his own. He has never doubted the divine mission of the Savior, and has spent a great part of his life in making a study of the life and works of the Master while he was upon earth.... He does not doubt that God lives and that he hears and answers the prayers of the righteous.... (Church News, August 31, 1946.) SUMMARY Frequently men may excel in one area of endeavor or in one aspect of character, their accomplishments winning the recognition of men. President Clark was a balanced, well-rounded man. In him no facet of the good life was undeveloped. He was the student, friend, father, counselor, man of productive action, and one of deep religious faith. Through memory and through his published writings the profile of his clear thinking, articulate speech, his faith and his steadfast adherence to principle, will continue to inspire and motivate for good. For Home-doing Examine your own life in terms of the profiles remembered of President Clark and decide which you may wish to emulate in your own life. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—The Excitement of Discovery Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section One By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "One truth discovered is a link with the immortal." —William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that the world in which a woman serves is limited by the extent of her desire to discover. Recommendations for musical selections for lesson 1 of the cultural refinement course, year 1968-1969: MUSIC 16th-Century Instrumental Suite Two Selections from Ancient Dances and Airs for Lute by Ottorino Respighi (Italian, 1879-1936) Commentary on musical selections by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University The purpose in choosing these selections is twofold: First, the music chosen is not a part of the standard repertory, indeed, is not known at all but to the few enthusiasts for old and new music. These lovely pieces should help the sisters to realize how many beautiful works of music are awaiting their discovery. Second, in the 16th-century suite, instruments are employed that are not used today; in the "Ancient Dances and Airs," well-known instruments are used in new and colorful ways. Thus, these selections should encourage the sisters to be more aware of individual sounds and colors that are a part of the musical fabric. The selections recommended should allow the Relief Society sisters the opportunity to experience the excitement of discovering new aspects of music. 551 July 1968 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON The objective of this month's lesson becomes even more challenging when we realize that the "world" in which we live is not one world but several—the vast physical world and all its wonders and beauty, the unseen spiritual world and its powers, the world of people, their complex types and relationships, the hidden world within each person and all its complexities of feeling and thought, and, finally, the world of eternal truths and principles that bind all these other worlds into a harmonious unity. Our goal is to discover all these worlds as fully and honestly as possible, to separate the trivial from the significant in what we discover, to direct our lives in harmony with eternal principles, and to give our energies towards making the world better and more beautiful. DISCOVERY THROUGH THE PHYSICAL SENSES When anyone mentions the excitement of discovery, people usually think of looking with their eyes, for sight is the natural beginning of exploring the world. At least it is for most people. And the worth of our eyes as cameras with which to see the detailed wonders of the world is made especially dramatic and poignant whenever we meet one who is blind, as in the following simple poem by the English poet W. W. Gibson: SIGHT By the lamplit stall I loitered, feasting my eyes 552 On colors ripe and rich for the heart's desire— Tomatoes, redder than Krakatoa's fire, Oranges like old sunsets over Tyre, And apples golden-green as the glades of Paradise. And as I lingered, lost in divine delight, My heart thanked God for the goodly gift of sight And all youth's lively senses keen and quick.... When suddenly, behind me in the night, I heard the tapping of a blind man's stick. Not many people are literally blind, but there is another kind of blindness that is widespread— the blindness that comes from looking without seeing. We are surrounded on all sides with the wonders of nature and people, but how many of us see what we look at? One of the most important gifts of many poets is that they see things sharply and describe them accurately, making simple things become vividly interesting and helping others to "see" things around them that have been there all the time, but they have never noticed before. As an example, study the following little poem by Rupert Brooke, a gifted young British soldier-poet who died of blood poisoning early in World War TI: From 'The Great Lover'' These I have loved: White plates and cups, clean-gleaming, Ringed with blue lines; and feathery, faery dust; Wet roofs, beneath the strong crust lamp-hght; Of friendly bread; and many-tasting food; Rainbows; and the blue bitter smoke of wood; And radiant raindrops couching in cool flowers; And_ flowers themselves, that through sunny hours, sway Dreaming of moths that drink them under the moon; Then, the cool kindliness of sheets, that soon Smooth away trouble; and the rough male kiss Of blankets; that is Shining and free; blue-massing clouds; the keen Unpassioned beauty of a great machine; The benison of hot water; furs to touch; The good smell of old clothes; and other such-- The comfortable smell of friendly fingers, Hair's fragrance, and the musty reek that lingers About dead leaves and last year's ferns... Grainy wood; live hair So enchanting is the world of nature made vivid for us by the poets that we are ready to say with A. E. Housman in one of his little poems from The Shropshire Lad that life is too fleeting, even seventy years of it, to drink in all the beauties around us: Loveliest of trees, the cherry now Is hung with bloom along the bough, And stands about the woodland ride Wearing white for Eastertide. Now, of my threescore years and ten, Twenty will not come again, And take from seventy springs a score, It only leaves me fifty more. And since to look at things in bloom Fifty springs are little room, About the woodlands I will go To see the cherry hung with snow. DISCOVERY THROUGH EXPERIENCE Up to this point we have been exploring the excitement of discovery with the eyes and the other physical senses. We all know, however, that there are even greater kinds of discovery. Seeing at its best is more than just seeing with the eyes, even as poetry at its best begins in experience but ends in thought. Or, as Robert Frost once said it Lesson Department better, "A poem begins in delight but ends in wisdom." The end of a poem (a good poem, that is) is therefore not so much an ending as a beginning—as illustrated by Walt Whitman's "When I Heard the Learn'd Astrono- 0, mer: When I heard the learn'd astronomer, When the proofs, the figures, were ranged in columns before me, When I was shown the charts and diagrams, to add, divide, and measure them, When I sitting heard the astronomer where he lectured with much applause in the lecture-room, How soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, Till rising and gliding out I wander'd off by myself, i In the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time, Look'd up in perfect silence at the stars. DISCOVERY THROUGH BOOKS If seeing at its best stimulates thinking, so discovery is more than just discovery of the physical world. And one of the richest sources of discovery, as we all know, is the world of books. For the poet's testament, we turn to Emily Dickinson: There is no _ frigate like a_ book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry. This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul! More extensively Keats also paid tribute to the exciting discoveries that may come through reading books: On First Looking Into Chapman's Homer Much have I travelled in the realms of gold, 553 July 1968 And many goodly states and kingdoms seen; Round many western islands have I been Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold. Oft of one wide expanse had I been told That deep-brow'd Homer ruled as his demesne, Yet did I never breathe its pure serene Till I heard Chapman speak out loud and bold: Then felt I like some watcher of the skies When a new planet swims into his ken; Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes He star'd at the Pacific—and all his men Look'd at each other with a wild surmise— Silent, upon a peak in Darien. When Keats wrote this poem, he had never been outside England and had traveled very little within England. He had, however, traveled widely in the "realms of gold" —that is, of imagination quickened by reading. He knew the indebtedness poets felt for the great culture of ancient Greece. In particular, he had often been told that in epic poetry ("one wide expanse") Homer, author of The Iliad and The Odyssey, ruled as the supreme poet. Yet he never appreciated the greatness of Homer as an epic poet until he read an English translation by George Chapman, an Elizabethan poet and translator. Then he tingled with the excitement of a great new discovery, like an astronomer who has discovered a new planet, or like Cortez* when he discovered the Pacific Ocean. Keats, who could not read Greek, spent all one night with a friend reading passages from the Chapman translation, and it opened for him a whole new world of great poetry. Books, great books, can do this, not only for Keats but 554 for everyone—as millions of the world's readers can personally testify. * If we are to know the excitement of discovery throughout our lives and not just in childhood, we must keep an enquiring mind, for curiosity is the beginning of discovery. As the great Joseph Conrad dramatized in his short story "Youth," youth is an attitude of mind more than a scarcity of years. Some people are world-weary in their teens, and others are reaching out, stretching their minds for new ideas and experiences into their eighties and nineties. There is no age at which adventure must stop, as Tennyson suggests in "Ulysses," one of the best of his short dramatic poems, but too long to print here. *See note in text, Section One, on Balboa. DISCOVERY THROUGH PEOPLE The world around us, waiting to be explored, consists not only of places and books, but also of people, who are more interesting and more important than all other things. One of the most beautiful statements concerning the world of people and human inter-relationships was written by the great John Donne (1572-1631) as part of his Meditation 17: All mankind is of one author, and is one volume; when one man dies, one chapter is not torn out of the book, but translated into a better language; and every chapter must be so translated. God employs several translators; some pieces are translated by age, some by sickness, some by war, some by justice; but God's hand is in every translation, and his hand shall bind up all our Tour-ific! * HAWAII weekty -7 days $287 * HILL CUMORAH paceant 17 Days - $279 19 Days— $319 23 Days — $369 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR 14 Days — $259 * MEXICO 14 days from Salt Lake, as low as $198. (Mexico City, Cuernavaca, Taxco, Acapulco) * ALASKA * SOUTH AMERICA For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET ea ay 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 28-8981. 295-088 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Mesa 964-5283 total blectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department scattered leaves again for that library where every book shall lie open to one another.... No man is an island entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. If a clod be washed away by the sea, Europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were. Any man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee. Neither can we call this a begging of misery, or a borrowing of misery, as though we were not miserable enough of ourselves but must fetch in more from the next house, in taking upon us the misery of our neighbors. Truly it were an excusable covetousness if we did, for affliction is a treasure, and scarce any man hath enough of it. No man hath affliction enough that is not matured and ripened by it and made fit for God by that affliction.... Tribulation is a treasure in the nature of it, but it is not current money in the use of it, except we get nearer and nearer our home, heaven, by it. Another man may be sick too, and sick to death, and this affliction may lie in his bowels as gold in a mine and be of no use to him; but this bell that tells me of his affliction digs out and applies that gold to me, if by this consideration of another's danger I take mine own into contemplation, and so secure myself by making my recourse to my God, who is our only security. The thought that each person is a leaf from the book of mankind that will. Be bound into a single harmonious volume by the loving hand of God is developed in beautifully metaphorical language. And the "no man is an island" thought is developed with, at least, equal beauty. Finally, the thought that affliction and tribulation are treasures and we never have enough of them until we are "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" is also both beautiful and profound. 555 July 1968 Questions for discussion: (1) What responsibilities of compassion, understanding, and helpfulness are suggested by Donne's "no man is an island"' statement? How does this harmonize with our responsibilities as members of the Church, both to other members and to those outside the Church? (2) How can we be "matured" and "ripened" and "made fit for God" by affliction and tribulation? DISCOVERY OF TRUTH THROUGH LITERATURE The preceding passage by John Donne illustrates another kind of discovery that we wish to emphasize in this section—the discovery of truth that literature can give. To be more accurate, the writer of literature doesn't really "discover" truth, for truth is eternal, and all of us are surrounded with it in experience and observation all our lives. The writer, however, especially the poet, puts these "truths" in rememberable phrases so that others can say, "How true! I wish I had said that." As examples, read the two following tiny poems: From "Grace of the Way" by Francis Thompson Now of that vision I, bereaven, This knowledge keep, that may not dim: Short arm needs man to reach to Heaven, So ready is Heaven to stoop to him. Prayer by Carol Lynn Pearson This radio set Called prayer Is designed For remarkably Simple repair. When the lines fail, There is no doubt Which half Of the set Is out. 556 ee rae <@, Hill Cumorah Pageant Y and FS Historical Eastern Tour 22 days 3 Us July 25 — August 15 FB ead Jy Hawaii oa hitney WH agent and escort: ee 1205 Second Ave. Yx Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 i) Phone: (801) 363-5112 DA He Twin Falls, Idaho 733-6361 Wes << Price, Utah 637-1345 U\),_ St. George, Utah 673-2123 Se (\W' Escondido, California 746-3037 oe SAAD LISD FIBROID ROSY) 40 call or write: C arj PA To reassure those who have inquired, Yes, we are still publishing (and _ collecting) SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS (Written by Mormons for use in ward and stake functions.) Our latest catalog lists such new titles as THOU SHALT GO TO THE HOUSE OF PRAYER, SA, by Ida H. Steed, EVENING AT HOME, by Claudia Pollock, IT'S THE SAME OLD GLORY, Seeley and Coles, etc. And such old favorites as WHY A SINGING MOTHER SINGS, SSA, Locke and Kjar, TEMPLE BY THE RIVER, Marie Anderson, TO A CHILD, Ora Pate Stewart, etc. We have songs suitable for the departing or returning missionary, genealogical and' temple workers, Relief Society special days, tamily reunions and home evenings, Sacrament meetings, lesson enrichment, holidays, chapel dedications, etc. To the first 200 who write for our free catalog we will include a sample song, 'MAGNIFY YOUR OFFICE AND CALLING,"' SSA, with obbligato, by Arline M. Scott, which is appropriate for many occasions. Write to SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS 1365 East 4800 South St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 Or call 277-7331. ARE YOU STORING WHEAT? Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN The ALL-GRAIN Stone Grinders are available in two sizes. Easy Terms... We are the headquarters for the manually operated Corona Mills For more information write: SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main Street Smithfield, Utah 84335 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 _~___-_.75 Zone3 ___-_ -60 Zone6 __-_~-.-85 Zone4 __.__.-65 Zone7 __-_--95 Zone 8_ _ _ - -1.05 s DESERET PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Lesson Department "THE BURIED LIFE"' As a final search for discovery we turn to "The Buried Life" by Matthew Arnold. Although also too long to print here, a few comments on it seem desirable. In this beautifully melancholy poem we find Arnold groping for discovery in three directions: First, a yearning for better communication, better understanding between people. Arnold realized that even people who are very close, even people who love each other, even husbands and wives, sometimes have difficulty communicating their innermost selves. "Alas! Is even love too weak/ To unlock the heart, and let lt speak?" he asks. "Are even lovers powerless to reveal/ To one another what indeed they feel?" He pleads for more understanding, more communication in complete harmony, confidence, and trust by those who love. Second, Arnold yearns for a better understanding of self. Not only do we have trouble communicating with and understanding others, but also we have trouble understanding ourselves. Hidden deep within each of us are the complexities of personality and the mysteries of soul. Arnold feels keenly a need to surmount the essential loneliness of each person's isolated existence, and he realizes that the first step is to discover and know oneself. Even as it is almost impossible to know another person fully, so it is almost impossible to know oneself fully—but we need to try. Third, Arnold expresses a groping desire to look deep with- 557 July 1968 in to find the ultimate meaning and nature of life itself, the "buried stream" of humanity— "to know whence our lives come and where they go." Arnold felt an eternalness in the flow of human life from generation to generation and from civilization to civilization even though his faith was troubled by the philosophical problems of his day. And as he looked at the history of the world, he saw culture and religion working towards the same end—the perfection of man. Notes to Class Leaders: The preceding pages contain excerpts from the materials in Section One of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, the section contains fuller discussions and _ notes plus the following selections: an essay by Arnold Bennett showing how many people are poor observers; small poems by Tennyson, Emily Dickinson, and Bernice Burton Holmes, as_ further examples of the vivid observing and describing skills of the poet; 'Ulysses' by Tennyson, showing how the desire for new experiences may carry through youth to maturity and old age; and, finally, a delighful little Czechoslovakian — story called "People and Ants" by Peter Balgha, dramatizing that little things in the world around us are filled with interest, wonder, and deep significance, if we will just look at them—really look, that is Fortunately, all except one of these selections in Section One are either old enough or else so brief that copyright restrictions do not prevent their being duplicated as needed for teaching. The one exception is Peter Balgha's 'People and Ants." This modern story is still under copyright and may not be duplicated without special permission. Ow 558 SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR sa Ain _ HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS July 27—August 11 July 27—August 17 * CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19—Senteniieg 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 * MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 New Craft Medium__ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 Something wonverrut happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill-and loving care deserve two things... The perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass." Ask your grocer. You'll love it!. F ert ae 559 100 98 97 95 94 93 92 560 Mrs. Diana Block Los Angeles, California Mrs. Sarah Sloan Card Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Estella Cole Cordon Ogden, Utah Miss Selma Lundahl Logan, Utah Mrs. Frances Elizabeth Robins Wasden Scipio, Utah Mrs. Eva Martell Hodson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Esther Ada King Loveland Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Rose Hannah Cottingham Bushell Woodland, Utah Mrs. Stina Sorenson Anderson Central, Utah Mrs. Marilla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Kate Hermia Jones Isbell Washington, D. C. Mrs. Dunie Belle McBride Licking, Missouri Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Keey Court Sutton Coldfield, England Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. MaryAnn Jensen Mikkleson Fountain Green, Utah Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah 91 90 Mrs. Margaret Field Baird Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Smith Cleveland Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Persis Esplin Heaton Richfield, Utah Mrs. Bertha Boehme Hiller Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Bunce Hurst Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Emogene Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Anna Kristine Gulbrandson Peterse Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Anna Poorte Snyder Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Nicholina Borg Young Helena, Montana Mrs. Elizabeth McKean Ajax Tooele, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Larson Bjorklund Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Baumgartner Hasler Midway, Utah Mrs. Johanna Antonia Ibel Holmes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Slade Rawlins Hutchinson Whittier, California Mrs. Alice Eline McFerren Ogden, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Fowers Phillips Provo, Utah Mrs. Janet Thwaites Purdy Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey Yeates Logan, Utah Mrs. Euphemia M. Welker Zundel Phoenix, Arizona worthwhile summer reading; » |, al ee SS UNOSSIVY JO SIBYUBHY EIUEYSIEY \ a rom THE REFINER'S FIRE by Alvin R. Dyer $9.95 An expanded and more in-depth treatment of the significance of Missouri in Church history, and an analysis of the role it has yet to play. This fascinating work by the newest member of the First Presidency will make important reading for the summer months, and will always be a valuable reference work for your LDS home library. For the student or general traveler this book is an essential guide to sites of importance in the Missouri area. Includes numerous color photos, and an account of President McKay's visit to Missouri in 1966. FOR ADULTS ONLY A lifetime of learning by R. Wayne Shute $3.50 This thoughtful and stimulating work by a BYU professor and Education Week specialist reveals a new horizon of possibilities available to all of us in the field of adult education. The author draws on his extensive experience in adult education to examine the skills of learning as applied to adults — showing that it is never too late to learn and that all forms of adult education can enrich you spiritually, emotionally, and materially. EE Ss = S= a =, Deseret Book Company — = a 44 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Deseret Book or 777 So. Main St., Orange, California 92668 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 7717 SO MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Please send me [_] THE REFINER'S FIRE [_] FOR ADULTS ONLY Paid by check | Money order [J Or, please charge my established account [] Put the magic of > Sugarplum Land BERRY JAM 5 cups U and | Sugar 412 cups crushed berries, fresh or thawed frozen (3 12-0z. Packages) 2 Tablespoons lemon juice 1 bottle liquid fruit pectin Measure sugar into a large bowl, add crushed berries and lemon juice. Let stand 20 minutes, stirring occasionally to dissolve sugar. Add liquid pectin and stir thoroughly. Pack into freezer container, cover, and let stand 24 hours. Store in freezer, or this jam will keep in the refrigerator for two weeks. This makes about 2 quarts of jam. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Jam for a real family taste treat. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. r = if SOCISTY ) Magazine - AUGUST 1968 The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: INustrations: BLESS MY ALONENESS. Bless my aloneness As thou, too, shalt bless The farmer sowing In the silent fields. Let fling in solitude's Vast earth The glowing seeds of hope And work and love. Let me behold What challenge waits me here, What treasure these hours are... What thoughts can spring To nugget finding roads, Galleons of dreams returning Filled from prow to stern With silks and emeralds, From lands | never thought To know. Bless my aloneness As thou didst bless The crowded years, Help me sow roses, Lord, Not salt of tears. —Margery S. Stewart Weber River, Near Ogden, Utah Transparency by Hal Rumel ' Lithographed in Full Color by —_— News Press Mount Nebo, Utah, With a Frontage of Wheat Fields Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 4 TOME" lu tt Mabel Harmer's story ''If Spring Be Late' (beginning April 1968) becomes more interesting with each chapter. | find myself really absorbed in it. ''Say Peanut Butter' (by Janice T. Dixon, May 1968) is precious. So seldom do we find anything to smile over and it was told in such a happy way. The poetry in the Magazine is all excellent. Dorothy C. Robinson, Orem, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is the most important magazine that | own. We seldom see the names of people from this area in the From Near and Far department. Recently, however, | attended Brigham Young University Education week in Potomac Stake, and there | met Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society. She was our music director when 300 Singing Mothers sang at the World's Fair in 1964. It was a thrilling experience to see her again. | love all the contents of The Relief Society Magazine—lessons, the Home Inside and Out, general features, fiction, and, especially, the poetry. Violet B. Colleti Alexandria, Virginia | am so happy to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish that | am writing to express my gratitude to you. | am Spanish, and | live in France, where we have lived for more than six years. My husband is president of the branch here in Toulouse, where we are all active. | congratulate you dear sisters on this Magazine. It carries a high morality, and gives much spirituality. It helps me very much in my personal life. | bid you farewell, and send you a strong embrace from a sister who loves you. Elvire Turtos, Toulouse, France My dear friend Sister Kirk brings me The Relief Society Magazine, which | read from cover to cover, and find the stories so uplifting, and learn so much from the articles and special features. Eileen Brown, Radford, Nottingham, England My son Fred who is on a mission in Germany was recently visiting in the home of an American soldier, and the wife brought out the Magazine containing my article about the Bancroft flood (July 1962). Fred said, ''l was real proud of you, Mom." Frances C. Yost, Bancroft, Idaho | first heard the gospel in Rio Cuarto, Argentina, where | was baptized eighteen years ago. Since then my testimony has grown every day, as well as my happiness with the certainty that this is the only true Church of God upon the earth. | am very grateful to my Heavenly Father for his guidance, and because he always answers my prayers. Nineteen months ago | came to the United States. One of my sources of joy is to be able to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish, and, through reading it, to grow in knowledge and faith. Through its pages, | would like to send greetings to all my brothers and sisters in the Church in Argentina, and to all the ex-missionaries who were guests in my home while they were serving their missions. Carmela F. Valentich, Norwalk, California | would like to thank you sincerely for the publication of my recipes (April 1968), and for the payment, which came in handy to help buy Brother and Sister Ronald Coleby and their daughters Marjorie and Linda a going-away present. They came home here from Salt Lake City five years ago, after being there for ten and a half years. Now they have returned to Salt Lake City, Linda having received a scholarship at the University of Utah. We have had a good many missionaries stay with us through the years. Our Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful book. All of the sisters here seem to enjoy the lessons. | especially like to read President McKay's writings. He is a wonderful man and an inspiration to us all. Mary Ann Adams, Lowestoft, Suffolk, England 562 The Relief Society Magazine Volume 55 August 1968 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession Marian W. Jensen 568 Literary Contest Announcements 1968 572 Lady On Survival Marie Call Webb Fiction 577 Moment Out of Time Rosa Lee Lloyd 588 Kitchen Money Sylvia Probst Young 603 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 5 Mabel Harmer General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial—Obedience in Depth Marianne C. Sharp 586 Notes to the Field— The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Teaching Aid Packet For Spiritual Living Lessons; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet 587 Mary V. Cameron Resigns From the General Board 611 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 582 Progression Eunice P. Ravsten 595 A Letter to My Daughter Jane Scott 596 The Cast-on Bootee Dorothy F. Condry 598 Three Rules for Making Jam Ida Isaacson 598 Extra Special Pancakes Doris C. Kinsley 599 Elsie Egan Asay—Many Hobbies Keep Her Busy 600 Rolls For Many Occasions Mildred Lewis 602 Leavening Annie C. Esplin Lesson Department 619 Spiritual Living—The Fruits of Apostasy Roy W. Doxey 624 Visiting Teacher Message_''Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself" Alice Colton Smith 626 Homemaking—Christmas Traditions Celestia J. Taylor 628 Social Relations—The Questions Every Woman Asks Alberta H. Christensen 632 Cultural Refinement—''The Power of Discipline'' Robert K. Thomas Poetry 561 Bless My Aloneness Margery S. Stewart Wayfarer, Gladys Hesser Burnham 567; Summer-Long Saturday, Alice Brady Myers 570; Faith, Caroline Eyring Miner 571; Colors, Beulah Huish Sadlier 576; Sea Snow, Carole Poelman Feltch 586; Sun in the East, Maria C. De Illescas 587; Love, Ruth G. Rothe 593; Loath to Leave, Maude O. Cook 594; My Father's Watch, Christie Lund Coles 597; Close Neighbors, Melba S. Payne 598: Our Great-Grandma, Rebecca J. Welker 601; Swift Shadows, Lucille R. Perry 602; Reflections, Margaret Read 610; Dew Sweet Interim, Maxine R. Jennings 625; Interval, Elena Hassell Stanley 631; High Link Fence, Pearle M. Olsen 638; Once Upon a Moment, Dorothy J. Roberts 638. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society Genera! Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession y al aly anil # On the banks of the Chariton River in Iowa, a company of covered wagons rumbled along at a slow but steady pace. "Now, Sister Zina," said the captain of the company, "you go just as long as you can. When you say stop, we'll halt." And thus this Mormon mother gave birth to her first child. The saints had crossed the icy Mississippi River in the cold of February. They hastily erected some tents, and in the cold and damp of that first night, nine babies were born. There were not enough blankets, not enough medical facilities, and there was _ not enough food. As the encampments spread out along the trail, we read from one diary of tragedy—the death of twenty people from scurvy, forty-five dead of malaria, and more than one hundred fifty babies dead from infantile diarrhea. This occurred in one small encampment! The Prophet Joseph Smith had predicted that the suffering of the saints would be almost unbearable at times. His prediction proved true. When the first company of pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley in 1847, they were one hundred forty-eight in number. The settlers swelled in such numbers, however, that, by 1850, there were over eleven thousand inhabitants in Salt Lake County alone. Yet, among this large and growing population, there was, apparently, not a single graduate of a regular medical college in the entire area! It is well known that the Mormons were a child-bearing people, and also that they were trained in assisting one another. When a Mormon midwife received three dollars for her skill in assisting with the birth of a baby, she returned to her own family feeling well paid for her services. One such midwife, Patty Sessions, recorded that she helped deliver over 3,977 babies. Of these deliveries, she reports having trouble with only two of them! Another prominent midwife, Zina D. H. Young, a wife of President Brigham Young, delivered over fifty' of his children. She was loved not only for her needed skill, but for her kindness and_ loving temperament. L. D. S. Women and the Nursing Profession Still, despite the heroic services of the many Mormon midwives, the problems of bearing children became "almost unbearable." Many mothers lay in bed for months after delivery, deliriously ill with raging temperatures or "child-bed fever." Other mothers successfully recovered from the delivery only to lose their child or children from the diseases of the day—typhoid, scarlet fever, diptheria, and, most common of all, infantile diarrhea. The infant mortality rate was high—too high. In one particular instance forty-nine per cent of the total deaths came to children under two years of age. The story of infant mortality is best told in the words of a Mormon heroine, Aurelia Spencer Rogers. She wrote: My tenth child, which we named William, was born on the 31st of May, 1871, and only lived until the 17th of August, then died of cholera infantum. I had doted so much on this child, and now he was taken; this making three children that I had lost in succession. Of my ten children only five remained. It seemed as if my last hope was gone... I almost lost faith in God... I... Doubted the existence of a Supreme Being. As President Brigham Young traveled from stake to stake, he must have been deeply concerned over the sorrows of these pioneer mothers. He must have been convinced that this situation had to be overcome. Probably the way was with the newly advancing profession of medicine. During this time of sorrow President Brigham Young gave several discourses in the Tabernacle. He aroused the enthusiasm of many women. They decided to study medicine. 565 August 1968 Among his listeners was one hardy mother, Romania Pratt. In order for her to attend medical school in the East, she sold her coveted piano (the first in Utah), and she and her husband sold their home. Romania's devoted mother agreed to care for their children. For two years Romania studied in the East, and, in 1877, graduated from the Women's Medical College in Philadelphia with a degree of Doctor of Medicine. She was the first Utah woman to have this medical degree. She returned to her home State where she obtained a fine reputation in obstetrics, both as a teacher and as a practitioner. Dr. Pratt had paved the way for other Utah women to gain medical educations. Ellis Shipp, Margaret Shipp Roberts, Jane Skolfield, and Martha Hughes Cannon were some of the daring Mormon mothers who also gained medical degrees. After two or more years of study in the East, and often at great financial sacrifice, these women returned to Utah armed with knowledge and skill. This medical armor proved effective in the war against the diseases of the day. "Childbed fever" (caused by a streptococcus bacteria) was eliminated. The infantile diarrhea (also of bacterial origin) was largely erased. The epidemics of diptheria and typhoid were largely controlled. The infant mortality rate dropped dramaticallv. These women not only practiced medicine, but they also taught. Through the efforts of Dr. Ellis Shipp, nursing classes were conducted throughout the State. Standards of sanitation and nutrition were improved. She 566 and her physician husband began publishing, in 1888, a monthly medical journal, The Salt Lake Sanitarian, for lay citizens of the State. In The Sanitarian mothers were instructed in better methods of infant care, with current advice from leading doctors of the day. This publication was an ambitious undertaking and in advance of its time, for it was not until six years later that a book on this subject was published nationally called The Care and Feeding of Children, by L. Emmett Holt. Thanks to medical advances remarkable progress had been made. By about 1950 only one out of every thirty-three babies died before the end of the first year. These gains were dramatic. Still, the fight was not yet won. There were still mountains to climb, oceans to cross, and frontiers to conquer. The Mormon population was once largely encompassed in the State of Utah and adjacent areas. It now spreads across fifty States, six continents, and to the isles of the sea. Today many Latter-day Saint women give birth to their children away from their home States and away from the help of their mothers or relatives. True, the initial care given to mothers today in modern hospitals is superior care; nevertheless, for most women childbirth still has associated with it some real problems. A new mother returning home from the hospital after a short two to three-day stay desperately needs help—despite all the excellent hospital care she has received. When a mother comes home from a hospital today, the sisters in the ward give willingly of their talents in the preparation of food and in child care. But if a sister is seriously ill or convalescing from an operation, she may need professionally trained help. She 'may require the skill of a registered nurse. Other sisters in the ward assist in ways in which they are able, but they frequently lack the professional knowledge to deal with bacteriological or medical problems. The need for professional training is great. Today, there are places where this training can be obtained as there never was before available in the history of the world. A young girl or a mature woman who wishes to obtain this training need not travel to Philadelphia or to New York. If financially able, she can attend Brigham Young University's School of Nursing and, with determination and persistence, she can graduate as a registered nurse. If she cannot afford going away to school, or if there are other real deterrents, she can study in any accredited nursing school near her L. D. S. Women and the Nursing Profession After graduation, she can find a nursing position in almost any area of the world. She will help fill an acute nursing shortage. If, however, in the course of completing her training, she meets a young man who wins her heart, she can use her newly acquired nursing skill in caring for her own little brood, and in assisting in the ward in which she resides. If she graduates in nursing aS a mature woman, whose children are grown, she can use her newly found time to good advantage in either part or fulltime nursing positions. She need not feel now that her children have gone, that she is no longer needed. For she is needed—by many. As the Latter-day Saint women of the pioneer days responded to fill the needs of their day, so do Latter-day Saint women of today respond to the needs of our generation. The Latter-day Saint philosophy teaches growing, learning, and giving. Nursing involves all three. Nursing—a noble profeshome. WAYFARER If only there were maps to help A wayfarer of the mind, Down chartless seas of timelessness, His journeyings would wind. Each must his own route fathom To the center of his being Where his own island of serenity Awaits perceptive seeing. —Gladys Hesser Burnham sion. Investigate it! 567 Literary Contest Announcements 1968 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief 7 Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women 7 who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. The Relief Society Poem Contest » The Relief Society Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1968. Prizes will be awarded as follows: ' First prize_____________~-$40 Second prize __________--$30 Third prize ______._____-$20 Prize poems will be published in the April 1969 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 568 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. <A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That ii has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E.. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. <A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. Literary Contest Announcement 1968 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1968. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The Relief Society Short Story Contest # The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1968 opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1968. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize_____________-$75 Second prize _..._.------$60 Third prize __-_________~_-$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published in the April 1969 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. Also, the General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board— who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first' page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one hterary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) 569 August 1968 c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That is has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from _ the English department. Of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1968. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest. 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 SUMMER-LONG SATURDAY We summer together in nature's long Saturday. It is the day of the whispered secret: There is a hummingbird nest In the crotch of an elm bough Above a banquet table spread petunia-red. It is the never-alone time: Many hands unite over rake and spade, Over jam kettle and sweetened ladle; Many eyes finger plump cherries in glass cages; Many small arms swing brown and free, Flinging an embrace around solitary moments— Around 'solitary hearts no longer nipped by frost. That is why | sigh to hear Monday school bells ring— Why summer is welcome as sun after late spring snow. —Alice Brady Myers 570 woke ¢ at 43 < Ee ai s Valley, Utah Light and shadow in Kama FAITH Faith, like a match glow In the misty morning, Flickers briefly And is gone. In mid-day its fire Glows with the sun In splendid brilliance Like a field of Stars. But in the evening, When it is the only light, Like a lone star On a black blanket It is as the sun at night The whole illumination Of my life. —Caroline E yring Miner 571 Survival © x So Y <2 ay OAS Marie Call Webb # The summer ranger in the Dog Valley region of the Toiyabee National Forest lowered his powerful binoculars to wipe the lenses. Adjusting the focus, he turned once more toward a clump of tall incense cedars. "She's there, all right," he muttered to himself. "But I just don't believe it." He dropped the glasses into a leather case strapped to his belt. "Better get a closer look at what's-her-name down there." His easy woodsman's lope carried him quickly down over the rough terrain. His goal, a camp of sorts. His first sight of it puzzled him. Its occupant, a woman, moved about, apparently getting lunch. She wandered first one 572 way, then another, tasting; then she would stop to count her pulse. Count her pulse? His long legs fairly leaped the distance between them. "Lady, what on earth are you doing?" he demanded. She faced him with a gasp. Then, seeing the forest green of his ranger's uniform, she smiled. "My goodness, young man, I didn't hear you coming. Are you part Indian? I guess not, with those blue eyes. What am I doing? I'm counting my pulse." "But why? What are you doing here? This is National Forest— restricted area. Who are you? Who's with you? You sick? You don't look it. So why are you counting your pulse?" He stopped because the lady was laughing at him. "I'm Doris Jackson, young man. And I have a permit to be here." She lifted a slip of paper from a pouch at her waist and handed it to him. "See. And ['m all alone. Oh, yes, the pulse. My survival manual says to chew and swallow tiny bits of vegetation, Lady on Survival if ''m not sure what it is. If my pulse doesn't go up, it's good to eat." "And if your pulse goes up?" He looked skeptical. "Then I put my finger down my throat, lose what I've swallowed, and try something else." "Well!" He looked down at her —all five-feet-two of her. From "T love to cook over a campfire. The food thus prepared is not elegant, but it is tasty, hot, and nourishing. A frying pan may be placed over two flat rocks, with glowing wood chips beneath." 573 August 1968 the saucy white sailor's hat on the back of her closely cropped graying hair, to her jeans and thicksoled, high-topped boots, she looked every inch a plump little grandmother with an engaging grin. "Will you stay to lunch?" she asked, with a wide sweep of her arm. "T guess not, Mrs. Jackson. I'm used to roughing it, but raw leaves? You better tell me about it." "Do you mind if I get on with my meal while we talk? I'm headed for that patch of yarrow up the draw. Thought I would try yarrow-root pancakes for supper." "Yarrow-root pancakes? I'm forest ranger Tom Mickelson. Go on, Mrs. Jackson, you'd better tell me what makes you tick. The boys at the station will never believe this." Doris Linabery Jackson is a fifty-five-year-old widow, living in Provo, Utah, working at the Brigham Young University press. A convert to the Church in 1954, she shares her home with her eighteen-year-old son, LeeRoi, and her friend, Zarra Holman Pefley. Asked to test survival techniques for the Provo Stake camp program, she first enrolled in Larry Dean Olsen's survival course, which is offered by the Department of Special Courses at the Brigham Young University. Then because, as a child, she had been taken into the Sierra Nevada Mountains as her father's hunting and fishing companion, she chose that area to try out, alone, the survival techniques she had studied. Could a woman follow the program, live entirely off the land 574 for a week, and come out healthy and in good spirits? In the first week of June 1965, Doris was driven into the Dog Valley area thirteen miles west of Reno, Nevada, by Sister Pefley. They hiked up an old wash to a stand of tall conifers, then, chopping down and trimming five saplings, lashed the first between two of the tallest trees. Next they leaned two from the ends of the first to the ground, which sloped upward behind the trees. Placing the remaining two across the angled branches, they wove pine boughs in and out among the three horizontal poles. Doris dug a shallow trench between the lean-to and the slope, and her bedroom was ready. "T wanted that trench," says Doris, "just in case it rained. I had no intention of being washed out of bed and down the mountain in the middle of the night." Doris and Zarra laid a square of heavy plastic under the lean-to and unrolled their sleeping bags. Zarra had insisted on helping with the shelter and staying the night to assist the experiment to a good start. Both women love the out-of-doors. "As we said our prayers that night," recalls Doris, "we felt very close to our Heavenly Father under his beautiful sky. My father taught me the names of many of the constellations, and those old friends seemed very near." Sunrise found Zarra on her way to Reno and breakfast. Doris watched the dusty blue car bump and twist its way down the narrow, winding fire warden's trail. When it dropped out of sight over the brow of the rocky talus slope, she followed its dust cloud rising and thinning, and, finally, dissipating in the updraft. « "Tt was the silence," says Doris, "that made me realize just how alone I actually was, when Sister Pefley disappeared over that slope. I said to myself, out loud, mind you, 'Jackson, you must be out of your tree!'" "That did it. I hurried back to the site and set up the rest of my camp. Keeping busy is the essence of survival. First, I gathered some big hard rocks and built me a keyhole fireplace, as close to my lean-to as I dared. I established my woodpile nearby. I chose that dry wash for my camp because a small, clear spring bubbles through some rocks a few feet away. That first morning I ate watercress and elderberries for breakfast while I finished my camp. That young ranger, Tom Mickelson, came about one o'- clock. He told me the wind had shifted, and a forest fire was burning between me and town, and what to do if the wind shifted again my way. Good thing I planned to stay." Besides her sleeping bag and ground sheet, Doris had with her a small folding shovel, a canteen, and a mess kit that served as a cooking vessel. A hunting knife, a compass, flashlight, a hatchet, and a Colt 22 automatic pistol fit snugly in slots on her belt. A small first-aid kit and a survival kit she kept in her jacket pockets. The latter contained aspirin, band aids, a metal mirror for signaling, sun blinders, fishing line and hooks, a ball of stout twine, needle and thread, water purification tablets, Lady on Survival matches, and four beef cubes, which she brought home intact. In addition to her survival man- ' ual, she had two books on western plants and a Book of Mormon. | | oris spent most of her daylight hours gathering edible vegetation. Leaves of pepper and Clethra bush (white alder), wild rye grass, and pine needles supplied her with greens. She ate gooseberries, elderberries, and service berries for desserts. Yarrow root has to be cooked. Boiled, Doris thought it not unlike hemp rope, and about as easily swallowed. So she pounded it to pulp between two rocks, mixed it with water to the consistency of wallpaper paste. Fried, it tasted lke wallpaper paste. Spiced with wild onion, she called it pasta and ate every crumb. Did she like it? "If you live to eat," Doris advises, "don't go on survival. I intended coming home as healthy as I started out. I ate to live." She boiled dandelions and mallow. Made into soup, pond scum and green algae supplied her a constant source of protein. Broths from mint, sage, and rose hips furnished vitamin C and minerals. She ate violet plants and sego bulbs raw. The only shooting she did brought down cones from the pinons. Squirrels beat her to the nuts that fell, naturally. She made pit and string snares to catch small game. Poisonous plants grow in Dog Valley in the same ratio, perhaps, as elsewhere. Doris quotes a handy little jingle: Leaves three, Let be; Berries white, Take flight. 575 August 1968 It covers poison oak, ivy, and sumac. She found the pulse test completely reliable. "T have never been menaced by anything in nature at any time during my camp-outs except mosquitos. That first time, I didn't catch any game in my snares, and I couldn't bear to shoot the squirrels, rabbits, chipmunks, or deer I saw. I liked their company too well. Besides, what would I do with a whole deer?" Doris can be justly proud of her record. Since her week in the Sierra Nevadas, she has led groups of girls on both summer and winter camp-outs and survival trips into the Wasatch Mountains east of Provo. In the summer they depend on vegetation, but Doris shoots enough small game to give everybody a hot meat stew at least once a day on winter survival. In evaluating her experiences, Doris is enthusiastic. "I believe everyone ought to learn enough survival technique to keep himself alive for a few days in emergency. Self-control makes the difference between life and death in the wilds. Panic kills more people than exposure, snake bite, or hunger combined. My fifth day in camp, three members of a jeep rescue patrol carried a hunter out of the Sierra Nevadas in a straight jacket. He had been lost two days in the same area I was in. He had matches, a hunting knife, shells for his gun, but he panicked and collapsed. Advice? Don't lose your self-control. Keep busy, keep calm, keep your wits. I read The Book of Mormon, and whittled me a knife, fork, and spoon, built a table, found all my food, and kept my camp clean. When young Mickelson came by the next Monday when Sister Pefley came for me, he couldn't tell I had ever been there. He invited me back. That kind of tidying-up takes time. But it's worth it. I love nature, the outdoors, and I'}] never do anything to deface it." - COLORS Pinks adornthe August mornings Pinks to scale rare magic heights; Pinks, when purple twilight enters And the days become the nights. Gauguin founded them on canvas In far-off Tahiti's isle, See the garden-borders flourish— Pale and flame petunias smile. Here is unity in color, Sense what splendor fills the eye; Here perfection's screen unfolding Underneath a florid sky. —Beulah Huish Sadleir wy 576 # Time was always running away from Molly Van Hardin. Life in the Steven Van Hardin household was a continual rush and race. Molly was always awake and waiting for the alarm to ring in the mornings; she would prepare breakfast and Little Sue's bottle; pack lunches; drive Steve to his office; and drop Stevie, eleven, and Meg, almost eight, off at school. Molly always took Little Sue (who had been born three months ago, just before Steve's father died) on her daily errands. Somehow, she felt more contented with the little tyke beside her, although Steve's mother, who lived through the block on Clover Street, would gladly care for her at any time. She always picked the children up at three-thirty for swimming lessons or dancing lessons. There Moment | Of. Time Rosa Lee Lloyd was the rush of dinner, dishes, and rehearsals, or making costumes, or performances in the ward. This morning, in mid-October, she flicked a wisp of reddish brown hair from in front of her eyes when she turned the car down the highway and headed for the Benjamin Franklin school. She knew she must look like a witch with her hair flying wild, but this afternoon she was stealing time to go to Paula's Beauty Salon for a shampoo set, then to Redwood's for a fitting on her new white formal for the company party tonight. Steve's mother was coming to take care of the children and her friend Betty was taking Little Sue while Molly had her hair done. Steve's mother, she repeated 577 August 1968 with a guilty pang as she sped past Clover Street. They should see her more often. Here it was the - middle of October and she hadn't had a-free day to spend with her for weeks! Molly had meant to — her to the canyons to see the autumn - leaves in all their gold and crimson glory before they turned into brittle brown curls, but there was always something that kept Steve and Molly on the go. Molly was very fond of Steve's mother, Anna Bell Van Hardin, who had come as a young bride from Holland to America fifty years ago. The children lovingly called her Tinkle Bell, as Steve's father had taught them to do. It was such an appropriate name for the bright-eyed, pretty little woman who had reared three daughters and one son and helped her husband in his real estate business so there would be enough money to send them all to college. "T he three daughters had married and moved away from Haysville, but Steve had returned after college to take care of the business. "Mother and Dad need me nearby," he had told Molly, before they were married, and she had agreed. "Tt's mine!" Stevie now yelled from the back seat. "The blue basket's mine!" Molly had to stop the car and settle the argument. The chocolate cupcake that Stevie liked was in the blue basket, and the vanilla cupcake in the yellow basket. That settled the argument, so she sped on to school, dropped 578 them off, and headed back to the highway. Now to get home, put a load in the: washing machine, make the beds, vacuum and dust, and make a noodle casserole for the children's dinner. By one-thirty Molly was back in her car, driving down the highway toward Paula's Beauty Salon. Once there, she promised herself, she would relax while Paula shampooed and set her -flyaway hair. Maybe she would even have a golden rinse to bring out the highlights. She would bask in the rhythmic hum of the hair dryer while her nails were being manicured. Oh, luxury, she thought with a little sigh. A couple of hours to spend on herself was pure joy for Molly. She didn't have a chance very often, but tonight was a big night for Steve. She must look as beautiful as possible for him. She wanted him to be proud of her. She glanced at her wrist watch, and at the same time slowed the car for the crossing at Clover Street. It was a heavenly day, she thought, drinking in the beauty of the blue sky and the crimson hills surrounding the valley. It was a day for walking in the canyons, feasting your eyes on the gorgeous. Colors,' feeling the branches of maple leaves in your arms, resting your cheek against their scarlet loveliness. It had been such a day, she remembered, that Steve's mother told about when she and Steve's father were young. It had been the beauty of the autumn hills that convinced them, fifty years ago, that this was the valley where they should build their home. The hills had been asymbol to them, and every autumn they had gone to the canyon for a long afternoon. The hills, in the autumn, were a touch of glory in Tinkle Bell's life. "Oh, Tinkle Bell," Molly repeated, feeling a sudden urge to see her. The light changed to green and she started the car, but, instead of going straight ahead, she turned down Clover Street. Orteumies, she thought, we don't know why we do things on the spur of the moment, but she did not question the urge to go to Steve's mother. On a sudden impulse, she decided to give up her beauty appointment and take Tinkle Bell to the canyon. Cold reason argued she could do it tomorrow, there was not time today, but her heart said no, she must do it today. She would cancel the beauty appointment. "Anybody home?" Molly called out gaily as she rang the bell and gave her familiar knock on the front door of the old white house. "She isn't home," young Mrs. Brennan called from her front yard. "She left an hour ago for uptown. Took the bus. She said she was going to that new Dr. Blaymier everyone is talking about. Then she was going to shop before she went to your house to tend the children." Dr. Blaymier, Molly repeated to herself, with a little shock! He was an eye surgeon, and Tinkle Bell hadn't even mentioned that she was going to him! "Thank you, Mrs. Brennan," she said as she got back in her car. Twenty minutes later, she walked into Dr. Blaymier's Moment Out of Time crowded office in the new medical building on Harvard Street. Tinkle Bell was sitting near the window awaiting her turn. She had pulled the drape to one side and was gazing out across the busy street to the hills in the distance. There was yearning in every gesture of her frail body, but there was courage, too, and determination in the lift of her chin. "Tinkle Bell," Molly murmured as she hurried to her side, "Why didn't you tell us you were coming here? I would have come with you. Gladly. What is it, dear? Tell me." "Molly...." Tinkle Bell touched her hand. "Of course you would. But I know how busy you are. I have had four children, Molly. So many things to do. There isn't enough time." "But there must always be time for you, Tinkle Bell," Molly answered. "Mrs. Van Hardin!" the reception nurse called from her desk. "You may go in now." Molly waited until Tinkle Bell disappeared into Dr. Blaymier's private office, then she approached the reception desk. "T am Mrs. Van Hardin, Jr.," she explained. "I didn't know until a few moments ago that our Mother's eyes needed attention. Will you explain her condition to me, please." The nurse shook her head. "T am sorry, but you will have to ask Dr. Blaymier," she answered kindly, noticing Molly's concern. "This is her third visit in two weeks. I think her operation is scheduled for next Wednesday. Do talk to Dr. Blaymier." Molly sank down on a chair. 579 August 1968 Operation! She repeated to herself. Third visit in two weeks. Oh, Heavenly Father, forgive us. Maybe the first visit was on that morning when Tinkle Bell had called to ask Molly if she had time to have luncheon uptown with her, and Molly had explained that the children were having a dance rehearsal. Could they go some other day? She had questioned casually. Molly walked to the window, but she could hardly see the autumn hills through the sudden tears that clouded her eyes. This is what we do, she told herself. We chase madly through our busy, workaday world, forgetting the ones we love so dearly, taking them for granted, assuming they are all right because they don't want to worry us. Mechanically, sheused the telephone to cancel her beauty appointment, then she called Steve's office. He wasn't in, so she gave his secretary the message that she was with his mother. He was to send someone to school at threethirty to pick up the children because she and Tinkle Bell were going to the canyon to see the autumn leaves. She would explain everything later. Sounds crazy, she thought, as she hung up the receiver. But an hour later, standing beneath the branches of a golden red maple tree, she knew it was the wisest thing she had ever done. "Look at them, Molly! Just look at them!" Tinkle Bell exclaimed. "Oh, Molly, this means the world of beauty to me. I wanted to come here so much— before the operation. I can take this picture with me when my 580 eye is operated on and afterwards when it is covered, I will still see the beauty of my hills. Thank you, Molly, for bringing me here." Molly could not answer for the tightness in her throat. "The leaves were falling and the ground was covered with a thick carpet of red and gold. She led the way to an old tree stump, and they sat down side by side. "It's like fairyland," Molly murmured, leaning back dreamily against the branches of a tree. "Oh, Tinkle Bell, we should do things like this more often. But we get so caught up in the business of living. We don't take time to bask in the loveliness our Heavenly Father has given to us." Tinkle Bell sat with her hands folded together and her eyes lifted as though holding on to each precious moment. "T know," she said softly. "I know. When my children were little, life seemed to stretch out before me in a never-ending hubbub of duties for them and my husband. But Steven always insisted that we take time to come up here to this very spot. He said it had a touch of heaven and was balm for our souls. Molly, it was a divine prompting that sent you to me today." "T think so, too, Tinkle Bell. Even though I have been extra busy today—and the party tonight." "The party!" Tinkle Bell sat upright. "T'll bet you were going to have your hair done!" "That's right!"" Molly laughed, gaily, stretching her arms high above her head. "But I wouldn't change this moment here for all the beauty salons in the world! No shampoo. No manicure. No fitting on my new white dress. But I don't care one bit, Tinkle Bell. Steve will just have to take me without my glamor." Tinkle Bell leaned toward Molly to see her better in the fading light of afternoon. Little twigs had tangled in Molly's hair, and a stray lock bounced crazily over her forehead. She looked hike a little girl on a picnic. "Glamor," Tinkle Bell repeated with that tender, wise look she always had when she spoke to the children, "I guess I don't know much about glamor, Molly. But if you mean, will my Steve appreciate those natural red glints in your hair when I get through brushing it for you, and will he like the way your white dress will fit you when I get through stitching it, well—all I can say is that he will, Molly. He will." She got carefully to her feet. They had barely reached the om poe car when the first clap of thunder roared through the canyon. "We'll have to hurry!" Molly shouted as she ran to open the car door. "Look at those clouds. There will be a big storm!" Tinkle Bell stood a moment looking wistfully at the hillsides again. She is taking it with her, Molly thought, gratefully. And so was Molly. No matter how busy her world became, she would always be glad she had taken this moment out of time, to dream awhile, to linger in thought with Steve's mother before the winter winds whipped the trees until their crimson glory was only amemory. Yes, she thought, as lightning streaked the sky and thunder answered with a savage roar, you have to take the golden moments even when there doesn't seem to be time for them. You do, she thought, as her heart lifted and sang, if you like to share happiness with those you love. 581 582 Eunice P. Ravsten » "Recalling the past and looking forward to future progression, our fancy may follow the winds." The remark sent a ripple of good humor over the group surrounding the Relief Society quilt, and, as busy needles left dainty trails across the bright surface, the women fell to reminiscing and anticipating. Great-great-grandfather's covered wagon had been drawn by a yoke of oxen; great-grandfather hitched prancing equines to a sleek surrey; grandfather entered the age of automation; and today's motor-traffic systems grow increasingly elaborate. Air travel is common; space is being explored, and with each great ship that launches into the sea of sky, men's aspirations follow. The ancient prophet declared: The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings. (Nahum 2:4.) Isaiah asked: "Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?" (Isaiah 60:8.) Past and future, memories and dreams are deeded in the present. The urge is upward and onward. The progression of mankind, the children of God, is glorious to contemplate. Men are inspired to become better than they are. As expressed in the thoughts of Emerson, it is a joyful experience which gives a rewarding sense of progression to look always upward to the stars and their vast, eternal significance. Ramona W. Cannon Frances Grant Bennett, daughter of former President Heber J. Grant of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and wife of Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah, is author of Glimpses of a Mormon Family (Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City). In this warm and human biography, Mrs. Bennett relates the story of the home life of the Grant family, and the equally interesting account of her husband's family— the Bennetts, well known in the annals of Church and State. A most rewarding feature of the book is the inclusion of many precepts and much wisdom from the words and writings of President Grant. Mrs. Elizabeth Bodine, seventy years old, from Velva, North Dakota, was chosen American Mother of the Year for 1968, in New York City, last May. She its the successful Polish-born mother of eighteen children and a farm wife. She believes that children need tasks to occupy them and teach them responsibility. Mrs. Elsie K. Smith Farnsworth, Beaver, was chosen Utah Mother of the Year, for her "outstanding wisdom and integrity in rearing her family of seven children.'' ''Love and Mutual respect dominated our home,'' Mrs. Farnsworth said in her acceptance speech in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square. Mrs. James A. Kartchner, St. David, Arizona, a Latter-day Saint, was chosen Arizona Mother of the Year. She is the wife of the Superintendent of the St. David Schools and mother of ten children. Four of the sons are physicians. Mrs. Dorothy Johnson Bacon, a Latter-day Saint of Hollywood, California, represented her State as Mother of the Year. She is the wife of a doctor and the mother of four children. Mrs. Ora Pate Stewart, Latter-day Saint author, composer, and lecturer, mother of seven children, was runner-up to Mrs. Bacon for the California award. Leah Evans, a dedicated Relief Society worker, was named Washington State Merit Mother, first runner-up to the Washington State Mother of the Year. She is mother of four children. Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave are the daughters of Sir Michael and Lady Redgrave, both distinguished actors who have been married happily for thirty-three years. These sisters and brother Corwin are likewise top-rank actors, and the Redgraves are known as the Royal Family of the Theater in Britain. Franca Falucci, Italian professor of philosophy at the Liceo Classico in Rome, is on the executive board of the Christian Democratic party and president of the women's movement of that party in Italy. On a recent visit to Salt Lake City, Miss Falucci was particularly impressed with the activities of Welfare Square and with the achievements of the Genealogical Society. 583 Volume 55 August 1968 Number 8 ® Belle S. Spafford, President § Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor a Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence }. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson trene W. Buehner lrene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice. C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma A. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous EDITORIAL = 'Obedience is better than sacrifice."" Obedience is doing as directed. Obedience is heaven's first law. Obedience is basic to law and order. In a Latter-day Saint home, the virtues of obedience are taught from childhood. To see a child or a teen-ager obey his parents' admonitions is a source of gratification and thankfulness to those responsible for the child's welfare. One may view obedience as doing, however, in addition to performing, there is an inner feeling of obedience one may or may not experience as she outwardly complies. The action and spirit may be identical—both may be obedient or the outward obedience may mask a rebellion within. A child may obediently go to bed while hiding his resentment that his brother does not have to go first. Is outward obedience alone counted as obedience, or must the doing and motivation both be in a spirit of obedience to be counted as obedience? The Lord has said '''.. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart.'' (| Samuel N6?7.) Obedience)! n Depth When Solomon prayed for an understanding heart from the Lord, he was certainly not being satisfied with outward observances only. He also wanted to have the wisdom to search out motives. As a child grows older it becomes increasingly desirable for mothers to look below the outward compliance and seek to understand the feelings of a young person. If there is not obedience on both the action and the spiritual planes, the young may resolve silently, ''I'll do this while I'm home, but I'm certainly not going to do it after I'm on my own.' Resentment may smolder and build up to an explosion when parental restraint is removed, if inner obedience does not accompany the obedient action. As life progresses, those who have directed and guided one leave this life, and one is left to direct oneself in harmony with eternal laws. "Charity never faileth'' stands out as a great beacon to draw all within the warming light of love and to render obedience to it. One may question one's own motives. ''As | serve that sick sister, is the obedience | am giving merely an outward show or am | obedient with a willing, loving spirit?'' This is a question which may plague one. ''Am | making my Church contributions because | am grateful for the opportunity of contributing to the growth of the Church, or am | resentful and think the bishop has asked me to give more than my share?' also may trouble the giver. One needs to search her soul and struggle to make obedience an inward joy and not an outward performance only. In the Passover chamber the Savior promised peace, ''Peace | leave with you, my peace | give unto you.'' (John 14:27.) Obedience both outward and inward unite the soul in peace. Paul was told by the Savior ''... It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.'' (Acts 9:5.) His soul was not at peace with itself as he persecuted the Christians and obeyed the Pharisaic law; but, once he was obedient to the Savior and true to his teachings, he found that peace that passeth understanding, even as any woman may find it today through full obedience to gospel principles, both in performance and conviction. —M. C. S. 585 2 Notes to the Field COR) The Relief Society Annual General Conference ® The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1968. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 2, from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 2, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, October 3, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers.. A reception to which stake beard 'members and mission district officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening,: October 2, from 7 to 10 P. M. In the Relief Society Building. Teaching Aid Packet For Spiritual Living Lessons = A teaching aid packet has been prepared for use with the 1968-69 spiritual living lessons, It is available, on order, from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $1.25, postpaid regular mail. Those desiring the teaching aid packet to be sent via air mail should include the cost for air mail, for 12 ounces. Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet ® Out of the Best Books, Volume 4: The World Around Us, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with the cultural refinement lessons for 1968-69, is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and at all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $2.60, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain five full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the-June and September 1968 color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural: réfinement lessons 2, 4, 5, and 6, as designated. It will also contain a 12" 33% rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons 1, 3, 5, and 7. The kit is available from the Publication Sales Department of Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601, and Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $3.50 postpaid. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges. SEA SNOW Tonight, Reflections of a tropical moon Transfigured the tranquil harbor Into a snow-laden meadow; And, for an instant, | was home. —Carol Poelman Feltch 586 j Mary Vogel Cameron 2 Resigns From Relief Society General Board; eta! 3 # General Board members and sisters throughout the Church regret the resignation of Mary Vogel Cameron from the General Board, as of May 15, 1968. She had served since January 6, 1957. During this time she rendered devoted service to Relief Society. She has capably served on many committees, including the Relief Society Conference, spiritual living, homemaking meeting, secretarytreasurer, poetry contest, short story contest, and many others. At the time of her resignation, she was a member of the visiting teacher message committee. In addition, she has fulfilled many speaking engagements at conferences both at home and abroad. She is an eloquent and sincere speaker, and her spirituality has enriched many lives. Sister Cameron came to the General Board after holding many executive positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. For nineteen years, she shared her testimony of the gospel as a guide on Temple Square. The united love of the board goes with Sister Cameron. Her devotion to Relief Society will stand as a memorial to the faithful service she has rendered. On behalf of Relief Society members everywhere, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Cameron. May she find much happiness in her future endeavors, and may Relief Society continue to be a joy and a fulfillment to her. SUN IN THE EAST As | raise my eyes this morning, Contemplating in all its splendor The sun in the east, My heart fills with gratitude Towards my Creator. And all of God's children through the world, My eyes lower and | see in my hands, What is the Sun for Latter-day Saint women— The Relief Society Magazine. —Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala 587 = When supper was over, Ellie sent Jase to the porch to relax and read the newspaper while she washed the dishes. He had never cared much for housework, and tonight he was especially tired after helping John Willey in the hayfield all day. "We're not as young as we used to be," she mused to herself, as she cleared the table. In the mirror above the _ stove, she studied her reflection and sighed —wrinkles and sag lines and graying hair; but she wasn't plagued with middle-age spread, and she seldom had a sick day, so what more could one expect at sixtythree? Jase was sixty-seven, and he still thought he could work as hard as he had done twenty years ago. Of course he moved a little more slowly, but he was slim 588 Sylvia Probst Young as he had ever been and just as straight and tall. He always laughed at the idea of getting old, and secretly Ellie was proud that he felt that way because it helped her to feel the same. "As long as you have a zest for living, you'll never be old," Jase often told her, "so you and I are just a couple of kids, Ellie, my girl." Smiling reflectively, Ellie put the dishes in the sink and turned her eyes to the window beyond which lay the cool meadow, rich green in the early June twilight. June was always a favorite month, when summer returned in all of its fresh loveliness, bringing a chorus of birds, the call of crystal streams, and vacationing grandchildren to fill the old house with their young laughter. Ellie had hoped to have the kitchen remodeled before they came this summer. She had visualized how _ surprised' they would all be when they came in and found Grandma's old-fashsioned kitchen gleaming with new birch cabinets, formica drainboards, and a stainless steel sink and stove. There would be a new refrigerator that would never need defrosting. The linoleum, that needed weekly waxing, would be replaced with carpeting. Jase and she had made all the plans for it during the stormy, winter days. They had poured over catalogues and lumber-yard bulletins, everything had been figured and estimated. All they had to do now was to wait for Luke Crockett, who remodeled for everybody, to get around to them. He had promised to begin their work in April, but then he had had the misfortune to break a leg, so that had meant waiting, again. Jase had tried to console her. "You've waited for twenty years, Ellie, so a few more months won't be too bad, will they?" Yes, she had waited for a long time. The kitchen money, as they had come to call any funds that were reserved for repairs in the home, had a way of being used for so many other things over the years, and Jase was not one to go in debt. He had always wanted to wait for anything new until they could pay for it. Well they had the kitchen money now, and it wasn't needed for anything else, thank goodness. Ellie had hoped that Luke would begin on her kitchen by the forepart of June, but he wanted to go fishing for a week or two, so he wouldn't promise Kitchen Money to come until after the first of July. She was keenly disappointed. The boys, two or three, if not all four, always came home for a family reunion on Jase's birthday, which was the eighteenth of June, and she had hoped to surprise them with the new kitchen. "Don't fret about it, honey," Jase could always oil the troubled waters, "the surprise will be just as good next year." Dishes finished, Ellie took her knitting and went to the porch to join Jase. The sun, a great, blazing ball against the western horizon, colored the stratus clouds with a golden glow. Peace was like a benediction around them, as Jase looked up from his paper to smile at her. "Ours is a summer haven," he announced. Passing a section of the paper to her, he picked up a small pamphlet and a map from the wicker table. Ellie grinned. "Where are we going next summer?" she asked. Jase looked a little sheepish, she could read him like a book, but it didn't matter. "How about Hawaii?" he challenged. "I've always wanted to go there, and I really think we could make it. Do you know how cheaply you can fly these days? Look!" He brought the pamphlet to show her, eager as a schoolboy, but the sudden buzzing of the telephone interrupted. Assuring him that she would see his plans on return, Ellie went into the house to answer it. "Hello, Mother," the voice through the phone was strong and masculine, "how are you?" "Matt!" she cried. "How are you? Is anything wrong?" 589 August 1968 "No," he laughed, "of course not. I just called to tell you we're coming home for Dad's birthday." "Oh, Matt, that's wonderful. When will you come?" "We're leaving in the morning, Mom, and we plan to bring Carole's mother with us. She hasn't been West for years, and she's so lonesome without Mr. Bryson. Do you think you'll have room for us all?" "Of course we will, Matt, there are all of the upstairs bedrooms and the camper, too. Leslie has extra room if we need it. You're all fine? Little Mary and Lisa? I'll bet they've grown since we saw them." "They really have. How about Dad, how is he?" "Fine. He's been helping John Willey in the hay all day, thinks he's about twenty years old." Matt laughed. "Well, maybe he is. Let me say hello to him." When Jase returned from talking to Matt he was all smiles. "Say, won't that be great having them come?" he exclaimed. "How long has it been since they were here?" "Let's see—they were here when Mary was a year old. She's three now—summer before last." "That's right—seems longer, though." Ellie nodded. "But you know, Jase, I'd really be happy about them coming if the kitchen were done. I'm ashamed of it like it is. If it were just Matt and Carole, I wouldn't mind, but Carole's mother—that's something again. Her folks have always had money. Mrs. Bryson is used to the best." "Now—now, Ellie, Matt knows we're just poor farm folks, and Carole knows it, too. If Mrs. 590 Bryson can't put up with what we have to offer, they can take her to a hotel." "Oh, Jase, you men folks don't know what you're talking about." There was aggravation in Ellie's voice. "Every woman likes a nice home." "Sure they do." Jase was so subdued that Ellie was instantly sorry. "T didn't mean it that way," she apologized. "I've always loved my home, you know that, and I know I'm going to have the new kitchen. I just wish it were done, that's all." "T do, too, honey, and I suppose we could have had it long ago, if we hadn't used the money for so many other things. But I guess the things we used it for were more important, don't you think so?" Sie agreed, and her thoughts turned reflectively to the years gone by. The kitchen money had been used for Leslie and the boys —for college educations and missions—a loan to Bill to buy a part interest in the local pharmacy; for Mark, a down payment on his home. And the very first kitchen money had been used to buy a camper for a summer vacation! Jase, reading her thoughts, nodded and smiled. "And it always paid dividends, Ellie, my girl, always paid dividends." Ellie knew he was right, but sometimes it had been hard not to become discouraged with the endless postponement of things she needed or wanted. And many times since they had come to the farm, twenty-seven years ago, she had wished that they had never seen it. Fruit farming was a gamble. There had been years—more than: two or three—when the peach trees, a sea of delicate beauty in their pink blossoming, had been smitten by killing frost that had left only brown, barren branches. During those lean years, much as he hated debt, Jase had had to borrow money to keep going. Yet, as he had pointed out, more than once, they hadn't done too badly. Ellie had been. As willing as Jase to make the old do, to go without, but now,-at long last, she would have hersnew kitchen. If 'only it could have been done - before Carole's mother came. Why. Couldn't Luke go fishing in July? When Leslie and Bill came on Tuesday evening to make plans for the reunion, Elle talked about Mrs. Bryson's coming. "IT don't know why you're so worried, Mother," Leslie told her. "Carole has never put on airs, and I have a feeling that her mother will be as sweet and gracious as Carole is." ~ 3sMatt and his family arrived on Thursday afternoon and Mrs. Bryson, a gray-haired, wiry, little. Woman, well in her: sixties, but seeming much younger, greeted Ellie and Jase with such warm naturalness: that all of Ellie's worries vanished. After helping Carole with the little girls, Mrs. Bryson spent time visiting with Ellie and Jase. She was interested in farm prices and cattle and summer vacations. When it was time to prepare supper, she peeled the potatoes and made a green salad. It seemed to Ellie that she: had known Mrs. Bryson all of her life, and to Jase she described. Her as "a kindred spirit." Kitchen Money On Friday afternoon, Bob's family came from Denver, followed by the Tom Claytons and their children. Saturday morning brought Mark and Anne and their boys from Portland.. How would you like-to have — us for always?" young Mark asked Ellie, as he reached for a third sugar-cookie. "She would take a green willow to you, as she used to to us," his father laughed. "Remember the time, Matt, when you and I...." He turned to his brothers, and the four of them, with Leslie, who had been there since early morning, began reliving the bygone days when they were all home together. Ellie loved hearing them, and Jase glowed with pride. It was good having them all together again, and their wonderful children, filling the house with warmth and laughter. B, noon, the tables were all set up in the orchard, and they sat down to a home-cooked banquet, with platters of fried chicken, fresh garden vegetables, bread, hot from the oven, and freezers of homemade ice cream. "What a good time we all have together." Tom, who was oldest, looked over the long tables, and raised his glass of grape juice. "Let's drink a toast to Mother and Dad," he suggested, "the best parents in the world." "Speech, Grandpa, speech," Julie Anne cried, and the rest joined in. Jase rose slowly, looking over the group around him with misty eyes. "You don't know how good it is to have you all here," he said, 591 with a kind of catch in his voice. "It means more to Mama and me than you can know, and we think you're the best children and grandchildren in the whole world." "Hey, Grandpa, can we boys stay?" Sammy wanted to know. 592 "That's fine with us," Jase told him, "if you don't mind getting in on the remodeling, cause your Grandma and I are going to have the old kitchen modernized this very week." "We sure had lots of good times in that old kitchen," Bob announced, "remember the candy - pulls on winter nights." Leshe laughed, "And I remember you getting taffy from your heels to your head." '"'Remember the time I opened Dad's prize root beer, and it fizzed up and went all over the ceiling?" Mark exclaimed. "Yah, Mom made us help wallpaper the ceiling!" '"'Remember those cheese sandwiches you used to make for picnics, Leslie?" "Mom's kitchen will always hold some of my dearest memories—when I think of the happy times we've had around that old table together." "Remember the winter mornings coming down to corn-meal mush bubbling in the kettle, and homemade sausage." And so they remembered—and it was a good day—a perfect day. Then the Sabbath came and they all went to church, and Jase and Ellie were proud to have them there. But, too soon, the week end was over and they had to get back to their homes and work. Matt and his family were staying until Tuesday morning, and then they would go on to California. Mark's three boys would stay for a week. After a supper of sandwiches and milk, Jase and Matt and the boys went out to the porch while Carole took the little girls up to bed and Ellie and Mrs. Bryson cleared up the dishes. "Tt's been just wonderful here with you," Mrs. Bryson told Ellie. "T think I've been a little jealous of you having all of your family here together. And your husband is such a fine man. I visited with him for awhile the other night. He reminds me of my Cal, especially when he told me about the trip he wanted to take." There was a wistful note in her voice. "Cal was like that, too. I've missed him so much, and looking back I wish we had done more things together. "He had always wanted to spend a summer im the Canadian Rockies—fishing and that sort of thing. I'm not much of an outdoor girl, so it didn't sound very exciting to me, but I agreed to go the next summer. He wasn't here— then...." For a moment she couldn't speak, then, composure regained, she went on. "Mrs. Clayton, why don't you take the Hawaiian trip? You can always have the kitchen remodeled, you know." Long after she went to bed, Ellie lay awake pondering over the things Mrs. Bryson had said. I guess we get our values mixed up sometimes, she thought, and Kitchen Money maybe we attach too much importance to some things. Maybe having the kitchen done over isn't the most important thing this year, either. Could it be that Mrs. Bryson is right? On Tuesday evening, when the supper dishes were done, and the boys had gone down to the creek to look for minnows, Fllie joined Jase on the porch to watch the night shadows that were stealing across the sky. On the table beside his chair were the travel folders) and the _ well-thumbed maps. "Jase," she said quite suddenly, "shall we go to Hawaii this summer?" Jase looked up, startled, incredulous. "Ellie—what did you say?" "T said, shall we go to Hawaii this summer?" "But Ellie, you know we can't go. We're going to have that kitchen done at long last." "The kitchen," said Elbe, feeling light-hearted as a girl, "can wait another year." "Ellie!" His eyes glowed like stars in the darkness. "Ellie, look." He opened the maps. "Let me show you." Ellie smiled knowingly, and moved her chair over beside him. | Very true; Need it too. LOVE Experts say that children must have Tender loving care. |, for one, think this is But some folks need reminding Every now and then, That middle aged and old folks > —Ruth G. Rothe 593 *. —. Bi tet. A Mes +g <a Yellow roses in Indian pottery vase 594 LOATH TO LEAVE The fragrance clings to the fading rose Till the petals wither away; And memory lingers still in the heart Long after a joy-filled day. —Maude O. Cook Grace Tuttle i | > i A |i etter To My Daughter Jane Scott Good Morning My Daughter: Time has moved along and distance is between us: ' would like to hold you and tell how much I love you. I look at your picture and see my precious child grown up and moving in a world of adults. It fills my heart with joy that you have decided to remember the things that you were taught in the early days of your life, regarding prayer and knowing that you have a Heavenly Father, as well as an earthly one to call on in your time of need. We can furnish the means by which you can live physically better and even give a limited amount of advice and encouragement. But because we do not live close enough to your thoughts and feelings, you can turn to the one who knows your every thought and emotion. You can gain strength to choose between good and evil and know that growth comes by this choice. Happiness is what we wish for you, but do you know the difference between happiness and joy? Do you seek and find that joy is wonderful, and yet hard to hold on to? Joy is what has been promised to us, and I do believe that we can gain more and longer times of joy by just being at peace with ourselves. Do you have such moments, too? Peace is a quietness within and acceptance of things as they are without fighting and struggling against what happens to us. Ceasing to fight does not mean that we give in to evil or wrong, but know things as they are and move around them. It is like moving down a road and seeing a mud puddle. If you have considered what the mud will do to your new shoes or feet, then you will go around it or jump over it. You have acknowledged that the mud is there, but you have decided on how to meet it. So it is with so many of the temptations that we face in life. Jesus taught us how to recognize many of these pitfalls, and it is up to us to recognize them and to pray for discernment of what to do about them. Thus we find joy and happiness. Ah, how I have gone on, I know that you are wondering what Cory is doing. He is deep in school, all those things that intrigue him: music, band, electricity, and English. He is thinking of giving up his paper route as he has been asked to work for a couple of hours after school and Saturday. He has managed to buy all his school supplies and clothes. Isn't that something to be excited about? We are very proud of him. He is displaying such a growth and development for his age. Bless him. We are well and busy and love you all so much. Write when you can find the time and are anxious about home. Mother 595 The Cast-on Bootie Dorothy F. Condry « The new year had started out beautifully. Looking out my window Monday morning, while preparing to go to the office, I discovered a blanket of white had been neatly spread as J had slept. Since it was the middle of January, this wasn't exactly a surprise, and it certainly seemed more appropriate than yesterday's rain. As I headed for the car, my boots made neat tracks behind me. The air was brisk, so I quickened my pace. Whoosh! My left foot slid in front, and my right foot buckled under me, as I. Went down. A sheet of ice was neatly hidden under the beguiling snow. The fur-lined boot cushioned my fall, but my leg immediately 596 rebelled at the unaccustomed forty-five degree angle. After a trip to the hospital, I found myself encumbered with a hard, white, toeless boot, sporting a_ brightly-colored cover tied over my toes. The nurse had given me my choice from a box full of "toe caps" crocheted for them by an old lady, she had said. I had chosen one in various shades _of pink. Pink is such a cheerful color, and my spirits needed a lift, as I contemplated being grounded for six weeks. The next day as I lay staring at my disabled foot, it suddenly struck me. Instead of making bootees for my _ grandchildren, here I was wearing one—a "Cast- on Bootee!" After I had had a good chuckle over my little joke, I remembered the bag of leftover yarns from sweaters and afghans I had made through the years. A perfect way to use these up, I thought, as I hobbled over to the dresser and got out the crochet hook and yarns. I would make a bootee in every color of the rainbow and put on a different one every day in the week. The old lady had used a very simple pattern which I found easy to follow. After making a chain of ten stitches, I went back over it with single crochet, and continued around and around, increasing one stitch at each end until I had finished nine rounds. Then I continued for another eight rows, increasing one stitch at each end of every other row. Midway between the ends, on the last round, I skipped two stitches in the previous row, The Cast-on Bootee made four chain stitches, for a loop, and continued to the end of the row. At that point, I made a long chain of 100 stitches, then turned and started back, joining every fourth stitch until I got back to the bootee. Continuing around the top with single crochet, I made another long double chain at the other side. Then, working across the front edge and outlining the open space in the center front with single crochet stitches, I worked to the far side of the top, where I cut the yarn and worked the tail end back under to finish off. Slipping the bootee over the toes on my right foot, I brought the long ties back behind the heel of the cast, around in front, looping one tie through the open center space, and made a bow on top of my foot. It really made quite an attractive bootee. A When | am gone.. MY FATHER'S WATCH { opened the ornate dresser drawer And, after many years, again | saw my father's gold, initialed watch, Saw it with sudden, aching pain. | saw his thoughtful brow as each night He reached to wind the clock upon the wall, Mating the hands with those upon his watch, That moved in rhythm summer, spring, and fall. Once more, | seemed to hear its ticking Against my ear, held within his hand, As firm and steady as the wheels that he Showed to me though | did not understand. The stem wound now the same as in the past, The sound began as though long over-due, Telling of time that shall go on and on,. (as he) and you. > —Christie Lund Coles A 597 Three Rules for Making Jam Ida Isaacson Lately, two young housewives have told me about their experiences in making jam. They scorch the jam! This would never have occurred if they had followed three simple rules. 1. Make only one small batch of jam at one time. 2. Follow your recipe. 3. Stir the jam constantly, using a big spoon with a wooden or plastic handle. A note or two: Do not talk on the phone when you are making jam! Do not linger at the door and talk! Stay by the stove! When you put your shining jars of jam on the shelf, take pride in your accomplishment, and your family will be proud of you. EXTRA SPECIAL PANCAKES Doris C. Kinsley 1 medium grated onion 1 tsp. Kelp Mix well and bake on well-oiled griddle until brown and crisp. Serve with honey. CLOSE NEIGHBORS Their windows looked north into our own Through our crooked apple tree And there was room beside the fence For hollyhocks to be. Their children and ours would run and play { As back and forth they bounced, And we never worried at mealtime If some guests came unannounced. | We watched for the smoke from their chimney In the early morning light. We knew when they made their bed-time retreat In the quiet country night. —Melba S. Payne SS 598 2 c. Grated raw potatoes 1 c. Grated raw carrots lc. Grated apple f 4 tbsp. Soya flour 2 tbsp. Wheat germ 2 eggs unbeaten ~») MANY HOBBIES KEEP HER BUSY ® Elsie Egan Asay, South Sevier Stake, Monroe, Utah, is kept busy with many hobbies and talents. Her hobbies include writing histories, keeping records, and handwork. She has made many contributions to the Church through her musical talent. Her handwork achievements include 235 quilts which she has pieced, completing over 150 herself; knitting sixty sweaters for family and friends; bedspreads; afghans; handkerchief edges; doilies; and countless articles of clothing. She also does textile painting and embroidery work. She has instructed many young people on the organ, and taught several Relief Society sisters to direct singing. Her musical contributions started when she was nine years old. She has acted as organist and chorister for Relief Society and other auxiliaries, and has directed several outstanding musical programs. She has served as Relief Society president, and has been cultural refinement class leader and social relations class leader. Her seven children, and their children, of whom there are thirty, consider her a great blessing. She represented Monroe as a Utah State Mother of the Year nominee. 599 on ws ws ~ AN > IrIrIrXIWINIWNINIWIY® oe "<>" "<>" CEAR2G06 2S Rolls For Many Occasions Mildred Lewis, Mesa, Arizona gm o™~ g~ gn gM gr SEeSE><SRoSe oS REESE OE ws +) >) +] +) +) +) +) ww NW ONE-HOUR ROLLS (Basic Recipe) lc. Hot water 2 yeast cakes (dry or fresh) 1 tsp. Salt 1 egg, well beaten 6 tbsp. Shortening "4c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Lukewarm water 3% c. Flour, or more, as needed Combine hot water, salt, shortening, and sugar. Cool until lukewarm. Add yeast, softened in lukewarm water. Add egg. Add half the flour to first mixture. Beat well. Add enough flour to make dough easy to handle. Knead on flour board. Roll into balls, place in greased muffin tins, brush with melted butter. Cover and allow rolls to rise in warm place (80°) until they double in size. Bake in hot oven (425°) for about twelve minutes. Remove and brush with fat. If rolls are wanted for later use, store dough in refrigerator in greased bowl. Brush with fat, cover. Makes 18 rolls. SEVEN-MINUTE ROLLS (Using Basic Recipe) You can have rolls more often without going to the trouble of mixing up a fresh batch every day. The trick is to ''half bake'' several batches when you have time. Then brown quickly just before you serve them. You can store these rolls in the refrigerator for two weeks. Instead of baking the rolls in a hot oven, bake them in a slow oven (275°) 20 to 40 minutes, which is a bit longer than usual. Be sure that the temperature is just 275° because that is the secret of success. When you take the rolls from the oven, they will be ''platinum blond,'' but completely baked on the inside. When you want to serve them, remove from the refrigerator, and pop them into a 450° oven. In seven minutes they will be golden brown, and beautifully light and fresh. TWICE-BAKED ROLLS Soften 2 pkgs. Dry or compressed yeast in one c. Lukewarm water. Add one tsp. Sugar. Put in bowl 3 tsp. Salt and % c. Sugar. Pour in 2 c. Scalded milk. Stir to dissolve sugar and salt. Cool to lukewarm, then add yeast mixture. Mix in 6 c. Sifted all-purpose flour, then add % c. Cooled melted shortening. Add about 4 c. More flour. Turn out on lightly-floured board and knead until smooth and satiny. Put dough in greased bowl, grease top, and cover with a clean, damp towel; redampen occasionally. Allow dough to double in bulk in a warm place (85°). Punch down, knead again on a floured board, divide into four parts. Cover with a damp towel; let stand 20 minutes. Shape 4 loaves or 4 to 6 dozen rolls. Let rise in a warm place until 34 as high as regular rolls or loaf. Otherwise, they fall when baked. Bake rolls in a slow oven (275°) for 40 minutes. Bake bread 1 hour and 15 minutes. Let stand in pans 20 minutes, then turn out to cool at room temperature. Wrap in waxed paper and store in refrigerator as long as two weeks, or wrap in freezer paper and freeze for as long as 3 months. Before serving, place rolls or bread on ungreased cookie sheet and brown for 7 minutes in 450° oven. 600 Rolls For Many Occasions BUTTER-HORN ROLLS Roll dough (made from basic recipe) into a 10-inch circle, ¥2-inch thick. Brush with melted butter; cut, like pie, into twelve pieces. Roll each piece from wide end. Lay on a well-greased baking sheet, with tip of dough on underneath side. Let rise about 30 minutes in warm place. Bake approximately 20 minutes at 300°—350°. CINNAMON BREAD Shape dough (made from basic recipe) in 6x9 inch rectangular shape, 1% inch thick. Brush with melted butter. Mix % c. Sugar and 2 tsp. Cinnamon, and sprinkle over dough. Roll like a jelly roll, flatten ends and turn under, pinching in place. Place in well-greased 5x9-inch pan. Let rise until light, and bake at 350° until brown, as desired. Y OUR GREAT-GRANDMA Great-grandmothers, we are told In many a tale and song, Just sit in rocking chairs and wait While old age comes along. But not our own great-grandma; Old age can't catch up with her. The temples—visits—daily toil— She's always on the stir. We love the dears in rocking chairs— We know they're great-grandmothers. But we can't help our feeling glad That they belong to others. Our granny-great's fine as she is; There's nothing that we'd alter. We wouldn't even try to do A single thing to halt her. And when she visits, though we know She won't be with us long, We're-cheerfut wher we see her go— She's somehow here, though gone. She sets a pattern we can use, So we won't rust away. To solve life's problems we will choose Like her, to work, and pray. —Rebecca J. Welker ~ 601 leavening Annie C. Esplin = When it was my chore to go for the yeast, I preferred the twilight hours. It was peaceful and beautiful. I loved it. Carrying the earthen pitcher containing sugar to exchange for yeast, I chose to go the long way around, following trails pertinent to a small girl's world of fantasy. They led through the wash, under a bridge, skirted a polliwog pond beneath the dripping flume; afforded a breathless moment to pause in the shade of a huge cottonwood stretching leafy arms far over the winding trail. Climbing the bank, I slowly circled our ward hall, noting sweet williams with dainty pink flowers snuggled close to the foundation, and wild snapdragons blooming beside the back stoop. Crossing a wide plank to the opposite side, it was time to walk nicely through the gate and along a flagstone path leading to the '"'yeast lady's" porch. There she sat in her rocker, knitting industriously—a sprightly little woman, always feigning surprise because I was there. With a cheery beckoning, she bade me come. As I followed into the semidarkness of her cool cellar, clean odors assailed me. She emptied the sugar into a container near a large crock filled with bubbling yeast. This she stirred, ladled my pitcher full, and admonished me to go straight home. Often I left with some welcome offering—a ribbon, small remnants of calico for a rag doll dress, a cookie—always with a tangible bit of cheer. Going home, aware of twitterings in leafy trees, where homing birds sought their nests and safety, I hurried along the path. Mama might be ready to mix the bread. She would cover the dough with a white cloth and place it in a cool room to rise overnight. For breakfast, a treat was in store for us, delicious white biscuits spread with yellow home-churned butter, and a choice of molasses, honey, or grape jelly, to "top off on." ' > SWIFT SHADOWS | see the shadows on the sunny hill, Patterns that the drifting clouds have made, They slide across each gentle rise and fill The chasm's cup with pools of sudden shade. They trace their path along the windy arc That pours its freshness on the valley floor; All this day the earth has borne a mark For every bouyant thing the heavens wore. Summer splashes all we see with light, Then underlines this joy with blue and green, Balancing the darks with tones more bright, An ever glad, and ever changing scene. A —Lucille R. Perry 602 If Spring Be La fe - Mabel Harmer Chapter 9 Maureen Taggart, 4 librarian, £0¢5 to Britain to do genealogical research and look over an estate in Scotland to which j with a cou-2) him. O Curran, 4 fellow passengerA gart home she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who lives on the Taggart estate. Most helpful to Sydney. Over to the NightinThey all walked red brick building 0" gale Lane. "This doesn't greatly resemble the usual church puilding," remarked Sydney: "J imagine that it was built originally as 4 home." opportunities for the young to participate: 1 suppose 603 August 1968 that is what distinguishes it most from some other faiths." "Well, somewhat,' Maureen replied, "but what distinguishes our faith most is the fact that it is the true restored Church of Jesus Christ, and is not just another manmade faith. However, we do have vast and important programs for the youth." "Yes, I've noticed. One set of young men played basketball in our town, and there was also a singing quartet at one time." "That is only a beginning," said Maureen. 'And, of course, the missionaries can't spend a great deal of time on these activities. They are encouraged to do only what will interest young people so that they can have the contacts to give them the gospel message." Bruce invited two of the missionaries home for dinner, and both Maureen and Diane were pleased to see that Sydney was interested enough to ask some questions. A; soon as Maureen arrived in town on Monday, she went directly to the Art Gallery, hoping to buy the painting of the cottage. To her dismay, it was no longer there. "Perhaps you will consider something else, Miss?" the attendant suggested. "Tl look them _ over," agreed. For a time she could not be satisfied with any of them, since she had so completely made up her mind to own the cottage. At length, however, she decided to take one of the castle in rather a misty atmosphere, with a vast field of heather in the foreground. She 604 She supposed that it was very much idealized. In fact, Robert McPherson had made that quite clear. But it was a very lovely painting, and she knew that she would enjoy having it in her own home. She decided to go to the British Museum to work today, rather than return to the Public Records Office. For some undefinable reason, she felt that the latter would be too humdrum. She felt as if she couldn't settle down to the usual routine. She took a cab to the museum and asked to be shown to the rooms on family records. On the way, she fell in with a group of tourists that was being shown through the building, and decided to follow them. She found herself presently in a large room where there weremany important papers and documents in frames upon the walls. As she wandered about from one to another, she saw the order, signed by Queen Elizabeth I, for the execution of Essex, and other orders equally intriguing. It was all so fascinating that she could not settle down to do any research. This is my British heritage showing through, she decided. I really do have a deep feeling for this land and _ its history. It was late afternoon before she left to return home. At the house, she found considerable excitement. Mrs. Murch had been to the bank with Julia and Mr. Edmunds, the solicitor, and they had learned that the account amounted to something over 3000 pounds. Maureen did some _ quick figuring and concluded that, at the current rate, it would be just under $10,000 in American money. True, that was not much of asum to restore a broken down castle, but enough, probably, to put part of it into shape so that it would make an income. The problem would be to find out how much of that would go to the Taggarts for their care of Mrs. Murch during the past twenty-five years, and how much Bruce would be willing to accept if it were offered to him. Maureen knew him to be scrupulously honest and, in addition, the family felt that they had nothing coming to them for giving her a home. It had actually been a labor of love and Christian neighborliness. As for Mrs. Murch, she was not at all interested in obtaining any of the money for her own use. "As long as I have this nice place and plenty of yarn for my afghans, I don't need another thing," she declared. "How is she to go about getting the money?" Maureen asked. "Evidently she has no passbook or any other proof." "They did take a sample of her handwriting," answered Julia. "I daresay it has changed rather a lot over the years. Then we will have to find someone who knew her before the Blitz. There is a man who built a bake shop where the house used to be. She has been calling there every once in a while but, whether or not he knew her before is something we have to find out. There surely must be someone who would remember her from the old neighborhood." "Yes, there surely must be," agreed Catherine. "It may be that we will have to advertise. I'm sure that Mr. Edmunds can If Spring Be Late come up with something. No doubt there have been many other cases such as this where people lost their homes and all ' their belongings in the war." "No doubt," said Bruce. "But I question that many of them would have waited a quarter of a century to put in their claims." "I'm sure that we can put in a beautiful youth hostel with all that money," said Kitty dreamily. "Just a minute, my chick," said her father. "We don't have that money as yet. Even Mrs. Murch doesn't have it as yet. When, and if, she does get it, we still have to put in a claim through the court." "Oh, no!" exclaimed Mrs. Murch. "T'll just give it to you. I've said right along that I don't need it." "True," agreed Bruce. "But we still want it done legally. The court must decide how much is coming to us and if you may pay it. You could have a covey of second cousins waiting in the shrubbery who would all come forth to put in claims." "Well, if there are they have waited too long," declared Mrs. Murch. "Anyway, I never did care for my cousins, as I remember." "T guess there isn't too much chance that they will appear now," said Catherine. "However, I'm sure that we must advertise in order to find people who can identify you, if for no other reason." At dinner time, Diane had not yet arrived from her work, and they decided to go ahead without her. When she had still not arrived by eight o'clock, Maureen put on her wraps to go and meet her. She had just reached the 605 August 1968 door when Diane came in and slumped down into a chair. "What's the trouble—besides working for twelve hours?" asked Kitty. "Did Mrs. Markham take off for Paris, or something?" "It was something," answered Diane. ' i only wish it were Paris. That might be more temporary. She has had a stroke." "Oh, what a shame!" cried Catherine. "What happened?" "She said that she didn't feel too well and would lie down while I got the mail out.. - - "As usual," interrupted itty. "Yes, as usual. Anyway, she did lie down, and when the housekeeper went to call her to dinner she found her lying on the floor and unable to move. Of course we called a doctor and she was taken to the hospital. I have just come from there." "And with no dinner," said Catherine. "Do come and eat. This has bee most upsetting, I am sure." Diane merely nodded. She ate her lone meal in an abstracted mood. Later Maureen said, "This could go on for a long time. I mean, she could be helpless for months. What do you think will happen to your work?" "It's hard to say. She has such a good thing going there that it would be too bad to let it drop. And, of course, once We did let it go, there would be no way of getting it back again. I have done so much of the work by myself that I could actually handle it alone, at least I could with a bit of help. I am hoping that is what can be done. Anyway, 'll keep it going for a few days until we come to some sort of an understanding." 606 "J surely hope that you can. It wouldn't be easy to find other work that would pay as well." "Right. I've complained about having to do practically everything but it may have been all for Le best. I'm sure that other girls have quit, rather than do so much of the work. I couldn't quit, so here I am." D) iane kept on as usual, and, sometime later, when Mrs. Markham was able to do so, arrangements were made whereby Diane took over the entire work at a substantial increase in her salary. "At this rate," she said to Maureen, "lL shall be making money enough so that Sydney and I can be married before he finishes school, just as we had planned when | came over." "Would you like that?" asked Maureen. "Indeed, yes! More than anything else I can imagine. And, anyway, I would simply be following a family tradition. Both of my older sisters worked, at first, to help put their husbands through school. So many girls do, you know. It's quite the thing for them to receive their P. H. T Putting Hubby Through—at the same time he gets his degree." "Thaiyve you thought about where you would like to be married?" "Oh, Later on, I hope that we can go to the London Temple to be married. He says that he is willing to do whatever I want, but I hope that he will want it for his own sake and not just to please me." "Yes, it should be that wayNo one should join the Church, or marry in the Church, simply to satisfy a partner, although it makes for much more harmony in marriage if both are agreed. That is true of any faith—not just ours." "I'm sure you are right," Diane nodded. Thanksgiving was merely a date on the calendar, since no one in England, except for a few Americans like themselves, celebrated the day. Even the missionaries were working as usual, with simply a festive dinner in the evening. The Christmas season would be different, however, and both of the American girls looked forward with a great deal of anticipation to celebrating a yuletide in England. "I hope that you won't be disappointed," said Julia. "We won't, for instance, be going out to cut our own yule log, as you have heard about in song and story. We shall have one, however. Mrs. Murch takes an ordinary log, just big enough for the fireplace, and trims it all up with cones, gilded chestnuts, and what have you. We treasure it for several days and then burn it in glory at the end of the holiday season." "But you do have a Christmas tree and carolers, don't you?" asked Diane. "Yes, that we do have. We shall even take you caroling on Christmas Eve." "It sounds enchanting," said Diane. "I'll practice up on 'God Rest Ye, Merry Gentlemen,' and make myself merry at the same time." Maureen had mailed Christmas cards to her friends at home the middle of November, and had If Spring Be Late puzzled long and hard over what she should send to Steve Madsen. It couldn't be a gift, of course, but she wanted very much to send something more than an ordinary Christmas card. She finally decided that it wou'd be entirely appropriate to send a book, and bought one describing London that was lavishly illustrated with photos. Even after she had it wrapped and addressed, she was dubious about the mailing until one day Diane announced, "I'm tired of seeing that book on your dressing table and if it waits one more day it will be too late for Christmas, so I have taken it to the post office today, along with my other mail." "Well, I must admit that I am rather grateful to you for making up my mind," said Maureen. "Perhaps I could also help you out with your other admirer," Diane suggested. "Thank you, no. We have yet to prove that he is an admirer. And, even so, I doubt if I should greet him bearing gifts." "As you will," shrugged Diane. "T'm glad that I don't have to wrestle with any such qualms. I have an elegant leather brief case for Sydney, which should go to show my love and devotion and ample salary." A: the season approached, activities in the family grew more absorbing with every passin g day. Mrs. Murch ordered yarn from tuwn until Maureen figured she must be knitting afghans for the entire countryside. She worked on the yule log until it was a thing of beauty. "It will be much too pretty to 607 August 1968 burn," Diane commented. "Why can't we just keep it as a decoration?" "Because then Mrs. Murch couldn't make another one next year, and that would make her sad," Kitty answered. Then she added suddenly, "I do hope that there is a huge fireplace in the castle, and that we can bring in an enormous yule log, just as they did in the olden days, and burn it for the entire twelve days of Christmas." "Especially if the fireplace is in one of the rooms where the wall has fallen out," commented Julia. "Then we could really make good use of a huge log." "There will be a fireplace in every room, of course," said Kitty with a shrug. "We shall simply choose a room where there are still four walls standing. Our only problem will be to find enough men to cut and bring in the yule log. Because, so far, we have no retainers." "We do not, indeed," said Julia emphatically. "We must include retainers among the host of other assets that we do not have and are not likely to have." "T suppose so," admitted Kitty with a sigh. "I shall have to find some other means of bringing in the yule log." "We can deck the hall—meaning this hall," said Diane. "Mrs. Markham has a great hedge of holly, and she said that I might take all I wished. We can manage that without the help of retainers, I am sure." On Saturday, the entire family went over to Mrs. Markham's house to gather holly, and the house was decked, along with the hall. Mrs. Murch and Catherine supplied red satin bows, and the effect was highly festive. "In fact,' said Maureen, "this is more holly that I have ever _— ty seen in one place, outside of a salesman's stand. I have always figured I had done well if I could manage one large wreath on my front door." The Christmas tree came next and, while the trimmings were rather different from those the girls had-used before, they were glad to accept what was in line with British tradition. Christmas Eve Kitty said, "Now we'll give you' your 'druthers.' Would you druther go out caroling in the hopes of picking up a few pennies and perhaps some goodies? Or would you rather stay home, receive the carolers, and be on the giving end. I speak to go out." "And I speak to stay in," said Diane. "I think it much more interesting to meet the carolers. In fact, that was largely the reason why I came to England— to meet people. Sydney first, of course." "J can't understand such reasoning," said Kitty. "You might collect as much as two shillings and sixpence if you went out. But you must suit yourself, of course. How about you, Maureen?" "T'm with Diane. I much prefer to stay at home and listen, even at the sacrifice of two shillings and sixpence." "But there is no reason why you may not yo out with your friends—both you and Julia, if you wish," said Catherine to her younger daughter. "In fact, you might bring them here for a special treat." "That's what I was leading up to," said Kitty. "Do please have some hot spiced punch and cakes for us." If Spring Be Late Christmas Eve was very merry indeed, with the blazing fire on the hearth, the troops of carolers coming and, at the end of the evening, Kitty and Julia bringing home their friends. The next morning was given over to a leisurely breakfast and a walk to church for a special service. Maureen and Diane had been very much surprised to learn that they were not to open the gifts from home until the next day. "Goodness, no!" Kitty had informed them. "You must wait until Boxing Day. It isn't cricket to take the smallest peek or even do any shaking. Not that I haven't in my day, but that was long ago when I was a mere child." Only Diane did not have to wait. Sydney had come for dinner and when the two lovers returned from a walk, Diane was wearing a very lovely pearl ring on her engagement finger. Even Kitty forgave her for not waiting until Boxing Day. The next morning was given over to opening all of the other gifts. Both girls had numerous ones from home, among them was a box from Steve Madsen that had been on a table in their room for five days, and which Maureen had steadfastly resisted the urge to open. "Well, the suspense is over now," said Diane, "or soon will be. Open it quickly, I'm just as curious as you are—almost anyway. I'm dying to see what a near middle-aged suitor considers a suitable gift for a girl whom he admires from a distance." "You forgot to put in the 609 August 1968 'middle-aged' girl," said Maureen. "If there is such an one." "Goodness, no. I always think. Of you as practically my own age and, to tell the truth, you really aren't much older." "No. Just a decade or so," she said as she was cutting the twine. There was a box of her favorite studio candy—and, fortunately, in excellent condition after the long trip from the: States. There was also a very handsome calendar on a small. Stand with revolving dates,' and a'small clock with the note "To remind you when it is time to come back home." "T think it's utterly fascinating and practically a proposal. Of marriage," said Diane. "Well, Pl agree with your first statement,' Maureen _ replied. "Tt really is very clever." When they returned to the living room where the others were still busy opening their "was Maureen might have protested that the gift was too much, except that she recollected she had bought and paid for most of the yarn. A great deal of work had gone into the gift, and she was most appreciative. Just before dinner, a messenger arrived with a _ package for Maureen. She unwrapped it eagerly and found the painting of the cottage at the castle which she had so admired. She almost —— / with pleasure.. Ye Kitty was: not, a "Te think it's absolutely divine," she exclaimed, "and so real that you could move right in. But, _of course, you can't. You wouldn't put that nice Mr. McPherson out in the cold—now would you?" "IT would. Not,' Maureen answered. "I shall be satisfied with the painting." But, on second thoughts, she couldn't help thinking how utterly delightful it gifts, Mrs. Murch presented might be to live in this charming each of them with an afghan. Cottage—and it was hers, really. "For your wedding chests, Z REFLECTIONS 4 At once to lighten the heart And next to ring its doom, Did |, in my childhood, miss the music of the years Swiftly melted like waves upon a rock, Did time so quickly, then, conceal the tears, Of sorrows counted easily as minutes of a clock, Whose face wears the same impassive mood? Where, then, were the words flowing in golden rivers, Through my mind, now, to torment my pen that idle stood For want of waking? Cold grows my hand as thought quivers Like a thousand beams of light into a darkened room— Words! What magic can you conjure What fantasy prepared to lure And yet to feed the soul with peace? —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England JZ 610 dearies," she said. (to be continued) All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities North Weber Stake (Utah), West Warren Ward and West Weber Ward Compile Relief Society Histories Left to right: Leila C. Heslop, President, West Weber Ward Relief Society; Marcella T. Muirbrook, President, West Warren Ward Relief Society; Ruth B. Davis, compiler, West Warren Ward history book. Gladys B. Sorensen, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: ''These sisters are showing the history books that have been compiled about their ward Relief Society organizations from their beginnings to the present time. "During the past six years, Leila C. Heslop has compiled 'One Hundred Years of Relief Society in West Weber,' which reviews activity from May 9, 1868 to May 9, 1968. It contains biographical sketches of the past twelve presidents, pictures, and interesting stories. The book was completed in time for a centennial social held May 9. The event was celebrated with narration, costume, music and pictures. "Ruth B. Davis has spent four years compiling the fifty-two years history of West Warren Ward, beginning with its organization as a branch, transition to a ward, to the present time. It is complete with pictures, biographies, and stories. An interesting feature is that the book contains a picture of every member of Relief Society in the year she was admitted to membership."' 611 August 1968 Roy Stake (Utah) Relief Society ''Talent Boutique' April 25, 1968 Right: Marilyn Garner, homemaking leader, Roy Stake Relief Society, displaying paintings; left: Allene George, social relations class leader, displaying afghans and quilts. Kathleen Dunbar, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: '' 'Talent Boutique' was the theme of a program held in our stake recently. Every sister in the stake was given an opportunity to display one of her talents in handiwork, creative art, canning, pottery, writing, etc. Over 100 items of clothing made by the sisters were modeled in a fashion show narrated by Ruby Frances, stake cultural refinement class leader. "Fifty-six Singing Mothers, directed by stake chorister Eileen Reimschussel and accompanied by June Rich, stake organist, performed at various interludes during the program. "Light refreshments were served to 350 guests. The 'Talent Boutique' was termed one of the most outstanding activities ever held in the stake, both by participants and those in attendance." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 25, 1968 Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The visiting teachers of Box Elder Stake were honored at a special program recently. "Thelma Monson, stake visiting teacher message leader, gave special recognition and presented gifts to the youngest visiting teacher and the one with the longest service, from each ward. "Those honored for having served long years were: Mabel Holland, Aurilla Hansen, Vera Austin, Marguerite Fishburn, Aleda Nicholas, Evelyn Johnson, and Geneva Olsen. "Youngest visiting teachers were: Leora Baron, Pauline Rushton, Corinie Thorson, Teddy Lou Call, Sherry Goldsberry, Marilyn Cefalo, and Adrianna Fosgren.. "The program consisted of an inspirational narrative, written and presented by Renie Littlewood, stake cultural refinement class leader, with musical numbers appropriately arranged by Ethel Poulter, stake chorister and Pat Davies, stake organist. Violin music, a ladies trio, and the Singing Mothers from the Brigham Second Ward performed. "A special feature was the beautiful display of sixteen tables of handwork and hobbies of the visiting teachers."' Tooele Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present 'Spirit of Spring"' April 26, 1968 Seated at left, front: Alice Walton and Gayle Beane, narrators. Standing, second from left, front row: Oneda Steadman, stake chorister. Seated at organ: Louise Fitzwater, stake organist. Third row, fifth from feft: Mildred Anderson, Second Counselor. Back row, fourth and fifth from right: Joyce Ludwig, President; Beth Atkin, First Counselor. Sister Ludwig reports: '' 'Spirit of Spring' was the theme for the concert presented by the Tooele Stake Singing Mothers. Numbers were presented by the combined stake chorus, and by the individual ward choruses, under direction of their respective leaders. Members of the various wards could be identified by the color of the paper corsages they made and wore. "Signe Hale, a member of the Utah Valley Symphony orchestra, performed special numbers on the violin as guest artist. "Following the concert, bazaar items were sold and refreshments were served in the cultural hall.'' 612 " Ss wy ba a Pom August 1968 Burley Stake (Idaho) Holds ''All Seasons Fair"' March 27, 1968 From left: Pearl Lee, spiritual living class leader, Burley Stake Relief Society; Emma Krieger, homemaking leader and general chairman for the fair, pictured at Easter display. LaVerne D. Darrington, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our 'All Seasons Fair' featured foods, decorations, and handwork displays for all seasons and major holidays throughout the year. There were also workshops in gold leafing, fabric shoe covering, velour, and form-a-film flower making. "The impressive displays included quilting, oil painting, and many other crafts. Free recipes and samples of food were distributed from various booths. Two fashion shows, featuring Relief Society sisters modeling clothing they had made, were held in the afternoon. "The stake Singing Mothers chorus was well received. They sang several numbers between fashion shows. A nursery was provided for the convenience of mothers with small children. "Excellent advertising by the local newspaper and radio stations helped to attract over 1,200 women to the event, and it bound the ten wards and the Spanish branch closer together." Central Atlantic States Mission, Forest City Branch Representative of New Relief Societies Left to right, Forest City Branch Relief Society officers: Frances Chapman, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice Timmonds, First Counselor; Ava J. Roberts, President; Retha Simmons, Second Counselor. Winnifred Ferre, Supervisor, Central Atlantic States Mission, Relief Society, reports: "This little branch is just newly organized. They held their first Relief Society meeting in January, 1968, and their bazaar was May 3, 1968. The first meeting had nine in attendance; average attendance is now fourteen. "Since the opening of Relief Society, these sisters have completed 132 bazaar items. It is a joy to see them respond to the work of Relief Society and receive the blessings therefrom. "This is representative of branches through the mission, as this is the fifth Relief Society organized in the past three years."' Boise Stake (Idaho) Visiting Teacher Convention ''To Serve With Love" March 27, 1968 Front row, left to right: Edith Eldredge; Isabelle Thornton; Myrtle Arthur; Caroline Thurber. Back row, left to right: Mary Bennett; Elizabeth Winn; Pearl Braden; Chloe Mitchell. Lucille M. Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''This picture represents 658 hours of purposeful living and countless hours of loving service. These sisters were specially honored at our visiting teacher convention for their long years of service. The theme for the event was 'To Serve With Love.' "Each ward, under direction of the visiting teacher message leader, presented a short sketch based on the monthly messages. We were delighted with the talents and cleverness of the participants. "The stake Singing Mothers chorus sang three songs, and a luncheon was served. There were 246 present, and the Second Ward received the attendance award, a copy of History of Relief Society." 614 August 1968 Sandy East Stake (Utah) Sandy Sixth Ward Presents Mothers And Daughters Program May 3, 1968 Sandy Sixth Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Norma Pullan, Second Counselor; Lucile J. Asay, President; Shirley Timothy, First Counselor. Arleene H. Walters, President, Sandy East Stake Relief Society, reports: '' 'Relief Society—A Many Splendored Thing,' was the theme for the mothers and daughters program presented in honor of Mother's Day in the Sandy Sixth Ward. A luncheon was followed by a bazaar featuring gift items for Mother's Day. "Invitations were sent to each sister in the ward. The decorations followed an oriental theme. Carnation corsages were presented to the officers, class leaders, and committee chairmen for the program, in appreciation of the devoted work they gave." Salmon River Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Initiates Home Nursing Summer Program Left to right: Katheryne Stokes, nursing instructor; Florence Mathews, homemaking leader, Salmon River Stake Relief Society, and registered nurse; young patients: Cynthia Young; Bing Young; Beulah Matley, nursing instructor; Merlene Peterson, Homemaking Counselor. Barbara W. Young, President, Salmon River Stake Relief Society, reports: ''During the summer months, the homemaking department of our stake is presenting classes on home nursing techniques designed to help wives and mothers be more alert to the symptoms of illness and to learn ways to ease the problems and burdens of caring for an ill person within the home. "They also will be instructed in general rules of first aid, mouth to mouth resuscitation, and when to apply artificial breathing which could save a life. "There will also be instructions for care of the aged person; for changing positions for the patient's comfort; and rehabilitation for the paralyzed or stroke patient. "The home nursing program has been received with much enthusiasm. The efforts of our homemaking department to publicize the course and create interest have been outstanding. We have had coverage in the local newspaper, and from other wards there have been outstanding promotion efforts." Palo Alto Stake (California), Cupertino Ward Relief Society Birthday Party March 1968 Front row, at left: Coleen Carter, director; fourth from left, Frances Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Alma Brew, First Counselor; eighth from left, Lila Bates, President; Lynn Erickson, author. Second row, second from left: Beth Boyer, Second Counselor; on pedestal, Julia Brown, ''Woman of the Year;'' sixth from left, Cathy Finch, cultural refinement class leader; Betsy Allen, accompanist. Alicia Crofts, former president, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Cupertino Ward celebrated the birthday of Relief Society by selecting a 'Woman of the Year.' "Through narration and song, a pageant depicting a search for the Relief Society Woman of the Year was conducted. They were searching for a woman who embodied all of Relief Society's ideals. Julia Brown was selected as this woman. "tt was a unique and delightful program, complete with a well-prepared luncheon. "Alice Jorgenson is the new president of Palo Alto Stake Relief Society." 616 ¥ North Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''God's Gifts,'' March 13, 1968 Norma H. Tolman, President, North Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers, under the direction of Evelyn Crane, stake chorister, and accompanied by Alice Donat, stake organist, presented a lovely spring concert, themed, 'God's Gifts.' "Each ward contributed one number, and the combined choruses sang four specially prepared numbers. The individual ward choristers and organists prepared and sang a special number, 'God Is Ever Beside Me.' "Sixty-one sisters participated. We were gratified by the support of the ward presidencies and the stake board members in making this event successful."' ebb a ABA 8 Z sess pegea se" a Le OP pmee — [ a, ace all,. " ~ Billings Stake (Montana) Singing Mothers Present ''Let All My Life Be Music" May 11, 1968 Front row, left to right: Jean M. Fletcher, conductor; Vicky J. Furness, accompanist. Second row, at left: Mary Jo Johnson, narrator; third from left: Claudia H. Roylance, First Counselor, Billings Stake Relief Society; fourth: Mildred M. Wilson, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth: Marjorie M. Dixon, President. Sister Dixon reports: ''The theme for our Singing Mothers concert was 'Let All My Life Be Music.' Eight musical numbers were sung, interspersed with narration. There was an enthusiastic audience in attendance." 618 Lesson 90—The Fruits of Apostasy Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C Sections 121:11-25; 123) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman searches her soul to root out any seeds of apostasy, that she may remain true and faithful. INTRODUCTION During the dispensation of the fulness of times, Satan has increased his attempts to destroy the Lord's work because this period of time is destined to be the culminating period when labor for the salvation of men, living and dead, will be accomplished. At the opening of this dispensation when Joseph Smith received the First Vision, Satan's efforts to thwart the work of the Lord were manifest in an attempt to destroy him. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:13-17.) The wiles of the Adversary have been effective in seducing the unwary. But to entice a covenant son or daughter of God to succumb to his temptations is a great victory; consequently, his efforts are particularly leveled at those who are members of the kingdom of God. NONE EXEMPT High office in the Church does not insure that the seeds of apostasy may not be sown in the person's life. (D&C 20:31-34.) Men who stood with the Prophet Joseph Smith amid hardships and persecution,» subsequently fell away from the Church. The instances are rare, however. 619 August 1968 'During a period of persecution in Missouri, when the Prophet and several other leaders were in Liberty Jail on trumped up charges, the Prophet received revelations which are numbered Sections 121, 122, and 123 in the Doctrine and Covenants. (The epistle from which these sections were extracted is found in Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed, rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948), Vol. 3, p. 289-305 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Among other things in Section 121, we find the Lord's answer to those who have persecuted the saints, among whom were some apostates. Beginning with verse 11, the revelation reminded the Prophet that the hopes of those who sought to charge him with transgression would be blasted and that their hearts were corrupted and retribution would surely come. (verse 13.) Those who cry against the Lord's anointed do it because they are the servants of sin. (verses 16-17.) To swear falsely against The Lord's anointed ones and to seek to harm them bring the following severe penalties: (1) They shall not have membership in the Church. (2) Their material blessings will diminish. (3) They shall not escape the damnation of hell. (D&C 121:18-23; 124:50.) CAUSE OF APOSTASY It is false to assume that the principles of the gospel are at fault when membersin high places 620 fall away from the Church. Some people ask why the Three Special Witnesses to The Book of Mormon left the Church, since they had such a marvelous experience. The answer is a simple one: they failed to keep the commandments. So it is with people, high or low, who elect to become apostate. There are, however, many things which lead people into dark and forbidden paths. Some of these elements will be mentioned in this lesson with their consequent results, as well as ways to overcome these tendencies. INDICATORS OF APOSTASY To assemble all of the factors which indicate that the seeds of apostasy are gaining ascendancy in one's life, might constitute a long list. Some of these signs may be mentioned briefly from those given by Elder John A. Widtsoe, (Gospel Interpretations, Ist ed.: Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1947, pp. 38-39.) (1) Failure to pray. In order to maintain spiritual communion with the Lord, it is essential that one acknowledge his dependency upon him, express gratitude for blessings received, and seek for wisdom through prayer. The moment one lets other activities or interests interfere with daily, sincere prayer, his faith may be weakened. In ignoring prayer completely, the person places himself in the position desired by the evil one. (Alma 32:8-9; 34:39.) On the other hand, the Lord has said that if we do not observe our prayers we stand for judgment. (D&C _ 68:33.) Class Discussion Why may the failure to pray regularly be a seed of apostasy? (2) Neglecting study of the gospel. To maintain a testimony of the gospel successfully, it is necessary to keep knowledgeable in gospel principles. Faith grows with knowledge. (3) Lessened participation in Church life. The Lord has enjoined upon all to be active in his work. (D&C 38:40.) (4) A feeling of superiority. Personal ambition may lead to a feeling of superiority with possible false interpretation of scripture. The true saint is one who remains humble seeking to learn through - that humility. (D&C 112:10.) (5) Finding fault with other members or with the leadership of the Church. These may lead to apostasy. This cause for apostasy is probably one of the most common. RECOGNIZABLE INDICATORS In the words of Elder Widtsoe: The dying testimony is easily recognized. The organizations and practices of the Church are ignored; the radio [television] takes the place of the sacrament meeting; golf or motion pictures, the Sunday worship; the cup of coffee, instead of the Word of Wisdom; the cold, selfish hand instead of helpfulness, charity for the poor, and the payment of tithing. Soon, the testimony is gone, and the former possessor walks about, somewhat sour and discontented, and always in his heart, unhappy. He has lost his most precious possession, and has found nothing to replace it. He has lost inward freedom, the gift of obedience to law. (Gospel Interpretations, p. 39.) Class Discussion A person's testimony is usually lost by degrees. BE NOT DECEIVED There is no happiness in losing one's most valued possession. When one remembers that losses in this life bring sorrow and want, Lesson Department how much more serious is the loss of an eternity of happiness. To insure against this possibility for those who would hearken to this word, very early in the dispensation the Lord gave counsel to the members of the Church whereby they might not be deceived by the evil one. The following categories— taken chronologically from the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants—give some counsel which, if obeyed, will keep the members of the Church from being deceived: (1) Grow in perfection. (2) Accept the duties of membership in the Church. (3) Obey appointed leaders. (4) Seek the gifts of the Holy Ghost. (5) Study the scriptures. (6) Obey Church regulations. (7) Keep the Sabbath day holy. (8) Be obedient to health and financial laws. GROW IN PERFECTION When the Latter-day Saint resolves to better his life, he begins to fulfill his covenants with the Lord. "Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect" (38 Nephi 12:48.) The ultimate goal is attainable by constant application of the principles of truth. A list of virtues which might be used to begin, today, in perfecting one's life, is found in the revelation directed to Joseph Smith, Sr. (D&C 4:5-6.) Class Discussion Opposite each virtue mentioned in Section 4, place its antonym and consider wherein you need improvement. If, for example, you lack humility, seek ways in which you can develop this virtue. 621 August 1968 ACCEPT DUTIES Among the duties of membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the partaking of the sacrament is most important. The Lord has said that we may have his Spirit with us provided we partake of it worthily. (D&C 20:77, 79.) If we enjoy the influence of the Holy Ghost, it will be the means of keeping us on the path to eternal life. (D&C 20:69.) Closely associated with the partaking of the sacrament, is the opportunity to assemble with other saints in meetings so that the strength of the group will be received by the individual. The Lord told the saints in Kirtland, Ohio, to "assemble yourselves together to agree upon my word." (Ibid., 41:2.) If one desires to resist temptation and keep on the narrow path to salvation, one of the best ways is to be a regular attender at appointed meetings. Class Discussion Name some ways in which the members of the Church are helped from being deceived by attending appointed meetings. OBEY LEADERSHIP Obedience to those who preside over the Church is a certain way to keep from being deceived. (D&C 43:3-7;. 124:45-46.) The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that when a person begins to criticize the leaders over him, and considers that he alone is right, then that person is on the road to apostasy. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 9th printing: Salt Lake City: The Deseret News Press, 1956, pp. 156-7.) 622 THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT Because there are "doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men..." (D&C 46:7) taught in the world, the Lord revealed that in order that his people might not be deceived, they should seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost. (D&C 46:8.) The gifts shown in the revelation are given to those who love the Lord and diligently seek to keep his commandments. (lbid., 46:9-26.) STUDY THE SCRIPTURES The Doctrine and Covenants sets forth the teachings of the gospel in plainness. Often these teachings were given in response to a question or a situation. One revelation containing doctrinal teachings which correct false teachings is Section 49. It is true that the student of the scriptures is able to discriminate between truth and error because he has not only learned the principles of the gospel, but he has also learned fundamental teachings which point the way to obtaining the answer to the problem. We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. (2 Peter 1:19-21.) ".. No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation." (2 Peter 1:20.) There is official interpretation of the doctrines and standards of the Church, and this knowledge comes from the prophets, seers, and revelators. (President Stephen L Richards, Conference Report, October 1951, pp. 116-117.) The revealed word of the Lord is: "And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived...." (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:37.) OBEY CHURCH REGULATIONS One of the most powerful means of deception is to teach false doctrines and disobedience to the known rules of the Church. Such a condition existed in the early part of the dispensation, and it was revealed that if a person will obey the ordinances and the rules and regulations of the gospel, he will be accepted of God. (D&C 52:14-16.) THE SABBATH DAY. A commandment which seems to be ignored widely is observance of the Sabbath day. It is inconsistent to believe that disobedience to the laws regarding the Sabbath day will not take its toll of the faith of the member of the Church. The commandment regarding the holy day requires devotion to the Lord. (D&C 59:9, 14; 68:29.) The Spirit of the Lord. Is enjoyed when we keep all the commandments., Not only is: faithful devotion required for the covenant people of the Lord on the Sabbath day, but upon all days. (Ibid., 59:11, a) HEALTH AND FINANCIAL LAWS On February 27, 1833, the laws of health known as the Word of Wisdom were made Lesson Department known. This commandment to observe certain health laws and to desist from partaking of things contrary to health, is a spiritual law. Probably the most damaging effects of breaking the Word of Wisdom are spiritual. In order to assist Latter-day Saints to have the Spirit of the Lord with them, the Lord gave this commandment and warned them against the evils and designs of those who would encourage them to break this law. (D&C 89:4.) Observance of this law brings increased faith and the development of more spiritual power and wisdom. The keeping of the law of tithing is a bulwark against the darts of the Adversary. When one pays one-tenth of his increase to the Lord, he is seeking to sanctify himself and his material possessions. IMPLEMENTATION i In a period when gospel teachings are being challenged by "new ideas," there is greater need to take inventory of one's inclinations to accept notions which are contrary to accepted gospel principles. The increase in television and radio propaganda and publications of all sorts, has created a condition where it is necessary that the member of the Church be better prepared to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious. Practices should be encouraged in one's life which keep faith at a high level, while ideas and activities which run counter to gospel principles should be shunned. The Lord has provided sufficient opportunities for the saints 623 August 1968 to remain faithful by revealing keys against being deceived, which, if applied, will help them to keep the faith. Constant study of the scriptures and their application in daily life, are the keystones of success in eliminating tendencies to apostasy. Important in accomplishing this purpose is to give heed to the Holy Spirit within, and to live so that the blessing of possessing the Holy Spirit may be continued. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 2—''Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself" (D&C 38:24, 25.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To realize that there is a universal need to be esteemed and to esteem. In the summer of 1966 a young Salt Lake teenager sat in a garden talking to new-found friends. Several of his teeth were missing. His clothes were well-worn, and his shoes were patched. Suddenly his face was radiant as he said, "I never knew before this summer that there was any hope for me." He had lived with a deepening sense of failure and lack of selfesteem until someone had taken the time and effort to help him. He had grown up certain that he was a "nobody," uncared for, and that a life of poverty and low esteem was to be his. Wherever men and women gather together, they establish values that give prestige and esteem to some and not to others. They rank each other on some scale indicating degrees of worth. Jesus was born into a family that did not rank high on the 624 social-economic scale. In his mortal life, he was well aware of the problems created by _ poverty, wealth, rank, and distinction. Again and again he taught his disciples of another kingdom of values. "I am among you as he that serveth." (Luke 22:27.) When his disciples contended for position, Jesus said, "... They that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you..." (Matthew 20:25-26.) Jesus continued. "... Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister..." (Matthew 20:26-28.) When the Church was less than a year old, at a conference held in the home of Peter Whitmer, the saints were taught by revelation, "And let every man esteem his brother as himself..." (D&C 38:24.) So important is this truth that the Lord reiterated it, "And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself." (D&C 38:25.) Half a year before, the Lord had said, "... The worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) Indeed, hadn't he graphically demonstrated this when he suffered and died agonizingly for them—for each man and woman born on this earth? Analysts of human nature attribute many of our present day ills to a lack of self-respect and self-worth, which may not have Lesson Department been implanted in a child by his family and developed by his friends as he grows older. All through life there is need to be esteemed by others. All men and women are our brothers and sisters, sent to earth to work out their salvation, each beset by problems, each in need of help and compassion. We are carrying out God's plan when we esteem them and help them feel by words and actions that they can achieve, that they are of worth, and that we are all children of God. When we live this commandment of God, esteem returns to us as a gift from those we esteem. 4g DEW-SWEET INTERIM Morning wears cool, crisp fabric, beauty spun. Night has stored her velvet folds of blue Behind diminishing stars, and shadows strew The lawn with emerald lace and prismed sun. Morning hears lark song in the new-bloomed sky And nimble wind on lengthening willow limb; The music of this dew-sweet interim Will keep me singing after sun is high! Morning sees hill mist greening. Darkness gone, My tasks are roses blooming bright among A dozen blue-white hours, garland strung. Surely such loveliness, trandscending dawn, Will thread a melody through curves of care And fashion robes of joy for heart to wear. \ —Maxine R. Jennings »' 625 August 1968 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 2—Christmas Traditions Ceiestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 CEBSEOOINE) To show that establishing family traditions can make Christmas a time a: of joyous ariticipation, happy association, and spiritual renewal. INTRODUCTION All of us like to do over and over again the things we enjoy, and when the practice persists long enough, and its results are rewarding enough it becomes a tradition which we look upon as an integral part of our lives. The celebration of Christmas, itself, is steeped in tradition, and people in every land have established their own customs and followed them through the years. Many of these customs have been interchangeable among people of different nationalities until now it is almost impossible to determine their origins. All of us claim them—and wisely so—for they bring us, as nations and peoples, closer together. That is really what traditions do—bring us closer together in bonds of love and unity. For this reason, as well as for others, the establishing of traditional practices in our homes and families, as well as in our nations should be encouraged. This discussion, as our objective indicates, will encourage us to establish our own family traditions which will strengthen the bonds of love 626 and unity existing there and renew in our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. IN ANTICIPATION OF CHRISTMAS Almost as soon as Christmas is over, children as well as grownups, begin to look forward to the next one, if a happy spirit has prevailed. It was amusing to hear one youngster say on the day after Christmas, "It's only 365 days until next Christmas!" and the joy of anticipation could actually be seen shining in his eyes. What a pity if Christmas is a relief to be over and if our only desire is to forget it for another year. Christmas should be in our hearts the whole year 'round, and this should not be a mere platitude but a truth of real significance to each one of us. One small child said to his mother, "Christmas makes me love everybody and I don't want one single change from the way we do it, ever!" What can we do in anticipation of Christmas? I. We can maintain a positive attitude toward Christmas. A. We can look forward to it as the happiest time of the year. B. We can plan and prepare for it wisely. (Homemaking Discussion, Relief Society Magazine, September 1967.) II. We can establish pre-Christmas traditions. A. In some localities with special permission we can gather our own greens and Christmas tree. (Pine cones, nuts, pods, and seeds can be gathered for wreaths and other decorations, summer or winter.) B. Children as well as adults can make their own Christmas cards and tags. C. Special baking projects can be shared by grown-ups and children. 1. A gingerbread house is a favorite project and a happy tradition. 2. Making Christmas cookies with children assisting is fun. (Using animal and other varieties of cookie cutters) 3. A candy-making day is fun for young and old. (Pulling candy, wrapping caramels, boxing, etc.) 4. Breads and goodies can be taken to sick and needy —a worthwhile tradition. D. Group caroling of family alone or with neighbors and friends is a favorite tradition: 1. In the home. 2. Around the neighborhood. 3. To the sick and homebound. E. Pre-Christmas open house for family and friends can be simple and inviting. F. Decorating the house and tree can be shared by the family. (A traditional procedure is usually established within each family.) What are some basic procedures upon which we can establish our Christmas traditions? I. Making Christmas sacrament meetLesson Department ing attendance together a_ special family part of the celebration of the season. II. Annual reading of the Nativity from the Bible. (Some like to read Dickens' "Christmas Carol," or other literature from one's own country.) III. Singing of traditional carols and Christmas songs. IV. Serving of traditional Christmas meals. A. Christmas family dinner: 1. On Christmas Eve. (This relieves Mother of cooking on Christmas Day and is traditional in many families. ) 2. On Christmas Day. (It is traditional with some for visiting grown-up families to share in preparation and expense. ) B. Christmas Brunch. (When dinner is on Christmas Eve, a brunch is a happy solution on Christmas morning. The afternoon is then free for visiting. V. Opening and presenting of gifts. (Orderly rotation in opening gifts prolongs the pleasure and reduces the confusion.) VI. Visiting with family, neighbors, and friends. VII. Enjoying games and fireside conversation. CONCLUSION Christmas traditions can be beautiful and rewarding. Naturally, each family will be influenced by its own heritage, the customs of its own country, the traditional celebration of the season of its own people, and its own personalities in establishing its traditional procedures, and it is each family's opportunity and privilege to make the kind of Christmas which will be the happiest and most satisfying to its own members. 627 August 1968 SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 2—The Questions Every Woman Asks Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out that the questions which every thoughtful woman asks regarding her responsibilities and destiny are answered in the gospel Lesson Follow-up A brief report by a class member (3-5 minutes) appraising the "Profiles Remembered" of President J. Reuben Clark Jr., and pointing out two or three which she hopes to emulate in her home situation. INTRODUCTION Several lessons in Unit I of the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual deal with the premortal existence of man and with the personality of God. With scholarly documentation, President Clark gives ample evidence that we existed before we came to earth, and that we shall continue to live beyond our mortal death. The premortal life is known as the "first estate." The mortality in which we now find ourselves is called the "second estate" and will be followed by a third period or postmortal existence, sometimes spoken of as eternity. The Bible states plainly that man was created in the image of God and direct revelation confirms the scriptural statements. Equally supported by scripture 628 of Jesus Christ. And direct revelation is the truth that Jesus the Christ dwelt with his Father in a premortal existence and that we, also, as spirit children of the Father lived before we were born into this life. The faith of the Latter-day Saint woman is based upon an understanding of these major gospel truths. This lesson is concerned with human behavior, and, therefore, must be channeled in the direction of everyday living to the innumerable tasks of which our human days are made. Yet, into and throughout the fabric of everyday activities, the threads of faith, of belief or unbelief, are inseparably woven. This lesson, therefore, will consider the doctrine, briefly, and will present for discussion, areas where belief or unbelief may materially influence a woman's everyday life. THE QUESTIONS EVERY WOMAN ASKS At some point along the road of lhfe—at some contemplative or perplexing moment—every thoughtful woman may be led to ask, "Why am I here? What came before? What will happen to me after death has closed the door of my mortal life?" In Lesson 2 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, President Clark points out that such questions are natural to the questioning mind of all normal individuals. From his own words we quote: Now God has placed in every man's heart a divine spark, which never wholly goes out; it may grow dim, it may become hidden, almost smothered by the ashes of transgression; but the spark still lives and glows and can be fanned into flame by faith, if the heart is touched.... Behind these questions lies the deeper one—is there a purpose underlying our mortal lives; are we here on earth by chance, nonexistent before our birth, with an aimless existence here, and a void, an endless night of oblivion after death? Every fibre of being of the normal man cries out against such an existence without purpose. Man in all stages of intellectual development, from the savage in the forest to the most learned and enlightened toiler in the laboratory, has during all history rebelled against such a destiny, and God has supported him in rebellion by revealing through Holy Writ as much of the great underlying purposes of life as man's finite mind can grasp. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, 1950 ed., Deseret Book Co., Chapter VI, pp. 22-23; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 2.) Blessed beyond words is the Latter-day Saint woman who accepts the gospel of Christ and who, through faith, translates its teachings into her daily life. Blessed and fortunate indeed. Not all women are so fortunate. Some have not as yet heard the gospel teachings. Others, today and through the ages, have turned deaf ears to the words of truth. As a result, there have been and are today, innumerable Lesson Department false teachings, fallacious ideas concerning the purpose of life, the nature of God and the destiny of his children. Such ideas, being untrue, cannot answer the questions every woman may ask: "Where from? Why here? Whence do I go?" FOUR WHO SPEAK Following are comments of four women who illustrate some of the many current and varying attitudes and beliefs relative to the foregoing questions. They may present, through discussion, a graphic and contrasting picture of how a woman's religious beliefs may influence her daily life. First Woman I am an atheist. I do not believe there is a God. I do not believe we lived before this mortal life and do not believe we shall exist beyond death. I believe this life is all there is. Second Woman I, also, am an atheist. In my country we are taught that there is no God. We believe only in the objectives of the State. Everything we do is with the success of the State in mind. There are no moralities except those which affect the State. I do not lie, if what I say is to further the ideology of that State. Third Woman I am a Christian so, of course, I believe in Jesus Christ. I believe that he lived upon the earth, was crucified and resurrected. I believe that there will be a resurrection for only the just, and some kind of existence after death. I do not believe, however, that we lived before this life. I believe that God is a spiritual essence of infinite power and goodness but that he does not have a body. Fourth Woman I, also, am a Chnistian, so also believe in Jesus Christ. I believe, as did Simon Peter who answered the questioning Jesus, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." 629 August 1968 (Matt. 16:16.) I believe that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Savior of mankind and that through his redeeming sacrifice all mankind, not a designated number, but all individuals who have lived, who now live, and who yet shall live, will be resurrected. I believe that all who are born into' this life are spirit children of God the Father and therefore lived as individual entities before they were born into this life. I, also, believe in a personal God who has a tangible body, since man was created in his image. I, also, believe in a very definite hereafter where obedience to divine laws will allow us to progress eternally. I believe that through obedience to certain divine requirements the family relationship will continue forever. DOES IT MATTER? We ask the question—"Do our religious beliefs really matter?" Our affirmative answer is—"They matter and they matter very much." What we believe is fundamental to what we say, how we act, and may influence our attitude in all human relationships. Class Involvement Suggestion Indicate diversities of opinions of women who do not belong to the Church, and those who do. Converts from other churches may state differences in their own beliefs since they were converted. (Introduce all four women to the class members that they may become aware of the various religious beliefs listed. Focus the discussion on beliefs of woman number 4, and the questions following, for they concern all Latterday Saint women. Discuss others very briefly.) First Woman Were you this woman, what would you think? Reread the beliefs of the First Woman and discuss, briefly, the following questions: 1. What might be the overall life objective of this woman who does not believe in God? For what immediate goals is she likely to strive? 3. What might her attitude be toto 630 ward her children? Her husband? 4. Not believing in God or an eternity, from what would she expect to derive comfort in periods of trouble or when a loved one dies? Second Woman Reread the beliefs of the Second Woman. Discuss briefly: 1. How might this woman's lack of belief in God and her complete dedication to the State affect her loyalty to other affiliations? 2. How might it affect her attitude toward (a) free agency? (b) toward personal initiative? 3. How might it affect her feeling of personal security? 4. How might having no faith in God affect her faith in people generally? 5. If to speak an untruth be considered a moral act (where it furthers the purposes of the State), what might this attitude have on her morals in general? Third Woman Reread beliefs of Third Woman and discuss briefly the following: 1. How might this woman's faith in a spiritual essence rather than in a personal God influence the type of prayer she would offer? 2. Since she does not believe in a specific hereafter, what kind of divine comfort might she expect to receive at times of death? 3. How should she, or could she, reconcile her belief that only part of humanity will be resurrected, with the law of divine justice and the atonement of Christ? Fourth Woman The Fourth Woman _ obviously presents the religious beliefs of the Latter-day Saint. Reread her beliefs and identifying with her, ask yourself: 1. How does my belief in a personal God influence my life objective? What is my prime objective? 2. How does my belief in the resurrection of all humanity help me to understand the mission of the Savior and his love for ad/ men? 3. How does my belief in eternal progression affect (a) my activities today? (b) tomorrow? (c) my life objective? 4. What responsibility does my belief that the family may continue into eternity place upon me (a) as a mother? (b) as a child in the family? ONLY IN THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST It is evident that the questions every Latter-day Saint woman asks as to origin and destiny are answered fully only in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Its teachings replace vagueness with clarity, futility with hope and eternal motivation. Not only do these teachings give long range objectives, they give specific guidance and incentives for today. SUMMARY The gospel of Jesus Christ embraces all truth; therefore, the questions which every woman may ask relative to the purposes of life and her own responsibilities, are answered _ therein. Through faith and study, through obedience and prayer, Latter-day Saint women may recognize the truth, and hearing the answers, mold their lives for good. Not all women, however, listen Lesson Department for the answers; or, hearing, do not recognize them as truth. President Clark's words are relevant to this idea. Referring to the occasion when Jesus, prior to the crucifixion, prayed:... Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. (John 12:27-28.) Some of the people hearing the voice thought it thundered; others thought an angel spoke. As then, so now, men understand not the heavenly voices that come unto them. Some hear only the thunders of «the air—the natural things of earth; others believe they hear angels, but do not understand the message; a few get the words themselves, the message, and hearken, so gaining wisdom and inspiration. This, we must all come to on our way to immortality and eternal life. (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, lesson 2.) FOR HOME DOING Appreciate the blessing of being the Fourth Woman, whose religious beliefs answer with satisfaction, the major questions of life. Select one area of the lesson for effort in self-improvement. (— INTERVAL Today | saw him sitting in the sun, His well-worn hat pulled down to shade his eyes, His shoulders bowed through years of endless toil To wrest a meager living from the soil. With trembling hands grasping a battered cane, He waits until the summer comes again. —Elena Hassell Stanley > yy, 631 August 1968 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2— "The Power of Discipline'"' Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Two By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "A stern discipline pervades all nature, which is a little cruel that it may be very kind.'' —Edmund Spenser Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To stress that control is the focus which gives energy its direction. See note at end of this lesson for art reference. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON A generation ago the connotations surrounding the word discipline were almost wholly positive. No one expected discipline to be achieved—or enforced—easily, but few questioned its necessity. Now the confused children of a much more permissive age are not so unanimous in their approval. To many, indulgence no_ longer needs to be defended or even explained. Readiness to sample experience, almost any experience, is supplanting willingness to discriminate between experiences which promise development and those which threaten degeneration. To be undisciplined is to throw off all external restraint. Yet external restraints are rarely discarded if internal guides remain strong and meaningful. As any successful teacher can testify, rigidly enforced order in the classroom may teach a 632 child to hate school more effec- 'tively than it teaches him arithmetic. And any soldier who has felt the esprit de corps that men united in a cause can generate, knows that he can willingly subject himself to the most rigorous control. That which gives discipline significance is commitment, and commitment is always internal. Until we can control our thoughts and actions because of a basic moral imperative, a deeply felt conviction that some values are more important than _ others, we will never experience the positive meaning of discipline. Few ideas are stressed more often in the sermons and writings of President David O. McKay than the necessity for self-control, and it is this aspect of discipline that our lesson this month will emphasize. In the selections which make up this section there are manifestations of control which are both external and internal, but the element of moral choice ls common to them all. "THE BALLOON OF THE MIND" In "The Balloon of the Mind," by William Butler Yeats (not printed here because of copyright restrictions), the author obviously believes that he must discipline his thinking. Although we may describe our situation in less graphic terms, many of us share his problem. For example, if you have difficulty in giving a speaker an attentive hearing, if you find your mind wandering when you are trying to study, or if you find yourself restless at a concert, at least one of your problems is mental discipline. It is easy to indulge in fantasies that erect castles in the air. The real difficulty for most of us, as Henry David Thoreau long ago pointed out, is to put foundations under such castles. This poem does not attempt to list specific problems or to give more than a general solution. It is simply a plea to marshall one's efforts, Yeats' imagery is arresting without being too technical. Those who have seen a balloon being recaptured will have no difficulty in understanding the appropriateness of the symbols used here. The soaring, unfettered balloon is aptly descriptive of ahuman mind, and the wind is equally symbolic of external forces. One may let his mind be driven by forces from without, but a mind that cannot be controlled when it needs to be, becomes, at best, a wayward instrument. Lesson Department Discussion Question What might this poem have to say to women who are especially conscious of fashion? "DISCIPLINE" FROM NATURE Ralph Waldo Emerson's famous discussion of discipline illustrates its various forms in the nature which surrounds us. In the consistency and rigor with which nature enforces its discipline, Emerson hopes to suggest provocative examples for man. The following epigrammatic sentences from the discussion are worthy. Of our attention: Nature is a discipline of the understanding in intellectual truths—to instruct us that "good thoughts are no better than good dreams, unless they be executed!"'... Debt, grinding debt, whose iron face the widow, the orphan, the sons of genius fear and hate;—debt which consumes so much time, which so cripples and disheartens a great spirit with cares that seem so base, is a preceptor whose lessons cannot be foregone, and is needed most by those who suffer from it most..... -Therefore is Space, and therefore Time, that man may know that things are not huddled and lumped, but sundered and individual. A bell and a plough have each their use, and neither can do the office of the other. Water is good to drink, coal to burn, wool to wear; but wool cannot be drunk, nor water spun, nor coal eaten.... She pardons no mistakes. Her yea: is yea, and her nay, nay.... Nature's dice are always loaded..... Nature is thoroughly mediate. It is made to serve... It offers all its kingdoms to man as the raw material which he may mould into what is useful....... Nature is ever the ally of Religion: lends all her pomp and riches to the religious sentiment. Prophet and _ priest, David, Jesus, Isaiah, have drawn deeply from this source....... Nothing in nature is exhausted in its first use. When a thing has served 633 August 1968 an end to the uttermost, it is wholly new for an ulterior service. In God every end is converted into a new means.... In his final paragraph, Emerson presents one of his most interesting ideas. He insists that "All things are moral." All choices, finally, are either right or wrong. We can't escape responsibility for our acts by insisting certain things don't really matter. The moral consequences of some choices may be hard to see, but no choice can be neutral. If we are sensitive to our surroundings, says Emerson, we can see moral distinctions everywhere, and in recognizing such distinctions we are helped in bringing our own ethical life under control. Discussion Question Who will have the hardest time conceding that all decisions are moral ones? Why? "ABRAHAM DAVENPORT" by John Greenleaf Whittier "Twas on a May-day of the far old year Seventeen hundred eighty, that there fell Over the bloom and sweet life of the Spring, Over the fresh earth and the heaven of noon, A horror of great darkness, like the night In day of which the Norland sagas tell,— The Twilight of the Gods. The lowhung sky Was black with ominous clouds, save where its rim Was fringed with a dull glow, like that which climbs The crater's sides from the red hell below. Birds ceased to sing, and all the barnyard fowls Roosted; the cattle at the pasture bars Lowered, and looked homeward; bats on leathern wings Fhtted abroad; the sounds of labor died; 634 Men prayed, and women wept; all ears grew sharp To hear the doom-blast of the trumpet shatter The black sky, that the dreadful face of Christ Might look from the rent clouds, not as he looked A loving guest at Bethany, but stern As Justice and inexorable Law. Meanwhile in the old State House, dim as ghosts Sat the lawgivers of Connecticut, Trembling beneath their legislative robes. "It is the Lord's Great Day! Let us adjourn,"' Some said; and then, as if with one accord, All eyes were turned to Abraham Davenport. He rose, slow cleaving with his steady voice The intolerable hush. "This well may be The Day of Judgment which the world awaits; But be it so or not, I only know My present. Duty, and my Lord's command To occupy till He come. So at the post Where He hath sent me in his providence, I choose, for one, to meet Him face to face,— No faithless servant frightened from my task, But ready when the Lord of the harvest calls; And therefore, with all reverence, I would say, Let God do his work, we will see to ours. Bring in the candles." And they brought them in. Then by the flaring lights the Speaker read, Albeit with husky voice and shaking hands, An act to amend, an act to regulate The shad and alewives fisheries. Whereupon Wisely and well spake Abraham Davenport, Straight to the questions, with no figures of speech Save the ten Arab signs, yet not without The shrewd dry humor natural to the man: His awe-struck colleagues listening all the while, Between the pauses of his argument, To hear the thunder of the wrath of God Break from the hollow trumpet of the cloud. And there he stands in memory to this day, Erect, self-poised, a rugged face, half seen Against the background of unnatural dark, A witness to the ages as they pass, That simple duty hath no place for fear. The entire poem simply introduces the last line: "That simple duty hath no place for fear." Such a poem is a particularly apt vehicle for an illustration of duty. For duty is rarely glamorous or exciting, and this poem makes no pretense to unusual poetic devices or spectacular imagery. The lines follow each other in precise, even solemn, regularity. Yet the result is as satisfying as it is expected. There is order and meaning to Abraham Davenport's world. Apparently he didn't need to make any sudden decisions when faced with an emergency. His daily preparation was adequate. He was used to doing what he thought was right, and that made him calm whether danger was real or imagined. Such serenity is not so much given as earned, and its cost is personal discipline. Whittier's prose description of the circumstance to which he gives poetic extension in "Abraham Davenport" is worth recounting: The famous Dark Day of New England, May 19, 1780, was a_ physical puzzle for many years to our ancestors but its occurrence brought something more than philosophical speculation into the minds of those who _ passed through it. The incident of Colonel Abraham Davenport's sturdy protest is a matter of history. Lesson Department Sir Henry Wotton's "The Character of a Happy Life " (not printed here) is similarly concerned with man's ability to arrive at such control of himself that he is beyond most of the world's power. Discussion Question In the light of Whittier's and Wotton's poems would you feel justified in describing Abraham Davenport a happy man? Why or why not? "THE DEATH OF SOCRATES" Phaedo by Plato from Few accounts in all literature present more graphically the results of a life spent in obedience to principle than the story of Socrates' death in the Phaedo. Apparently Plato was present at the trial of Socrates in 399 B. C. And heard his teacher condemned to death by poisoning on the charge of corrupting the youth of Athens. In the account of Socrates' last hours, Plato, who was present at the execution, gives a description of the final scene. Many of his friends were with Socrates on this day. It is particularly noteworthy that most of Socrates' friends were able to remain in control of themselves before the actual drinking of the poison. But when they saw that Socrates had emptied the entire cup of hemlock, they all broke down. The distinction between control which is merely temporary inhibition and control which stems from disciplined commitment could not have been made more effectively. "COMMAND" by Albert Wetjen The discipline of Captain Tap- 635 August 1968 low in Wetjen's short story "Command," which tells of the duties of a ship's Captain on a voyage, apparently comes out of his deep and dearly bought awareness that to command others requires command of oneself first of all. Note how rarely the Captain can make a self-indulgent decision. He is constantly and acutely sensitive to the responsibilities of his position. If there is obvious self-respect in his actions, there is no hint of arrogance. No truly disciplined man is arrogant or vain, for arrogance and vanity are insistence upon distinctions which have not been earned. The Captain has earned and now maintains his rank by bringing all his talents and skills into harmony. Discussion Question Why don't we feel sorry for this overworked and apparently unappreciated Captain? As with the Captain of our story, most good mothers spend more time answering demands than they do in giving orders. The apparent chaos of school mornings, the constant care which a half-sick child expects, the affectionate sympathy a tired husband looks forward to, the routine of household tasks—such varied demands can only be met successfully by a woman whose personal discipline is so complete it hardly shows. Perhaps only another mother can know the cost of such discipline—and only another mother can appreciate the rewards of such efforts. "ORDEAL BY HANDCART" by Wallace Stegner The final selection in this 636 SINGING MOTHER'S ARRANGEMENTS Abide with me—Madsen $.25 Come Come ye Saints $.25 Glory to God $.30 Heavens are Telling $.30 If Ye Love Me Keep My Commandments $.30 Omnipotence $.20 O Saviour of the World $.25 Praise Ye the Lord $.35 Prayerful Hour $.25 Silent Sea $.25 Love One Another—Fox $.30 Come Ye Blessed—Madsen $.25 Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ORDERS FILLED THE SAME DAY WE RECEIVE THE ORDER New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to. The Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5 _-___-.75 Zone3 _.-_--.60 Zone6 -~_---.85 Zone4._-__..65 Zone7 -.-.--.-.95 Zone 8_ - - - -1.05 [a 2 DESERET [PPews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS. Five full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12', 33% rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send _ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Distributed by Publication Sales Department of Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601 and all Deseret Book Company outlets CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 19—September 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Cail or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department month's lesson, Wallace Stegner's touching tribute to the handeart pioneers, brings the facets of discipline presented earlier into triumphal synthesis. For the handcart pioneers exhibited much more than physical discipline. Thoughts as well as actions were brought into focus. The lessons of an_ unyielding nature were painfully learned. Serenity in the face of death was achieved, and those who kept command of themselves were able to help others. Perhaps their example is easier to talk about than emulate. It is easier to weep for those who didn't quite make it to Zion than it is to be "pure in heart," which is to become Zion. If few of us will ever know the rigors of walking across the plains, all of us can grasp our current problems with as firm a hand as stalwart a heart as those who showed us how to live and die in the Lord over one hundred years ago. Our opportunities to show commitment may seem to be less dramatic than those afforded our pioneer fathers, but equal personal discipline can make us their worthy children. Art reference for lesson 2: "Chestnut Trees," by Paul Cezanne, The Relief Society Magazine for June 1968, page 448; and comment by Floyd E. Breimholt, page 449. 637 August 1968 HIGH LINK FENCE No sound is in this country square, But quiet throbs as | survey The high link fence and sturdy gate Clenezer d Briley That keep without the grazing stray. The fence encloses long-marked graves Of early dead who made and heard MUSIC COMPANY Pianos Between the shrubs and pale headstones That mark the high link-fenced plateau. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 —Pearle M. Olsen CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES ONCE UPON A MOMENT TO SERVE YOU BETTER Now time stands still, Store—240 East 2nd South os a: i 2. ZIM'S Freeway Store on eniee a At 45th South and Interstate Ligatalin the iat 15 (4370 South 2nd West) In the bond 100-page Crafts Instruction Time, Dealer inquiries invited Converged in a round Moment of fulfillment. —Dorothy J. Roberts ZIM'S" Box 7620 Salt Lake City, Utah 84107 Dept. R. M. 638 The active life on the hamlet hill, Abandoned now to beast and bird. The high link fence and sturdy gate Were not too difficult to buy When someone knew and cared enough That sleepers here could occupy Their place upon this silent hill Where winds are clean and flowers grow 1. ZIM''S Convenient Uptown Send 50¢ for our brand-new, Catalog. You'll be glad you did! 'Singing Mothers"' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music aa And Supplies Yes! We Ship All Over the World. No moment of extension lies beyond Almost tangible between us, All the wide world of it, Something wonperrut happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill and loving care deserve two things... The perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass." Ask your grocer. You'll love it! 639 ' 106 Mrs. Juanita Rendon 91 Mrs. Nancy Dora Hale Costello Grantsville, Utah Los Angeles, California 102 Mrs. Rosa Ann Neal Howard Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle Monterey, Tennessee; Glendale, California,; 4. Mrs. Verna G. Schiffman Mrs. Annie Katherine Erickson Benson Ogden, Utah Logan, Utah ' = Mrs. Mary E. Bennett White 100 mrs. Annie Elizabeth Olson Larsen Ogden, Utah Logan, Utah Mrs. Minna Vernettia Twitchel 90 Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown: Spokane, Washington Centerville, Utah 99: Mrs. Frances Hammond Burgett Mrs. Annie Kennedy Corliss Los Angeles, California aesiegge 2. Canace Mrs. Grace Stringham Colton 97 wrs. Anna Kerstine Nielson Busk Salt Lake City, Utah Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Amanda Lovina Smith Bird Cook Mrs. Josephene Pickett Fawcett Salt Lake City, Utah St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann (May) Turner Crockett 96 Redlands, California pa ae McDonald Mrs. CartieuEliaal gden, Uta Hagerman, Idaho 95 mrs. Virginia Taylor Olson Mrs. Christine Jensen Ellefsen Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Effie S. Holt 94 Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Salt Lake City, Utah Montebello, California Mrs. Mary Louise Goffe Larson ke City, Utah 93 Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Follett Salt Gake Ci Woodburn, Oregon Mrs. Emma Tillack Ovard Coaldale, Alberta, Canada 92 Mrs. Ellen Kapp Hansen Mrs. Magdalene M. Nelsen ne Schmidt Ogden, Utah Riverside, California Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Mrs. Susan Rachel Grant Taylor Red Bluff, California Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Gealt Monson Mrs. Mary Patterson Tooley Salt Lake City, Utah Rockville, Maryland Mrs. Isabelle Armstrong Starey Simpson Mrs. Florence Maud White Wallace Laramie, Wyoming Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Wilson Mrs. Ella Jane Pond Warriner Mountain View, Wyoming Laurens, New York 640 Relief Society Specials! Mits OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS a a A by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here is the newest volume in the Out of the Best Books series! Volume IV is the Relief Society cultural refinement course for 1968-69 and is geared to the theme: "The World Around Us." Like previous volumes, this book includes literature from the pens of the greatest authors. This volume will make a fine addition to any home library. It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world! Ct ee, ee 2. SPIRITUAL LIVING TEACHING AID PACKET This packet of visual aids and pictures is designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons. $1.25 SS Deseret Book 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 177 SO MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, Calif. 92668 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check [], money order [), I have an account, please charge []. Amount $ For the above numbered items: 1 2 ieee cec cece cee cccene cece cnnec ace ce cece ceececeeee cree ce cece tecete ccc gee eee coco ec ee be tee cece cece 0) ae TY enn ence cece ene eeee ener eee eeenneeecoeeSIWAWUB <= -----.22........--2.22e-- 92, || eae Residents of Utah please add 312% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through our Orange. California store, please add 5% sales tax. R. S. August Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land FROZEN PEACH JAM 3 cups crushed peaches (about 2% pounds) 5 cups sugar 1 package powdered pectin 1 cup water A LO IA, Sort and wash fully ripe peaches, remove pits and skins, and crush fruit. Measure peaches into a large mixing bowl. Add sugar. Mix well, and let stand for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Dissolve pectin in water; bring to a boil, and boil for 1 minute. Add pectin solution to the fruit and sugar mixture. Stir for 2 minutes. Ladle the jam into jelly glasses or freezer containers, leaving ' inch space at the top. Cover the containers and let stand for 24 to 48 hours. Makes about 9 six-ounce glasses. Store uncooked jam in a refrigerator or freezer. It can be in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make peach jam for a real family taste treat. Held for a few months in a refrigerator or up to a year in a freezer. If kept at room temperature, it will mold or ferment in a short time. Once a container is opened, the jam should be used within a few days. NOTE: If jam is too firm for serving when opened, it can be softened by stirring. If it tends to separate, stirring will blend it again. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U andI Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. fee & yy, AS ay; < Ney ".: 4, J, AS. Y., Relief Society 5 The « Magazine EEF SEPTEMBER 1968 The Cover: Frontispiece: © Art Layout: ~ Illustrations: AUTUMNAL These wild flamboyant colors The season has put on Have found my heart exulting Over hill and town. The aspens on the pathway Are wrapped in flame and gold, And all the woods are crimson Where maple trees are bold. Here willows drape the ridges In panicles of brown And all the seeded grasses With wealth are bending down. Oh, fall has teased the fancy, Written itself in rhyme— But a leaf drifts down in warning Lest | forget the time. —Linnie F. Robinson Granite Flats, American Fork Canyon, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press A Season of Falling Leaves, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 641 -_ __ —w | have just received the April 1968 edition of The Relief Society Magazine, and | felt that | should write you immediately and tell you how the story '"'Home Revisited' (by Christie Lund Coles) aroused poignant memories in me of my father when he was very ill in the hospital, begging to be ''taken home.'' Unable to sleep the night he passed away, the great truth of God's mercy came to me, and a testimony that helped to prepare me in no small way to accept the restored gospel when the missionaries came to our door three years later. | have realized Moroni's promise in answer to prayer regarding the truthfulness of the gospel. | love The Relief Society Magazine. Housework goes out the window when the Magazine comes through the door. Jean C. MacDonald, Glasgow, Scotland Thank you for publishing my poem 'Storytime' in the May Magazine. | do appreciate having something published. It may interest you to know that the poem was read aloud by the instructor at a class | have been taking —''Writing for Children''—an evening class, at Santa Clara University. She had seen the poem in our Magazi at the home of a friend, and had recognized my name as being on her enrollment list. This was really a thrill to me. All the members of the class, including the instructor, were nonmembers. May | express my appreciation for Mabel Harmer's serial ''If Spring Be Late' (to be concluded in November). It is always rewarding to read Mabel's stories. Norma Wrathall, Sunnyvale, California | enjoy the many poems published in The Relief Society Magazine. They have inspired me to try my hand at writing poetry. Shirley Dupuis, Old Town, Maine | have gained so much from the editorials in the Magazine. For instance, you should see how | have marked up my Magazine, because of the editorial ''A Pattern for Daughters of Zion'' (July 1966) by Vesta P. Crawford. New and significant thou were given to ponder over. For one thing, ''Wisdom and strength are the endowments of the woman who is able to think before she speaks, and then, sometimes, not to speak at all.'" | have used this suggestion frequently. It helps me in self-mastery, which | always need to apply. It was stated in such a way that | can recall it w applicable. Thanks for this inspiration. The Magazine becomes more wonderful the time. | appreciate it and the fine choosing of material that goes into it. Clara H. Park, Draper, Ut | just had to write and tell you how much | appreciate The Relief Society Magazine. Our daughter was first introduced to the Magazine at home. Now she is a class leader in Relief Society at Brigham Young University and has her own subscription. | watch every month for heips and ideas to send our missionary son in Italy. | thoroughly enjoy the stories and articles written by my cousin Frances C. Yost of Bancroft, Idaho. The Magazine has been in my home for more than twenty years, and gets better all the time. Valaine H. Jessop, Clearfield, Utah Our 'Song for The Relief Society Magazine,'' was written by Sister Mary Grasteit, who was our former stake Relief Society president. Our stake has enjoyed it so much. We have also recorded it on tape. It was used to launch our Magazine drive and was most effective. One of the verses exemplifies the mood and spirit of the song: When things are going not just right, And everything is not exactly bright, Just take a moment with this book And you will have a new outlook. Glenna C. Woolf, President, Anaheim Stake Relief Society (Califo The Relief SOCICLY Magazine Volume 55 September 1968 Number 9 a Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 644 Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 646 Because They Care Zelma R. West 651 The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson 669 A Dutch Treat Jean Anderson Jensen Fiction 655 Suffer the Little Children Eloise Johnson 663 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer General Features 642 From Near and Far 659 Woman's Sphere Ramona w. Cannon 660 Editorial—It Is the Little Things That Count Louise W. Madsen 696 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 662 Ribbon-Worthy Work Sarah Emmaline Winsor McBride 676 A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) Claire Noall 678 A Nursery for Loving Care Virginia Tippetts 679 Chore Chart Ann Muir Anderson 680 The Wonder of Bulbs Alice Willardson 682 An Old-Fashioned Fair for Harvest Time 684 Gift Cookies For All Occasions Melba S. Payne Lesson Department 703. Spiritual Living—The Blessings of the Priesthood Roy w. Doxey 709 Visiting Teacher Message—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Alice Colton Smith 710 Homemaking—Priceless Treasures Celestia J. Taylor 712 Social Relations—Lighting the Way Alberta H. Christensen 718 Cultural Refinement—no lesson planned for December 689 Two Self Portraits by Rembrant van Ryn Floyd E. Brienholt 690 "Snowstorm" by Joseph Mallord William Turner Floyd E. Brienholt 691 'Lady Jean" by George Bellows Floyd E. Brienholt Poetry 641 Autumnal Linnie F. Robinson Visiting Teachers, Annie C. Esplin 650; Autumn Serenade, Margaret Read 654; Today We Live, Renie H. Littlewood 693; Woodland Child, Peggy Tangren 695, Faith, Bonnie S. Gudmundson 708. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY ot The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511. Subscription Price $2.00 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year. 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies witl be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917. Authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Birthday Congratulations to relent Da rid () Mey sOn his ninety-fifth birthday, the women of the Church extend congratulations to President David O. McKay whose voice has been lifted in many lands to proclaim the everlasting gospel—whose travels and teachings have circled the globe, and whose counsel and guidance have been such a blessing in directing Relief Society activities. We feel to express gratitude and rejoicing for the prophet who dwells among US; and whose days have been lengthened upon the earth to give counsel and blessings to the world-wide Church membership. It is a comfort and an inspiration to Relief Society women to know that they may look to President McKay and to Sister Emma Ray McKay for an example of ideal family life, and for direction in Church and community service. They have guided the sisters and directed them along the pathways that encompass the lives of Latter-day Saint women. Counsel has been given for the sisters as they progress in their callings and increase in their responsibilities from the time that they are daughters in the home, to activities as missionaries Or students, to the time of marriage and motherhood— and always in their positions of membership and _ leadership in Church auxiliaries. Many of the daughters of Zion, in times of perplexity or indecision, have paused to ask themselves: "What counsel has President McKay given us in answer to this questioning? What guidelines has he set before us to indicate direction and the pathway that will lead to eternal progress and an understanding of everlasting purposes?" The spiritual environment of seeking women in the Church has been illuminated and made more beautiful through the life and the teachings of President McKay. He has said: "I want to express appreciation of the environment with which I was blessed... Those grand old mountains... The meadowlark singing in the morning - -- daybreak over the eastern hills.. -. Swiftly do we become like the thoughts we love. -. The Spirit of the Lord permeates all nature.-- one must put oneself in tune by obedience to eternal principles of conduct and by authoritative confirmation." (Home Memories, ppP- 215-216.) May the faith and prayers of Relief Society women everywhere be manifest in birthday wishes to President McKay. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless him. We are thankful for @ prophet "to guide us in these latter days." 644 DLCAILOAQARAVROAHE pee Tes Ors tay een tey: + tee cetendd ( Sree Nasco sege6 OI a3 gS "ere Sen Because e*«9 Cw a Cret®D ae Chey Care Creo @Rew Zelma R. West Gre = 2 Member, General Board of Relief Society ere = chap iC MEV seNE Hee ere e9 raven ets Rha 5 Teal 5 Ak en) SOUNE Aha Gy "360 » Visiting teaching is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and because presidents and visiting teachers care, the visits made to the homes, and the services rendered, have made it a shining example of unselfish service. Let us view it from the position of a president, a_ visiting teacher, and a grateful recipient. Thoughts of a President Who Cares: Today the bishop asked me to be the president of our ward Relief Society. Such a calling affords an opportunity to give service to all of the women in our ward, but can I measure up? Can I do it as my Heavenly Father would have it done? There are so many women I want Relief Society to reach and befriend. Sister Jones seems so timid—hardly says a word when she is at church, and as soon as the meeting is over, she is gone. Ill have to get better acquainted with her. I wonder how Sister Brown is adjusting 646 Litt a ras on since the death of her husband. That was unexpected, for he had not been ill very long. I'm sure she would welcome a sister's friendly interest. I have never seen Sister White or Sister Smith at Relief Society. I know they have young families, and, of course, they are busy with them, but I'm going to talk with their visiting teachers to see how we might help, so they can come to Relief Society and participate in the discussions, develop friendships, and feel our interest in them as individuals. Time spent in Relief Society could be a refreshing break in their week's activities. These women give and give of themselves to their families, and just an hour and a half a week at Relief Society would provide them with an opportunity to "take" for a change, to replenish their reservoir of spiritual strength, and store up for themselves ideas to think about and act upon during the tes oS Gree Grid week. Relief Society would widen their horizons. As. A presidency, it would take us months to visit all the sisters in the ward, and then we would not have the close contact, or the efficient follow-up that the visiting teachers have, for they visit each month. Truly, the visiting teachers are the hands, ears, eyes, and heart of Relief Society, and their service is necessary to the accomplishment of Relief Society goals of service. At one time the Prophet Joseph Smith said to the women: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV, p. 605.) It is almost as if he were talking directly to the visiting teachers, for they have a special opportunity to act according to their sympathies, so that all women may benefit. The Relief Society Handbook says that the president should "personally interview each visiting teacher, pointing out to her the importance of this special field of work and letting her know of the responsibilities and obligations of this calling." It is best that each sister be told personally the importance of visiting teaching; that she knows the call came to her from the Lord through the proper channels; that he is the one she is serving, as she carries out her assignment. I can see that if the president talks with each sister personally, she is better able to assign each one to the district where her talents and abilities will be most helpful. Because They Care Oh, those precious minutes assigned to the president in visiting teacher meeting! I can't let anything interfere with that time. I care about each visiting teacher, and there is much that can be discussed to help each one to prepare to fulfill her assignment well. We can discuss the importance of being alert and concerned for every sister—the necessity of careful, prayerful preparation of each month's message, and the value of being dependable, of making the visits each month. One month we can talk about our personal preparation, by living so that we do not "shut off our access to the Lord." With the channel open between the visiting teachers and the Lord, they will be given the "power of discernment" to know what each sister needs from the message each month as they visit, but I will caution them that they go into the homes with one thought in mind, and that is to be helpful. One month we will go over the qualities of a visiting teacher which make her effective. These are listed in the Visiting Teacher Report Book, so the teachers can refer to them often. Ruskin said, "the path of a good woman is strewn with flowers, but they rise behind and not before her."' Perhaps those flowers rising behind the visiting teachers do not catch their eye, but the rest of us know they are there, and I will tell them often during the year how much they are appreciated. Thoughts of a Visiting Teacher Who Cares: I accepted the call to be a visiting teacher because I am not in the habit of refusing Church 647 September 1968 calls, but I really did not have a testimony of visiting teaching for the district to which I was assigned. It covers three blocks. All the people are long-time members of the Church and attend more or less regularly. They seem to be pretty healthy, with enough to eat and wear. However, when the new president talked to me, she said that the call to be a visiting teacher comes from the Lord through the proper channels— that he is the one I am serving as I make my visits. That being the case; I wanted a testimony of the value of visiting teaching for all the sisters in all the districts. I began to talk to people and to read articles about visiting teaching. I found many examples of devoted, dedicated visiting teachers. Some stakes in the Church cover hundreds of miles, and so the wards are scattered over large areas. Some teachers walk miles to make their visits, others ride bicycles, and others spend a long time on the subway. In one mission branch, a pair of visiting teachers had a district which covered eighty miles round trip, and another pair had a district of forty-five miles, and these sisters made their visits! In that branch, the newest members of the Church were made visiting teachers, and they were enthusiastic about their callings and did a fine job. I can see the value of visiting teaching in these places, because the visits would be the means of bringing the ward or the branch members closer together. New converts would benefit, too, for they would know they had friends when they came to church. 648 A branch Relief Society president praised two devoted visiting teachers who were willing to get involved with an indifferent sister. When the sister had moved into the branch she had asked that her name be removed from the roll, but the president felt impressed to ask the visiting teachers to call on her. The sister worked away from home, so the visiting teachers left messages, called late in the afternoon, and, finally, made contact. They found the sister casual, but not cool, and the teachers kept in contact with her. Soon the sister brought her children to Sunday School, and they were warmly greeted and introduced to many members. Then the children went to Primary, and the sister. To Relief Society. Last year the "indifferent" sister was so active that she was asked to give some homemaking discussions in Relief Society. The president said, "Though other indifferent sisters have not reacted so favorably—the very fact that they are visited and know that the Relief Society sisters care for them can't help but be a good influence.... Success stories just come under different names. I believe all those devoted visiting teachers have found true joy in the application of Christ's teaching '... It is more blessed to give than to receive.' " (Acts 20:35.) Are there opportunities to "sive" in our small district, where everything always seems so all right? Yes there are, and today I got a testimony of it. After visiting teacher meeting, the president asked my companion and me to find out how we could best help Sister White, so that she could get to Relief Society. Then we were awake! Now I see the value of going two-by-two to make visits, and having someone to consult who knows the sisters. My companion and I began to analyze our visits and really to think about the sisters in our district. We decided we had been asleep to need. Oh, we had asked Sister White to come to Relief Society, but never once had we offered to pick her up. It seems that she would have to walk, and with three pre-school children, would have to leave home early and would not be back home until after the other children had returned for lunch. We decided that we didn't listen! Last month Sister Jones had told us about her mother's illness and how hard it was to get her to the doctor. If we had been listening, we would have consulted the president and, under her direction, would have suggested that we drive so that Sister Jones could watch over her mother more carefully during the trip to the doctor's office. We decided that we hadn't been very thoughtful, either! One sister had looked so very tired when we had visited her, and we had remarked about it, but we had not made plans to watch especially for her on Sunday at church to see if the tired look was still there, and to be alert to signs that our services might be needed. My companion and I asked ourselves, "Don't we want to help?" Of course we do, for we care! It is just a matter of training ourselves to listen, to see, and then to do! We realize that the sisters want to help themBecause They Care selves as much as they can, as long as they can, and not ask for outside help, but we want them to have the assurance that we stand ready to assist when we are needed. H. Wayne Driggs said: When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events.... By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other. The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good." (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1948, page 479.) Listen to the Thoughts of a Grateful Recipient: My visiting teachers brought mea wonderful message. Today. Oh, I had read it in The Relief Society Magazine, but I hadn't thought too much about it since then. But the visiting teachers were so full of enthusiasm about it, and they talked to me eye to eye and. Heart to heart, and I found that I wanted vocally. To express my ideas. The topic was about love, intelligence, and compassionate service. The visiting teachers talked of the need for love and intelligence walking together, as we give compassionate service. I could see that this message applied right here in my home, to me, in my dealings with my family whom I love so much. Never again will emotion, only, dominate my actions as I work with my children. 649 September 1968 I will use the intelligence the Lord has given me, so that my love will be a constructive force. As the teachers gave the message, and I spoke my thoughts, their sweet spirits added something special, and the message was alive and vital, not just words they spoke to me. What I like most about my visiting teachers is the fact that I feel comfortable with them. They are mothers, too, and they understand that my home cannot always be in perfect order, or that my hair can't always be beauty-parlor fresh! They accept me as I am. I remember when they came today, I was quite upset over the annoying things my four-year-old and three-year-old were doing. And the visiting teachers gave me something else to think about, to lift my spirit, to set a different tone to my day. It is such a comfort to know that x) 0%. 0% o%s o%e otc ete ctoete 00 O60 0,0 00 0.0 020 010 800.0 On oe ote ate cheat, 0 0,0 O10 00 010 0 0 Ore re! O, ee °? °. O, 18 00 O60 0,0 0,0 0,0 00 °, *, CO SC 050 050 029 050 0,0 O60 020 O26 0.6 020 0,8 0,0 00,00,9 00 6% 0 oe one °, *e 2, 0% 00 oe oe ope ogeere ©, 6% oP, 0 950 one oye 49, COX S * -e"etectactec® a7eSo ofe of e 0% A a eS 8 10 O60 060 010 09 0.0 O60 000 080 000 0° a0 O50 O50 oc. 650 no O50 O56 O10 054 05 4 O60 00 0,0 O50 O20 0,0 0.0 020 010 010 08 9, VISITING TEACHERS Enter this door—] am sent here by him; To carry his light, let mine be not dim. Yet, all they will see is my form and my face; Light me with spirit and dress me with grace; All they will hear are the words that | know. Help me remember, let my thoughts glow. | Know that he lives—it blesses my days; | know that he loves and | give him praise. The humble find courage—I enter the door! Oh, help me prove worthy forevermore. 5 Pa ake oc ate ete ctec® Ho Me o%s oe ete e®, O O5o Go O58 910 OL 0 OC OL 0 O50 00 OF 0 Oe O50 OLe 00 OLe ore ace they are real friends, and that the things they see and hear in my home will not be talked about in another home. In our casual conversation one of the sisters said that she was expecting members of her family next week to celebrate their mother's eightieth birthday. I must call and see if she has enough room for them all. I have a room some of them could use. It gives me a lift to be thinking of doing something for somebody else, instead of going along in my old routine. The visiting teachers will always be welcome in my home. I wonder what the message is for next month. [ll have to read it so we can havea good discussion. Visiting Teaching. It is an integral part of the Lord's program for his daughters. It blesses those who direct it, those who give, and those who receive. ©, aM oe ote ote ote ote ote ote ore om 13 O50 O20 O20 060 0,0 0,0 0,9 0,0 0,0 0 6%, 0%, 29, % 4 ore "ee "f. Ore ee,.9.. E. 10. © 0..@. ©. 00. 0. © © © © © © © © © © © © © 6 © O50 Oe O50 O50 O50 O50 0,0 050 O20 00 020 O50 O10 O00 050 O10 OL 0 Ole OLO O50 CLO eLe tO Ore ere —Annie C. Esplin O, 0% 2. 00. 10. 00. O>. @ of ote 050 oroore He ece 00 Oo 9,9 0,8 O10 050 OL 0 OF 0 0,0 0,8 0,0 09 Oe e © ot 0° Pe" ©, Mo te ate cto ote ote ete e" 2°, 2°,, %e o%e 0% 0% °, %. O%a ake ors ote ote ote ote ote ete cvceteeteee The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson Member, General Board of Relief Society h Group instruction on how to make a-back rest from a cardboard box. AWhat a satisfaction when a project succeeds far beyond what has been anticipated! This was the case of the combined efforts of the Relief Societies and the Red Cross in the Phoenix, Arizona, area in giving the Red Cross Home Nursing course. This was not only a great satisfaction but also a blessing to thousands of sisters. This project, great in deed as well as in its numbers, came through a truly dedicated Relief Society sister, who is also a registered nurse, Sister Shirley Larson. The past summer while she was taking a First Aid Course for Nurses, the director of Nursing Services at the Red Cross gave her a wonderful new Home Nursing Programmed Manual. The book passed through several hands and reached the Scottsdale Stake Relief Society presidency. Sister Rosemary Choules, the 651 Seated, left to right: Shirley Larson, L. D. S. Home Nursin g Chairman; President Stan Turley of Mesa South Stake; Helen Gaborek, Red Cross Nursing Director. Standing: Rosemary Choules, Chairman; President Maurice R. Tanner, Scottsdale Stake. Stake Chairmen not pictured: Mildred B. Jarvis, Maricopa Stake; Verna Naylor, Scottsdale Stake; Dorothy Terry, Phoenix Stake; Ruth Brinton, East Mesa; Marion B. Perry, East Phoenix; Ora Taylor, Phoenix (Co-Chairman); Julia Kerby, Mesa; Rose Tenny, Mesa South; Ida Steele and Carol L. Thornton, Phoenix North; Joan Hanks, Phoenix West. Counselor in charge of homemaking, and Sister Larson "put their heads together" and thought this course would be wonderful for the sisters of their stake. They also recruited the services of another registered nurse and Relief Society sister in their stake to help them, Sister Verna Naylor. It seemed to them to be a vital part of the Family Preparedness program. Through this effort they would be able to increase their abilities to render compassionate service to the sick under the direction of the Relief Society president, and also strengthen the community by being pre- 652 pared. Other stake Relief Societies heard of the Scottsdale Stake's plan and wanted the same thing for their sisters. Before taking any steps to put their idea into effect, they consulted with the General Relief Society Presidency and received their support. They also talked with their priesthood advisors and received their blessings, encouragement, and support. Nine stakes in this area became involved: East Mesa, East Phoenix, Maricopa, Mesa, Mesa South, Phoenix, Phoenix North, Phoenix West, and Scottsdale. They set up a very good organi- Learning how to use a thermometer. Seated at the left: Leona Biakeddy; child seated on the table: Rebecca Edmonds, four years old. Standing, left to right: Leona Edmonds; Janet Little; Delores Johnson, instructor. Zational structure. There were hurdles to overcome, but through the cooperation of everyone, their enthusiasm, and _ organization, their efforts were highly successful. The director of nursing for Red Cross in Phoenix, Helen Gaborek, stated that this opportunity to work with the Latterday Saint Relief Society sisters is perhaps the most challenging opportunity she has had and that she was most grateful to be involved with such a vital program. The Relief Society agreed to assume the responsibility for the recruitment of instructors, for providing classrooms, and for the organization of classes. The Red Cross agreed to assume the responsibility for the training of the instructors, for supplying films, equipment, etc. For the teaching of the _ instructors' classes, and for continued supervisory assistance for the instructors. The instructors' classes consisted of five, four-hour classes, a total of twenty hours of training. The instructors then, in turn, taught classes for the women who enrolled in the home nursing course. Each course consisted of twelve hours of instruction. It was anticipated that, perhaps, fifty instructors would be recruited to take the twentyhour instructor course. The sisters responded, however, with enthusiasm and, consequently, one hundred and _ninety-four 653 September 1968 women have received the Red Cross Instructor Authorization Cards and are now in the process of teaching this course. Those taking the course from the instructors will receive the Home Nursing Certificate. Four thousand women have now completed the course, and, by the end of the teaching program, approximately ten thousand will have responded. Such a course surely makes better homemakers. What an accomplishment—ten thousand better trained wives and mothers, and, therefore, ten thousand better homes! Many of the sisters testify that the course has helped them greatly already and they have had the opportunity to use the skills they have learned. Two sisters drove one hundred and eight miles each way in order to take the instructor course. This is the kind of dedication these sisters demonstrated. These sisters came from an area where did not supplant the there are many Lamanite sisters, and they will have the opportunity for teaching them. There were seven Lamanite sisters and thirteen Spanish-speaking sisters who became instructors. What a great blessing they can bring their sisters. This course was in no way mandatory, but carried out on an entirely voluntary basis. It Relief Society summer discussions on nursing. On May 2d, 1968, a luncheon in recognition of the instructors was held at the Red Cross building. Tribute was paid to these sisters for their contribution in making this program succeed. A plaque was also presented to Mrs. Helen Gaborek of the Red Cross. She was given a standing ovation from the instructors and all those present. This she richly deserved. Relief Society presidents and several stake presidents were in attendance. *« 4K IC 41C 4X lK 3K md b AUTUMN SERENADE Her sense of gentle touch to soothe x Her going was loath. Even the tree's modest bud Seems eager to bid her haste ¥ Into the shadow of winter, 4 So quick is it to taste The sharper air, and succumb In all its splendors, a serenade ¥ Of deeper tones to autumn. —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England x « | asf vam IK 4K > +<— 654 X¥ re U Time now, for summer's passing glory to fade And leave behind, for autumn's richer glow, Our yearning, whereby we would know Suffer the Little Children Eloise Johnson = Bertha Long looked younger than she was. Her heavy hair, still more blond than gray, accented her delicate, fair skin, giving it a translucent quality. Impeccable taste, evident in the modish navy blue suit she wore, was emphasized by the matching accessories lying together on the dressing table. Her flawless image dominated the room, warming it, until her husband spoke to her from the bed where he lay propped up on pillows. With the tightening of her face, the look of youth succumbed to the etching of fine lines around her eyes and mouth, making her older, and very much a woman over fifty. She ignored his question, busying herself with his medicine tray while she searched for a definite, final answer. Will seldom became ill enough to be in bed, but this cold seemed different, or perhaps if she were honest, only the treatment was different. Cheerfulness was not being administered along with the antibiotics. Bertha shook the thermometer down with quick, angry snaps of her wrist. She didn't know whether she was upset with Will, herself, or the seemingly impossible situation facing them. For the first time in many years they were in complete disagreement. If she was aware of the dark eyes fastened on her, she gave no sign. The only sound in the room was her rustling to and fro as she picked up and folded the morning newspapers, returned her typewriter to its case and stored it in the closet. Putting one's foot down and keeping it there, was a difficult position to maintain, she had concluded. Finally, she spoke in a voice husky with repressed feelings. "You don't realize what you're asking, Will. I can't do it!" His answer was just as firm as 655 September 1968 hers, but gentle. "I'm hot the one who's asking, Bert. It's in the will. You and I are the legal guardians of Robbie." Color rushed to her face, and her words were tinged with sharpness, despite her attempt at selfcontrol. "Does that mean we have to take him?" "No... No, we don't have to take him." Will turned his face into the pillow, his voice trailed off into a deep sigh. Bertha's lips moved to form a strong reply, but she turned, instead, to look out the window. Avtter awhile, she sat down beside him, her strong shapely hands massaged his shoulders. "Oh, Will...." It was like a deep breath, taken before plunging into the depths of her feelings. "Robert's and Beth's accident was a tragic experience for all of us, especially for you. I loved them, Will. I'm only trying to be honest with myself and you. 'm not capable of taking care of Robbie." She paused, then went on softly. "You know Robbie doesn't like me." Will shifted himself around to face her. "Because you made him behave. He wouldn't like anyone who disciplined him." "Why didn't Robert and Beth consult us?" "T don't know, Bertha." Will picked up a letter from among papers on the bed. "I've been reading this letter Robert wrote last Christmas. At the end he said he and Beth were looking forward to having a long talk with us. You know how busy they were, maybe the time ran out before they got around to asking us about Robbie." 656 'their advantage. The They were quiet then, Bertha gazing out the window, through and beyond the winter sunshine, and Will lost in memories rekindled by his brother's handwriting. Robert and Beth had been a handsome couple. And good. And successful. At the family reunion the summer before, Will had jokingly tagged them Mr. And Mrs. Midas, when they drove up in a new red sports car. It was a fitting title, everything they touched seemed to work to flaming wreckage of that little red car had deprived the world of two of its most enthusiastic and wholesome young adults. They would have been laughing, Bertha thought. They were always laughing. Beth with her head thrown back, her blond hair shining against the black leather seat, and Robert, wrinkling his eyes, his smile brilliant in his tanned face. Every moment of their lives had been rich and full. No matter what she decided, Bertha knew her husband's devotion to her would not change. He had changed in other ways, though. Next to her and their children, he had loved his brother, and he missed Robert. Already sorrow had deepened the lines in his face.. She took the letter gently from his hand. "Do you think I'm selfish, Will?" He smiled a little. "I know you're not selfish, Bertha. But we're still responsible for Robbie. No amount of side-stepping will allow us to escape that responsibility." Bertha traced the pattern of the bedspread around and around with her finger before meeting his eyes. "I'm not young anymore, Will. Ten years ago, I wouldn't have hesitated, the very thought of trying to control that hyperactive child makes me weak. There's a time in a woman's life when she's young and strong, to have children and to serve them. And... There's a time in her life for serving others." Will covered her hand with his. "You were and still are an excellent mother, Bertha. You'd be good for Robbie." "Have you forgotten, Will, how he screamed and begged us to take him home, when Robert and Beth left him overnight? And after that, when they came to visit, how he clung to his mother and wouldn't let me touch him?" Wi would have laughed, had he dared. "You two just got off to a bad start. He had probably never heard the word 'no' before. 'll admit it's always a little hectic when he's around." Seeing the twinkle in his eye, Bertha hesitated, it had been a long time since he had laughed in the old way that made him ageless. It all had to be said sometime, so she lifted her head and went on as though she hadn't been interrupted. "Now is my time for serving others. Will... Do you remember when I could have been president of the PTA? You told me to put first things first, you and the children, and the time would come when I would be active in the community. So I cooked and baked and sewed and loved every minute of it, knowSuffer the Little Children ing you were right, that the other part of my life would also be fulfilled. Oh, Will... I don't want to go against you." Tears made wiggly little paths down her cheeks. "Here, here! You're spoiling your makeup." Will sponged her face awkwardly with a tissue, and put his arms around her. "I'm not asking you to give up everything... But let's forget about it for now. I don't want you to go to that meeting with red eyes." Bertha was relieved, glad to dismiss the little boy for awhile. She went to the mirror to straighten her hair. Will watched her, his face open and glowing with admiration. "You look lovely, m'lady," he said, trying to lift the gloom that had settled around them. "Is your lecture ready?" "Yes, I've given it so many times now, I hardly have to look at the cards. They're there on the stand if you want to look them over. We're still trying to recruit volunteer workers to assist with the children at the hospital." "You've worked on this for a long time, haven't you?" He didn't expect her to answer, it was more a statement than a question. "Hmm...'Suffer the Little Children' the title alone should sell the idea. You'll have the ladies standing in line to sign up." "I hope so." Bertha put the cards in her purse. "My heart breaks to see those little ones neglected." Will sat up on the edge of the bed. "Bertha, if we don't take Robbie, what will become of him?" 657 "Tt will work out for the best." She spoke with a confidence she didn't feel. "Beth's parents want him to stay with them for a few more weeks, he spent so much time with them before, it's like home to him. Don't worry. Rest now and get better while I'm gone." Little Robbie! Bertha thought about him all the way to the high school auditorium where she was going to speak to the organized mothers of pre-school children. He was five years old, willful and spoiled. She shuddered, remembering her first encounter with him. Though upon arrival he was very scrubbed and mannerly, within an hour he had chased a dog through the living room, tracked mud on the carpet, and, by the time she had caught up with him, was busily shampooing the dog (whose dog it was, she never knew) in the bathtub. Sometime during his nap time he had decorated one wall of the bedroom with a life-size mural. Will had roared with laughter when he saw the giant drawing 658 of himself. Bertha smiled. The likeness was grotesque, but there. Oh, she had tried to laugh, but deep in her immaculate housekeeper's heart, she was glad his visits were infrequent. ".. To be concerned is not enough, we must do _ something...." Bertha Long spoke easily to the small group of women. Her delivery was simple and straightforward, because she believed in what she was saying. Her crusade—it had been merely a personal interest at the time— for better conditions at the Statesupported hospital for retarded and emotionally disturbed children, had begun with an article for the local weekly news. Newspapers across the State had printed and reprinted the depressing facts she had disclosed, launching her into a service for the community she had not anticipated. The overworked, underpaid hospital staff were unable to give the children the constant and special care most of them required. Many of the severely (continued on page 694) Ramona W. Cannon Mary Kraft has won for the fourth time the Dorothy Dawe Award for distinguished journalistic coverage of the home furnishings field. The award is presented annually by the American Furniture Mart. Miss Kraft is director of the Good Housekeeping Home Building and Decorating Department. She travels widely to keep the public informed. Mrs. Margaret Moore received an unusual award for a woman from the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce. It was for organizing the city's Anti-Crime Crusade. Mrs. Moore, Indiana's Mother of the Year in 1965, directs the Indianapolis News' public relations. Jacqueline Cochran (Mrs. Floyd B. Odlum), famous American aviatrix, author of an autobiography, The Stars at Noon, is also very successful in business, heading her own cosmetics firm. She was the only woman to enter the McRobertson LondonMelbourne race in 1934, the first woman competitor and winner in the American Bendix Transcontinental race in 1938. She was also winner of the General Billy Mitchell award as the American pilot to contribute most to aviation in 1938. In 1953, Miss Cochran was the first woman to pass the sonic barrier and exceed the speed of sound.. Mrs. Constance Helmericks, author of best-selling We Live in Alaska, has written another book, Down the Wild River North (Little Brown), telling how she and her two teen-age daughters explored the Canadian Northwest by canoe. Dr. Hilda Bynoe is the first woman governor of Grenada, a British Commonwealth country. Clarissa Start (Mrs. E. Gary Davidson), prominent political and civic figure and columnist for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, has written When You're a Widow, from her own experience of widowhood after twenty-nine years of happy marriage. She stresses the part faith plays in adjustment and suggests for the eight million widows in the United States ways to become able ''to join the human race again." Marie Cosindas, former teacher of art, has surprised the art world with her colored photographs, often mistaken for old painting masterpieces. She uses a second-hand, thirty-year-old Linhof camera (which cost her $120), a friend's cast-off lens, polaroid colored film—no negative, so she makes only one copy of each picture. Her works, with their muted colors and exquisite suggestions of mystery, have been exhibited in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, New York's Museum of Modern Art and the Chicago Art Institute. Mrs. Margaret Mackay is author of the recently published The Violent Friend: the Story of Mrs. Robert Louis Stevenson (Doubleday and Company). Stevenson wrote of his wife that she was ''all honor, anger, valor, fire," and ''vivid, true,... Steel-true and blade-straight."" He said that death itself could not quench his love for her. Impeccable scholarship has gone into this absorbing biography, highly praised by critics. 659 Volume 55 September 1968 Number 9 s Belle S. Spafford, President # Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche 8. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love 660 Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola |. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous a''Trifles make perfection, but perfection is no trifle,'' Michelangelo once replied to a friend who wondered why he spent so much time perfecting his great statues. The hours he spent retouching and polishing, softening features or adding strength to muscles, giving more expression to lips or more energy to limbs, resulted in masterpieces whose beauty and majesty endure. We cannot really tell what are the little or great events of our lives, or what small word we say or deed we do will alter our course or change the impression others have of us. In aiming for the perfection our Father would have us achieve, the little things, as well as the big, have meaning and give direction. The little things, the sum of which is our creation of our personalities, count. Little imperfections reduce the value of an otherwise beautiful piece of work. A discordant note in a symphony, a conflicting brush stroke in a painting, a harsh voice in a choir, a spot of garish color improperly presented, little things all, yet enough to keep each of them from the fullest beauty. In the same way imperfections in character prevent a person from achieving his fullest potential. SS Phings That Count Little things loom large in the eyes of the beholder. Small discourtesies, even though they are not one's usual behavior, lessen one's image in someone's estimation. A hostess may lose the charm of a beautifully planned party by one ungracious act, or a too rigid adherence to her plans to make allowance for a change or an unexpected guest. Constant graciousness in times of stress, as well as calm, are attributes of a lady. A lovely appearance may be spoiled by one unlovely thing. There are those who are too apt to disregard the impression they make at all times, too prone to excuse their lack of grooming because of the time it takes to be well groomed, too unconcerned about their appearance to be aware of the unhappiness it causes. To be appropriately dressed for all occasions is within the realm of possibility, yet is too often thought unnecessary. A lady thinks of these things. A strident voice or an angry look or gesture when correcting a child leaves a sorry impression. A thoughtless mother makes those who witness her behavior sad and disheartened. Lasting impressions are made in a few moments of unwise action. It is becoming evident in these days of so-called ''casual'' living that there is a great need for more graciousness, more attention to the niceties, more desire to live beautifully, more need to concern ourselves with acceptable behavior. All of these may be little things but they help us approach perfection. Sensitivity is a quality much to be admired and to be sought. Sensitivity is an unselfish attempt to know how another person will think, act, and feel. Its essence is attuning oneself to this knowledge. Those who have acquired this quality can get along with others, inspire their self-confidence, thus reinforcing their own individuality. Sensitivity is one of the 'little things"' which is important. The Lord judges us by the little things. To the good and faithful servant he said, ''... Thou hast been faithful over a few things, | will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord." (Matt. 25:21.) Our capacity to make the little things count ennobles us and is pleasing to others. —L. W. M. 661 RIBBON-WORTHY WORK — Sarah Emmaline Winsor McBride, Pima Ward, St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, has crocheted, knitted, embroidered, and quilted from early life. She was following in the footsteps of her grandmother who had won ribbons at the Chicago World's Fair. It has been one of the great joys in her life to be able to give handmade articles to friends and relatives on special occasions. It has been said that a room wouldn't hold all the articles she has made. In addition to keeping busy with handiwork, Sister McBride keeps up on world affairs, reads many and varied books, and has been active in the auxiliaries of the Church, and in community organizations. She served as 4 visiting teacher for thirty years. She has seven children, ten grandchildren, and fourteen great-grandchildren. At eighty-six, she still has a zest for living and is seldom idle. 662 Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to study genealogy and look over an estate to which she is a joint heir. Before leaving, she meets Steve Madsen, a widower, and is much attracted to him. In England she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who rents a cottage on the castle grounds. SBy mid-February the legal work had been done to make it possible for Mrs. Murch to draw her money out of the bank. Two friends were located in the old neighborhood who could testify to her identity. A handwriting expert vouched for her signature, and an old employee at the bank said that he had served her on a number of occasions. The Taggarts put in a claim for ten pounds a month for her board, which was considered a modest enough sum by the solicitor who represented the bank. As for Mrs. Murch, she was totally indifferent as to how much yd 7 af D ifs pri ng Be Latewas awarded to the Taggarts or how much was left for her own use. All she wanted was an abundance of yarn for her handwork and a place to stay where she might be found by Cynthia, her long-awaited daughter. "Now, all we have to do is decide how we are going to use the money," said a jubilant Kitty. "T still vote for a youth hostel. Of course, we can only charge a shilling or two for a night, but we wouldn't have to furnish anything more than a spot for them on which to put their sleeping bags, and a fire to cook breakfast. Maybe we would have to put in sleeping cots—I'll find out. Anyway, more and more of the youth are traveling every year. They come from America now, and all over, traveling either by cycle or on foot. I'm thinking of trying it myself this summer." "Are you indeed?" her mother 663 . September 1968 questioned. "And by whose permission?" "Yours, of course," Kitty replied. "Think what a valuable fund of information I can get to help with our own project!" "To which project nothing whatever has yet been settled, or even discussed, may I remind you. So far, the idea of running a youth hostel is all in your own head." "True," Kitty nodded. "And if anyone can come up with a better idea I am quite agreeable. All I want is for us to be able to live in the castle and in the style to which I hope to become accustomed." "That is entirely reasonable," Catherine admitted. "I'm sure that none of us asks for anything more." "T am hoping that the Board of Governors will be equally reasonable," said Bruce. "They are pressing me for a decision as to our future plans. You would suppose that the entire British educational system was at stake. Anyway, I have persuaded them to wait until after the Easter vacation before I decide anything definite. That will give us a chance to visit the castle and determine if we can do anything more than just take a look, walk away, and leave it as it is." "Never!" cried Kitty. "We must do something with it— whatever the cost." "Well, we shall see," said her Father pleasantly. "The lands, at least, are worth something. In the meantime, we will look forward to a pleasant holiday in Scotland, come April." "And it won't be a walking holiday," added Catherine. 664 Next to Kitty, Maureen was probably the one most interested in the forthcoming visit to Scotland and the castle. She refrained from saying very much about it, however, since the time or two she had spoken with some enthusiasm was immediately interpreted as enthusiasm for the cottage and its occupants. She had hung the painting of the cottage in her room and had to admit—to herself, at least—a deep and growing admiration for the lovely scene. Kitty, on the other hand, was so entranced with the painting of the castle that Maureen finally hung it down in the living room. That meant it was no longer necessary for Kitty to come to her room once or twice daily to stand in rapt admiration. One day early in March, Maureen was excited to receive an air mail letter from Steve Madsen stating that he was going to Brussels for a few days on business for his company and would have a four-hour wait between planes at the Shannon airport. He suggested that it might be a pleasant interlude for her to come over and meet him on that day. "I understand that Shannon is a free port," he wrote, "and you might even want to do some shopping. In any event, if you haven't as yet seen Ireland from the air, I'm sure it is high time you did." Maureen agreed most heartily. She had been spending long hours at Somerset House the past few weeks on her family research, and without very much success. She felt that she was ready for a break of any kind. This par- ticular break seemed especially desirable. She wrote back immediately saying that she would plan to be at the airport in time for his arrival at ten A. M. On the appointed date, she arrived at the London airport early in the morning. At the desk she was told, "We may be fogged in for a short time, but we anticipate that you'll be able to go over before noon." She wanted to argue that noon was not early enough, that she wanted most urgently to be there during the whole of the morning. In fact, she wanted to leave immediately in order to be there and see the ten o'clock plane from America touch down on the ground. But there didn't seem to be much point in stressing the inconsistencies of the weather. No one in London, nor anywhere else, for that matter, argued about the weather. They might grumble and wish for better but, in the end, they accepted whatever came and made the best of it. She could do no less. She settled down with what patience she could muster to watch the people milling about the airport waiting rooms. Since no planes were taking off, the crowds became increasingly great. Some appeared to be very much disturbed and_ checked almost constantly on the weather reports. Others seemed to be philosophical about the whole thing and whiled away the time reading, walking about, or eating. She remembered a film she had seen once of this same situation where the lives of several people were changed drastically because their plane for New York was delayed overnight. She wondered If Spring Be Late if there were some here today to whom the delay might make a startling difference. How much difference would it make in her own life if she were not able to go over at all? But there was no need to speculate or to worry about that. The report was that the fog would surely lift by noon. That would give her at least an hour to visit with Steve, providing the time schedules had correlated, as they were supposed to do. A young woman with a baby in her arms and a youngster of two or so, sat down next to her. Both children were restless and squirming about. "Tt's hard to wait with children, isn't it?" Maureen mentioned.. "It most certainly is," the woman replied. "I came over by boat, but I was so seasick that I decided I would swim back, if necessary, rather than go through that again—especially with children. I have been congratulating myself on how much easier this would be. Now I am not so sure. I haven't traveled by air before, and I was nervous to begin with. This waiting surely isn't going to help." "Oh, but it can't be very long," Maureen said encouragingly. "If it lifts by noon—as they say it will, you'll soon be on your way. Where do you go?" "To New York City first, and then on to Virginia. I have been visiting my parents over here and letting them get acquainted with their grandchildren. Do you go there also?" "Eventually, but not today. I am going just over to Shannon 665 September 1968 to meet a friend who will be there for a few hours between flights. And I'm sure you'll feel all right about your trip once you get on the plane. It will take only a few hours, and you'll be back safe and sound on the other side of the ocean." The little boy, who had been tugging constantly at his mother's hand, broke away and disappeared into the crowd. "Oh, dear!" she cried. "T'll have to go after him!" Maureen held out her arms for the baby and was handed the infant without another word, as the young mother fled and was swallowed up by the crowd. When a quarter of an hour had passed and she had not returned, Maureen began to worry about what she would do in case her plane was called. So far, none had been announced, but she wanted to be ready to jump and run the minute there was a chance to do so. She most certainly didn't want to be left holding a baby. It was one thing to be delayed by a fog, over which no one had any control, and another to be delayed while acting as a volunteer babysitter—no matter how much sympathy was involved. She was not much encouraged when she heard an announcer over the loud speaker ask for the whereabouts of a lost child, a little boy dressed in blue, between two and three years of age. She began looking about to see if there was some kindly appearing woman near by to whom she might shift her burden in case of dire emergency. She was cheered somewhat by the looks of the weather out- 666 side. It seemed that the fog was beginning to lift. Other passengers seemed to be aware of it and began returning from the dining rooms and other spots where they had been. In another fifteen minutes the imminent departure of the first plane was announced. Nhow Maureen was really concerned. Would the big planes or the small ones be allowed to take off first? Hers would be one of the latter, but she had no idea what the procedure would be. She turned to a gentleman sitting in the next chair and asked if he could give her any information concerning the flight pattern. "It will likely be the big ones first," he said. "But all will be delayed, even after the clearing. They can't all use the runways at the same time, you know, regardless of schedules." Maureen nodded. She glanced at the clock for the hundredth time. It was half after eleven now. She would have to get to Ireland in a hurry if she was to meet Steve even so briefly. One obstacle was soon removed. The young mother came rushing back, clutching her runaway firmly by the hand. "I'm dreadfully sorry," she said, taking back the baby. "TI had an awful time trying to find him in this mob. I'll be so thankful to get him inside a plane and strapped down to a seat." Maureen nodded. 'Take it easy,' she said. "You'll have several hours of peace and quiet once you get aboard. And you'll find the stewardesses ever so helpful." The plane for New York was called a few minutes later, and InN time After all, Treland Was Only a Jump awa Being Called was One thin the blue sky agai Most forgotten how and beautify] the Sky Could be. Her first 8limpse of Treland, too, was like ni Out there on the runway, Did You plan to take it?" Maureen Shook her head. "No," f the Passengers " How much she was hoping she hadn t realized Until that moment. "Ah!" exclaimed the Clerk. Do yoy happen to be Miss Taggert?" ee her future Path. Per. Haps, if they had me not have and, they Might si ly have ha lunch together He would have asked her about her Work and told her about his. He Would have given e€rself that She h expected ¢ Share with Steve She made her Way toa dinin September 1968 at five o'clock, and there was no need to hurry. She might as well take advantage of the pleasure there might be in studying the people. They obviously came from all parts of the globe, and it was rather exciting to look them over and see if she could determine from where they came. After lunch she decided to walk through the shop and makea few purchases. The girls had all been intrigued about her going to Shannon, a free port, and the wonderful buys she might make. She walked about, merely looking for some time, then purchased a — cashmere sweater for herself and gloves for the two Taggart girls. "Perhaps this is the time to get a wedding gift for Diane," she decided. After browsing about, looking over everything from china to silver, she decided upon a linen tablecloth. After all, Irish linen, purchased right in Ireland, would be something a girl could always cherish. She was tempted to buy one for herself, also, but could not get into the right mood. After her disappointment in not meeting Steve, romance seemed to have been pushed far into the background. Perhaps she would go on using her old tablecloths for the rest of her days. She thought some of taking a ride out into the country—providing she could find transportation. She would welcome anything rather than turning around and going back home again. But, on second thought, she decided against it. The Taggarts would be expecting her and would be worried if she didn't appear some time during the evening. 668 She indulged in a bit more window shopping, then took her purchases back to the waiting room and settled down until time to board her plane. The ride back was still interesting, even if the glow of anticipation had vanished. The sky was still blue and the grass was still green—as green as Ireland, she couldn't help thinking. The landing at London was uneventful and she rode into town to take the tube out to Bahlen again. The girls were almost breathless with excitement and quesions. She was scarcely inside the door until Kitty demanded, "Oh, do tell us all about it! Did you have a perfectly marvelous time?" "Thad a perfectly horrid time— almost," Maureen replied, "The airport at London was fogged in, and by the time I arrived at Shannon the plane for Brussels was just taking off." "But surely," Kitty insisted, "he must have been watching at the window so that he could wave to you." "He may have been. So, I didn't see him." "Oh, but I am sure that he must have seen you." "IT have no way of knowing," said Maureen. "All I know is that the plane was just taking off. So I had a lonely lunch, did a bit of shopping, and came back home again." "Then, the day was a total loss," Kitty sighed. "Not at all," Maureen replied brightening. "I saw Ireland from the air. It was a beautiful sight. It was one that I shall never forget." But, if (to be continued) Jean Anderson Jensen a The happy privilege of sharing this memorable experience with you has come about because I answered "yes" to the following four "golden" questions: Marthys J. Van Os 1. Do you believe The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only true church? 2. Will you serve with your husband on a building mission for the Church in West Berlin, Germany? 3. Would you like to go on a week-end trip to Paris for your birthday anniversary? 4. Would you please write an article for The Relief Society Magazine telling about your trip to Holland? The Lord was certainly guiding our footsteps, as he had done throughout our recently completed, glorious mission, because, when my husband, Marc, went to purchase tickets to Paris, they were sold out, and they suggested we fly by way of Amsterdam, Holland, and see the great Tulip Show at Kuekenhof, which was to open the next day. That jet ride through fantastic cloud formations was the most beautiful I have ever experienced, and I captured some of the cloud mountains and canyons in our camera. As we crossed the boundary into Holland, a charming stewardess presented each passenger with a Dutch chocolate ball like a segmented orange, saying "Compliments of Queen Juliana Louise Emma Marie Wilhelmina on the fifty-fifth anniversary of her birth." The date was April 30, 1964, and I impulsively said "Thank you, it is my birthday anniversary, too." She congratulated me, bowed, and gave me another chocolate "orange," a symbol used because Queen Juliana is from the royal "House of Orange." Holland, or "The Kingdom of the Netherlands," was fascinating to see from the air because of its network of canals and rivers which made a pretty pattern on the green, green pastures. I thought of Hans Brinker winning his silver skates as he skated on these frozen canals. It was a breathtaking sight to see Amsterdam, the capital city, in a flash of brilliant sunlight below us. It was like a sea of red tile roofs separated by light blue canals. As we alighted, the band started to play, and Dutch flags were waved as the dignitaries welcomed the couple from America who were representing the American Florists and presented them with a large bouquet of prize tulips. We pretended it was all for us, and gaily took the bus from the airport to the city. We saw trees decorated with artificial oranges along the way, and when we arrived, we ran excitedly and took pictures before it was too dark. A man was turning the crank to make music on an ornate, garishly painted hurdy-gurdy which was only used on holidays; children were dancing and playing accordions on the festive streets; and, in a shop window, there was a lovely picture of Queen Juliana and her Prince Con- 669 September 1968 u We stayed 4 Centraa Hotel. The was a square near it with a prilliantly ligh ed, dancing fountain nd band d essed in fancy uniforms which pla late into the night. The policem were very impressive in Early the next morning, We arranged to take 4 comprehensive tour, the longest and most informative possible. First, we were to see the fabucurtains of every house were sparkling clean, anda there were peautiful jong and give from six tO ten gallo milk a day Occasionally; we sa inamill, ut they are scarce no and for picturesque purposes only Dredges and electric pu are working con tinually to clean ou he canals and keep the water level down because fourteen per ent of all Holland, and eighty per ¢ f h Holland ls land reclaime from the sea Twenty per cen th Netherlands is below sea leve Th shallow quider Zee © now being reclaimed an ill give the Hollanders some more ch-neede We saw ™ y houses bul building program, that they have to haul sand in and let it settle {two years pefore they can build, and huge piles have to be driven deep into Alsmeer Flower Market was bustling with activity a the flowers were auctioned off on its famous wheel with such speed that, within twentyfour hours, Dutch flowers were being sold all over the world. There were huge tray-carts of every type of flower «maginable, and we were literally As we came to The Hague (or Gravenhage, the seat of the Government); we learned that the previous evening 150,000 loyal Dutch subjects had A Dutch Treat national celebration. We saw the Peace Palace, the scene of the Peace Conferences held beginning May 18, 1899. The Hague International Peace Conference was one of the most important events which marked the close of the 19th century and is known as "The first great Parliament of Man." Many nations have donated furnishings and valuable gifts for the Peace Palace. We stood in awe when we visited the Royal Art Galleries in The Hague as we saw the art works of Rembrandt, Peter Paul Rubens, van Gogh, and others. Rembrandt's "The Anatomical Lesson" is indelibly painted in my mind. It is a very large painting in blacks and whites of a group of doctors around the body of a dead man, studying the inner structure of the arm. The expressions on their faces and the delicate hands of the doctor explaining are a triumph of art. "Adam and Eve" by Rubens is a marvel of detail and color. A very obliging waiter attended us at a quaint Dutch restaurant and informed us that Holland is famous for its dairy products, chocolate, Dutch beer, fish, and apple pancakes. We can vouch for the delicious apple pancakes. The waiter wds interested in the moral standards of the Church and accepted the address of the mission home. He said the housing shortage is acute, and when young people marry, they must wait five years for an apartment and live with their parents until then. There are approximately twelve million people on 12,978 square miles. A comparison might be made with the state of Utah, which has only a little over a million people in 84,916 square miles. We saw "raw herring stands" where they sell them as we sell hot dogs. They say "a raw herring a day keeps the doctor away." The first herring caught during the season is presented to the Queen. It was intensely interesting to visit the Delft china factory and to watch the craftsmen at the potters' wheels making the famous blue Delft china. It is all hand-painted, and is distinctly a Dutch art. I would have loved to acquire the "Vermeer Girl" plate, but it was $200. The miniature city of Madurodam, showing the life of Holland, captivated us. It was given to the Dutch people by Mr. And Mrs. J. M. L. Maduro of Wilhelmstad, capital city of Curacao, Dutch West Indies in the Caribbean Sea, in memory of their only son George who was honored in 1940 with the "Militar-Willemsorder," and who died, in 1946, in the concentration camp at Dachau, Germany. That incredible little city of Madurodam, built to exact scale, took two years to build, from 1950 to 1952. There are electrically run trains, cars, buses, and boats, and, at night 44,000 tiny electric lights shine through the windows of the buildings and on the streets and it looks like a fairyland. It is a delight to children and adults alike. Along the coast we saw the dazzling white dunes of Holland and the famous beach and hotel at Kurhaus, gathering place for theater and movie stars, and all types of artists who are entertained at the surrounding night clubs. We saw one couple in native costume and regretted that our tour did not include Volendam or the province of Zeeland, where the traditional costume—pantaloons, full skirts, starched caps, aprons, and wooden shoes are the usual attire. We would have liked to have seen the great Cheese Market with the small gondola style boats filled with huge balls of Gouda, Ementaler, and other cheeses, where the men selling the cheeses wear different colored hats to denote the kind of cheese they sell. 671 September 1968 But, where was Kuekenhof and the Tulip Show? Imagine our disappointment, upon returning, to find that our tour had not included them. We had given up our room at the hotel, thinking we would leave that night and found there were no other rooms available after waiting in the hot confusion of an extremely crowded terminal for two hours. In desperation, we decided to. Call the mission home to see if they could refer us to any saints who would rent us a room for the night. Two missionaries insisted that we wait right there until they came. We ate a Dutch croquette and sipped scalding hot Dutch chocolate from an automat and wondered if we would recognize the missionaries. It wasn't difficult—they looked like all missionaries—wonderful! We had the privilege of staying in the mission home with the President and Sister Van Slotten, in a wooded suburb. We learned that Holland comes from "Holtland" or wooded land. The German word for wood is "Holz." We knelt with the missionaries around the beautiful big oval table in prayer and next morning, enjoyed the pancakes the elders had prepared. Then we helped the lady missionaries put up sack lunches, because this was the special day when the missionaries gathered from the whole Netherlands Mission, which also included Belgium, for a conference and a visit to the Tulip Show. We realized their challenge language-wise, because of the Hollandish language which has similarities to low German, the Flemish language of Belgium, the areas where French and old Frisian are spoken, and the dialects from all of them. Holland is still a land of religious freedom, as it was in the time of the Pilgrims. The Netherlands Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established in 1861. Blessing of blessings, there was a place for us in the car, and we went directly to the Tulip Show, rather than trying to see the parade, which was very crowded. There were forty acres devoted to this show, and each view was as if a master artist had painted it. If heaven is more beautiful, my mind cannot fathom it. The tulips of all varieties, along with daffodils, hyacinths, azaleas, and other blooms were beauty spots of pink, red, lavender, yellow, purple, blue, orange, white, and every other conceivable shade of the rainbow in a park of gorgeous trees with moss on their north sides because of the constant dampness of the climate, and lakes, streams, bridges, grottoes and a beautiful windmill. There was a light rain the whole time, but it only heightened the beauty and intensified the colors. We watched the missionaries as they gathered around their beloved leader and felt humble and thrilled to be a small part of this wonderful work of sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. As we drove to the airport, we saw boatloads of tulip blooms which had been removed to send the strength to the bulb, and saw rosy-cheeked Dutch girls selling leis of the tulip blooms about five feet long and a foot wide to motorists to put on the hoods of their cars. It was difficult properly to express our gratitude to the dear saints who had been so kind to us and as we thanked them and our Father in heaven for this "bonus blessing," we remembered the scripture "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him." (I Corinthians 2:9.) Brave, beautiful Holland, Fighting back the sea. You and your wonderful people God bless thee. 672 The oldest bridge over the oldest canal in Amsterdam, Holland. Note the graceful arch Typical Dutch apartment houses in Amsterdam. Note the giant hooks projecting out from the tops of the buildings. The hooks are for holding ropes which are used for hoisting the furniture ne the windows hae One of the few windmills left in Holland. Electric water pumps have taken over the battle against the invasion of the sea. "The Ridderzaal'' part of the General Assembly of The Hague at Madurodam, the miniature city in Holland, presented to the people of Holland by Mr. And Mrs. J. M. L. Maduro in memory of their only son George, who died at Dachau, Germany, in 1946. 'e Keukenhof, Holland. ''Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.'' (I Corinthians 2:9.) A glimpse of the tulip gardens at Keukenhof, Holland.. The Upper Provo River, bordered by grasses, trees, and flowers Transparencies by "trea A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) Claire Noall w The evening light was already etching the meadow plants when I set out for a short tramp through field and forest. The music of the purling, plunging stream and the smell of resin and earth, moisture and spent summer, quickened the twilight air. A lowly glance in this high country—some 8,000 feet or more—freed in my veins a spiral of joy that mounted to my fingers and climbed with. My step. As a matter of habit, I took along my favorite lens. This, however, would have been nothing without the lens of my heart. There is something about a curve in nature that diminishes the square manmade corners of the city. A rosette of mountain thistle leaves, deep-cleft, lacepointed, springing from a bed of cacti, fitted into the great round of nature, the cosmic round. Inconsequential though it may appear, to me it depicted the earth mother at work, with such a soft, lovely green and magical energy that she compelled my lens to work. Near this silvery cluster the stock of thistle in bloom (both being Cirsium eatonii) described what the rosette could produce. On a pine-perfumed breeze, each small cream and orchid-colored swordthrust of bloom whispered: I am complete, a flower Mountain thistle leaves (Cirsium etonia) Flower of the mountain thistle in five parts, quite by myself. But the whole Composite family cannot equal the creator of life and the destroyer of stone to be found among the lichens. A lowly look? This? Lichen is one of the strangest members of the entire plant kingdom. Worldwide in distribution, it is flowerless. Yet, flowerlike, it produces delicate filaments, or hyphae, which can cling to stone at any altitude. They can even penetrate the rock. From the sea to the last earthexposed surface on the highest mountain, in its symbiotic partnership between a fungus and an algae, it works endlessly. There are many different kinds of lichen, but in my meadow I saw these "pansies," this encrustation of foliose lichen as a subject for a painting. Form- (continued on page 692) Foliose Lichen (''Pansies in Stone'') Deep blue pond, fringed with grass and flowers Willow Herb (Fireweed Onagracaea) " Foxglove (Penstemon cyanthus) Transparency by Hal Rumel A Nursery for Loving Care Virginia Tippetts, President, Eleventh Ward Relief Society Annie Merrill Ballantyne, President, University West Stake Relief Society # Four things inspired the Eleventh Ward Relief Society of University West Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, to redecorate the ward nursery room: 1. 2. 3. 4. A desire to encourage young mothers to come and become better acquainted with Relief Society. A wish to create a place where children would love to come, and have a happy time while there. A way in which to use wisely some of the money a dear, loving sister left to the Reltef Society in her eighty-ninth year. A way to help little children learn to love the gospel. With permission to do this, many hours were spent in planning, measuring, shopping, sanding, drawing, and painting roads on tables, covering chairs, decorating a "Doll House Cupboard," designing and painting giraffes to outline the blackboard. We used our nursery for the first time at the March 17 Relief Society Birthday Party, building our program around children, and asking the sisters to enter into the spirit of children and birthdays by bringing gifts to fill the new cupboard. Their response was wonderful. There was joy of accomplishment for us who actually worked on the 678 (continued on page 693) Chore Chart Ann Muir Anderson ws Children of any age love the idea of not being told what to do, and will perform their duties better if the responsibility is placed directly on their shoulders. However, there must be a means of controlling the situation. In our family we have found an ideal solution. It is a combination chore chart-wall hanging. It not only makes a lovely decoration, but also takes the nagging out of getting children to do their chores. There are two sets of pockets on the chore chart, an upper set for placing a record of work accomplished and a lower set, for work assignments. Materials Needed 1/, yard of colorful burlap, 36" wide felt and yarn for decorative purposes 1 20" length of 1/," dowel To Make Pull the threads along the two raw edges of the piece of burlap to make Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts Model: Wendy Christine Anderson a fringe 1 inch wide to form the side edges. Turn one end with a selvage edge (this will be the bottom of the chart) up 4 inches and baste in place. Then cut a piece 5 inches wide off the other end of the chart, with a selvaged edge, for use in making the top set of pockets. Baste and stitch this strip onto the chart, turning the raw edge under 1 inch. The space between the sets of pockets should be 2 inches Measure and mark with chalk the divisions of the strips for making the pockets. Since the strips, not counting the fringe, will be 16 inches wide, divide the 16 inches equally into pockets, the number of pockets depending upon the number of children in the family. For example, if there are four children in the family, each pocket will be 4 inches wide. After the divisions have been marked, 'begin at the bottom of the chart, and stitch the pocket divisions straight up to the top of the top set of pockets. Now turn a hem one inch deep at the top of the chart and stitch to form a casing for the dowel. (continued on page 693) 679 The Wonder of Bulbs Alice Willardson = Bulbs are reassuring signposts of the returning splendor of blossoms. They produce a sort of instant flower. In fact, if by mischance you happen to split a bulb, you may see that the flower is already formed in the heart of the bulb, and enough food is stored for the first flowering. Bulbs can give color and variety, with ease of planting—surer beauty for less effort. They require no coddling. Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts RULES TO REMEMBER There are two important rules and they are easily mastered. First, keep their feet dry. Bulbs are subject to rot, and must be planted in a dry place with good drainage. Second, when they are through blooming, pick the flower if you have not done so, and allow the foliage to remain until it is dry. This is important if you want blooms of maximum size a second year, because the foliage feeds the depleted bulb and provides the food for next year's flower. These two rules apply universally to all bulbs. Bulbs require a mulch of humus or compost to keep the topsoil soft so they can break through, however, bulbs should be fertilized sparingly. Bonemeal and wood ashes, mixed in the soil, are good for bulbs. Pests and diseases of bulb plants are negligible if the ground is not kept too wet. Little bulbs for a big spring bring color to a gray world and the assurance of spring. The small bulbs should be planted at a depth of two to three inches and the larger bulbs four to eight inches, depending on the heaviness of the soil, whether it is sandy or clay. Always check carefully directions for depth of planting. You can choose any lovely fall day for planting and, if you want the flowers extra early, plant them in a sunny, sheltered spot facing south. Crocuses, hyacinths, narcissi, daffodils, snowdrops, and many others will greet and cheer you as the first signs of spring. The joy and variety of tulips will gladden your heart. The blooming time in many areas is from early spring, into summer, and the types and colors are endless. The pointed petal, lily flowering type usually blooms earliest. Some Darwin tulips, like the Red Emperor, bloom early. Then there are (continued on page 692) 680 "i at. » ' Photograph by Antonia Copier Grape hyacinths, narcissi, and tulips in brilliant array. Garden in the Netherlands 681 An Old-Fashioned Fair for Harvest Time Dee Berrett Maynard Rwerton First Ward Riverton Stake, Utah Violet Page Hamilton, President Riverton Stake Relief Society Adel T. Maynard, President Riverton First Ward Relief Society The wheel of autumn turns to the bounties of nature—color in gold and orange and green and purple. M= When we began to plan our bazaar in early summer, we decided on a two-fold purpose. We needed to add to the funds of the organization, but even more, we wanted to provide a memorable evening for the families of our ward to enjoy. The decoration committee, under the direction of Edna Cowdell, Shirley L. Newman, Faye Stradley, and Evelyn Bills, gathered up all the refrigerator packing boxes they could find. The boxes were taken apart and painted brown to make the walls of the booths. To support the walls, we used bales of straw which had been donated by one of the members. These were stacked two high along the sides of the display area. Along the back, lengths of lumber were laid between the first and second bales, and across the top to the second bale, making two convenient shelves for displaying articles. The booths were arranged in a '"U" shape. Between the booths, and as a special dis- © play in the area reserved for eating, the bounties of the harvest were beautifully arranged—pumpkins, squashes, cabbages, Indian corn, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, and wheat, along with Oregon grape sprigs and lovely sprays of Pyracantha. One side of the "U" shape ran across the cultural hall, segregating one end for eating. Our "Old-Fashioned Fair" featured many booths: Ye Olde Bake Shop, with all kinds of baked goods, but an especially varied selection of fruit cakes; an apron gallery; Grandma's pantry, complete with homemade soap, canned goods, onions, carrots, cheese, and other household supplies; a Candy Palace, specializing in handdipped chocolates; many handicraft displays, including quilts and handkerchiefs. The younger set could be outfitted from the Jack and Jill shop, and early Christmas shoppers found a great variety of gifts and a special gift-wrapping service. The "Fair" was indeed a memorable experience, richly rewarding to the Relief Society women, their families, and their guests. 682 HER CN roe Grandma's Old-Fashioned Pantry Standing at the left: Shirley Newman; seated, Marsha Shaw With needle and thread and scraps something beautiful is made. Standing at one of the handicraft displays, Rebecca Dansie Gift Cookies for All Occasions Melba S. Payne = Not just for Christmas, but for Mother's Day, birthdays, wedding anniversaries, or just as an extra gift for someone special, these dainty hand-rolled and elegantly packed morsels are scrumptious looking and delicious to eat. The simple basic dough is easy to make, and creating the various centers and coverings is interesting fun. Packed in boxes like fine candies or placed in pretty decorated paper bowls, these cookies lend a festive air to any occasion. Color Photograph by the author BASIC DOUGH 1 egg yolk (unbeaten) Let the shortening soften. Add sugar gradually, creaming until light and fluffy. Add egg yolk and orange rind. Mix until evenly blended. Add the flour in fourths, mixing well after each addition. Final dough should form a smooth, compact ball. Pinch off pieces of dough one inch in diameter. After filling the centers with the various goodies, roll into balls and bake in 325 degree oven for 25 to 30 minutes or until a light brown. Do not overbake. VARIATIONS Stuffed Date Tuck-ins Stuff half dates with a piece of walnut and place in dough. Hand roll into a smooth ball. Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake as directed. While cookies are still warm, shake them in a sack of powdered sugar and again when they are cool. Pecan Logs 4 Add chopped pecans to the basic dough and shape into small logs one inch long. Dip in unbeaten egg white and roll in chopped pecans and bake. Chocolate Nuggets Place two or three chocolate chips in the centers. Substitute vanilla flavoring in the dough for these instead of the orange rind. Roll in powdered sugar after baking, or in the egg white, or in chocolate sprinkles, or small colored candies, before baking. Bake as for the pecan logs. Cherry Hide-a-Ways Insert a candied cherry or any of the fruit pieces from fruit cake mix. Chocolate Fancies If you would like a chocolate cookie, just melt some of the chocolate chips and add to the dough (without orange rind). Roll in the egg white, then add chopped walnuts, and bake. Remember a light brown. Do not overbake. 684 8 ounces butter substitute Yc. Sugar 1 tsp. Grated orange rind 24, c. White flour (sifted) s £ w c g = ® ® - = — ~ a > L) ¢ ® i" o Q w i 0 - = | c ie) U c 5 J ~ uy =x ~ 3° > — 2 o S ry) is 4 = © = a a KE "SNOWSTORM"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969—Southern Hemisphere: July 1969. Commentary on page 690. "PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG MAN" by Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Commentary on page 689. 686 "SELF PORTRAIT" by Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Commentary on page 689. "LADY JEAN" by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: June 1969. Commentary on page 691. 688 "Two Self Portraits"' By Rembrant van Ryn (1 606-1669) Dutch Portrait of a Young Man—Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio Self Portrait—National Gallery of Art, Washington D. (Oe Paintings on Pages 686, 687. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6~— The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Read. Yet from his time to the Present men have used such phrases as the following to describe him and his work: The greatest of the Dutch Masters One of the greatest painters who ever lived The master of light One true to himself Possessed of integrity Persistent Followed his "star" Made the ugly beautiful No pose—no vanity Searcher of truth Dramatic but never theatrical Valued truth and sincerity above harmony and beauty Painter of the human soul Perhaps no one has come as close to capturing that "inner light" as Rem- 689 '*Snowstorm"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British The National Gallery, London, England Painting on page 685. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969—Southern Hemisphere: July 1969. = What is beauty? "Beauty is truth—truth is beauty." What is truth—that for which all search, that which, when discovered, strikes a harmonious chord within us, and we experience a spiritual or aesthetic thrill? Are the works of Joseph Turner beautiful? Are they true? Joseph M. W. Turner, the London born artist, lover of the sea, world traveler, romanticist and innovator, was and still is a controversial figure. Important critics have differed intensely in their reaction to his works. Some acclaim him as a forerunner of our present expressionistic art and one who inspired the impressionists. John Ruskin, essayist, art, critic and contemporary of Turner's, was greatly inspired by him. In the essay from Modern Painters printed in the lesson, Ruskin puts into words what he believed Turner was saying in paint. Implied in the essay is the idea that instead of painting the obvious, Turner chose an unusual moment and dramatized it forcefully, using an exaggerated splendor of light and movement to portray a truth. His great experience with the sea and as a sailor gave him a certain authority. It is said that at one time he asked the sailors to lash him to the mast during a terrific storm at sea so that he could experience the power and majesty of the elements. He was tied there for four hours before they could release him. This experience inspired "The Snowstorm." Another writer, Julius Meier—Graefe in his book Modern Art, 1908, was less impressed with Turner's paintings and has this to say: "To pile things up! This became Turner's principle more and more as the years passed by. To bring together as many things as a frame would hold, then to shake them up vigorously, and leave the rest to Ruskin!" There is no doubt that Turner's paintings were different from any at his time and prior to it, that they radiate an emotional quality and an excitement of color and motion bathed in light not known before. They exclude use of realistic detail and one stands in awe at his concept of light. Do his paintings strike a chord of harmony within you? Do you see what you sense to be true? We leave you to decide—what is truth? What is beauty? Is it in the eye of the beholder? 690 ""Lady Jean"' by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903. Painting on page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 # We can be sure of one thing. That is change. Nothing remains static. Whether change means growth is a matter of question. Growth implies a movement toward a better or more ideal state or situation. History is a record of this change and art history reflects this change in some tangible form. The paintings of George Bellows reflect changes in a growing America. It is for you to decide whether or not this change is growth. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries a group of artists who called themselves "The Eight" wished to get away from the repetitious and sentimental in landscape and figure painting. They painted uninhibited scenes of life in the streets or crowded tenements of the big city, _ claiming that this was real life. They were self-termed American realists. Although George Bellows was not one of "The Eight," he admired them and was a friend of most of them. He chose similar subject matter and worked in the same manner—rebelling against the academic and trite. His subjects covered many facets of the changing American life—city streets, sports, romantic landscapes, and, in his later mature life, character portraits. He never went to Europe to study, as was common practice among artists at that time, but treated his subject matter in an expressive technique with bold draftsmanship, slashing strokes, and heavy paint. His remarkable visual memory made it possible for him to work rapidly to give a strong impression of actuality. In the painting "Lady Jean," we see the artist's younger daughter dressed in her mother's "grown-up" clothes. It has a nostalgic quality for most of us because we remember our own experiences at that age or because we see our own children dressing up and imitating adults. Although much less dramatic and active than his paintings of prize fights and the rugged reality of his time, it is appealing in its youthful beauty—one of the best loved paintings in American art history. The great artist (Bellows in this example) finds beauty and truth in the commonplace and paints it so that we almost feel as if it is our own discovery. As one writer so aptly put it, most discoveries are "suddenly seen things that were always there." 691 September 1968 A LITTLE WALK ALONG THE UPPER PROVO RIVER (UTAH) (continued from page 677) ing another round of nature, it seems to be nothing at all, except for the picture. But nothing? If a colony of lichen is destroyed, another one immediately begins to take its place. Over an eon of time the guest may completely destroy the host. Neither the fungus nor its symbiotic partner—the algae—can live without the other member. The fungus makes no chlorophyll. The algae produces the green coloring matter from which sugar is derived, and thus protein, as essential to plant life as to animal. The lichen provides water and dissolved minerals, which it has derived from the host (not always rock). This is probably the only case in nature where one name refers to two organisms. From the chlorophyll is produced the exquisite cocoa-brown shade of our "pansies," with their brightly tinted hearts, as beautiful as the dyes made from lichen by primitive peoples. From the minute lichen cups—seen in the picture with a small hand-glass that magnifies only sixteen times—the filaments are working on the stone, gradually prying away microscopic particles and dissolving them. The cast-off portion of the filaments and the rock, together with blown dust, create tiny nests for seeds and roots which lead to multiple forms of flora. Thus the plant is called the 'pioneer of vegetation and soil formation." It has eaten away at the great volcanic plateau of Norway until in the infinite variety of plant life that has ensued, the beveled landbase of the mountain walls bursts into bloom in the long sunlit hours of summer. On the Provo River bank flowered a clump of Onagraceae, the willow herb, or fireweed. Long ago, in a flash of illumination, I suddenly sensed the relation of the dry, tan, cottony fruit of the fireweed to the deep rose-colored bloom. That was fun, because in those days botany had not taught me the complete work of the round, the autumn work of the fairies. In the reflected light of the stream, spires of foxglove were lending their elfin bells to butterfly and bee. One root of this Penstemon cyananthus can produce any number of stems. A burst of sunlight brightened the flower, which will hardly photograph at all without sufficient light. The forest opened for a patch of blue in sky and water to make the pond picture. Its companion was the field of all but universal goldenrod Solidago. Walking either in solitude or with friends is clearly enhanced when the lens of evening makes the "impossible" picture. Lowly? A scent-laden path? A plunging mountain stream with its rivulets? Can anything in nature be lowly? THE WONDER OF BULBS (continued from page 680) the May flowering Darwins and the Hybrid Darwins, probably the most popular today. The Parrot tulips provide fluted petals and unexpected combinations of joy to every flower lover. Even more outstanding and new are the Bouget tulips. Joy to every flower lover. Even more outstanding and new are the bouquet tulips. These produce as many as ten blossoms on a branching stem from one bulb. In each group, there are many colors and varieties. Most tulips do best in year-to-year blooming if planted from six to eight inches deep, but read the fine print of your directions and fit your plantings to your own soil and climate. Be sure to cultivate the soil below the bulb so that its roots can take hold. Do not make your tulips march in a line. They love company, so plant them in clusters of at least three. Their place in your garden will be much more effective if you plant them in beds, and they will be easier to care for. Lavish displays of cannas, lilies, dahlias, and gladioli are the pride of summer. In some areas, it is best to plant them in the spring because they are very sensitive to frost. As a rule, set them from five to six inches deep and without artificial fertilizer. In areas where the winter is cold these bulbs must be dug in the fall, dried, and stored in a cool, dark place for next year's planting. 692 A NURSERY FOR LOVING CARE (continued from page 678) project, and pleasure in the eyes of the sisters who viewed the nursery for the first time. The delight of the family of Sister Edna McCullough, in what we had done with their mother's money, and the happiness of the children as they enjoyed their new play room, encouraged us to say, If you would like happiness, joy, and deep satisfaction, then plan a project of redecorating a nursery. Sister Tippett's counselors are Kathryn Welling and Clarice Christensen. CHORE CHART (continued from page 679) Make initials for the children's names from felt, and glue them on the bottom set of pockets, or embroider the names. The lower pockets will be for work assignments, and the pockets immediately above will be for the record of completion of the work, The word "Chores" may be appliqued above the top set of pockets. The charts may be decorated with crewel embroidery and appliqué. Patterns may be created or taken from commercial designs. Appliqué of birds, animals, flowers, or other motifs, cut from felt, make colorful and attractive adornments. A combination of appliqué and embroidery will be effective and colorful. After the appliqué and crewel embroidery have been completed, insert the dowel in the casing. Make a cord for hanging the chart by chain stitching some of the yarn used for making the tassels or use a commercial cord or piece of trim. This should be about two feet long. Attach to each end of the dowel and stitch a tassel at the upper corners of the chart. Several tassels may also be attached to the bottom of the chart. Such tassels are more pleasing to children if they are in a color different from the burlap used in making the chart. To Use Make a list of chores to be done, and cut the list into strips so that each chore is on a separate piece of paper, and place them in the bottom pockets for the children to take out and read, or, in case of the younger children, pictures showing them what to do. As each chore is completed, the child places the slip of paper in the pocket directly above the one with his name on it. Then the mother can see what has been done merely by checking the slips of paper in the upper pocket. The children feel a spirit of competitiveness, because each one can see who has done his chores and who has not. There is no limit to the colors and design that can be used, and the charts make attractive family gifts at Christmas and they are, also, economical and popular bazaar items. (— 4 TODAY WE LIVE Today we live, and serve, and love Nor of the future borrow; And yesterday's a worn-out glove We cannot wear tomorrow. Q —Renie H. Littlewood i) 693 September 1968 SUFFER THE LITTLE CHILDREN (continued from page 658) helpless children died of malnutrition because there was no time to feed them properly. If State funds were limited, the answer could come through voluntary help. "These little children are innocent, their parents are either unable or unwilling to care for them. Each of us has a moral responsibility to them. Our Savior loved the children. He rebuked his disciples for trying to keep them away from him. He warned that anyone who offended one of his little ones would be punished. Are we, by neglect, offending these helpless little children?" Bertha drove slowly out of the parking lot, pleased with the immediate response from the young women in the audience. Though she was tired, she dreaded going home to the unsettled issue. In the city park at the edge of town, she found a secluded area under the_ trees where she could rest and think undisturbed. Suffer the little children! The words had become almost a slogan, synonymous with the hospital. Soon there would be a good supply of women to relieve the load of the regular nurses, and women more capable than she, were ready to take over to keep the program alive. Again she remembered Robbie. At least six homes within the family loved him and wanted him. He was surrounded by all the good things of life, contrasting completely with his _ less fortunate counterparts at the hospital. Whom did Betty, or Sally, or 694 Dickie or the rest of them have? Most of them were the forgotten misfortunes of busy families. Wearily, Bertha rested her head on her arms as she leaned forward on the steering wheel. The warmth of the sun shining through the windshield relaxed her tense, aching shoulders. Faintly she heard babies crying. Her own babies... Fat and pink and perfect. She saw Will's face lighted with pride and love. Then the pitiful noisessshe had become so familiar with enveloped her, the children clung to her hands, her skirt, they wrapped their arms around her legs. Thecrying was incessant. Apart from the others, seated on the floor and surrounded by expensive toys was a little boy. It was Robbie, crying quietly, unheard and unnoticed in the _noise-filled room. His husky little body slumped, so dejected and lifeless that Bertha tried to free herself to go to him. But the children held her fast. Frantically, she looked around. Where was the nurse? Why didn't someone help the child? Bertha stirred restlessly. She was cold. Suddenly, she jerked awake, her dazed mind struggling between the dream and the reality of where she was. Relief replaced fear, her heart stopped pounding as the afternoon shadows spreading across the ground became wonderfully familiar. "Oh, thank goodness, I was dreaming!" She looked at her watch. She had. Slept an hour. It was late, yet she sat still, the sounds of the dream echoing in her mind. For the first time her atten- tion centered, not on Robbie the noisy, mischievous little intruder, but on Robbie... The child. Robust and spoiled he was, but very young and vulnerable. His world had been snatched away before he had had time to get acquainted with it. Were his needs less because he had no handicap? Could she, with a clear conscience, refuse to help him establish a new world? Bertha started the car. Within a few minutes she was standing in her living room, making mental notes. Will's hoarse cough hurried her into the bedroom. "Hello, dear." She kissed his cheek and stepped back for a critical look at him. "Well, you look better anyway." Will laid his book aside and moved his legs to make room for her to sit on the bed. "I was beginning to worry, did you have trouble?" Suffer the Little Children Anticipating the reason for his concern, Bertha interrupted, "No... No, the old car seems to be holding her own. I drove out to the park for awhile. The women were very enthusiastic...." She paused and studied her husband thoughtfully. "Will, how much would it cost to remodel the basement?" "Why? Now Bertha, you're not thinking of opening a clinic?" Bertha's laughter filled the room. "Well, not exactly. I was thinking more in terms of a miniature gymnasium. Robbie will need a place to expend some of his energy, and we can't allow him to use the new sofa for a trampoline." "Bertha, you're one in a million!" Enfolded in her husband's embrace, Bertha's soul sang with the contentment of one task well done and another begun. A WOODLAND CHILD Sprite of the woodland, young as spring, Tender as buds at opening, Down in the meadow damp with dawn, Talking to marmots, racing a fawn, Picking wild iris, wading in water; Child born of me, now she is daughter Of sunlight and wind, of hilltop and tree, And sister of. Elves only her eyes see In a blue forest where she plays house With a red tree squirrel and a gray field mouse. A leaf screened bough is a place to hide While | pretend to be mystified That she should go to live with a gnome. Dark moon magic brings her home Where pixie pipes and night owls keep The sound of woodlands in her sleep. ~ —Peggy Tangren 695 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Sunderland Stake (England) Holds 'Achievement Day" April 6, 1968 Left to right: Francis Downing, President, Newton Aycliffe Ward Relief Society; May Guthrie; Margaret Cheek (seated in chair); Evelyn Murray; Heather Peacock; Dorothy Currie; Jane Hancock; Lily Collin. Afton Hardy, President, Sunderland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held an 'Achievement Day' in our stake, which was most outstanding. Featured were displays of handiwork prepared by each of the fourteen wards and branches of the stake. Pictured is the display representing the Newton Aycliffe Ward. All of the displays were outstanding and depicted the great interest the sisters take in their work." 696 Texas South Mission, Southwest District, Eagle Pass Branch Holds First Relief Society Bazaar, February 23, 1968 Left to right: Ruby Cowan; Eva Pena, Counselor, Eagle Pass Branch Relief Society; Virginia Stephenson, missionary; Francisco Jimenez; Alica Zamarrippa, President; Oralia Maldonado; Fannie S. Hemsley, President, Southwest District Relief Society. Geneal J. Larsen, Supervisor, Texas South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Much cooperation was evident during the preparation for the first bazaar to be held in the Eagle Pass Branch. This is a small Spanish branch, where the sisters appreciate and enjoy the lessons from the Spanish Magazine. "From the proceeds of the bazaar, they were able to purchase a new Zigzag sewing machine which will be useful in preparing for future bazaars, and in teaching the members to do home sewing. "We are very proud of the accomplishments of this small branch." Nebo Stake Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention February 9, 1968 Gladys S. Wilson, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The stake board hosted a visiting teacher convention. A special tribute to visiting teachers was given by Ruth Rothe, in which she mentioned that for 125 years visiting teachers have been spreading their glad message. "There were 252 sisters in attendance. A lovely dinner was served, followed by a fashion show. Under direction of Zella Peay, stake Homemaking Counselor, classes had been offered teaching the techniques of tailoring. Ten coats and two suits resulting from these classes were modeled. Classes will be offered again this fall. "Visiting teachers with over forty years service were honored with carnations." 697 September 1968 North Carbon Stake (Utah) Magazine Display at Singing Mothers Concert April 19, 1968 Front row, left to right: LaPriel Frandsen; Evelyn Winters; Joan Harward. Second row, left to right: Arline Brown; Parenthia Rhead. Myrna C. Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Magazine representative prepared a lovely display featuring The Relief Society Magazine in connection with the Singing Mothers Concert. The centerpiece of interest was a large globe which displayed the countries of the world where Relief Society is established. "The Singing Mothers chorus, consisting of eighty-two members, presented a concert with the theme, 'Love Makes the World Go 'Round.' 'Music was selected which portrayed the many kinds of love: love between man and wife; of family; for country; our Lord; one another; and of music itself. Light refreshments were served to 400 guests." Zion Park Stake (Utah), Hurricane North Ward Celebrates Relief Society Birthday March 1968 Left to right, modeling wedding dresses from 150 years old to modern: Monta Ballard; Carolyn Ballard; Winona Gibson; Dorothy Spendlove; Gloria Montgomery; Gai Stratton; Mina Hutchings; Corinne Stout. Marzeil L. Covington, President, Zion Park Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The birthday celebration of the Hurricane North Ward Relief Society was well received and memorable to the many sisters who attended. The theme for the event was 'Take Time for Love, for Love Is Eternal.' "The program opened the door of memory to the most special day in a woman's life, as wedding dresses were modeled. There were fifty-five dresses in all, beginning with one just three days old, culminating with one 150 years old. As the dresses were modeled, music representing that -era was played. 'The hall was beautifully decorated in keeping with the theme, and little wedding bands in jewel boxes were given as favors. Invitations were extended to all sisters in the stake, and attendance was over 200."' Utah Stake, Provo Third and Provo Fourth Ward Relief Societies Present Programs for Anniversaries, April 25, 1968 Front row, left to right: Mildred Hall, President, Provo Third Ward Relief Society; former stake officers: Clarice Sumpter, President; Edna Williams, First Counselor; Ethel Lewis, chorister; Thelma Weight, cultural refinement class leader. Back row, left to right: Marion Seamons, Education Counselor, Provo Third Ward Relief Society; La Real Mitchell, Secretary; Geneve Shepherd, Second Counselor; Olga Nicol, Education Counselor, Provo Fourth Ward Relief Society; Eva Terry, President; Ida Bailey, Secretary; Alba Hatch, Homemaking Counselor. Clara P. Denham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Two of the wards in our stake celebrated their one hundredth anniversaries within a few months of one another. We invited each of them to present part of the programs which were presented in their wards at our stake Relief Society birthday party. "The Third Ward presented a talk, supported by two tableaux formed by sisters of the ward. The thirteen former presidents of this ward were featured in an inspiring review of devoted service. "The Fourth Ward presented a short slide presentation highlighting Relief Society activity from its organization in Nauvoo to the present day in the Provo Fourth Ward, also calling attention to the devotion of twenty-three former presidents. "In addition to these presentations, appreciation was given to five retiring board members, with slides and narration about their achievements." 698 | AOURTH WAR, Om | ANNIVERSARY | September 1968 East Ogden Stake (Utah), Thirty-Third and Forty-Third Wards Present "Thorns and Roses,"' March 1968 Front row, left to right: Ruth Webber, organist, Forty-Third Ward Relief Society; Helen Harding, President; Blanche Johnston, spiritual living class leader. Back row, left to right: Kaye lvie, organist, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society; Helen Hanson; Clarice Williams; Norma Willie; Wanda Blaisdell; Kathleen Newman, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society; Edith Horowitz; Colleen Roberts; Idonna Brunetti, chorister, Forty-Third Ward; Mona Chase. Lillian Christiansen, President, East Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: -''The Thirty-Third Ward and Forty-Third Ward of the East Ogden Stake Relief Society combined to present a most outstanding program in honor of the anniversary of Relief Society. "The theme for the program was 'Thorns and Roses,' and it consisted of original prose, poetry, and song lyrics. It honored our predecessors in Relief Society, and ended with a tribute to the workers of today. The picture shows the 'Nightingales,' who presented most of the singing for the program. Research was done in early Relief Society Magazines and other sources by Blanche Johnston and Helen Harding, to gather humorous and poignant highlights to make the program outstanding." Portland West Stake (Oregon) Singing Mothers Sing Frequently Mildred M. Jensen, President, Portland West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Music for stake quarterly conference in March was furnished by the Singing Mothers. Approximately seventy women participated. The Singing Mothers have been active this year, furnishing music for three of the past four stake conferences, and presenting an outstanding spring concert. "The concert featured not only the Singing Mothers chorus, but small ensembles and individual talent from members of the chorus. Beverly Smurthwaite is the stake chorister, and Carolyn Timothy accompanies the group." Garden Grove Stake (California) Makes Available Red Cross Home Nursing Program Standing, left to right: Beth D. Smith, Second Counselor, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society, instructor trainer; Noreen S. Osborn, spiritual living class leader, instructor trainer; Ruth Vincent, instructor; Marian Johansen, instructor. Patient: Artee Cox. Afton W. Minson, President, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Garden Grove Stake Relief Society presidency felt that we should make available to the sisters in the stake a course which would qualify them for a Red Cross certificate in Home Nursing, but, more importantly, that they would be able to care for the sick in their homes and be better prepared to nurse the sick on assignment of the president. "Santa Ana Chapter was the nearest organized chapter, but it was found that there were no qualified instructors in all of Orange County. With help from the Los Angeles Chapter, a qualified instructor trainer came to our stake and taught four registered nurses the necessary course of study to meet Red Cross qualifications. The course was completed in June 1967. "The following October, the first class was given, and from then to the last of April, four complete six-weeks courses in Home Nursing were taught. Forty-eight of our sisters received Red Cross certificates. The course will be made available each year to our stake as long as it is needed." 700 a fete De UeuE, Cae ween c 1% J Ni | Sue Gor | rs he ' ' if y> ¥-\ ie lny i] Pires y ') September 1968 - Olympus Stake (Ut ba ae be _ an — f ah) Relief Society Board Sponso April 27, 1968 Members of the Olympus Stake Relief Society board, front row, left to right: Ann Hemming; Metta Christensen; Maxine Porter, First Counselor; lola J. Peterson, President; Ann Larsen, Second Counselor; Elizabeth Varley, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, left to right: Carroll Smith; Lucille Salisbury; Alfarette Liddle; Mary Ann Anderson; Elizabeth Woodhead; Maxine Silver. Sister Peterson reports: 'Members of the stake board prepared and served a luncheon to 400 guests. The flower centerpieces in the picture are made from dotted Swiss, and were made by members of the board. The dessert favors were small pots of ice cream graced by flowers harmonizing with the centerpieces.'' g "g 'i. > m ss Z ie, g. 3; + tg ae — ss rs Spring Luncheon Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Pleasant Grove Fourth Ward Honors Visiting Teachers March 4, 1968 Seated, Minnie Hall, honored for having served forty-seven years as a visiting teacher. Former presidents of the Pleasant Grove Fourth Ward Relief Society, left to right in the order in which they served: Faye S. Belliston; Drucitla L. Smith; (Alice T. Judd, absent); Vida F. Conway; Ruth F. Peterson; Zoe A. James, current President. Marval A. Smith, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Minnie Hall was honored for the service she has rendered for forty-seven years as a visiting teacher. She started as a young woman, just after she was married, and has carried the responsibility continuously. She has been an inspiration to all who know her, always going the extra mile. She is pictured with five of the six presidents under whom she served."' 702 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 91—The Blessings of the Priesthood (Reading Assignment: D&C 121:26-46.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman resolves to use her influence in harmony with the great principles of persuasion, gentleness, and mildness, as set forth for the INTRODUCTION From the trials and difficulties of a dungeon jail, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote an epistle to the saints that has contributed three sections to the Doctrine and Covenants. (Sections 121, 122, 123.) In that part of the letter which makes up Section 121, emphasis is given to the condemnation of the enemies of the Lord's people, including apostates. Then follows a change from these condemnatory statements to the blessings received by the faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint. REVELATION TO ALL Aside from salvation itself as a gift of God, probably the greatest gift bestowed upon man in this life is the gift of the Holy Ghost. Without this gift there is priesthood to exercise. No salvation. (D&C 33:10-13; 76:50-53.) In addition to providing remission of sins with water baptism by an authorized servant of God, the Holy Ghost, among other blessings, is the means whereby revelation is communicated to man. (Ibid., 19:31; 2 Nephi 31:17; Moroni 10:5.) By the gift of the Holy Ghost men learn the truth of the revelations. (Moroni 10:3-4.) Among the other blessings, this power imparts knowledge of the plan of salvation to the member of the Church as well as to the prophet. One learns the meaning of passages of scriptures always subject, however, to the interpretation of those empowered to interpret the gospel. Although the prophets, seers, and revelators (First Presidency, Apostles, and Patriarch to the Church) have 703 September 1968 the power to interpret the scriptures, yet they are under the overall power and authority of the President of the Church. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Address to Seminary and Institute Faculty, July 7, 1954, at Brigham Young University.) No faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint would contend against these authorities on matters of doctrine. With the foregoing limitation, every member of the Church should receive revelation. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a_revelator. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1950, Vol. 6, p. 58 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC\.) In this same vein, the Prophet wrote that in this dispensation there would be revealed know]- edge that had been kept hidden from before the foundation of the world. Furthermore, this period of time was anxiously desired by the ancients, for all things would be made known. (D&C 121:26-32.) Class Discussion In what ways may a member of the Church profit by the gift of revelation? VAIN EFFORTS Men are incapable of preventing the Lord from giving revelation to his people, since man cannot stop the operations of the Holy Ghost. The individual by his unworthy actions may, however, prevent the Holy Spirit from giving him guidance and blessings. (D&C 1:32-33; 130:20-21.) 704 The numerous attempts to thwart the Lord's work in this dispensation have come to nothing. Although individual apostasies among some in high places have made their impact 'upon others, the Church has continued to roll forward. President John Henry Smith said the following about the work of the Lord:... Nothing can Stay its progress. You and I may fall by the wayside; we may lack the fortitude and faith to endure and fulfill our part; but the work itself has gone on from the day the announcement was made of the administration of heavenly beings, and it will continue in its onward march until every nation, kindred, tongue, and people throughout the universe shall hear the glad tidings of great joy and have the privilege of accepting or rejecting the same in the exercise of the agency our Father has given them.... It can not be expected that its mission will be accomplished without Opposition. It must meet adverse elements, it must overcome obstacles, it must secure the ground step by step, without fear and without favor, honoring our Heavenly Father, and maintaining the dignity of that Priesthood God has given to us.... (Conference Report, October 1905, pp. 13-14.) CALLED AND CHOSEN The Lord has said that many are called, but few are chosen. (D&C 121:34.) His servants have been calling upon the nations to repent. Many have responded to this call, and those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ are chosen, for they are the salt of the earth. They are the savor of men; that is, they are distinctive among men. (D&C 101:39-40; 1 Peter 2:9.) But all who become members of the kingdom of God do not fulfill the requirements to become chosen. Worthiness of life is the requisite to be chosen. (D&C 105:35-36.) Jesus came into the world that light might lead men to the Father. He is declared to be the Light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. (D&C 93:2.) Then it follows that those who elect to remain in darkness rather than to receive the light have not become aware of the spiritual influences which may enlighten their lives. THE THINGS OF THIS WORLD In a further explanation of the reason for members of the Church not being chosen, the Lord said that they set their hearts upon the things of this world. (D&C 121:34-35.) When one's heart and mind are upon temporal things only, his spirituality is weakened until the things of God are no longer a part of his daily life. Sometimes this weakening process is hastened when men seek the approbation and praise of men at the cost of principle. When this happens, the bearer of the priesthood forgets that only upon the principles of righteousness is it possible to call upon the powers of heaven. Former spiritual strength is wasted away, and the individual has lost the power to officiate for the Lord and to bless his family with the divine influence which accompanies righteous conduct. (Ibid., verse 36.) What are some of the things of this world which lead to this condition? In the same revelation, we learn that pride, vain ambition, and compulsion, when used to dominate the souls of men, bring a loss of the Spirit of Lesson Department the Lord. (/bid., verse 37.) Inordinate pride prevents a person from being sufficiently humble to acknowledge his weaknesses and faults. A domineering attitude does not allow a husband-wife-child relationship full growth in a home. Compulsion was the plan advocated by Lucifer in the premortal world. It has brought hardship and sorrow from the evil it has created in the lives of the dominated. The following counsel to Emma Smith is applicable to all: And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay -aside the things of this world, and seek the things of a better. (D&C 25:10.) Class Discussion Wherein do pride, vain ambition, and compulsion work toward disharmony in the home? INDIVIDUAL SALVATION Each person is saved upon the same principles. No distinction is made between them, for each is a child of God sent to this earth to receive training in the laws of progress. Men are ordained to the priesthood because this authority is the power to preside in the home and in Church capacities. The woman, on the other hand, has the responsibility to bear and rear children. In this capacity she must give her time and talents that the children receive the best training in principles of righteousness. The husband and wife, together, share the responsibility of rearing the children. The mother is entitled, through her faithfulness, to receive the blessings of the priesthood. For this purpose, she is married in the temple where she receives 705 September 1968 the principles of exaltation and, in a real sense, partakes of the greatest blessings of the priesthood that God bestows upon his children. (D&C 124:27-28; 41-42.) PRIESTHOOD PRINCIPLES One of the important purposes for which men exist is to perform service for others. Since all men agreed premortally to sustain the plan of salvation, each one is under covenant to assist in the salvation of all men who also made the same covenant. When men or women use their influence to affect for good the behavior of others, they are fulfilling this obligation. The Lord has said that when bearers of the priesthood attempt to affect the behavior of others, they should do so only upon righteous principles. These are enumerated in the revelation as: persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. (D&C 121:41-42.) Inasmuch as women in the Church seek the same salvation as the men, and the priesthood saves both on the same principles, priesthood principles of conduct must be adhered to by both. "ONLY BY PERSUASION" The priesthood bearer and those who receive the blessings of the priesthood are counseled to use their authority only by persuasion, not by force. One persuades to his own belief or actions by appeal to reason, and not by force. In terms of the gospel plan, free agency is the basis for governing the souls of men. Force was rejected in the pre- 706 mortal councils as being opposed to the laws of God. One may urge but not compel. The mother in the home has the rare opportunity to persuade the children to act in conformity with good principles. She listens to complaints, entreaties, and requests, knowing that at these times correct counsel and instruction may be given. In this process one repeats counsel and also the consequences of disobedience to law. The Prophet Joseph Smith was upbraided by the Lord, on an occasion, for accepting the persuasions of men rather than the counsel of God in the revelations. As a consequence, he was denied the privilege of continuing in the Lord's work until he repented. (D&C 3:5-8.) So also does man forfeit blessings by failing to follow righteous counsel. "BY LONG SUFFERING" The saints are called upon to bear patiently the ridicule, insults, or even injuries which may come because of adherence to the truth. The Savior suffered insult, ridicule, and extreme pain as no man has suffered. (D&C 19:15-17.) His life in this respect is a challenge to all. To teach a child of God that gospel truths are worth taking the insults or tauntings of others, is a noble task. To learn that truth is truth and will ever remain so, and that the finest quality of soul is to stand up for truth, is a major lesson to be learned in life. "BY GENTLENESS AND MEEKNESS" Authoritarian methods of instruction, where the parent or teacher attempts to impose his will upon someone else, are contrary to the principles of gentleness or meekness. Harsh methods of discipline are rarely effective. Fear of reprisal or correction rarely brings desirable results, for fear may generate hatred for the disciplinarian. Quiet conversation without a display of anger, becomes the rewarding method of obtaining results. Is it not also wise to be a good listener to receive the full story rather than only one side? The gentle, meek person seeks to understand, to use gospel principles as guides to correct solutions to problems. His concern is to make the _ best judgment in all cases by weighing all evidence and, through prayer, to reach right decisions. "BY LOVE UNFEIGNED AND BY KINDNESS" Love of God is the highest expression of love that is possible. (Deut. 6:4-9.) Can a man love God and not love his fellow man? The apostle John answers this question with a question: "... He that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" (I John 4:20-21.) Members of the Church are bound together in a bond created by the Spirit of the Lord. Of all people, their administrations should be characterized by love. This love must be unfeigned; that is sincere, genuine, not pretended. "PURE KNOWLEDGE" The dictionary defines "pure" as faultless, perfect, true, and blameless. Pure knowledge, as Lesson Department used in the revelation, includes all of these adjectives. The knowledge that saves is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ— it is true knowledge. The laws of righteousness are perfect, blameless, and faultless. In view of this information, for what kind of knowledge should the Latter-day Saint seek? Without gospel knowledge, it is impossible to be saved, and it is impossible to assist in the salvation of others. What has already been given in this lesson about the virtues which should govern one's actions in his relationship with others, indicates the need to follow the Lord's counsel. If true knowledge is to guide our actions, then what principle is given for our guidance after we have reprimanded a son or daughter, or others? The answer is: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. (D&C 121:43-44.) If one desires to be "moved upon by the Holy Ghost," it is necessary that his life conform to "pure knowledge." Would the Holy Ghost inspire and direct the father or mother who did not try to use the principles by which the priesthood operates? (Moroni 8:25-26.) If we are faithful in bestowing love toward our own and others, this promise is given: Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence 707 September 1968 of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. (D&C 121:45-46.) CONCLUSION The Lord promises through his ancient and modern prophets that revelation would be abundant in the last days and that the members of his Church would enjoy its benefits. Men who would endeavor to stop his work would come to naught. Although those who would affiliate with his church would be the salt of the earth, all would not be chosen, primarily because their desires would be upon the things of this world. Some significant promises were given to the priesthood, an everlasting dominion with the blessings of the Holy Ghost. The principles necessary to function in the priesthood were qualities of soul, as important for the women of the Church as well as for the priesthood. In training children, instructing youth, and in the numerous relationships which exist among members of the Church and others, counsel was given whereby those relationships would be successful. Among these principles of righteousness were: persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. If these qualities abound when instruction, reprimands, and counsel are given, the Holy Ghost will lead, guide, and direct into meaningful relationships. 708 FAITH You say my path has ended—it has just begun, Winding through many woods, seeing many changes, The spring of my growing has bubbled into memories; Summer of my understanding leafed into knowledge, Autumn of evaluation turned leaf into wisdom. When the winter of truth descended like a cold dusk, You say it vanquished my woodland; it chased the leaf and froze the spring. Would a mustard seed cease to believe and grow? Would a song sparrow forget to nest and sing? My path has no endings, only branching beginnings. —Bonnie S. Gudmundson VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that acceptance encourages growth. It is easy to thrill with borrowed courage as we identify with the shepherd leaving the comfort of the fold to search the hot, scorching desert for the strayed. We rejoice that Jesus saw good in the sinner and offered the water that quencheth all thirst to the oft married woman then living with a man not her husband. We are gladdened by the acceptance of the erstwhile wastrel, the prodigal son by his father. We are delighted that Jesus received little children when his disciples "rebuked those that brought them." (Mark 10:13.) We are grateful that Jesus would dine with publican and sinner. But what would happen if Jesus were our neighbor—dining with sinners, seeking out those who had left the Church, visiting with a woman whose reputation was besmirched, and accepting back, with love, the family "black sheep"? Do such in need of help dwell on our street? Can we, as Jesus, keep our own standards yet receive into our hearts and lives those whose behavior is different and help them gradually to find a better way? How can we become the greatest friend (not necessarily the most intimate) of both non-Latter-day Saint and member? One wintry afternoon, a nonmember woman said to me, "The Mormons at this university have much to say to one another, but they do not include me in their visiting. I've spent three lonely years on this campus. I can't wait until I'm back home and some Mormon missionary calls on me. Will I give it to him. The Mormons don't practice what they preach." Do we send our missionaries at great expense to the far corners of the earth and fail to preach the gospel through > our lives at home? Also, how can we help returned missionaries and their families be gracious to visiting mission members? One boy's mother constantly told him he was the ugliest boy on earth. A younger son had an older brother held up to him as better and more capable. An anxious mother continually criticized her daughter, rarely praised her. A teacher openly favored her pleasant pupils while disapproving of the less capable and unruly. 709 September 1968 "The noblest aim in life is to strive to live to make other lives better and happier," said President David O. McKay. (Pathways to Happiness, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., p. 280.) To encourage, to help achieve, praise whenever possible, teach how to learn from failure, to give to each child the certainty that he is a worthwhile, loved, and valued child of his parents and of God, to accept others with their limitations, as people such as are we, who are not yet perfect but desire to be, is to follow this advice of our prophet. Of children and the non-Mormon, especially, we should be thoughtful and considerate. None should be called bad, although sometimes we may and should discuss that which is being done as not praiseworthy. By loving and accepting all our neighbors as worthwhile, we will help them and us grow toward God. Acceptance is the fertile soil in which growth takes place. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous INTRODUCTION Instinctive in all of us, whether we are aware of it or not, is the desire to preserve for our posterity the knowledge and assurance of our having lived. Coupled with this natural inclination is the impulse to share with our associates, particularly our loved ones, our moments of happiness, our accomplishments, our aspirations, and our hopes. Were this not so, no books would have been written, no songs would have been sung, and no pictures would have been painted. 710 compilation of significant family events. The Latter-day Saints are a record-keeping people, for to keep records is a part of their great heritage from The Book of Mormon, as well as from the Bible. Our interest in genealogy bears ample evidence of this fact. In his infinite wisdom, the Lord has commanded from time to time, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, the keeping of records of all that has transpired. The Relief Society Magazine for January 1967 contains the homemaking discussion, "Keeping Records," which emphasizes the value and importance of keeping various kinds of home-management records. We recommend a review of this particular discussion. However, the purpose of our current discussion is to make us aware of the joy and satisfaction, as well as the historical values, to be gained from the compilation of significant family events and to indicate various methods which can be employed in the making of such records. HOW SHALL WE COMPILE OUR FAMILY RECORDS? Some months ago, in answer to a request for information relative to this subject, one of our lovely Relief Society sisters, who is a mother of nine children, contributed several ideas which should prove helpful. To begin with, she says, "Without counting my husband, my children, the gospel, etc.—of all the lovely wordly things I possess, the ones I cherish far above all others are the family books I have kept since our marriage twenty-three years ago. I have often told baby-sitters that if the house caught on fire, by all means to get the children out first, but if there was any time at all—to get our family records out next." She says further, "I have these books custom-made at a bookbinding company so that they are all the same size." Briefly, this is what these books are comprised of: 1. Our Wedding Book 2. Our Life Together Books a. Baby pictures and announce. Ments b. Yearly family pictures c. Homes we have lived in Lesson Department Schools our children attend Wards where we have had our recommends High school graduations Armed services Missions College graduations Family weddings Grandchildren Church activities Vacations and trips Business ventures Other family activities 3. Children's Record Books (One for each child) oa i i Sister Badger says, "I believe that keeping a book for each child is one way of making a child fee} that he is... An individual with talents, abilities, and achievements of his own.... Each little accomplishment is duly recorded. There is nothing my children enjoy more than getting their books out and looking through them or showing them to a friend." Some of the things recorded in these books are: a. A newspaper the day of the child's birth (This tells so much—the weather, clothing styles, world and local news, hair styles, movies, food prices, etc.) b. Personal firsts (first tooth, haircut, day of school, etc.) c. Significant events (Church activities, parties, hikes, accidents, etc.) Friends Pets Schools and teachers Personal accomplishments Jobs rom mo o 4. Family Home Evening Book. Each page includes a program of events, chairman, song, prayer, business, scripture, program, refreshments, and any special activities which might be included. 5. Photograph Album. ''Always have your camera loaded."' This album contains treasured pictures, mostly unplanned, on-the-spot snapshots which 71il September 1968 become an important part of the family record. It also contains family photographs taken from time to time. 6. Scrapbook. This contains cards children have made for Mother's Day, Father's Day, birthdays, valentines, and Christmas. It contains the art work of children mounted on colored construction paper with child's name and age. It contains, also, original compositions—stories, poems, talks, special letters, etc. 7. Family Treasures. Plastic-covered pages are used to keep and preserve family treasures such as precious letters (John Taylor, Brigham Young), an old clipping announcing Lincoln's death and the other important events which may be among the family's possessions. CONCLUSION Every family may not want to carry out such an extensive record program, but each can work out its own method according to the needs and desires of its members. The important thing is that every family realize the joy and satisfaction which can come to them through the preservation of the significant things which have made their own family what it is. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 3—Lighting the Way: Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and. Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the basic aspects of human. Relationships. INTRODUCTION In the foreword of Behold the Lamb of God written by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Harold B. Lee speaks of President Clark's humble faith and of his scholarly study of the life of the Savior: Among the great scholars of our day was President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. During the earlier mature years of his life, he lived away from the organized units of the Church, in Washington, D. C., and 712 later in Mexico, associated with the State Department of the United States, and then with the diplomatic service. During these years, the Sabbath Day was observed by him just as sacredly as though he were in full attendance at Church meetings and Church activities. He engaged himself on the Sabbath, when there were very often no other activities available, in the study of the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, the Savior of the world. He procured, over these years, an excellent library on the life of the Master and with painstaking care, set about to work out a "harmony" of the Four Gospels and Third Nephi of the Book of Mormon, to which he referred as the '"'Fifth Gospel." In this volume under the meaningful title, Behold the Lamb of God, the family and intimate friends of President Clark have brought together some of the sermons and writings of this noble son of God who loved "The Lamb of God" about whom he had studied so deeply.. (Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1962.) It is therefore fitting that this lesson on the ministry of the Savior be based on the lessons written by President Clark. Because the lesson will be given in December (Northern Hemisphere) some application to the annual Christmas observance of the birth of Jesus will be considered. MISSION OF THE SAVIOR Although we may not understand fully the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ, both the Bible and The Book of Mormon tell us much about his position in the plan of salvation. Truth revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith has added to this knowledge. We can, therefore, understand the general purposes of the mission of Jesus of Nazareth as we study the scriptural record of his life and ministry. Perhaps we may rightly say that the mission of Jesus embraced two significantly major objectives: 1. To redeem mankind from mortal death. Through the voluntary sacrifice of his life, he fulfilled his foreordained mission of being Christ, the Redeemer. This atonement granted immortality to all men. No one but he could make the atoning sacrifice. As far as we know, we had no active role in this part of the redemption. Lesson Department 2. To teach the principles of his gospel that men might know how to live in order to attain eternal life in the presence of the Father. Having been given the opportunity to live and progress beyond mortal life, men needed to know how to make full use of that great blessing. In the teaching of gospel principles, many human relationships are involved, for (a) they concern our relationship to the Savior— whether or not we accept him as the Christ, Creator, and Redeemer; (b) they concern our willingness to accept and obey his commandments; (c) because of our relationship to the Savior, our relationships to one another in our everyday lives are affected. THE TESTIMONY OF HIS WORD AND WORK After Jesus returned from the forty days in the wilderness, and following the temptation of Satan until the final days before the crucifixion, he taught the principles of his gospel. He taught individuals in small and large groups, even great multitudes, on the Mount, at the seashore, on the plain, and in the precincts of the temple. He taught his disciples continuously, unfolding the divine principles, step by step, as fast as his listeners could understand. One of the truths which Jesus needed to teach the people of his day was that he, born of Mary of Nazareth, is the Only Begotten of the Father and is, in reality, both Creator and Redeemer of the world. To establish his identity as the long-looked for Savior was basic to his ministry among men. 713 September 1968 Throughout his ministry, Jesus repeatedly stated that he was the Son of God; that he did what he had seen his Father do, and. That he taught only that which his divine Father had commanded him to teach. Added to his own statements relative to his divine mission, were the verifying words of the Father as uttered at the time of Jesus' baptism by John in the river Jordan. "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased... (Matt. 17:5) are the direct words of the Father at that time. His teaching objective, however, was not an easy one to achieve, for Jesus had _ lived among his countrymen since the manger birth, and had worked in the carpenter shop of his recognized father Joseph. He was known by many as a carpenter and as the carpenter's son. Moreover, the Jews had been steeped in the Mosaic Law, and it was apparently difficult for them to see beyond the ritualistic worship of centuries. It was not easy to accept the gospel of love that replaced the Mosaic "eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth." Jesus said:.. Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloke also. (Matt. 5:39-40.) President Clark states that Jesus "had to break down, to fulfil, as he told us, the Law of Moses. If you want to know how far he had to go from the laws which had been given to ancient Israel, read the Sermon on the Mount, read the Sermon on the Plain, read the sermon at 714 the Second Passover, and see how he had to drive and drive and drive for the new law.... And so with thousands of other things. Those documents to which I have referred, and a few others, are the greatest revolutionary documents in the whole history of the world. They mark the turning away from, the fulfilment of, the Mosaic Law and the introduction and operation of the law of the Gospel he restored. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, p. 23.) This then, is a simplified and brief overall picture of the difficult task of teaching the gospel in the Savior's time. Well known is the fact that some of those who listened to the words of Jesus, who witnessed and marvelled at his works, believed. Their family and friend relationships were undoubtedly influenced for good by their belief. In the miracles that brought health to the sick, sight to the blind, a return of breath to the dead, and other miraculous works, they recognized an inherent divinity which gave Jesus control over even the elements on land and sea. Others turned deaf ears to the gospel teachings. The unbeheving and rebellious responded with the persecution that finalized in the crucifixion. AS THEN, SO NOW Since the gospel of Christ is for all individuals who are born into this life, surely, then, its teachings are important today as in other periods of the world's history. As we study the life and ministry of the Savior, we observe the skill with which he taught, using the commonplace and familiar to illustrate the eternal truths. We, also, observe his divine insight into human nature—the strengths and the weaknesses of individuals. And we observe that he gave guidance on the major aspects of human relationships. How free from complicating problems life would be if all of those who heard his voice had believed, and all who read his words would accept, would learn, and would apply. We read the teachings of the Savior in both ancient and modern scripture. But this reading is of limited value unless we relate the teachings to ourselves, our problems, and our relationships with others. Class Involvement Discuss why the following words suggest human relationships which are as vitally important today as when used anciently: peacemaker, contrite heart (Book of Mormon), thanks, love, forgiveness. (Suggest others, if desired.) Lesson time and space allow consideration of only a few of these gospel teachings. Gospel Teachings Scripture 1. Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. (Matt. 5:9.) Scripture 2. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he Lesson Department was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? (Luke 17:12-17.) Question How may this scripture, which is concerned with gratitude and the lack of it, be a guide (a) in home situations? (b) in the matter of gift-giving at Christmas time? Scripture 3. But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. (Matt. 5:44.) Question (a) What does this difficult commandment mean to me as a wife? As a neighbor? (b) What do I do if a friend despitefully uses me? Discuss. Three simple, commonplace problem-situations follow. Relate them to the foregoing gospel guidance scriptures: Woman A—My neighbor's son accidently, but carelessly, broke a cherished piece of my porcelain. He retrieved the fragments, promising me, and, I suppose himself, that he would be more careful in the future. Still, I don't feel right about it. Woman B—My sister always sends me the nicest gifts. Sometimes, I get busy and wait a long time before answering. Sometimes, I just don't get around to thanking her at all. She ought to know that I appreciate them. But, it just makes her furious. Woman C—Why should | love that person? She never does anything for me. In fact, I think she is quite critical of the things I do. She certainly is not very friendly. Other situations may be suggested. Class Discussion Discuss how the foregoing WANS, September 1968 gospel teachings might better these human relationship problems. NOW AT CHRISTMAS TIME Christmas is a time for giving, for sharing, for loving. Our hearts are warmed and our sympathies increased, at this season of the year. Yet, not all who observe the tradition of Christmas celebration have the same attitude toward this annual event. In the following monologue, a thoughtful woman expresses her particular feeling as to the celebration of Christmas. We listen. Woman speaking: Christmas to me this year means something different from what it has meant before. Perhaps it is because I have been reading the scriptures and have given more thought to the message that should be central to our celebration. Significant as is the manger birth, to me the Christmas message should include more than a new star and singing of the heavenly choir. It should include the years of Christ's ministry lighting the way for us to follow, his patience and his effort in trying to free men's minds from bigotry and tradition, to open their hearts that the gospel truths might enter. Therefore, Christmas to me, must include a remembrance of his love and understanding which are beyond our human comprehension, for they offer, even in the hour of crucifixion, forgiveness to even those who were crucifying him. Remembering certain scriptures, I think of how being a peacemaker applies to me; of how I should forgive others, knowing how much I, too, need to be forgiven. I promise myself to put forth every effort to love those who may be unkind or even critical of me. And I wonder if I am really grateful for my blessings—the greatest of which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think of his entire mission and of his sacrifice for all men, erring though they be. I share the wonder of such love with Charles Gabriel who wrote these words: 716 - New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany ali orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _- 55 Zone5 ____-.75 Zone3 ~_-_-_-_.60 Zone6 ____-_.85 Zone4 ____-_.65 Zone7 ____-.95 Zone8_ _ _ _ -1.05 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 total electric ving UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 oem \ 4 Chenezer: th ley MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'"' 'Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Lesson Department I stand all amazed at the love Jesus offers me, Confused at the grace that so fully he proffers me; I tremble to know that for me he was crucified, That for me a sinner, he suffered, he bled and died. I marvel that he would descend from his throne divine To rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine; That he should extend his great love unto such as I, Sufficient to own, to redeem, and to justify. I think of his hands pierced and bleeding to pay the debt! Such mercy, such love, and devotion can I forget? No, no, I will praise and adore at the mercy seat, Until at the glorified throne I kneel at his feet. Oh, it is wonderful that he should care for me, Enough to die for me! Oh, it is wonderful, wonderful to me! IN CONCLUSION Concluding this December lesson, we quote from a Christmas message of President Clark. Brothers and sisters, all, brothers and sisters of our Elder Brother, Jesus, the Christ: Into what a world of meaning and relationship reaching back into the eternities, and reaching forward into the eternities to come, does that statement of fact which has been revealed to us, take us.... At the Christmas season of the year, the air, the churches will be filled with expressions of adoration, of reverence, and of worship. It is for us to see that in the days and the months and the years to come these do not become, as I fear sometimes they do in the world, mere hollow memories, hollow reverence, hollow worship, as we go about our daily tasks. We must live with these eternal facts and with the eternal relationship to which I have already referred. From that lowly cottage on the outskirts of Jerusalem under the circum- 717 September 1968 stances which the Holy Writ tells us For Home-doing about, came him who was to be and was the Savior of the world. (J. Reuben Make the ministry of the Savior, Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, a8 well as the advent of his birth, a Deseret Book Company: Salt Lake City, living part of Christmas in your home 1962, p. 97.) this Christmas time. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. Travel Agency FIESTA TOURS MEXICO Personally Escorted Only $359 from Provo, Utah—March 7 to 23, 1969 Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Pueblo * Mazatlan and other cities Included: All Transportation Holiday on Skis, Ocean Cruise, 12 Meals Deep Sea Fishing (optional) ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Specializing in Mexican Tours Write: 1795 East 3170 South ¢ Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 718 Good Hotels—Fine Food & Safe Water Famous Railway in the sky Entertainment—Bull Fights, Folklorico Ballet, Famous High Divers, Xochimilcho, Dancing, etc., 13 Archeological Zones—Pyramids, Temple of Quetzalcoatl, Tula, Zochicalco, etc. Something wonperruL happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill and loving care deserve two things... The perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass." Ask your grocer. You'll love it! Pry t We a mmm 719 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and Married), age, month of birth, street address, city. State, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 Mrs. Bella Cowley Gibson 98 97 96 95 94 93 Price, Utah Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsay Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Nora Sheffield Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Josephine Broberg Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna Barfuss Rindlisbacher Dutson Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Bell Weaver Harrod Buck Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Ellery Berrett Brown North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Katie Meikle Ewing Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Mary Almond Hansen Logan, Utah 720 92 91 90 Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rosa Belle Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Bertha Rydel Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Stalder Binggeli Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Adelaide Snow Killpack Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Elizabeth Emanuelsen Bergsjo' Logan, Utah Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Clara Munk Anderson Manti, Utah Mrs. Olene Hansen Carlson Manti, Utah Mrs. Lydia Ethal Brown Ottley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Esther Delcina Wilson Lewis Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Grace Bridges Lewis Montpelier, Idaho Mrs. Agnes Chipp Myers Yucca Valley, California Mrs. Emma Titlack Ovard Coaldale, Alberta, Canada New! Volume IV by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K Thomas Here is the newest volume in the Out of the Best Books series! Volume IV is the Relief Society cultural refine ment course for 1968-69 and is geared to the theme 'The World Around Us." Like previous volumes, this book includes literature from the pens of the greatest authors This volume will make a fine addition to any home library. It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world! This packet of visual aids and pictures ls designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons $1.25 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, seret Boo COM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA vga a Utah 84110 or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send items circled if 2 Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 3!2% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account. Total $.. Illo gu 0009050 0928008 5005 0D ER ER EES nese see ss oe senna Address... 00.0... Cece ccc eee ees 3.00000 City...............-.. State... SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [| (check here) Sept. R. S. 68 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life can help you build your future... Insurance is the stuff that dreams are made of. Beneficial Life mortgages help make home ownership a reality for thousands of eager young families. A Beneficial Life insurance policy makes it possible for a famly to retire its mortBENEFICIAL LIFE gage early, should the need arise. Beneficial Life helps buy and Srsurance Company protect the ownership of that new home. Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah ¥ The Relief Society agazine OCTOBER 1968 HOLD AUTUMN There is a pause in October... A sigh as though earth breathes One golden breath of forever Into the gathering sky. The oak turns And there is a magnificent heather Turned sun... And all becomes one Late testimony Of beauty Before death takes what seems like Its one solemn duty... The toll of winter. Above ail the harvested grains And the flash of red in the hills That touch heaven, There is that one last sigh That is seven Times seven springs driven. The magnificent all-consuming pulse For life hard-put-out. The flame Before the smoke Has risen. —Marilyn McMeen Miller The Cover: §§ Brown and Gold in Mill Creek Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire W. Noali Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: fj Poplars in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: fj Dick Scopes Illustrations: G Mary Scopes 721 C Som ON ear and Ser | cannot express fully the joy and appreciation | received from reading Sister McKay's inspiring words in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. | thank Sister Mckay for helping me to find answers for some of my problems, which, otherwise, might have taken years to solve. | read this article often, and it cheers me up when | am blue, and makes me feel that.! Can do better. Y Marian del Vatie, Abbeville, Louisiana | thank you for the inspiration the Magazine gives me. As a recent convert (four years ago), | find the Magazine the most completely feminine literature | have ever read. Sally Cheney, Santa Rosa, California | cannot help but express my appreciation for the Magazine, which gets better every month, in both form and content.! Watch eagerly for the frontispiece photographs depicting scenes from home. We are enjoying this beautiful England, but sometimes we are lonely for Utah. All of the cover pictures are suitable for framing. The Deseret News Press does a magnificent job in reproducing the pictures. The dear sisters here in the Billingham Ward, Sunderland Stake, have the same ideals and goals as Relief Society women everywhere, and association with them has strengthened my testimony. We will be leaving for Wales in a fortnight, and although | regret parting from my sisters here, | know that | will find lovely ones in Croesyceiliog. My husband will find joy and satisfaction in building a chapel for them. We are thankful for the blessings of the gospel, for the gospel has brought us here to the land of our ancestors. R. May M. Foote, Billingham, Teeside, England This is my second year for receiving regularly The Relief Society Magazine. Like so many wives in this day and age, | must work outside the home, and like all of these women who receive the Magazine, and who cannot attend the regular meetings, | feel closer to all the sisters everywhere. After reading the Magazines | pass them on to a very good Methodist friend of mine. She, in turn, uses the copies in her Sunday School, whenever possible, as well as in her church meetings. These lessons are received with pleasure, for there is much to be gained in spite of the difference in religious beliefs.; Ruth E. Sanford, San Francisco, California | am humbly grateful to find my poem ''The Maker of Hills" in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. To have it illustrated in such a beautiful manner, with a picture of hills, gives me much pleasure. | am happy to be featured on the page with Helen Mrovka, where her fine article ''The Song of the Hills'' appears. Annie C. Esplin, Orderville, Utah How thrilled and proud | was to read in the July 1968 issue of the Magazine (page 558) that one of my mother's poems (''Rain Song,'' January 1962) is going to be reviewed in the cultural refinement lessons. She is the same Bernice Burton Holmes who won second place in the Relief Society Poetry Contest in 1962. Her daughter-in-law Carol Crane Holmes feels especially honored because, as the cultural refinement class leader in the Woodland, California Ward, she will be privileged to be teaching this lesson - when it comes. Trilby Priest Holmes, Brea, California | can hardly believe it! When | read 'Aunt Elly's Mirror," (July 1968, by Mary Alice Moore), it was like a reflection on my own life. | get so lonely, and sometimes the phone won't ring for days. | came from the city, and we now live on-a ranch with vur three busy children. We recently remodeled the old family home with a large picture window, and | have been willed an old picture frame. | have now decided to rejuvenate the frame and make a mirror out of it for our '"'new home.'' Thank goodness far The Relief Society Magazine to keep me busy. Renie Moore Hibbert, Otto, Wyoming 722 The Rel|licf Society Magazine volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 ~=For All Eternity If Not for Time Harold B. Lee 728 A Pleasant Journey Pauline J. Jensen 731 Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Virginia S. Harrington 738 Recipe For Family Home Evening Lillian Y. Bradshaw Fiction 749 The Anniversary Kathleen Peace Gregory 761 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 7 Mabel Harmer General Features 722 From Near and Far 743, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 744 ~—'Editorial—The Inspiration That Guides Us Louise W. Madsen 746 \In Memoriam—Achsa Eggertsen Paxman 747 Announcement of Relief Society Song Contest 769 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 800 _ _— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 754 Anna Conquest—Nimble Fingers Perform With the Needle 756 = Arrecipe for Tomorrow Helen Cazier Norton 758 A Special Breakfast Marva D. Beck 760 ~— Exchanging Quilt Patterns Elaine Kimball Jones 760 Sewing Caro! Hood Blackhurst Lesson Department (Lessons for: Northern Hemisphere: January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June, 1969) 778 = Spiritual Living—Adversity Roy W. Doxey 784 'Visiting Teacher Message—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Alice Colton Smith 785 Homemaking—Let's Be More Courteous Celestia J. Taylor 787 ~— Social Relations—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Alberta H. Christensen 792 Cultural Refinement—The Satisfaction of Growth Robert K. Thomas Poetry 721 Hold Autumn Marilyn McMeen Miller Portrait, Alice Morrey Bailey 730; Windsong Speaks, Gladys. Hesser Burnham 746; The Golden Circlet, Betty G. Spencer 753; Good Neighbor, Ruth G. Rothe 755; English Garden, Bernice Ames 757; Nostaligia, Margaret Read 759; To Everything There Is a Season, Alice Brady Myers 760; Recompense, Dorothy J. Roberts 768; A Class Leader's Greeting, Vilatea R. McAllister 777; Suddenly Aware, Iris W. Schow 783. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be sup- * plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed., Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 7723 A. Something of a text for the subject heading of this brief writing at the request of the Relief Society General Presidency, I relate two actual life stories which could be repeated many times among members of the Church today. The first: As a recently returned missionary, I was aspeaker at the funeral services for a devoted, faithful former missionary 724 = | For All Eterni Elder Harold B. Lee whom I had known as a most unselfish, dedicated, and effective teacher and exponent of right principles one could ever know. She died of an incurable infectious disease. As her death drew near, she had outlined in detail the memorial services which would be held following her passing. Therefore, all of those participating in that sacred service were keenly conscious, as was I, that each had been chosen because he represented a different phase in her all-too-short life by which she would have her family, loved ones, and intimate friends remember her. My humble offering was to remember her years as a missionary for the Church. Just before she left her home, where she had served as a teacher in the secondary schools following her graduation from the Brigham Young University, a patriarch had given her a remarkable patriarchal blessing. All the specific blessings promised had already been realized excepting one, and the absence of the fulfillment of that one troubled me because, according to my measure, no earthly human could have lived a more nearly Christlike life than had she. Why then had this last | of The Council of the Twelve promised blessing been denied her? The blessing from the Lord through this_ patriarch, had promised her that she would become a mother in Israel. She had never married, therefore she, in her mortal life, had not been privileged to become a mother. I spoke of this in the services and posed my _ unanswered question, "Why?" The second: A _ distraught father and mother had sought an interview to see if some light and understanding could be given them to ease their aching hearts and to bolster their faith. They had just received that ominous and tersely worded telegram from the military informing them of the tragic death of their young son. Just home from a mission for the Church, he had been inducted into military service. Before leaving, he, too, had received a patriarchal blessing in which he was promised that he would have a posterity of sons and daughters. Had the patriarch's words been inspired? Why did this promise fail since, to their certain knowledge, their son had lived worthy of every blessing promised to the faithful who "live unto the Lord''? Following my remarks in the f Not For linc =a are Sa first instance, the stake patriarch and former stake president was the concluding speaker. He declared two vital principles well documented in the scriptures. He explained the doctrine that "life" did not begin with mortal birth and does not end with mortal death. When a patriarch pronounces an inspired blessing, such a blessing encompasses the whole of life, not just the phase we call mortality. "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (1 Cor. 15:19), the apostle Paul had written. Failing to understand this great truth, we are "miserable" and sometimes our faith is challenged. With faith that "looks" beyond the grave, and trusting in the Divine Providence to bring all things in their proper perspective in due time, we have hope and our fears are calmed. 'Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things;" declared the Prophet Alma, "therefore if ye have faith, ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true." (Alma 38:21.) This faithful sister, the patriarch explained, although not privileged to bear children in mortality, may through sacred ordi- October 1968 nances in holy temples on earth, in the Lord's own time, be sealed to a worthy husband which sealing, by divine authority, if acceptable to both, could in the world beyond this permit a holy union in eternal wedlock, with the promise of posterity beyond the grave. It was concerning eternal increase that the Lord, in a revelation, declared to those entering into this covenant of marriage and were faithful to the end, that they would have an "exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." (D&C 132:19.) As though to further clarify this revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith explained: "But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." (DHC, V, p. 391.) As the apostle Peter explained, following the Master's_ resurrection and as a result of the visitation of the risen Lord to the world of departed spirits, the Master preached to them "that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (1 Peter 4:6.) Explained simply: this means that to those worthy beyond this life who accept of the vicarious work performed by authority in the Lord's temples, such ordinances performed for those who have passed on are as effhcacious as though they were living. Were this not so, as the Lord explained to Peter, to whom the keys of the kingdom were given in the meridian of times, the "gates of hell" would have prevailed against the Church of Jesus Christ. Without this vicarious work, instituted in behalf of the faithful who "die in the Lord," the full mission of the Master's atoning sacrifice would not have been extended to such as those illustrated in the instances cited above and many similar which could be cited. You loved ones of that faithful missionary sister, look forward to that glorious day for the promise of motherhood, and you parents of the faithful son who was promised a_ posterity, do not despair. In the Lord's own way and in his own time, he will bring all things right in his own way. Thanks be to God! Sometime ago I had occasion to write some things to the many faithful sisters who not as yet or may not in mortal life have women's greatest expectations fulfilled. It is appropriate to 726 For Al Eternity 'f Not For Time eWise, you © may lose early life Your liy, illness by accident > Or in ¢ eS in their ¢ Panions Within th urch here In mor d. Ality, oy he eafter, nd throy h Ife in 1824, be Ore th hurch Promises h Iness of his aS Organiz d, and Joseph Mar. Blessings? 727 departed this eterna] ITlage be heirs to the Pleasant YOUrnes Pauline J. Jensen ® I look out of the window at the snow that falls effortlessly, making, as in James Russell Lowell's poem, "All silence and all glisten."" Since before Christmas it has come, a bit each day, until the tall drifts are at waist level, with mountains where the wind has whipped it to peaks. The calendar announces that it is nearly spring, but here in our Northland, there is little to indicate that soft breezes and a warm sun are approaching. A restlessness siezes me, and I think of all the beautiful countries that are now sun-drenched and caressed by gentle winds. I long to be there on one of those lovely beaches, watching the ebb and flow of tide and hearing the cries of the gulls. But I really don't have to go outside my four walls to be in some of those places. My generous teacher-daughter, worldtraveled, has brought those countries to me. I walk across the room and lightly tap the cowbells that hang in the archway. I am in Switzerland, from where they 728 came. I see the curving hills, the q pastures, and hear the music from the bells of the patient cows grazing on the green. It is springtime, and the meadows bloom with delicate flowers, and the air is scented with pine. I take a deep breath, then turn and lift the doll music box, and marvel at its perfection. I wind it and soon the strains of "Silent Night" take me to a small Swiss village and a church glowing with lights against the winter darkness. Then the music slows and comes to a lingering end. I leave Switzerland, and my mind travels quickly to China, as I gaze upon an exquisite bit of ceramic on the mantel. The detail is meticulous—the face of the old man lined with the cares of the day; his wife beside him, her hand on his shoulder, her anxious eyes upon him. Is she worried that he had toiled so long? The question unanswered, I go to the figurines of the rural area of that vast land, and see the peasants as they labor in the rice paddies. I hear their staccato cries to one another. I see the children nearby, their little figures bundled against the chill of spring. From a drawer I take the jewelry that came from Hong Kong. As I touch the uneven, but oh, so beautiful designs, I see the woman who made it, bent to her tasks, gnarled fingers fashioning a delicate tracery, adorned with colorful stones. It is an easy trip from China to Japan. My eyessearch the painted blossoms on the four seasons | The delicate beige and black against the brown brocaded matting accent the skill and give appreciation of the outstanding screen. Artistic endowments of the people of that lovely land—Japan. I pick up a lovely bowl of Wedgwood and run my fingers over its raised design. I am now in England. I stand, transfixed, before the Changing of the Guard. My heart thrills to the bongs from Big Ben. My mind exults as I tread the halls of Westminster. All that I have read of it comes crowding in and fills me with awe. I walk reverently through the Poet's Corner, and say a word of thanks that so many of the "greats" are here memorialized in time. I walk along the Avon. I see A Pleasant Journey Stratford, and villages with flowers in every tiny yard. I find myself humming a_ small tune, "There'll always be an England." Now my eyes fall on the clean lines of the black candelabrum on the table. Its pure white tapers stand tall, and remind me of the cleanliness of Copenhagen, from where the tapers came. I see its gay and carnival-like atmosphere, and drink deeply of the fresh salt-breeze. I glance up at the plaque on the wall—crest of my husband's family. I know its history by heart. I feel a thrill of pride that in his veins runs the blood of such a fine and sturdy people. The graceful hand-carved bird beside the low bowl of flowers transports me to India. I feel the noonday heat, and try not 729 October 1968 to think of the hungry little children. Instead, I turn to the pictures of the dancing girls, and study them. The art is strange, and I try to define its meaning. Is there symbolism that I have missed? I move quickly to the Himalayas and revel in the beauty of their lofty, snow-clad peaks. Then I leave India, for who am I to probe the mystery she holds within her? There is much in my snowsurrounded home to remind me of Germany. I gently lift a white porcelain angel from the "Angel Band." How delicate! How fine the detail! This is my favorite gift—this and the music box that so entrances my small grandchild. The Hummel figures on the front, the beautiful Brahms Lullaby that comes when it is wound, eternally fascinate the two of us. It is easy to journey through Germany, to gaze in wonder at the Ludwigian castles, to float leisurely down the Rhine—to drink in all the beauty that is Germany. Reluctantly, I leave the Rhineland and fly back to the Philippines. The satin-smooth carving from there pleases my touch. There is perfection in the fat ox with its carefully detailed horns, the native boy, arm raised with spear in hand. I see the lush land thick with green and fragrant plants. My throat fills at the sight of the blue, almost indigo, Pacific. It is so very real to me, one who has never seen the foam of any ocean. I look outside; the snow still falls. The clock reminds me of other duties. I sigh, for I could well travel on to many countries, through the gifts that fill my house. I feel a surge of gratitude for ' the dear young daughter whose thoughtfulness has made this journey possible. I think of how each gift has lured me into study of the place from whence it came. I think of all the information I have gleaned through doing this. I say a soft thank you to you, my child, and add another to all those people whose skill and struggle, whose toil and effort have: made my journey one of joy. PORTRAIT Wrong is well defined to her as the thin Line of her mouth. She cannot fathom sin Nor tolerate the sinner. She should have been there when his hand Bent to write the message in the sand. —Alice Morrey Bailey \ e 730 Why Archaeology At NAUVOO? Virginia S. Harrington* Assistant Archaeologist, Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. [Address given at the annual picnic of the Nauvoo Historical Society at the Nauvoo State Park, July 16, 1968] # When I chose the topic that I am to use this evening, I hoped that it would make you wonder, or think a bit. You have been aware, each summer, of the work going on, the dirt being moved, the trowels and whisk brooms being meticulously wielded, but do you really understand why all this time and money and effort are being expended? I know, from talking to some of the tourists who stop to look, that the question rises in their minds. Perhaps you, like them, can see the reason for archaeology in Egypt or Babylonia, where civilizations rose and fell thousands of years ago, or in Mexico or South America, where major cultures developed unknown to the world before Columbus. But you may think, of Nauvoo, built only a little more than a century ago, that surely there is enough known from the history books, the county records, the personal letters and diaries, to make all this rather unnecessary. One reason that might occur to you, as it sometimes does to me when I see the letters my *Virginia S. Harrington (Mrs. J. C.) is a native of Washington, D. C. And received her education in the public schools there, at Swarthmore College (B. A.), and the University of Chicago (M. A. In Anthropology). She was employed by the U. S. National Parks Service at Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, and Colonial National Historicai Park, Virginia, as an archaeologist, and married J. C. Harrington, Archaeologist-inCharge of the excavations at Jamestown, Virginia, in the 1930s. The Harringtons have a daughter and a son, and while they were growing up, Mrs. Harrington abandoned her professional work, but was active in the Girl Scouts, serving as her council president and as a member of the Region Iil and National Program Committees—and in P. T. A., being president of the Richmond Federation of PTAs and on the Board of Managers of the Virginia Congress of Parents and Teachers. Since 1965, when her husband began serving as the archaeologist for Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. Following his retirement from the National Parks Service, she has assisted him in the archaeological research at Nauvoo, directing excavations at the Nauvoo Temple, the Edwin Webb Blacksmith Shop, and, now, the Times and Seasons site. 731 October 1968 husband gets from various historical organizations trying to arrange for some archaeological explorations, is that it gives prestige to historical restorations. It is the thing to do. It makes for status in State and National organizations. But, though I am not entirely joking when I mention this justification,' there is more to it than that. Another reason which has some merit, though it sounds quite superficial, is that it makes a good show. Visitors are impressed and thrilled, and sometimes watch entranced as the wall is exposed or the bits of glass are removed and so carefully placed in the artifact box. Occasionally, they tell you that they have heard and read about this kind of thing, but never supposed they would have an opportunity to see it going on, right here in this country. But, of course, this also is hardly the real answer to our question. The most obvious reason is that archaeology provides information that is not otherwise available in spite of all the records and books and historical research. Several "for instances" come to mind. In 1966, when pre-restoration work started at the Wilford Woodruff house, there were several pieces of information that, it was hoped, would come from the ground; but no one was concerned about his well, for a good, functioning well is quite obvious there. But, in the course of the excavations, another well turned up near the house, large and carefully built of stone, but filled in. Some of you may have seen it. Why someone dug a new 732 Looking down into the well which Wilford Woodruff personally dug at the rear of his Nauvoo residence, and walled with limestone slabs. It had gone dry, was abandoned, and filled in for many years before excavated by the archaeologists. Well, abandoning the old, cannot be said, but there is little question but that this buried one was Wilford Woodruff's original well. In 1967 a small, brick-paved structure, or its remains, was found southwest of the Brigham Young house. Neither Brigham Young nor any of the later land records seemed to have made any direct reference to it. Last summer we flirted with the possibility of its being a summer kitchen, though there is no evidence that Mormons had summer kitchens, which seem to have come in with the later German inhabi- Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? A Bella Foundation of Brigham Young's original cellar, built above ground with double walls and a dead-air insulating space between, as the land was too swampy to permit the excavation of an underground cellar. Late cistern. Tants. Brigham Young did describe a vegetable cellar he built before building his brick house. At first, no one supposed that this fairly substantial and goodsized structure could be anything as insignificant as a vegetable cellar; but after reviewing the archaeological conditions and looking into the nature of some later storage cellars in Utah, the conclusion seems well-based that this, indeed, is what it was. Again, in 1967, it was decided, toward the end of the summer, to take a little time to excavate the Edwin Webb blacksmith shop. Land records and other documentary material seemed fairly clear, that this was a small, thirty foot wide stone building on Parley street, quite precisely locatable. The first excavation trench struck stone footings immediately, and it seemed that the only thing more to do to define the building was to move thirty feet west and dig another trench. But when this was done, no end wall was found, only the continuing front and back walls. Obviously, there had been some misinterpretation, and it would be necessary to follow out the walls tosee what happened. When the west end wall was finally located, it was sixty-two feet from the east one; and the shop, far from being a small blacksmith shop only, turned out to have two rooms, with appurtenances to suggest that part 733 October 1968 was the blacksmith shop and part a wagon shop. Finally, just last month archaeology confirmed something at the temple that had been guessed at but not really known. This concerned the nature of the floor paving in the basement. Though there were some Mormon references to brick paving there, the most widely known description of the temple, after the Mormons left, Buckingham's, mentioned an earth floor, and this information has been used extensively by later writers. Careful analysis of the archaeological and historical records permitted the hypothesis that there had been a brick floor, laid without mortar in a layer of sand, and that the bricks had been salvaged and disposed of before Buckingham made his visit in the summer of 1847. But now we have just uncovered, at the temple site, a section of the original brick paving, about seven feet square, in a diagonal herringbone pattern, neatly laid in a sand base. Thus the discrepancy is resolved and the hypothesis verified, that the basement did have a brick floor. More examples could be cited, and we are on the verge of having a very interesting one at the Jonathan Browning house. But these items, I think, establish clearly that, in spite of the recency of the time and the extent of the historical records, archaeology is necessary to make the data complete, "to tell it like it is," as they say nowadays. But there is another type of information that archaeology can provide, information that comes from the artifacts, as we call the china and glass, the metal 734 and stone, that are almost invariably found in the ground in association with buildings that have been lived in or otherwise occupied. These artifacts not only indicate what was owned and used in times past, but also throw light on the people who possessed them that history may not mention directly. Were they rich or poor, self-made or well-educated, simple or sophisticated? The things they used and left behind often help us to understand this. For example, did they use elegant and lovely chinaware and glass on their tables, or were they content with homemade pottery and utensils? I cannot give you any good examples yet from Nauvoo, for the Mormons lived here only six years, and nodoubt took their best things with them when they left. In Brigham Young's backyard a refuse pit revealed English china in an attractive blue and white pattern. We have now decided that it is fairly unlikely that Brigham Young himself used it, but research has indicated that this is the kind of dishes that he might well have had, because they were made at a time and in the. Area of his missionary trips to England. The iron objects from the Edwin Webb blacksmith shop are still being treated in the laboratory, but they may tell whether tools and hardware that were used here were made on the spot, purchased in St. Louis or Pittsburgh, or even imported from abroad. Artifacts can also throw light on the craftsmanship and concern for their work of the people who left them. In the broken rubble of the fill at the temple site, we find A stage in the reconstruction of an English china transfer plate from fragments unearthed on the Brigham Young lot. Fragments of beautifully carved and sculptured trim, and even the casual visitor, running his fingers over the smooth stone, will comment on the skill of the makers. At the temple, also, I found another interesting sidelight on workmanship, which underlines the fact that much labor on the temple was contributed, and no doubt often by men who could give muscle but not. Skill. Several of the massive eight-feet square foundations for the great interior supporting columns have been excavated. There are two, opposite each other, one of which is of fine squared blocks, neatly set; and the other is of various sizes of rough stone randomly arranged and with crevices between them large enough to run a shovel handle in for a couple of feet. Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Still another sidelight from the temple is related to the brick paving that I described earlier. We know from the archaeological evidence that this was put in quite late in the building of the temple, for the sand bed in which it was laid runs over the stone drain for the font, and contemporary records show that the drain was built after March 1845. Thisis confirmed by another contemporary account, that of William Mendenhall, a_ bricklayer who mentioned in his diary that he was laying brick at the temple as late as April 4th, 1846. This, in a way, is an amazing and poignant bit of information. Brigham Young had long since left Nauvoo for the West. There could have been no certainty in Mendenhall's mind about how long his work would serve its planned purpose in the building it would adorn. And yet the bit of paving that has been found shows careful workmanship, that endured through the vicissitudes of the next nineteen years of fire, tornado, and rock salvaging. Even more, it shows something of the meaning of this building to the men who built it. What I have said so far has, I hope, given some answer to my original question, why archaeology at Nauvoo? But I do not think it is a complete answer, for to justify an activity, it is necessary toshow that it contributes to the over-all goal of the work or the organization. What I have said so far would be equally true, in general, of archaeology at Jamestown, or Independence Hall, or Fort Laramie. What is the goal at Nauvoo, to which, 735 October 1968 hopefully, archaeology is making a meaningful contribution? The goal at Nauvoo, for Nauvoo Restoration and any other group interested in its history, is, I believe, to preserve and interpret the site so that visitors, and people generally, will better understand its importance in American history. Its significance in American history, specifically noted in connection with its recognition as a National Historic Landmark, relates to America's Westward Expansion. To quote: Among the forces which aided in the winning of the great West, the Mormon migration and settlement in the Great Basin stood out as one of the most positive factors in carrying American civilization to the intermountain and Pacific coastal areas... Nauvoo will be commemorated as a point from which this great westward migration commenced. But the problem is to relate this to what is here, and what people already know. At most historic sites the solution is simpler. At Jamestown, Virginia, the average tourist has some vague knowledge of the first settlement, and can see ruins and foundations in the ground; Gettysburg has become known as a great battlefield, and there earthworks and cannon are visible. But Nauvoo is a quiet village, where some travelers are not even aware of the Mississippi River and the background knowledge of visitors is rather special. For many Mormons it is the home of their forefathers and for all Church members the home of their Prophet; for non-Mormons Brigham Young and polygamy make an isolated and perhaps Inappropriate point of contact. 736 So, what has this to do with Westward Expansion? How can a visitor be made aware of the significance of this place, led to appreciate the meaning of Nauvoo in American history? Perhaps one way of approaching this would be to use the standard questions of journalism— who, when, where, what, why. If they are answered during a visit to Nauvoo, a better understanding will, hopefully, be created. Who were the people who lived here? This should not be a catalogue of names, for in most cases the names are irrelevant. They were Americans, whose grandparents knew, and may have fought in, the American Revolution; who themselves had lived through the War of 1812; whose family and friends had faced the perils of the frontier. Independence from the restrictions of the Old World, personal liberty to believe and live their own convictions, were meaningful and realizable ideals. They also were people of European birth, fleeing the upheavals of their homelands, drawn by a new religious faith to a land dedicated since the Pilgrim Fathers to freedom of worship. They were, on the whole, simple people, farmers, carpenters, blacksmiths, storekeepers, for this was not a community of the wealthy, of great landowners, of adventurers. When was it built? Dates are not enough, for few besides historians can recognize the meaning of chronological landmarks beyond high points such as 1492, 1776, and a few similar dates. This was a time when the faces, — — the thoughts, the dreams of Americans were turning to the West. The trickle across the Appalachian Mountains that had begun before the American Revolution had become a flood, and the Lousiana Purchase had doubled the country's area. Soon Texas and Oregon would be considered as inevitable parts of America, and the Mexican War would essentially complete our boundaries. Many citizens of Nauvoo had been born in a Nation bounded on the west by the river on whose shores they now lived, and which they would cross to spend the rest of their lives in what was not yet the United States. Andrew Jackson, the first western President, had just completed his two terms of office; Abraham Lincoln was living in Springfield and building his law practice; in a very few years gold would be discovered in California at Sutter's Mill. The shadow of slavery lay across the land, but the Civil War was two decades in the future. The where and what questions are more easily answered, because the answers lie on and in the ground, in the houses, the shops, the public buildings of Nauvoo. Here these people, in these years, lived their lives, but with a difference, for they were united with each other, and divided from their neighbors by a religious belief that was not just a faith but a way of life. This leads to the last question, the why? Why did they come here, why did they leave Nauvoo? It is not enough to say that they came in 1839 and left in 1846 because they were persecuted and driven. This Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Had happened before in the world, and usually with quite different results. Some religious minorities resisted; some conformed; some went underground. But America has provided another alternative, used by the Puritans in Massachusetts, the Catholics in Maryland, the Quakers in Pennsylvania, the alternative of the land itself— and the people of Nauvoo took advantage of this. They had dedication, they had leadership, and they had a place to go. And so they left, for the valley of the Great Salt Lake. As in the original settlement of this country, the search for religious liberty was added to the search for personal independence, for wealth, for adventure, which impelled others to bring about the peopling of the West. To conclude, then, the answer to the question, Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Is that the things and the facts found in the ground make an important contribution to the knowledge and appreciation of the people, the time, and the events of this place which plays an important part in American history. Archaeology throws light on the who and the when, tells much about the where and what, and dramatizes the why of the men and women of Nauvoo. What the visitor can see with his own eyes, touch with his own fingers, and know with assurance were the actual surroundings and possessions of real people, help him to understand better than written or spoken words how thei* owners played their part in the Westward Expansion of the United States. 737 = Remember the last time you had a tempting hot bowl of cooked oatmeal cereal when the salt was left out? Just as nourishing as if the salt had been added —it nevertheless did not encourage you or the children to ask for seconds. In proportion to the whole—such a little salt was needed. Family Home Evening can be the same way. In proportion to the wonderfully nourishing lessons that have been given to us, the ingredients needed to bring out the savor may be so small as to seem insignificant, and yet the difference is the wanting of second helpings from all —even you! I like to think of the four ingredients being: S—Satisfaction A—Anticipation L—Love T—Time and Tact S Is for Satisfaction To be satisfying, there must be achievement. By allowing every member in the family to participate, you can encourage them to feel that without them the evening wouldn't have been quite so good. It will also increase their talents in all areas, if wisdom is used in the variance of assignment. In participation, the children will commit themselves to that which they teach. But of most importance right now is the savor of contentment it brings to the whole—the contentment of both the children and the parents wanting to take one evening a week to be together. 738 x 4 RECIPI FOR FAMILY HOME EVENING Don't Forget the Salt! Lillian Y. Bradshaw May I list some ways in which we can all have fun by being needed? 1. Choose at least one child each week, preferably two, to help plan the menu. Let them also go with you on shopping day to purchase the food. If they participate in the buying, their interest in the preparation of the meal will double and you, in turn, have helped yourself— number one step in making yourself enthusiastic—having help. Sometimes, when children are young, their ideas for dinner will be questionable—like peanut butter sandwiches. Go along with their ideas just as far as you can. Never discourage an idea com- pletely. Sometimes I've had to weigh values. Remember they, too, will learn if a mistake is made, if it doesn't taste quite as good as they thought it would, or if it was more difficult to prepare than it seemed in the recipe. This is perhaps the moment of greatest frustration, and you will have to use tact to smooth the disappointment. Always have a canned substitute ready in case of emergency. Your helping them solve little problems now will help them to seek your help later on for big problems. Why not try putting them on a budget and add to the challenge? This will help solve many an argument. As a bonus, Mom's cooking will be more appreciated as they learn from experience the thought and work necessary to put a meal on the table. You have gained status in the eyes of your family. 2. Read the scriptures. Always let the child look up his own scripture from the original source. Even the youngest can be helped, though he might not be able to read and when Family Home Evening comes, he can be led to repeat some verses of scripture. Don't always give him the shortest. Challenge him into feeling important. The children, then, will learn how and where to find any scripture, and their books will become familiar friends that are always there when needed most. For Christmas this year, we gave to each of our children, as our most precious gift, a triple combination with his own name in gold imprinted on the cover. 3. Play music. This gives an outlet for all those hours of practicing. Recipe For Family Home Evening 4. Conduct the song. Let the children learn the use of a baton, even though it may be merely conducting with their hands. 5. Make posters. This will help teach the words of a song or emphasize the purpose of the lesson. This will help develop artistic ability and give each one a chance to display techniques he has learned in school. Be sure you have a drawer with supplies of all kinds—scissors, Scotch tape, colored paper, etc. 6. Tell a story. Encourage the children to read a story and then retell it. They will remember the story better and the moral it conveys. It will also help in keeping Family Home Evening time under control. But, most important, when they are thrown into a similar situation or problem with their friends, their chain of thought will cause them to remember the story and contemplate the solution taught therein. You have fortified them with meeting problems on their own, with wisdom. 7. Conduct the game. We try to include one game during the evening, and are always grateful when one is suggested in the Manual that stresses the objective. By using this method, the children remember a lesson for weeks. The one conducting the game always learns most. For, not only does he recognize the purpose of the game, he also learns how to direct people and how to use ingenuity in obtaining the "props" needed. He learns to plan ahead. Knowing the kind of fun to keep teenagers moving and interested will not be much of a problem to him in the future. 739 October 1968 8. Give the prayer. This might seem very simple, but learning when young to be grateful and to express gratitude is the soothing balm that keeps all of us from becoming brittle. A Is for Anticipation Giving a "theme" to the menu will give that "Oh, I just can't wait" feeling to the entire family. It will develop imagination and give a sense of adventure to the four walls which enclose the family from the outside world. Home will not be a place from which they want to escape. They will seek home for the fun that is there. For example, with card tables or a board placed on bricks or blocks of wood close to the floor, a cowboy dinner (homemade stew served in cans) might be served with the added atmosphere of many used pieces of candle giving the light. This should not be the case with every Family Home Evening dinner, but quite often. Thursday night, our Family Home Evening, provides the best meal of the week, whether it is roast pork made special by stuffiing with prunes, or hamburgers with soy sauce served teriyaki style. Whatever is fixed, it is just a little extra special. Give an air of mystery to the special treat which will be served after the program. Do not serve the dessert with the dinner. Keep it until after the family prayer concludes the lesson. It may be a box of animal crackers for each, or cut-out cookies to be decorated by each as he chooses, homemade ice cream, or a cake Suzie made "just special." 740 L Is for Love Love them more than anything else. Even more than a last minute invitation to dinner on that night—Family Home Evening. Or even more than a long-anticipated invitation. This will be entirely up to you in the beginning. It may seem totally unimportant to give up an entire evening when the children are very young and go to bed early. Why stay home from that fascinating evening with good people just to have one hour with the young ones, when they won't know the difference? By trial and error, we have found that if you are planning something else that night, even though you have Family Home Evening as usual, or a little early in order to get away, still you are aware of time passing, baby-sitter to pick up, children to get off to bed. And have you ever noticed how they know you want them to hurry to bed and be settled, and they just do not want to settle? Frustrating, hectic—somehow, it takes away that peaceful contented feeling of "I'm all yours tonight." Years have passed and we have found much contentment in this one night of being with our family, and, even more wonderful, we have found that it keeps our love as husband and wife fresh and sweet. An evening just to be with one another. Making Family Home Evening a habit early in married life gives a simplicity to living that all would now seem to be seeking. For this one night, I find peace is mine. Especially during this last year as the lessons envelop our everyday living, peace is more abundant all week. I can see and feel the difference. My home is truly my temple of peace and love. Now that we have teenagers, there is a common bond of love and loyalty and empathy as they find themselves faced with the same choices we have had to meet. Often there are silent tears (and some not so silent)—it isn't always with joy that they make their own decisions but strength is built within them as these choices are made. T Is for Time Most stakes have set the time for Family Home Evening. That is the best time to use, because all activities in the stake will be planned for other nights. If you still have conflicts, however, sit down with all the family and ask them when, not if, they would like to meet. Invariably, a volley of "I can't come on this night or that night because" will follow! Being positive, with love on your part, will let them know how important it is and a time will be set. Once it ts set, stick to it! This takes stamina, courage, and often downright faith in yourself, but consistency is the keyword to lasting success. Vary the hour when necessary, but rarely (almost never) the day. Here, too, I might mention that for just the one hour when we are all together, the phone is not answered. All who know us know why, and that they canreach us just a little later. If anyone comes to the door, we invite him organizer and_ leader. Recipe For Family Home Evening in to participate or to return later. T Is Also for Tact Years ago when we began to have Family Home Evening, J found all the material, J searched all the books for ideas, J planned the activity, and 7 trained the children with song and music. My husband was busy with business and Church work, and most of the planning was up to me. I thoroughly enjoyed it most of the time, but in my weaker and more tired moments, I felt the need of help. Then came that wonderful, fabulous, blessed day when we heard there would be a manual for Family Home Evening. I, with contentment, and Blair, with anticipation, looked forward to his teaching the lesson each week. With the passing of the first year, we were overwhelmed with gratitude for the love we could feel in our home. Our Family Nights were truly rewarding. Blair and I seemed to be partners in the home more than ever. Then came the second Manual, and, withit, Blair became more involved with scouting and Church and business, and so, little by little, feeling compassion for him being so busy and tired, I slowly began to take over the preparation of the lesson each week, until once again I was About halfway through the year, I began to notice a difference in our family night and in our home. Somehow, though the lessons were good, that warm sparkle was gone. What was the difference in the two years? Something was surely different. Somehow, over 741 October 1968 and over, I seemed to hear from within, the phrase repeated "Put Father at the head of the home." All at once I realized I had, with the kindest intentions, usurped my husband's leadership in the home. How can Father's guiding Family Home Evening have anything to do with his being head of the home? As he conducts the evening, he, in truth, is giving authority to all that is taught. These lessons are teaching the very fiber of all the character of a child's daily living—honesty, patience, gratitude. Now, for example, during the week, you can say, as clothes are left on the floor, 'Son, let's think about our lesson last week. Do you remember Heavenly Father's words as your father taught us about stewardship?" Though the words may not have been from the father directly, his conducting gives the authority as he directs the evening. Now you can see it is the father's authority that is present in the home at all times even though he is away. Discipline problems will begin to melt. Father now is the ideal of honesty, integrity, courage— because he follows Heavenly Father's teachings. Wanting to be "just hke him" will now bind the child closer than ever not only to his earthly father. But also to his Heavenly Father. The circle is brought full round as we all know how a child can compel each of us to be better, simply because he believes we are that way.. Although Blair calls on me often to teach a small part of the lesson, all my techniques and 742 teaching know-how can't compare to the spirit of authority brought by my husband to Family Home Evening. In preparation, we both read the lesson and discuss any point necessary. He jots down names beside assignments in the Manual and tells each of the children and myself what should be done. I am prop manager, encouraging the children to be prepared, making sure supplies are on hand for them to make the posters and prepare the games. There might be the question raised, "But what about the homes where the father is away in military service, on Church or business assignments, or because of death?" Children are quick to know the reasons why "Mother takes over." They will rally around her. They know the reasons why she must be at the head of the home now. But I know the Family Home Evening can be a very real help in disciplining the children if the mother will relate the teachings of the father's ideals in the same manner as if he were presiding. Often parents say I wish, I wish. Bringing those wishes true involves the element of desiring that wish more than anything else, and then with faith, doing. Family Home Evening holds all the promise of gold at the end of the rainbow—the treasure of good children—those you want to be with—those who enjoy your company. Remember, it took time to buy the salt, open the box, measure it, pour it in, and then stir. It will take time and thought to add the salt to Family Home Evening. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Miss Gertrude Ramey of Ashland, Kentucky, has mothered more than three thousand abandoned or delinquent children for twenty-four years. In the former county poorhouse, which she converted into a warm, loving home, her guests remain for from a few days to fifteen years. She serves purely from love, with no financial compensation, but with the deepest gratitude of juvenile court judges. Lee Rice, twenty-one, left Ohio State University, where she was a student, joined Vista (Volunteers in Service to America), and with a Vista colleague spent a year in Chalkyitsik, an Athabascan Indian Village of 100 people ten miles inside the Arctic Circle. They taught, trained, and broadened the horizons of the children in many ways and did a great amount of reading to them. Back at the university, she finds her education much more significant than formerly. Dorothy Dunn, a specialist in anthropology and in art also, is author of a valuable book, American Indian Painting of the Southwest and Plains Area (University of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, $25.00). With 157 illustrations, the text covers from prehistoric times to the present, including petroglyphs, hide paintings and the works of truly great artists. The Pueblo Indian, she says '"'has perhaps advanced to a nobility of abstract thought attained by only the great minds given to religious contemplation." Dr. Ruth Clark, a former Utahn, with a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California in speech pathology and clinical psychology, was a speech correctionist in Salt Lake City for eight years, then was director of the speech clinic at Denver University for twenty-three years, and is now on a world-wide speaking tour. With much speech therapy, such as learning to speak with alternate muscles after the voice box has been removed, Dr. Clark finds one must alter one's self image (from one of depression to one of faith, for example) before the cure can be wrought. Her psychology is a most useful tool in these cases. Dee Breger of New York, a twenty-five-year-old scientist, specializing in chemical analysis of water, and geophysicist colleague from Australia, Margaret Kay, are included in the otherwise male crew of the Eltanin in a scientific expedition into Antarctica, for the National Science Foundation. Mayla Ann Mitchell, seventeen, Altamont, Utah, high school senior, was among twelve national officers chosen at the convention at Miami Beach, Florida, of the Future Homemakers of America. She will be national reporter during 1968-69. The national membership numbers more than 601,000. Margaret Mead of Goleta, California, and her copilot Billie Herrin, flew 2500 miles in a Bellanca single-engine airplane to win the prize in the twenty-second annual Powder Puff Derby cross country air race. Their average speed was 176.53 miles per hour. 743 Volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor # Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Eisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner lrene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp 744 Celestia J. Taylor Anne RA. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle A. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucite P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma RA. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton ® Inspiration is the divine influence exerted upon the mind and spirit of man. It is one of the ways the Heavenly Father communicates with his children. Inspiration is the power beyond one's limited human capacities which generates the productive ideas and the new thoughts which motivate one most effectively to use his abilities and achieve the maximum from his efforts. The more responsive an individual is the more directly and plainly will he be moved upon by the spirit. The degree of receptivity to inspiration is determined by the mind and heart of him who receives it. Faith, prayer and clear-mindedness are prerequisites. 'The glow of inspiration warms us; it is holy rapture." (Ovid.) Acting under inspiration one's mind becomes alive with ideas and creative thoughts. One of the great gifts from the Creator to his children is the inspiration which produces productive ideas. Paul states that God has prepared great things for man and "hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit'' and, being receptive That Guides Us to the things of God, men may understand and speak, ''Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth."' (1 Cor. 2:10-13.) Those chosen to hold leadership callings and to teach are commanded to ''teach with the Spirit." They will be assisted and guided in the conveyance of the truths they receive through inspiration. The right to receive inspiration for the work is inherent in every calling. The Lord has promised that he will move the spirit within man. ''The inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding."' (Job 32:8.) With this understanding, inner resources are quickened and one's ability to receive and act under inspiration is enlarged. The right to give inspiration is an attribute of leadership. Worthy leaders exert an invigorating influence upon those they lead. Inspiring leaders animate their followers and stir them to effective work. They motivate, arouse interest, and bring the light of understanding as they give inspired direction and counsel. There is, also, a treasury of inspiration in the written word. Men inherit rich legacies of inspiration left by preceding generations. Inspiration may come from the example of other's lives. One's own life may become better ordered and more abundant by observing and adhering to examples of goodness, of righteousness, and dedication. Of vital significance are the successful lives of worthy individuals. The poet has expressed in the words ''Lead, Kindly Light'' the surrender of one's whole mind and soul to the influence of the divine, the good, and the worthy. These words indicate a beautiful dependence upon the Lord to guide and a willingness to accept such guidance. The placing of one's hand in God's, one's heart in his service, one's mind in readiness, prepare one to receive his inspiration. Each one seeking inspiration in his calling or his daily life should be able to say ''Lead, Kindly Light' and | will follow. —L. W. M. IN MEMORIAM Achsa Eggertsen Paxman June 28, 1885—August 8, 1968 » Achsa Eggertsen Paxman, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away August 8, 1968, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Henrietta Nielson and Simon Peter Eggertsen, Jr. Sister Paxman served on the General Board from January of 1940 to June of 1953. She served on numerous committees and traveled extensively throughout the Church filling conference assignments. Sister Paxman was a graduate of Brigham Young University. She served in many important civic and political positions, including two years as a member of the Utah State Legislature. She was also active in the other auxiliaries of the Church. June 17, 1908, in the Salt Lake Temple, Sister Paxman was married to William Monroe Paxman. They are the parents of two sons and three daughters. There are nineteen grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Mr. Paxman passed away in 1960. The General Board of Relief Society and the Relief Society members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Paxman extend heartfelt sympathy to her family at her passing. ES WINDSONG SPEAKS The night wind cools the heat of summer's day As mist is gently rising from the lake. The softly lapping waves in restless sway That nudge the cattails, almost seem to make A singing sigh to lull the world to rest. Where mountain lake is ringed by solemn pines No lingering dusk, just sudden dark, is best. A marsh duck flaps in perfect, homing lines And skids across the water with a splash That shatters quiet, then the final hush Settles as the phosphorescent flash Is rippled by the night wind's trembling, lush Rain-scented breath from off the lofty peaks. The answering lake is foil as windsong speaks. —Gladys Hesser Burnham 746 Relief Society S ©) |B. Contest ——————— _—-- i Ft > — General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce a contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest This contest is to be known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1968-69) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1969. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1969. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First Prize $100 Second Prize $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty per cent to the composer and forty per cent to the author. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board and public announcement of the awards will be made in the June 1969, issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. 3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks or signature upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 747 October 1968 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the "work" certifying: a. The composer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a biography of 150 words, or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society withholds the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty per cent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten per cent of the marked selling price. If an author collaborates with a composer a division of the royalties will be made agreeable to both of them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural flow—with a happy placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size to be preferred is octavo or 9" by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. 'The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society Song Contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Bo SF Judges All manuscripts will be reviewed by a competent team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competent directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. NN, = — —~ Fal ——— _-. — 7 ee, inet 22 a 748 Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England =» "Hey, Mum, when do we eat?" Jean awoke with a start, realizing instantly that she had overslept. Her eldest son stood grinning at her, his ginger hair untidy, his pajama jacket buttoned unevenly. The other two boys came running into her bedroom as Jean sat up, and the baby on the cot stretched like a sleepy kitten. "T must have been tired last night," she said. "Quick, get washed and dressed, and no monkey business," she added, as young Pete started bouncing on her bed. She dressed quickly and went into the bathroom as the three boys came out laughing. They are so happy, she thought, not a care in the world. As she entered the bathroom, a large, black, plastic Spider swung gently over the wash basin. She had to laugh. What a bunch of terrors she had. Even young James, only a few months old, was a bundle of mischief, always giggling and chuckling. When she _ got downstairs, she found John had taken charge of the kitchen, serving cereal and poaching eggs. He is a good lad, she thought. Another year, and he'll be a deacon. Martin, the second son, was busy feeding the goldfish and canary, while Pete set out cutlery and crockery. "Just in time, Mum," John greeted his mother as he brought a jug of milk from the refrigerator and set it in the center of the gaily checked cloth. "Pete, come out from under the table, and put that comic down. You haven't time to read this morning," Jean said, as she sat down. 749 October 1968 "I'm a dog today," replied Pete. "Well, you had better have your cereal on the floor then," Jean answered. With a bound that nearly upset the table, Pete came out and sat next to Jean. "Martin, will you ask the blessing this morning?" John asked. As they ate their breakfast, Jean looked at her family and thought how fortunate Steve and she were to have four lovely boys. John, the eldest, took his position as head of the family when Steve was away, and he seemed so grownup and serious one minute, and the next, he was playing tricks with the others. "Mum, it's swimming club today," he broke into her thoughts. "T have to swim fifteen lengths, and then I can represent our school in the Gala." "Good for you. Do you think you can do it?" Martin asked. "Well, I can try," John replied. "We can ask our Heavenly Father in our morning prayer, to help you," said Jean. "And to bless our Daddy while he's away from us," added Pete. "T do miss him. I like his stories about boats and cowboys and Indians, and Mum only knows girls' stories." "Pete, Mum does her best, after all she is a girl and girls don't understand about boats and battles like men," John said reprovingly, "and she knows some super stories like that one about David and Goliath and _ that fellow getting eaten by a whale." Jean had to laugh. "Okay, boys, let's have prayers. Then 750 it's time for school. You'll just make it if you hurry." The house was quiet after they had all gone, save for the rattling of the cot upstairs, announcing that young James was ready for his breakfast. She quickly stacked the dishes in the sink and hurried upstairs. James gave her a big toothless grin as she approached his cot. "Come on, my pet." She picked him up and took him downstairs. It certainly was fun having a baby in the house again. Pete, then the youngest, was six when James had been born and now the boys were a real help in the home. After the baby was settled for his morning sleep, she hurried about her chores. The boys liked apple pie, she would make one for tea, and chicken curry, also a family favorite. Today was her fourteenth wedding anniversary. What a shame Steve wouldn't be home to take her out to dinner or a theater, as he usually did. He always had a special anniversary treat for her every year. This would be the first year they had not quietly celebrated. Even when the boys were babies, he had found a baby sitter, usually his sister Pat, for this special evening. Pat, who worked in a hairdressing salon, had called round last night and offered to shampoo and set her hair, so Jean had spent a happy hour being fussed over. She had watched Pat's deft fingers tease her hair into shape, and now it shone like a golden cap. She smiled as she recalled her fifth anniversary, which fell two weeks from the expected date of her second baby. They had gone to dinner and to see a musical in the city and she had felt rather uncomfortable, but thought it was indigestion. By the time they reached home, she realized that their family would be increased that night. Her mother, rather Victorian in her views, had been scandalized when the baby was born at midnight. It just wasn't the thing to do, to be out so near to having a baby. Jean chuckled as she remembered the lecture she had received from her mother. At four-thirty, the boys came tumbling in, laughing and pushing as usual. "Mum, I'm in the Gala. I've swum fifteen lengths without stopping. So I'm the greatest." John was bubbling over with excitement. "Huh, listen to him, he's like that boxer chap on the T. V." Martin laughed. "T can swim, nearly," said Pete, not to be outdone. "Yes, with one foot on the bottom. You couldn't swim aThe Anniversary cross a dish of soup," John teased. "T'd be too big and, anyway, I'd rather drink it," retorted Pete, and they all giggled again. "Come along, boys, chicken curry and apple pie for tea." Jean sorted them out and helped to hang coats up. "Wash your hands before you sit down," she added, as they went into the kitchen. After tea, as the three boys helped Jean clear the table and dry the dishes, she asked them about their day at school. She suddenly realized that they were rather edgy and kept grinning at each other. "Okay, what's cooking? What are you up to this time?" Jean inquired, eyeing them suspiciously. "Salt in the sugar? Plastic beetles in the bath?" John and Martin reddened and started to laugh, while Pete jumped up and down like a ball. "T didn't tell, did I?" he shouted. "T didn't tell about the sup..." John and Martin pounced on Pete together, and the three of them went down in a spluttering October 1968 Jean surveyed the struggling mass of arms and legs and burst out laughing. "Now come clean, just what is going on?" Just at that moment the front door bell rang and, still laughing, she went to answer it. She opened the door to find Pat standing there. "Why, Pat dear, what a surprise, do come in. What are you doing here tonight? You are neglecting your poor husband, leaving him alone two nights together." "Oh, I thought I'd come round for a chat," Pat answered. "Are the boys at home?" "Yes, and they're up to monkey business I'm sure. They've just gagged Pete for nearly telling me something." She led the way into the kitchen, where the two elder boys were still sitting on a protesting, red-faced Pete. "By the way, I have a letter for you." Pat opened her handbag and gave Jean the letter. "Why, this is Steve's writing," Jean said. She opened the envelope and read the letter through, the color coming to her face. My Dearest Jean: Happy Anniversary. If everything works out right, you should receive this letter about 6:30. I shall be on my way home from London, to take you to dinner and a theater. I shall have a spray of white gardenias for you and will call for you around 7:30. You look so pretty in your blue dress, will you wear it for me? Will my dear wife be ready to go out with her husband of fourteen years? My love as always, Steve "Pat, now how did you get this letter?" Jean asked her sister-in-law. Pat smiled. "It was all ar- 752 ranged last week. I was to set your hair last night and come round and baby sit tonight unless Steve phoned to say he couldn't make it. He left money for the boys and instructed them to take your blue dress to the cleaners. They were all in on the secret." Jean looked at her sons with tears in her eyes. The boys were looking pleased with themselves. "So that is why poor Pete was squashed." She smiled through her tears. "He couldn't hold it another second, Mum," John answered. "We had to gag him. You had to have Dad's letter first. Now off you go and get ready. We don't want you to be late. Pete and Martin can finish the dishes, and I'll clean your shoes for you." As she hurried upstairs, she heard Pat helping the boys and thought how fortunate she was to have Pat for a sister-in-law. "Aunt Pat, did Dad phone you?" John asked. "Yes, this afternoon at work. He said it was all right to deliver the letter as he would be able to get home." She smiled at the boys. "Was it very difficult to keep the secret?" "Oh, yes," said Pete, "I kept forgetting and nearly telling. Hey, look at our Mum, doesn't she look nice?" The others turned and saw Jean crossing the hall. Her face was flushed with excitement and her eyes shining. "Jean, you look lovely, come sit here. James is in bed, and I'm just going to tub Pete." Pat turned to the boys. "Come on, let's have these soldiers put away. It's like a battlefield in here," as you can plainly see." Jean sat down at the edge of the chair and watched Pat hustle the boys around. "I feel all excited, like a teenager on her first date," she said. "And I feel rather guilty seeing you doing my work." "You're very welcome, my dear," Pat answered. "It's your special day, and you and Steve The Anniversary don't get out very often together. Listen there's the car. Off you go and enjoy yourselves." Jean's eyes were misty again as she kissed her sons and her sister-in-law. "Thank you, boys. Thank you, Pat," she whispered as she hugged her. Then, turning, she crossed the hall, opened the door, and went out, closing it quickly behind her. THE GOLDEN CIRCLET Your Golden Wedding day. Was filled with joy; Scored to the lute song of love That themes your life as one! Together, you began the song, young hearts ablaze With wonderment and awe. You pledged your troth Each seeing beyond that moment. Past passions's fire, To the soaring heights where only They who truly love aspire. Then, as the years lay one on one, you found heart room To hold the bounties reaped in love, The heartbreak shared. You thought your love complete, that short Half-century ago, And still it grew. Tested by grief, strengthened by faith and tempered by time, The golden circlet Of seasons past draws tight. But, still you smile, wearing the golden mantle with delight; Sweet love yet shared And eager hearts attuned, forever young! —Betty G. Spencer 753 NIMBLE FINGERS PERFORM WITH THE NEEDLE Anna Conquest, Tacoma Stake, Washington, has had one great wish throughout her life—to be able to use the needle to bring beauty and happiness into the lives of others. Sister Conquest donates at least one pair of pillowcases each month to Relief Society, and her beautiful work is unsurpassed in the stake. The cases are done in a Satin stitch with silk thread and are beautiful in color and workmanship. She also crochets and embroiders beautiful tablecloths for friends, family, and Relief Society. She is indeed endowed with a talent for beautiful needlework. Sister Conquest was born in Norway eighty-six years ago. She joined the Church at the age of eleven and migrated to America. Sister Conquest has done much to aid the building up of the Church in the Tacoma area, and her kindness to missionaries stretches back many years. In addition to her other Church activities, she has served as a counselor in Relief Society and has been a diligent visiting teacher for more than eighteen years. She has traced her genealogy on her mother's side back to the sixteenth century and had the temple work done for all these progenitors. She is an inspiration to all who know her. 754 for Tomorrow Helen Cazier Norton iW 2) @ "He's been such a good boy all afternoon, I'Il show my appreciation by preparing his favorite dessert for supper," I told myself as I glanced out the window to where our most beloved possession played contentedly in the dirt pile. The toy tractor his daddy had made from the cab of an otherwise car-crushed fire engine, part of a roller skate, and a piece of two-by-four, was, as usual, the companion for our dark-eyed, three-year-old's lonely only-child playtime on the farm. Most of the time, his expensive toys were cast aside in its favor. Lately, he and his daddy had fashioned a disk out of jar caps, tiny spools sawed into small sections, and heavy wire. With this, he had been able to broaden his "farming" operation into "tilling" the fields of his favorite play area. Checking the clock, I was assured of plenty of time for my meal preparation. A corn-starch pudding I had made a few weeks ago had interested him greatly. Into the bowl, I measured three tablespoons of flour and three tablespoons of cornstarch. A trill of the telephone required attention. After promising the Primary president that I would pick up the Thompson children for meeting the next day, and, of course, exchanging a little casual conversation, I turned back to my simple pudding. Oh, yes, a sprinkle of salt and one-half cup of sugar. Into the top of the steaming hot double-boiler, I put two and one-half cups milk. This time, a knock at the front door sent me scurrying in that direction, first turning the burner under the milk to low. Wouldn't you know it would be only a salesman selling something for which we already had a satisfactory substitute? Nevertheless, I took time to cushion my refusal with courtesy. After all, he was only out to make a living, the same as everyone else. The ringing of the phone conveniently brought that matter to a close. It was a neighbor down the ditch inquiring as to what time my husband expected to be through with the irrigation water. These interruptions consumed a sizeable chunk out of my timing, so I hurriedly added one-half cup of cold milk to the dry ingredients and gave them a quick stir before mixing with the hot milk. Later, I blended in a beaten egg and, finally, onehalf teaspoon of lemon and vanilla mixed. Every now and then, amid phases of the rest of the meal, I would eye the pudding critically and take a few conscience-stricken, energetic beating turns in an effort to minimize the lumps. Supper was ready on time. Either the other two did not notice the lumps or they appreciated supper on time so much that they chose not to criticize. 756 i A Recipe For Tomorrow As the weeks and months passed, corn-starch pudding became an increasingly popular menu item at our house. I suppose that "getting by with it once" made it easier to short-change the lump-smoothing time in favor of "more important" parts of meal preparation. It was some time later that the three of us were visiting a very dear elderly friend whom we affectionately knew as '""Grandma Gale." She loved to cook, and, as a special surprise for her favorite little boy, she made corn-starch pudding. He eagerly anticipated this final touch to a well-prepared meal, but, at the first spoonful, his eagerness changed abruptly to disappointment. Giving his dish a slight shove away from him, he inquired, '""What is wrong? It doesn't have any lumps in it!" Usually, he was a mild-mannered little fellow, but to him the difference was so wide that he could not accept it as related to the product with which he was familiar. In the stunned, embarrassed silence, my husband and I exchanged eloquent glances. That single bolt of experience drove deep into both of us the great lesson a good parent needs to know. With clarity, it pointed out to us how our carelessness in everyday living could deflect our son's judgment in the recognition of perfection. What he became used to at home was what he would most likely seek after and follow in his lifetime. If we continued to pursue such lumpy attitudes, among many others, such as, "We work so hard all week that I'm sure the Lord won't hold it against us if we sleep in on Sunday morning instead of going to Sunday School," our child would grow up with the same lumpy attitude. In fact, even the smallest action on our part might, in some degree, affect his actions for good or bad the rest of his life. Like all parents of all ages, we had a vital choice to make. "... Choose you this day whom ye will serve... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord..." (Joshua 24:15) seemed to offer far greater security than the hit and miss ideas advanced by mere men. The outcome of these past twenty-odd years has been rewarding in direct proportion to the application and determination we have maintained in eliminating our own "lumps." i » f ENGLISH GARDEN The wind has a long-winded tone and green grows all flesh and no bone, grows into the sibilant rain. Mistle thrushes and blackbirds complain at berries too hard to desire. All is fragance and flower fire. Ail Bees burn their circles around the new and the fragile on cared-for ground. {= Few sun-shadows manage to wedge ce between thuya and locust and butterfly hedge. Whatever is vivid can mean vir Y.. Dew settles all rising green. " —Bernice Ames 757 J6 eS #. 2S 2S 38 18 Xe roy AAS AG 18) Ae # With my husband a bishop and with four youngsters under eight years old, our evening dinner hours are usually a rush, with Daddy rushing in from work and out again to a bishop's meeting. Also, when he is home, the phone rings constantly. So, I decided to try having special breakfasts occasionally, at a time of morning when the phone wouldn't ring too often, and when everyone could enjoy one another and really start the day off right. After the children were asleep, preparations were begun for the morning. The table was set with our prettiest, most colorful place mats and dishes. A centerpiece of flowers adorned the table. Each fork had a pink napkin, folded diagonally, threaded through the tines, with a menu, typed on bright pink paper, at each place. The menus were something as follows: I made a lovely breakfast cake which can be mixed the night before, poured into the pan and covered with plastic wrap and refrigerated. It is ready to pop into the oven the next morning, but I had to get up in time to allow for the oven to preheat and twenty-five minutes baking time! 758 A Special Breakfast MAKE-AHEAD BREAKFAST CAKE 1% c. Flour Y% c. Shortening Yc. Sugar 24 c. Milk 1 tbsp. Baking powder 1 egg pinch of salt Sift dry ingredients. Cut in shortening. Add milk and egg. Pour into greased 8" square pan. Sprinkle topping over batter. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. Bake 25 minutes in 400° oven. TOPPING 4 tbsp. Flour 6 tbsp. Sugar 3 tbsp. Butter Y tsp. Cinnamon Sleep was scarce that first night, as I wondered how the family would react to the elaborate breakfast. I think my husband was as excited about it as I was. He even volunteered to get up early and turn on the oven. The children shrieked with surprise and delight when they saw the lovely table the next morning, and a very special feeling of togetherness and unity was evident as we knelt by our chairs that morning for our family prayer and blessing on the food. Each member of the family saved his menu, and later I found that the children had taken theirs to school for "show and tell," and my husband took his to the office to show his secretary and co-workers. My intent was to show the family that I truly loved them. The message was clear to them as I found out later that night. As I tucked three-year-old Todd into bed, I told him that I loved him very much. He hugged me tight and said, "Mommy, do you love me enough for breakfast cake again tomorrow?" - Sn NOSTALGIA What rapture fills my heart When strains of half-forgotten melody Take me back across the years— To where its start Awakened, in my untried youth, The luring hold of beauty, And captured, spellbound my mind to soothe In dreams of ecstasy and charm. Now youth has left the shore Of carefree, reckless phase. The tune is sweeter than before, For memory wraps the notes In softer tones, that reach to penetrate With stronger thrust, and thus remain Immortal, beloved, never ceasing to inflate My soul with quiet peace. —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England 759 Exchanging Quilt Patterns Elaine Kimball Jones Winder Sixth Ward, Winder Stake = One of the most practical and serviceable projects our stake homemaking leader, Carma Mineer, did for our wards, was to invite all the homemaking leaders of the stake together to exchange quilt patterns. The banquet tables were set up in pairs. She provided a roll of heavy butcher paper, and each ward brought its own magic marker. When the day was over, every ward had exchanged every size quilt pattern, from baby to king size. Each pattern was marked for size. This is the first time our ward has had more than just a few patterns to choose from. Sewing Carol Hood Blackhurst = Sewing can be many things. It can be mending, patching, creating; it can be making over, or redesigning. Yes, sewing can be many things. It can be something plain, something fancy, something new, or something remade. But whatever it is, it is something of real accomplishment. What a thrill to see it finished, what joy and happiness! It could be a fancy new dress or just a patch on Tommy's little j jeans. It is something of us, a part of body, mind, soul, and spirit. Thank goodness for sewing! TO EVERYTHING THERE IS A SEASON You can package fresh-from-the-garden flavor The cookbook taught. | was almost afraid it would be so— But it was not! Oh, the results were nice. They'll add spice To winter hibernating— Just enough spice To hint the worth of waiting For the surprise of strawberries on the tongue, The pucker-up taste of grapes too young, The buttery crackle of the bitten cob, The splashing crunch of the apple-bob. Package fresh-from-the-garden flavor? Who would rob summer of her special savor? Or who looks for reindeer in the August sky? Not 1! —Alice Brady Myers 760 Chapter 7 Maureen Taggert, a librarian, has gone Mabel Harmer to Great Britain to do_ genealogical work and investigate some _ property in Scotland to which she is joint heir. Before leaving she meets Steve Madsen and is very much attracted to him. On the boat she befriends Diane Curran who is going to England to be married. While in England she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who is residing on the property in Scotland. « Two days after her trip to Shannon, Maureen received a letter from Steve Madsen expressing his deep disappointment that they had not been able to meet. He wrote that he had checked on the weather and planes and found that none was leaving the London airport until it was time for him to board his plane for Brussels. Since he had a definite appointment there it had not been possible for him to stay over. He hoped for better luck next time. What next time? Maureen wondered. It was not likely that he would be coming to Europe again in the short time that she would presumably be there. At least, that was what she would suppose. In the meantime, there was the trip to Scotland to plan and anticipate. Easter came early in the month—the first Sunday in April—and, since they were going to travel by motor car, they were fervently hoping for good weather. "Which we must not count upon in the least," said Kitty. "T am told that it rains most of the time in Scotland." "Surely not more than here in England!" exclaimed Diane. "Oh, yes! Much more. Especially in the Highlands. But that makes it all the more beautiful. There are lakes and water- 761 October 1968 falls by the hundreds, and forests and flowers of all kinds." "All of which you can vouch for," said Julia. "In spite of the fact that you have seen none of it." "Certainly, I have been reading up on the land of my ancestral estate. And so would you, if you had any proper pride." "T can wait," said Julia calmly.. "And I only hope that it is all you say." Only Maureen and the Bruce Taggart family were going. Diane had to stay with her work, since she was handling all of the correspondence now for Mrs. Markham, and Mrs. Murch would never leave home for more than a few hours under any circumstances. "What will we do with her in case we decide to make our permanent home at the castle?" asked Julia. "We'll tackle that problem when we come to it," replied her mother. "Just remember that we are a long way as yet from making any decisive move." "They began the trip, which was scheduled to take one week, on the Monday morning after Easter. They crossed the border from Carlisle, and just after driving over the Gretna Green bridge, were delighted to see an over-sized sign which bade them "Welcome to Scotland." "Isn't that charming of them?" remarked Kitty. "I'm sure the Sign was put up expressly for our benefit." "And also this next one," added her father, as he drew into the service station which proclaimed itself, "The first petrol station in Scotland." 762 As they drove on, they saw little single-story, whitewashed cottages, each with a porch in front. At one they saw the children doffing wraps and muddy boots before entering the house. "That's what I call a great system," remarked Catherine, "an open-air mud room before one ever enters the house." "It just goes to show how nice and neat and clean they are," remarked Kitty, always alert to putting in a good word for her adoptive countrymen. As they drove on, they found a world of entrancing beauty. The wooded hills were green with the lush grass nourished by a plentiful rainfall. About an hour's drive from the border, they ran into a little town holding market day. The main street was crowded with booths, shoppers, and villagers. Bruce was having a_ difficult enough time to drive through the street and found it complicated still further when he encountered a flock of wandering sheep. To be sure, they were not alone. At the rear was the shepherd, and at his heels a pair of collie dogs. All three appeared to be more or less indifferent to the crowds, the traffic, and all else. The sheep, they seemed to think, would get through eventually, and_ the traffic would manage as_ best it could. Suddenly, however, the shepherd blew his whistle, and the dogs sprang into action, darting here and there and sending the sheep past the moving cars. They spent the night at a charming town hotel. There seemed to be a dearth of the small inns they were used to seeing in the English countryside, but the hotel supplied their needs very well indeed. "Our next stop will be Kirkwood," said Bruce, as they started out again. "And our castle!" added Kitty, ecstatically, clapping her hands. "IT wish that you weren't expecting so much," said her father. "I'm afraid you're going to be very much disappointed. After all, you know, it is described as a ruin, and no one has lived there for a couple of decades." "Oh, but you forget that I have seen Robert McPherson's paintings. No matter how much he idealized it, the castle can't be too far different. And he did put in the broken-down wall, you know." Bruce nodded. "Yes, I know. Anyway, we shall soon see the worst—or the best." The village of Kirkwood was at the end of a long glen. It was marked with birches, yews, an occasional great beechtree. The road to the castle was uphill and rough, showing that it was seldom used. "Do you think that your traveling youth will tackle this road?" Bruce asked Kitty in a mockserious voice. "Certainly," she replied. "They climb hills and mountains and everything. This will be mere child's play to them—most of them, anyway." A sharp turn in the road brought them their first view of the castle. It looked rather imposing. "T like that," said Catherine. "But I am sure that it is putting If Spring Be Late its best side forward for the benefit of the traveler." All were excited by the prospect, the more so, the nearer they came and could see more of the details. For Maureen—rather to her own surprise, her greatest interest was in the cottage at the entrance to the grounds. As they came near and stopped, just inside the gate, she said, "Except for the profusion of spring flowers, it looks exactly as it does in the painting." "With the addition of the bairns standing in the doorway," said Julia. The children, a boy and a girl, quite obviously twins, came forward shyly to greet them. "You are Jeanie and Jamie, of course,' said Catherine, giving a hand to each. "Is your father about?" "That he is, Ma'am," answered Jamie. While Jeanie added, 'He is out digging potatoes and carrots out of the pit for our dinner." At that moment, Robert McPherson came around the corner 763 October 1968 of the cottage with a bucket of vegetables in one hand and a small shovel in the other. Dropping both, he hurried to greet them. "I didn't expect you until later in the day," he said, "when I would have been dressed properly to receive the laird of the castle." "Nonsense," said Bruce. "I am not likely to become accustomed to any such ceremony. But we have made good time traveling—and enjoyed every mile of it." "Do you think that we might walk up and get a closer view of the castle?" asked Kitty eagerly. "Yes—if you have a pair of good stout shoes. You'll find the path rather on the rough side." "Oh, I do!" she answered. "Then you might take Jamie and Jeanie for guides, and any other hardy souls who can't wait until the morrow." Julia and Bruce were the only other volunteers. Maureen and Catherine contented themselves with the view from the cottage. What they saw from that distance was intriguing—to Maureen at least. The building of gray stone was not large—as castles go. Nor were there the conical towers and high gables that she had seen pictured in other ancient buildings. The windows were angular and small when compared to modern buildings. The walls rose at three different heights. They were partly covered with ivy and the over-all effect was rather pleasant. She had to remind herself that she still hadn't seen the other side, where an outer wall lay in ruins. She and Catherine offered to help Robert prepare the meal, but 764 he insisted that no woman could find her way around in his kitchen. Maureen was interested to see that the inside of the cottage was as charming as the outside. One could hardly believe that it had lacked a woman's touch for three years. The deep recessed windows, with their small panes, were hung with crisp white curtains. There were pots of scarlet geraniums on each window sill. The furniture was chintz-covered, and the cupboards held some interesting pewter pieces. When she commented on these, Robert said, "Much to my regret I have to confess that they are yours. They came, as did all the furnishings, with the cottage." Maureen was thoughtful. If the cottage held such treasures, what might there not be at the castle itself? She would soon know. On the morrow they would 'all go exploring. Bruce and the young people returned from the castle with mixed feelings. "It would take a fortune to restore it in any livable shape," he said. "What we have is a mere pittance." "T still think it's wonderful," said Kitty loyally. "And there is a roof and plenty of sleeping space. With a place for light cooking, there would be everything we need for a youth hostel." "Kitty has this obsession about putting up a youth hostel," her father explained to Robert. "Do you know anything about them in this part of the country? We did pass a number of young people—and some not so young— walking along the highway." "Yes, indeed, there are a number of hostels now, and more are being built right along. The children and I stopped at one last summer just north of the Cairn Edward forest. Water was available, together with lavatories and a shelter. There were some simple cooking facilities. Not all travelers are on foot, you know. Some come in cars. However, the greater number of those who stop at the hostels come on foot, sometimes with half of their food, all of their utensils, and even their shelter on their backs. "Now, you see!" cried Kitty. "We can provide everything they need, and they can have the romance of staying in a castle besides." "Yes, I see," answered Bruce. "We shall certainly think it over very seriously. We do have funds enough to put in drinking water and the lavatories, at least. The roof is already there. Part of it, anyway." With that Kitty was satisfied. In her imagination she was already living in the castle and bidding a warm welcome to footweary travelers. The little girl, Jeanie, had snuggled up to Maureen, and after dinner she asked, shyly, "Are you coming to live with us in the cottage?" Everyone smiled and Maureen blushed slightly. A quick glance at Robert McPherson showed that he, also, was somewhat disconcerted by the question. "Not very likely," Maureen replied. "I'm sure that you belong here ever so much more than I do." "Oh, I meant to stay, also," the child continued., If Spring Be Late It was still a question, which Catherine solved by saying, "I think that we should be getting down to the village. I doubt if we should care to travel this road after dark, until we become more used to its vagaries." When they returned the next morning, the McPhersons were all in readiness to escort them to the castle. Robert held up a great ring of keys. "I rather suppose that some of these haven't been used for many a long year. I do hope that the locks work." "Otherwise," observed Julia, "we shall be forced to break into our own property." The path from the cottage to the castle was so overgrown with grass and weeds that they were forced to walk almost in single file. "How I wish that the heather were in bloom," said Maureen, with a slight sigh. "You need only wait until August and September," said Robert, "and you can see it at its best. The purple hills are a sight to behold and well worth waiting for, I can assure you. They are an artist's Elysium." "That I can well believe," Maureen agreed. As they reached the castle, and she now saw, for the first time, the extent of the "ruins," she was somewhat appalled. The entire roof was gone from most of the left wing, as well as the outer wall. It most certainly could not be repaired—not by its present owners, at any rate. The work of clearing away the fallen stones would, in itself, be a herculean task. Robert, who had been walking 765 October 1968 just ahead of her to help choose a path, was somewhat amused at her evident dismay. "Come, come," he said cheerily, "look at the rest of it. You still have a number of walls standing. Walls that may stand for a couple of centuries, in fact." She smiled and said, "You are quite right. I shall turn my back on the ruins and turn my attention to the good." No attempt was made to open the great outer door, but asmaller one at the side yielded quite readily to one of the keys. They stepped into a long hall which was damp, dark, and cold. Even Kitty's exuberance diminished visibly. "Cheer up,' said Robert. "There is much better ahead." He led them to aside room, still holding its furniture, which was all covered with sheets. These in turn, were covered withdust. Catherine lifted one gingerly and found a tapestry-covered divan beneath. "This isn't at all bad," she said, "considering...." "Considering that it may be a hundred years old," finished Bruce. They walked through half a dozen other rooms, all large, cold, and dusty. "Be it ever so humble," quoted Julia, as they stood in the middle of what had been the master's study. Bruce began looking at one or two of the volumes on the shelves. "You know, these could be very valuable," he said. "At least, a good many of them may well be. I suspect that there are even some first editions here." "You are quite right," Robert agreed. "No doubt they have been collected over a great many years. And here is something else that may interest you," he added, going over to a small cabinet. "There is a collection of glass paper weights that could be of considerable worth." Maureen hurried over to have a closer look. "Oh, I'm sure these are of real value," she said. "I've had books on them in the library and many are very rare. I wonder that they have been left undisturbed here for so long." "Because," answered Robert, "no one could get in here without these keys. Not very easily, anyway. Castles were not built to be entered at will, you know, even with some of the walls fallen down." "That I can well believe," she agreed. "I shouldn't care to try scaling any of these walls, even if I were twenty years younger." Bruce, who had been studying more of the books, turned to Maureen and said, "You know, we might strike something of a bargain. I'll take the books, and you take the paper weights, if you | are sure that they are of real value. Agreed?" "With pleasure," she answered. "T am really fascinated by these. And, I assure you, there is no question about their value. I might easily have the best of the bargain." "And I can say the same to you." He paused and held up a huge Bible. "Here is one, however, that I shall turn over to you. It seems to have a list of Taggarts long since passed away. There are hundreds of names and dates here to thrill your searching soul, I am sure." Maureen reached eagerly for the book. A quick survey proved that here was treasure indeed. There were family names and dates reaching back for three hundred years. "Oh, Bruce!" she exclaimed, "this is unbelievable. There are more names here than I have found in all my winter's work in London." "Good. Then we are both happy. I have found here a first edition of Sir Walter Scott's Lady of the Lake. But I shall never bear to part with it—even to put in running water for Kitty's youth hostel." "You shan't need to sell that or any other book," she said. "You know perfectly well that we have enough from Mrs. Murch's board bill to take care of trifling matters like that." "We hope. We have no idea, as yet, just how trifling or how large such a matter could be." "But you did say it would be my youth hostel, didn't you!" cried Kitty, realizing that for the first time her father had practically committed himself to her proposition. "Did I?" he asked nonchalf Spring Be Late lantly. '"Well—perhaps." "And while we're on that subject," Catherine said, "I think that we should have a look at the kitchen. If there is a kitchen?" She turned to Robert. "A kitchen? Oh, yes, indeed. Such a kitchen as you have probably never before set eyes upon in all your sheltered life.' He led them through another long passage. "But first,' he said, "I must show you the dining room, since it is right on the way." They entered a large room where there was a huge fireplace at one end. A long table nearly filled the center of the room. A few derelict chairs and _ stools were scattered about.. The floor was bare. "Wonderful!" cried Kitty, clapping her hands. "There is room enough for all of our travelers to eat at the same time— or at various times." "What I really wanted to show you is something else. Come this way." He led them out of the dining room, through a tiny passage, and into a small room. There was one curtained window, or opening, into the dining room. "You never in the wide world could guess what this is," he said, "so Ill tell you. It was called the Jug room. Here the master of the castle could hide himself to listen to the conversation of any doubtful guest who might have gained entrance to the household." "Well, that is one room for which we shall certainly have no use," said Julia. "One never knows," said Kitty. "In time we may conduct tours, and the dug room would certainly be an attraction." 767 October 1968 They went next to the kitchen which, as Robert had warned them, was like nothing they had seen or imagined. Above a huge fireplace hung pots and pans blackened by use and by age. The floor was bare of covering and many of the boards had rotted. Even Kitty was stunned. After allowing her to gaze in dismay for afew moments, Robert said, "However, there is a smaller room—buttery, pantry, or whatever they called it—just beyond. Perhaps a cooking stove out there would serve." Kitty ran out. "It is perfect!" she cried, clapping her hands. "Of course, it isn't really, but it will be when we get through with it." "Well," said Julia, "Maureen 768 has her treasure, Father and Kitty have theirs. Now, what is there for Mummie and me?" "You'll share all that I have," said her father. "That should do for the present." "As for me," said Catherine, "IT am more than satisfied. All I can think of at present is getting back to my own warm, clean, comfortable home." _ "Splendid!" cried Bruce. "Since you prefer it to the castle, we'll | go back—for the time being, most certainly." "And most equally certain," said Kitty, "we shall return." She looked about, but there was no denial. There were only indulgent smiles. (To be concluded) RECOMPENSE ''Pay me" required earth of the proud trees Swaying on the autumn hill, "Gold | require for tomorrow's destiny." And an aspen traced her blessings on the ground With golden coins, Shivering in the rising wind, but remembering summer. "My life's blood,'' bowed the maple, Giving of his crimson to mingle With the pale fern at his feet, Recalling September's glory on the hill. '"'My cloak,'"' and the oak cast His brown cloak on the shivering grass, And his sturdy seeds, cupped in beauty, Remembering green, Recurrent on the oblique Ascendency of spring. —Dorothy J. Roberts All material submitted for — in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.. Pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities San Diego. East Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Corventitisn May 3, 1968 Second row, at left: Muriel Price, President, La Mesa Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right: President Joseph C. Price, Counselor in the stake presidency; Sister Price. Beginning third from right: Dorothy Bourne, Homemaking Counselor, San Diego East Stake Relief Society; Rhea Gale, President; Louise Toolson, Eudcation Counselor. Sister Gale reports: ''A luncheon was served by the stake board to begin the convention. The play, 'A Call to Benevolence,' by Luacine C. Fox, was presented, with participation by the stake Singing Mother's Chorus, directed by Gayle Moreau, stake chorister. "Special recognition was given to the La Mesa Ward which had seventy per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance. These sisters are pictured. Throughout the year, this ward has led in attendance at visiting teacher meetings. There were 176 sisters in attendance." SL RAO RR SF FE NO re NI ET «kT RRL, gm 769 October 1968 Grantsville Stake (Utah) Honors Retiring Relief Society Officers April 24, 1968 Retiring members of the Grantsville Stake Relief Society board, seated, left to right: Mary Imlay; Melba Wells; Lovina Lawrence; Hannah Fraser. Standing, left to right: Nell Shirts; Florence Hayes; Lucille Anderson; Fern Wilson; Vera Elfors; Lenore Johnson; Wilma Swenson; Agenes Clark. Elba H. Brown, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Hostesses for the banquet honoring the retiring members of the stake Relief Society board who had given many long years of dedicated and loving service, were members of the new presidency and board members. Elba H. Brown is president; Evelyn Brown and Vessa Jacobs, counselors; and Lola Sutton, secretary-treasurer. A program was held and gifts presented to the honored guests." Potomac Stake (District of Columbia) Spring Arts Festival April 3, 1968 Left to right: Potomac Stake Relief Society officers: Mary Maycock, social relations class leader; Marilyn G. Kerr, President; Twylla Flanders, chorister; Leila W. Horne, First Counselor; Harriet Thorne, Secretary; Elaine Haroldsen, homemaking leader. Sister Kerr reports: ''A variety of talents was displayed at our spring arts festival. It was attended by Relief Society sisters and their husbands. On display were paintings in oil, water colors, and glass; sculptured items, handwork of all varieties, numbering about 500 items. "Earlier in the year, the cultural refinement and music leaders of the stake sponsored a music, poetry, and short story contest. The results of the contest were so gratifying that a booklet containing the poetry and short story entries was prepared and given to all in attendance. The musical entries and thirteen poems were presented as part of the program. The evening was concluded with a fashion show featuring creations by the sisters of the stake." West Boise Stake (Idaho) Features Magazine Displays at Leadership Meeting April 8, 1968 Magazine representatives of West Boise Stake, left to right: Erma Whittaker, Eighteenth Ward; Elva Labrum, Tenth Ward; Gwen McRae, Fourteenth Ward; Ora Moore, Fifth Ward; Velma H. McClellan, Seventh Ward; Ila Mae F. Dahl, stake Magazine representative; Zola Hill, Third Ward. Mary Zurcher, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Magazine Department of our stake board presented an excellent and complete program at our April leadership meeting. The skit, 'An Open Door to Home Living,' by Wylene Fotheringham, which was part of the program at Relief Society Annual General Conference, was presented. "An outstanding feature of the event was the refreshments which were prepared from recipes in The Relief Society Magazine. "A display of posters was attractively arranged for all to view after the program. We were most pleased by the presentations and the work that went into this program." 770 October 1968 Carbon Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''Charity Never Faileth"' March 7, 1968 From left: Ruth Dart, stake organist; Janis Siggard, chorister, who directed the stake Singing Mothers in their annual concert. Mary H. Worthen, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''About 130 Singing Mothers participated in our annual concert, 'Charity Never Faileth.' Each of the eight wards presented a special number, and the combined stake chorus presented several moving and inspirational numbers. "An original script for the program was written and narrated by Mary Helen Powell, stake cultural refinement class leader. The entire stake board worked toward making this event successful. "At the conclusion of the concert, refreshments were served to about 300 guests. On March 17, the stake chorus provided two selections at quarterly conference." Washington Stake (District of Columbia) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present "Evening in Spring," April 26, 1968 Marion P. Mangum, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were thrilled with the wonderful response our Singing Mothers received when we presented a concert, with the theme 'Evening in Spring.' "LaJean Johnson, stake chorister, and Eleanor Price, stake organist, directed and~ accompanied the eighty-voice chorus, representing thirteen of the fourteen wards and branches in the stake. In addition to the Singing Mothers, the program consisted of a vocal soloist, a string trio, a quartet, and a dramatized excerpt from Thornton Wilder's 'Our Town.' This was under the direction of Marilyn Lindsay, stake cultural refinement leader, and portrayed the life of a woman through childhood, marriage, and motherhood, to gentle maturity." 1 ekg PRR AE Lg TF EL EL I OL, ES TE aa PERI a oO Canoga Park Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention Draws Large Crowd May 3, 1968 Table setting, in blue and gold, prepared for visiting teachers of Canoga Park Stake; entries in The Relief Society Magazine poster contest are displayed in the background. Maida Moody, President, Canoga Park Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A great deal of effort went into making our visiting teacher convention a success. Three hundred sisters were inspired by the program 'A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star,' based upon the article by Vesta P. Crawford in the September 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The program consisted of narration and the stake Singing Mother's chorus. It was adapted by Maida Moody. '"'A luncheon, followed by a fashion show and a festival of arts and crafts, concluded a most successful afternoon which was a delightful experience for all." 772 8 a Nii vil Wilford Stake (Utah) Holds Annual May Festival May 9, 1968 Standing, front row, left to right: Almina Slaydon; Berenice Morris; Florence Monson; Ruthal Allred; Karma Conn; Joan Nielsen. Standing back of the first row: Elaine Fredrickson; Beverly Moore. Elna H. Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A delicious luncheon was served to 550 sisters in the morning, and refreshments were served in the evening to over 450 working mothers, husbands, and young people. "The program consisted of a skit, 'First Aid for Marriage.' It depicted four women with matrimonial problems coming to the clinic to get help. Two matrimony doctors, four nurses, and three candy stripers aided them. Their counsel was: (1) to believe in your husband; (2) put your husband first; (3) have Father as the head of the home; (4) share interests together as husband and wife to keep romance in marriage. "'The Singing Mothers presented several special numbers honoring mothers. An art exhibit and poem festival of original works were a highlight of the day. Demonstrations of several handicrafts were carried out." r= a ee ie as i _ PT Grant Stake (Utah) Closing Social, ''An Open Door to Home Living"' May 17, 1968 Former Grant Stake Relief Society officers, seated left to right: Ireta Stevens, Magazine representative; Sylvia Luck, chorister; Wilma Packer, organist; Claudine Despain, social relations class leader; Donna Cook, visiting teacher message leader; Pricilla Mather, spiritual living class leader; Virginia Bitner, homemaking leader; June Allen, Secretary-Treasurer; Lenore Driggs, First Counselor; Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Ruth C. Owen, Second Counselor. The remaining sisters are officers and teachers of the ten wards in Grant Stake. Sister Kocherhans reports: ''Our closing social was themed 'An Open Door to Home Living.' Specially honored were the stake and ward Magazine representatives. A lovely program was presented, emphasizing the Magazine. "Bazaar items and baked goods were sold, following the program, and a demonstration on flower making was given. 'President Castleton was present and reorganized the stake Relief Society. Margorie Nelson is the new president of Grant Stake Relief Society. I — = —- oo a Tulsa Stake (Oklahoma) Relief Society Presents ''Then Came the Women" for Closing Social, May 18, 1968 Members of the cast for ''Then Came the Women," front row, children, left to right: Audrey Huntsman; Steven Barnum; Ardith Huntsman. Second row, left to right: Vivien Romney, organist; Penelope Earl, narrator; Eve Deacon; Almeda Barnum; Norman Barnum; Sherry Roper; Rose Huntsman; Lois McLaughlin; Norma Dupree, President, Tulsa Ward Relief Society; Mary A. Robison, director. Virginia L. Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our closing social was very successful. It included an outstanding presentation of the pageant 'Then Came the Women.' It was a very impressive performance. "We honored Sister Mary A. Robison, who directed the program, for her outstanding service for thirty-five years as an executive in Relief Society on the ward, branch, and stake basis. She was presented with a corsage and bracelet. "A wonderful display of homemaking articles from the wards and branches was presented."' 774 am, ae ee PTI ee ath San Jose West Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concerts April 12, and April 26, 1968 Bernice Hutchinson, President, San Jose West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake, under direction of Marie O. Gaisford, stake chorister, and accompanied by Ruth Stevens, stake organist, presented two concerts in our stake. "The first concert was in the Santa Cruz College Auditorium to an audience consisting mostly of nonmembers. The second was in the San Jose Fourth and Ninth Ward chapel. In addition to the Singing Mothers, lovely solo numbers were performed by outstanding members of the chorus who are talented musically."' Andes Mission, Trujillo Branch (Peru) Holds Opening Social March 18, 1968 Left to right: Consuelo Agreda; Eva Desposorio; Maruja Bejarano; Gloria Gutierrez; Juana Castillo; Irma Isla; Juana Rodriguez; Isabel Pefarrieta, President, North District Relief Society; Bertha Di Natale; Bertha Condemarin; Raquel Cisneros; Olinda Malca, President, Trujillo Branch Relief Society; Teresa Alva; Emma Alva; Maria de Correa; Julia Pinillos; Sabina Ramirez; Maria Bejarano. Doris L. Jesperson, Supervisor, Andes Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Trujillo Branch Relief Society held their opening social commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. A short program of musical numbers, as well as a dramatization of the first meeting, was presented by the sisters. The Singing Mothers presented selections, and the first president of the Trujillo Branch Relief Society, Isabel Penarrieta was honored. More than 400 members and investigators were in attendance. "Under the direction of the President, Olinda Malca, the Retief Society is now preparing and selling marmalade to raise funds. A series of sewing classes have been initiated under the direction of Maria de Correa, with excellent participation. They are in the process of buying a sewing machine for further help to the sisters of the branch.' aeereseseeepeeueweenseeweeees ~_ «ah A CLASS LEADER'S GREE TING The days have come when, in response To crisp October's weather, Intent on intellectual gain Again we meet together. Back to our classes and our books, Upon whose fragile pages Is found the learning of the past, The wisdom of the ages. Give thanks for books, this boon to man; Give thanks for those who wrote them, And thus preserved their choicest thoughts That we might use and quote them. Give thanks for this rich heritage That we can read, and so, Adding such wisdom to our own, In happier ways may go. —Vilate R. McAllister 777 Lesson Department: Yi, The Doctrine and Covenants SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 92—Adversity Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 121:1-10; 122.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman remembers in adversity the promise of the Lord "if thou endure it well... Thou shalt triumph over all thy foes..." (D&C 121:8) and she generates renewed strength to endure. INTRODUCTION As indicated in other lessons, Sections 121, 122, and 123 are extracts from a letter written by the Prophet Joseph Smith from March 20 to 25, 1839, while he and other brethren were in Liberty Jail, Missouri. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [revised: Salt Lake City; Deseret Book Co., 1948], Vol. III, pp. 289-305 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC.] From the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, we find the following about the contents of this letter: In the opening paragraph of the letter, the Prophet refers to the fearful crimes committed against the Saints. He hears the cries of orphans and widows; he sees the innocent blood that stains 778 the soil of the State; he contemplates the inhumanity of the people, that "shocks all nature," and "beggars and defies all description," and then he pours out his'soul in lamentation before. His God, as Jeremiah of old wept upon the ruins of Jerusalem: "OQ God! Where art thou?" And he prays, "Remember thy suffering Saints." (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, rev. Ed.; Salt Lake City: Desert Book Co., 1957, p. 753.) SUFFERING SAINTS Why do members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints suffer? Why does an Almighty God permit sin, sorrow, disappointments, pain, and suffering? Some unbelievers in God have argued that because he permits suffering, he does not exist. Many others have lost faith in God because of tribulations. As in all cases, to understand the answer to life's purpose, man's relationship to God, and a multitude of other matters, the answer must come from the source of all truth—revelation. Admitting the presence of suffering and various adversities in life, a fact which is found on every side, it must be allowed that men are better able to endure' tribulation provided they know the reason for the adversity! Recognizing this truth, the Lord has provided enough information to give men strength to withstand tribulations. The Savior said that in this world there would be tribulation, but his disciples could be of good cheer, for he had overcome the world. (John 16:33.) From the treasury of revealed information, what is this message of good cheer? PREMORTAL AGREEMENT The revelations teach that all mankind lived in a spirit world before this birth. In that existence there was contention over the plan of salvation which should redeem men when they were born in an earth-life. Satan sought the honor of God, to ascend to his throne, through a proposal of his own. 'This plan was rejected in favor of the plan of the Father espoused by Jesus Christ, the Firstborn in the spirit world. (Moses 4: 1-4; D&C 19:36-38.) When the plan of salvation was accepted by the spirit sons and daughters of God, each person covenanted to abide by that plan. Included in the gospel of Jesus Christ is the FaLesson Department ther's plan that his sons and daughters might come to earth to receive bodies that they might live under conditions of mortality. We are here! In what kind of an environment? The kind where we learn good from evil, to struggle against evil, to preserve our lives where we may have disappointments, loss of wealth, death of a loved one, sorrow, pain, and other afflictions. It is a place, also, where we may prove ourselves to see if we will do whatsoever the Lord commands us. (Abraham 3:24-26.) Admitting the doctrine of premortality, we have the basis for understanding the purpose of afflictions and also the fact that we elected to come to the earth where these conditions would exist. In fact, we shouted with joy and sang in the contemplation that we could progress only by earth-life to the eternal life which God promised to the faithful. (Job 38:4, 7; Titus 1:2.) OPPOSITION IN ALL THINGS Among the purposes of this life is to determine whether or not we will be true to the Lord's commandments. (Abraham 3: 24-26.) Also, as The Book of Mormon says, since there is opposition in all things the opportunity to be proved is possible. (2 Nephi 2:11.) We are also here to partake of the bitter as well as the sweet. (D&C 29: 39; Moses 6:55-56.) Without these purposes, which include our free agency, there could be no existence. (D. & C. 93:30.) In the beginning, Adam and Eve received these truths that 779 October 1968 they might understand the purpose for which they became mortal. Thus they were cast out into a world of sorrow, trouble, labor, and eventual death. But they were also informed that this path was necessary to receive a fulness of joy... (Moses 5:10; D&C 93:33-34.) Eve expressed her joy in this knowledge, for she could know good and evil and the _ possibility of eternal life. (Moses 5:11.) President Brigham Young gave us this information about adversities:... Lf Adam had not sinned, and if his posterity had continued upon the earth, they could not have known sin, or the bitter from the sweet, neither would they have known righteousness, for the plain and simple reason that every effect can only be fully manifested by its opposite. If the Saints could realize things as they are when they are called to pass through trials, and to suffer what they call sacrifices, they would acknowledge them to be the greatest blessings that could be bestowed upon them. But put them in possession of true principles and true enjoyments, without the opposite, and they could not know enjoyment, they could not realize happiness. They could not tell light from darkness, because they have no knowledge of darkness and consequently are destitute of a realizing sense of light. If they should not taste the bitter, how could they realize the sweet? They could not. (Journal of Discourses, 2:301-302.) ADVERSITIES AND THE FAITHFUL If one is living according to the commandments, may we believe that he is immune to afflictions? Jacob, The Book of Mormon prophet, was told that his afflictions were consecrated for his gain. (2 Nephi 2:2.) The faithful pass through 780 tests to see if they will remain faithful. (Ether 12:6.) The greatest example of suffering was the Savior. His trials and the taking of the world's sins upon himself and eventual death on the cross, have become the example for all men. (D&C 19:15-19.) President Hugh B. Brown said the following about the Master:... We cannot think of the history of the past and bring to our minds examples of adversity without thinking of the one who stands as the central figure of all time, the Master, the one who was prophetically referred to before he was born as "man of sorrows," (Isa. 53:3), who was acquainted with grief, the one to whom Paul referred as he who learned obedience by the things he suffered. (See Heb. 5:8.) (Hugh B. Brown, Eternal Quest, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., 1956, p. 248.) JOSEPH SMITH The Prophet Joseph Smith learned lessons in _affiction throughout his life. (D&C 172: 2.) One of the important lessons he learned is given in Section 122, a portion of the letter written in Liberty Jail. The Lord spoke peace to the Prophet's soul in a_ prophecy concerning his life. Fools would have his name in derision while the righteous would seek wisdom and counsel from his hand. Although the efforts of the wicked - would never turn the saints against him, their influence would cause him great trouble. (D&C 122:1-4.) The Lord had reminded the Prophet that he was not like Job of old whose friends had forsaken him. ({bid., 121: 9-10.) God said to the Prophet: If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea; If thou art accused with all manner with false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring, and thine elder son, although but six years of age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say, My father, my father, why can't you stay with us? O, my father, what are the men going to do with you? And if then he shall be thrust from thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to prison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves for the blood of the lamb; And if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way...(D&C 122:5-7.) Following this recital of great afflictions, the Lord gave the purpose of adversity in these words:... Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he? (Ibid., 122:7-8.) EXPERIENCES ARE GOOD What do the scriptures reveal concerning the value or blessing of tribulations? One of the major purposes of this life is to prove ourselves that we may be worthy of the greatest measure of salvation. Trials are for our own benefit. President George Q. Cannon pointed out that, in the case of Abraham who was commanded Lesson Department to sacrifice his son Isaac, the Lord wanted to impress upon him a lesson which he could obtain in only this way. It was not for God's benefit that this was done, because he knew what Abraham would do. (D&C 38:2.) So also with others who undergo trials, it is for their own good that they may know for themselves. (Gospel Truth, Discourses and Writings of President George Q. Cannon, compiled by Jerreld L. Newquist; Salt Lake City: Zion's Book Store, 1957; Vol. 1, p. 113.) Calamities mentioned in sacred history have ultimately been blessings. The fall of Adam and Eve brought forth opportunities for God's spirit children to receive bodies and to prove themselves. The great suffering of Christ and his crucifixion were calamities, but man was redeemed from death and hell by that atoning sacrifice. The scattering of Israel throughout the world sprinkled the blood that believes—that many nations might partake of the gospel plan. The history of the Nephites is one of trials, calamities, and sufferings, but through it all, the experiences gained brought strength and developent. Elder Orson F. Whitney asks this question and answers it: To whom do we look, in days of grief and disaster, for help and consolation? Who are these friendly neighbors gathered in today? They are men and women who have suffered, and out of their experience in suffering they bring forth the riches of their sympathy and condolences as a_ blessing to those now in need. Could they do this had they not suffered themselves...?... We go to men and women of thought 781 October 1968 and sympathy, men and women who have suffered themselves and can give us the comfort that we need. Is not this God's purpose in causing his children to suffer? He wants them to become more like himself. God has suffered far more than man ever did or ever will, and is therefore the great source of sympathy and consolation. (Improvement Era; Vol. 22, Nov. 1918, p. 7.) Class Discussion By way of summary, what points have been made in this lesson that sugest the reason for adversities? "ART THOU GREATER THAN HE?" Although adversities are present in this world, and they have their spiritual meaning in our lives, it is not contemplated in the gospel plan that because the Savior died for mankind that the saints must give their lives as martyrs. It is true, however, that some of the saints may be required to give their lives in defense of the truth. (D&C 103:27-28.) On the other hand, no man will be required to suffer as the Savior suffered, for no sacrifice would be as great as his. (Ibid.,19:16-19.) AFFLICTIONS AND PUNISHMENT The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that it is a false idea to believe that the saints will escape all the judgments—disease, pestilence, war, etc., of the last days; consequently, it is an unhallowed principle to say that these adversities are due to transgression. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith; Salt Lake City: ninth printing, 1956, p. 162.) 782 President Joseph F. Smith taught that it is a feeble thought to believe that the illness and affliction that come to us are attributable either to the mercy or the displeasure of God.... Sometimes we are prone to charge God with causing our affictions and our troubles; but if we could see as God sees, if we could understand as he understands, if we could trace the effects back to the cause, and that truly, by the spint of correct understanding, we would unquestionably discover that our troubles, or suffering, or affliction are the result of our own indiscretion or lack of knowledge, or of wisdom. (Gospel Doctrine, Sermons and Writings of Joseph F. Smith, ninth ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1952, p. 57.) When commandments are not obeyed, the penalties of the law then follow. (D&C 130: 20-21.) The saints in Missouri were commanded to live the law of consecration and to redeem Zion, but because of disobedience to commandments, the Lord said they were afflicted, persecuted, and driven from the land. The chastening hand of the Lord fell upon them that they might learn obedience. They were not to be cast off completely, but they would be remembered in the day of mercy. (D&C 101: 1-9.) AFFLICTIONS AND REPENTANCE In these last days various tribulations are present. The fact that they are known widely is one of the signs of the approaching end. (D&C 29:14-20: 45: 28:34.) Should a member of the Church seek to understand these calamitous events as God has revealed their purpose, or think of them only in terms of an immediate perspective? God's laws and purposes are eternal. President Joseph F. Smith gave the following reasons for natural calamities: (1) to quicken people's devotion to _ others; and (2) to be schoolmasters to teach people to prepare themselves by righteous living for the second coming of Christ. (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 54-55.) IMPLEMENTATION Premortally, the Lord presenteda plan which provided an opportunity for his spirit children to receive the experience of an earth life. In that life they were to partake of the bitter as well as the sweet. The fact that pain, sorrow, discouragement, and loss of loved ones in death would be a part of that experience, would nevertheless be for their good. With this knowledge of what would be, the children of God willingly accepted the opportunity to come to earth because it would provide the way by which they might eventually, if faithful, become as their Eternal Father. Lesson Department In order that earth's inhabitants might be successful, the plan of salvation included the opportunity for them to learn of their premortality, the purpose of life, and also the reality of the hereafter. With faith in the word of the Lord, the saint who has accepted these truths is strengthened against adversities. The testimony borne by the Holy Ghost to the soul of the saint also gives strength to withstand the trials of life. The important truth about adversity is the effect it has upon the person. President David O. McKay said: Today there are those who have met disaster, which almost seems defeat, who have become somewhat soured in their natures; but if they stop to think, even the adversity which has come to them may prove a means of spiritual uplift. Adversity itself may lead toward and not away from God and spiritual enlightenment; and__privation may prove a source of strength if we can but keep the sweetness of mind and spirit. (David O. McKay, Treasures of Life, Compiled: by Claire Middlemiss; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1962, pp. 107-108.) SUDDENLY AWARE He steadied her arm, and their glances were bent For a long, searching moment, intense and intent Upon one perfect snowflake that lay on her sleeve, While awareness of joy come alive at the touch And the wonderful wonder of having so much To be shared and in which to believe. —Iris W. Schow 783 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 4—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To help us remember that compassion blesses the giver and the receiver. She was such a darling baby. Everyone loved her. All rejoiced when she took her first steps. When she grew old enough to run in the sun, with the wind ruffling her golden hair into a halo, she was a thing of beauty. She was nearly old enough for school when one became aware of an occasional stumble or odd break in the rhythm of her walk. Gradually, heartbreakingly, her condition worsened. The doctors grew silent. They knew of no cure for her crippling disease. As she lags farther and farther behind her playmates and they outrun her, she begins to be avoided. They do not choose her until the last, when games are played. When parties are given, she is often not included. Soon will come the dating years. "Lord, bless the sick and afflicted." How often do we pray thus and teach our children to do likewise? What do we and they mean? Who are the afflicted and how is the Lord to bless them? Is he to do it all and we to turn away, or do we, with him, have a part in solving these ills of mankind? How are we to help? 784 Do we contribute money only and smugly feel justified? If we could walk a year in the shoes of the afflicted, how would our lives change? How can we help ourselves and our children do this in imagination, so that all of us will be sensitive and kind? How can we set an effective Christian example to our children? How can we teach them, early, continuously, to accept the afflicted into the circle of their lives, where they will be a part of the normal wholeness of life? How can we help them to look beyond the afflictions to the soul of their friend, to the courage, patience, charm, and abilities that lie deep within? How will they learn that the afflicted, in their needs and inner feelings do not differ from others? Adolescence and the dating years are difficult enough. Will our children be especially kind, thoughtful, considerate, loving of the afflicted, and bring them: into full fellowship with them? The afflicted are the hurt ones, often unhappy, sad, _ irritable, angry, hopeless, sullen, bitter, despondent, rejected, and demanding. If we have empathy we will find specific ways to help. Are they hurt? Then, we are the comforters. Are they irritable and demanding? We help them find peace. Are they angry? We search with them for understanding. Are they unhappy and sullen? We teach them to be glad. Are they bitter? We bring Lesson Department healing love. Are they despondent, despairing, and _ hopeless? We lead the way to faith. My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee. (D&C 121:7-9.) (Italics added.) HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 4—Let's Be More Courteous Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how acting courteously in our homes and in public and being reverent in sacred places are the marks of a cultured person. INTRODUCTION When we hear someone say of another, "She is a person of culture and refinement," we feel that a high compliment has been paid —a compliment we would all like to deserve. It is one which is within our reach if kindness, love, and consideration for others are made a natural, habitual, and consistent part of our lives. These are the inward qualities which are outwardly revealed in acts of courtesy and good manners. Those of us who think of courtesy and good manners as being separate and apart from our everyday behavior—an on-and-off sort of conduct—fail to realize their underlying value and significance. In her book Highlights on the Life of President David O. McKay, Janet M. Morrell says, "There were no company manners in the McKay home. Father and Mother were as courteous to each other and to their children when only the members of the family were present, as when the most respected guests were in the house." In a home where there is a manifestation of kindness, love, and consideration for others, courtesy finds its abode. Courtesy is kindness. Printed recently in an article by Elizabeth Post in the Deseret News were two lines which many of us remember from our childhood: 785 October 1968 Politeness is to do and say The kindest things in the kindest way. HOW SHALL WE SHOW COURTESY IN OUR HOMES? I. At the table: (Good table manners are intended to make dining a pleasant, happy experience for everyone concerned.) A. In having Mother and girls seated first. B. In asking for and passing of food. C. In: eating—avoiding large bites or talking with mouth full; using napkin and utensils properly. D. In remaining seated until the meal is completed or until excused. E. In' showing appreciation for preparation and serving of food. (One lovely mother says, "Very few meals in our twenty years of married life have finished without my husband's thanking me for the fine food. From his example the children respond in the same manner." II. On the telephone: A. In answering or in calling for a number or person. B. In avoiding over-long conversations. C. In listening only when the call is personal. D. In relaying messages. E. In being gracious in voice and manner. III. To each other: A. In being tactful and considerate of feelings. B. In showing interest by listening when spoken to. C. In respecting each other's privacy and property. (Clothes, personal possessions, rights, etc.) D. In expressing appreciation for favors. E. In showing respect and obedience to family law and order. F. In disciplining oneself in voice and manner—avoiding display of temper and quarreling. G. In controlling one's moods. 786 HOW SHALL WE SHOW COURTESY IN PUBLIC? I. To one's neighbors: A. In avoiding gossip. B. In helping in times of need. C. In expressing appreciation. II. On the street: A. In observing laws and rules when driving. (Some people show more discourtesy when driving than they do at any other time.) B. Incrossingstreets—ifa pedestrian. C. In keeping all public laws of cleanliness and decency. III. In stores and markets: In expressing thanks to sales people or clerks for personal help. In handling merchandise or foodstuffs. In avoiding selfish behavior— pushing, crowding, etc.. In using elevators and escalators. In observing rights of others in every situation. IV. At work: AO QO BP} A. In being prompt. B. In observing company rules. C. In giving good and full service to employer or employee, as the case may be.. Inshowing consideration to friend or stranger. =) REVERENCE IN SACRED PLACES IS A MARK OF COURTESY It would be well for each of us to observe the rules of courtesy and good manners whenever we _ enter sacred places whether they be our own chapels and temples or the hallowed spots of others not of our faith. The degree of our love and reverence for our Heavenly Father is evidenced by our behavior when we visit these sacred places. It is a sad commentary that the adults are more often the offenders in this regard than are the children. Can we afford not to set the right example? CONCLUSION Since courtesy and good manners are the outward sign of the Lesson Department virtues that reside within us, we owe it to ourselves as well as to those with whom we associate to exemplify these qualities by word and deed. Only then can we deserve to be called persons of "culture and refinement." SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 4—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Alberta H. Christensen (Reference Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizadek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To consider issues which present new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman and to suggest ways of meeting some of them. Lesson Follow-up Have a sister report 3-4 minutes, on how the lesson "Lighting the Way" influenced her Christmas. INTRODUCTION This lesson deals with some aspects of today's world which may present problems and new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman. The objective indicates that some ways of meeting certain of these problems will be suggested. In this respect this lesson and the following one are closely allied. The following lesson may be rightly considered as a continuation of this one. THE WORLD TODAY. Today's world is a world of paradox. On one hand _ there are complexity, apprehension, confusion, even disillusionment. On the other hand there are marvelousachievements, innumerable opportunities, and the extent to which these situations affect the Latter-day Saint woman depends largely upon her circumstances, environment, and attitude. 787 October 1968 Class Involvement Discussion Questions 1. What in your opinion is the greatest challenge facing the Latter-day Saint mother today? 2. Whatsituations offer greatest challenge to the Latter-day Saint woman of middle years, with no children in the home? 3. What specific situations are a challenge to the Latter-day Saint woman (a) as a neighbor; (b) as a friend? CONSIDER THE WORLD The opinions of other Latterday Saint women relative to the problems and challenges of today may be more meaningful after we have taken an over-all view of today's world, asking ourselves, "What is it. Like, this wonderful, yet perplexing world?" We know that in today's world there are probably many more people upon the earth than in any former period in the world's history. One million people are added each week to the earth's total population. (1968 statistic.) There are more people to be fed, more to be clothed, more to travel from one place to another. We read that approximately seventy per cent of the world's population live in urban centers. More people mean more situations involving human relationships; more people living in cities introduces another dimension to these relationships. Weknow that general advances in the field of the sciences, in manufacturing technology and education have produced a highly industrialized world economy. A closer view of the present may help us recognize the exciting wonders and the _ undesirable situations in today's' world. As we enumerate the following 788 factors which make _ today's world stimulating and complex, we set the stage for this lesson. We also understand more easily how human relationships are affected by conditions in today's world. AREAS OF EXPANDING ACHIEVEMENT In today's expanding achievements we have: 1. Made great strides in medical knowledge and techniques, even to the transplanting of some human organs. 2. Explored outer space, even to photographing the surface of the moon and utilizing acquired information. 3. Widened horizons of knowledge through education and extensive reading material. 4. Made new archeological discoveries, unearthing information regarding past civilizations. 5. Explored the depths of the oceans. 6. Extended methods and speed of transportation. 7. Established programs to increase literacy, especially in underdeveloped countries. 8. Developed improved agricultural methods for better and greater productivity. (Others may be suggested.) AREA OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIP In the area of human relationship we have (unhappily so): 1. Poverty and famine in many parts of the world. 2. International rivalries and _ political intrigue. 3. Racial unrest in many countries. 4. Conflict between labor and management. 5. Rioting in cities throughout the world and various manifestations of disregard for law. 6. An increase in juvenile delinquency and adult crimes. 7. War and rumors of war. 8. A decrease of spiritual faith even to a repudiation of religion in some areas of the world. To The Class Leader An oral enumeration or chalkboard listing of the following will call to mind the factors which make today's world stimulating and complex and set the stage for this lesson. It is suggested that the discussion be focused upon the human involvement situations. This is an_ over-simplified panoramic view of today's world. Some areas are fraught with extreme peril, with trouble and complication. It is the world in which the Latter-day Saint woman lives today. She knows that she is living in a world of rapid change, of temptation, conflict, and innumerable problems. To say that these are not troublesome times is not to speak realistically. But the picture is not altogether grim, for there are countless opportunities for rewarding experiences and personal growth, and innumerable opportunities for service to others. There are innumerable intelligent, capable adults of good will, and innumerable children—innocent, gifted and of great promise. Moreover, the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to earth, now— in our day. Its teachings, its guidance, and the blessings of the Holy Priesthood are here for our benefit. Speaking of the spiritual darkness that preceded, and of this_ restoration, President Clark states: But God's love and mercy was again to be manifested. Men were not to be left without the knowledge of the essentials of the plan of salvation, nor without opportunity to enjoy the blessings of a righteous life under the reign of the God-given Gospel plan. That knowledge and that plan were to be restored to the earth, for it had been again lost, as it had been after Adam, after Enoch, after AbraLesson Department ham, after Moses. And so it has been. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1950, pp. 107-108; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 21.) This restored gospel is an allimportant part of the Latterday Saint woman's present world. THE MORE IMMEDIATE SCENE Irrespective of world conditions, some of which greatly endanger the stability and happiness of home life, a mother's general responsibilities to her children and adult associates remain constant. It is a major duty of the mother (shared with the father) to help the child become sufficiently independent to meet the world outside the home. Experts in the field of child development and family relationships remind us that the child should, from the earliest 'weeks, have a feeling of security. He should have the emotional support of knowing that he is loved. With opportunity to make up his mind on small matters in childhood, he will thus develop the ability to make greater decisions in later years. As the Latter-day Saint mother of today sees confusion about her; as she realistically considers that life involves sickness, and sorrow, and death, she searches for ways to help the child develop courage and strength to meet the storms of life. If the line of communication is kept affectionately open, she will find wise ways of helping him to develop that strength. One of the most important of ways 789 October 1968 is to help him know that his Heavenly Father is mindful of the child and his problems and that his earthly parents are ever willing to give counsel and comfort. There are many other mother-to-child responsibilities which remain constant regardless of changing world conditions. WHAT SOME LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMEN SAY With the foregoing enumeration of world conditions in mind, we may consider the comments of some Latter-day Saint women relative to problem situations which some of these conditions create for them. Although each woman needs to resolve her own problem, comments of suggestion often may be helpful. Woman One states: I find it a great challenge, in the light of some present day conditions, such as psychological and social pressures, even opposing views on religion, some quite atheistic, to keep my own "values straight" and my beliefs firm. Question: What advice do you have for this woman? Comment: To be in the world, making use of its opportunities and enjoying its advantages, and yet be "not of the world" requires clear thinking and courage of conviction. The Latter-day Saint woman who feels that this is her particular problem may well remember the assurance obtained through prayer, the guidance and promise of scripture, and the available counsel of the priesthood through appointed leadership of the Church. Activity in organizations of the Church strengthens one's testimony of its divinity. Woman Two: My problem is how to make my life 790 meaningful, now that children move so far away when they marry. I cannot hope to see them or the grandchildren oftener than once or twice a year. How can I build a tangible relationship with my grandchildren? When I was young, my grandmother lived in the same town. She was important to me and I always felt that I was to her. I want to feel useful and needed. Question: If you were this woman how would you meet this problem? Comment: Fortunately for women of middle years with available time, there are many important and needed services within the framework of the Church. Genealogical work for one's own family, and active affiliation with Relief Society are examples. Volunteer work in hospitals, and neighborhood and community service programs also need women who are willing to serve. Woman Three: I am a mother with young children. They were wanted and are loved. However, the numerous opportunities for professional training and gainful employment tei. Pt me to go out of the home and earn money. I don't need to work, but I do not enjoy the routine of house-, work. Question: If you were this woman what would you do? Comment: Dr. Blaine R. Porter states: It is a privilege to live with children. From a Latter-day Saint point of view, our children are also God's children who are lent to us for a little while, during which time we have the pleasure of their company and responsibility of guiding and training them properly. Stop and think of the confidence and trust which God must have in us to allow us the privilege of being responsible for his children. (Blaine R. Porter, The Latter-day Saint Family, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966, p. 267.) President Clark often refers to the importance and responsibility of mothers toward their children. The homemaking discussions in Relief Society also may convince the doubtful mother that housework need not be a dreary routine. Woman Four: My problem is one of frustration, resulting from today's accelerated tempo of living. I feel pulled and pushed in every direction by my _ overscheduled days. I long for the slower pace of yesteryears. The challenge for me, therefore, is to eliminate this feeling of frustration. Question: If you were this woman, how would you meet her problem? Comment: Henry David Thoreau said, "Simplify!" The Latter-day Saint woman may need to appraise and decide which values are of most importance to her and her family. Having made such an appraisal, she may more wisely eliminate certain activities, commitments, and even commodities which encumber her life. More poise, more patience, more time with the family may be the rewarding result. Woman Five: I find it difficult to maintain an attitude of optimism since conversation, newspapers, and television present an almost constant fare of problem situations, and violence. My challenge is not to let this feeling of today's frustrations be reflected in the atmosphere of our home. Question: Were you this woman, what would you do to solve this problem? Comment: The Latter-day Saint woman may take courage in the fact that today is of little moment in the long-range view of the eternities, and in the promise that the gospel will never again be taken from the earth. Activity in the Church Lesson Department for all family members and adherence to gospel teachings will help replace apprehension with faith and optimism. OTHER SPECIFIC PROBLEMS Among conditions most disturbing to Latter-day Saint mothers today is the pressure of irresponsible adults who would exploit the innocence of youth for money. Manifestations of such pressure are the distribution of undesirable, even pornographic reading material, and the sale of harmful drugs. Although using or possessing drugs is illegal, they are available and vigorously "pushed" in many high schools and colleges. No mother can afford to abdicate her parental responsibility and remain complacent on this matter. Tomorrow depends upon the energy, talent, and character of today's children. This is an area where an alert mother, and good communication between child and parent may prevent a problem from developing. Information regarding the effects of harmful drugs is readily available. Family Home Evening discussions may pre-influence young children, and teachers also may help teenage children to understand that no hallucinogenic drugs are safe. All of them involve danger. An unemotional discussion between children and their parents relative to the dangerous use of drugs, in which the children are given the sobering facts regarding this modern day evil, may be warning enough. Parents may well be cautioned regarding the personal use of drugs unless prescribed by a physician. 791 October 1968 SUMMARY Latter-day Saint woman, this is your world today: _ spiritual enlightenment, beauty, opportunity, progress; confusion, temptation, uncertainty, and sin. Yet, it is a wonderful day in which to live, this dispensation of the fulness of times, if you receive and will bestow compassion, and the healing of love, if you will wear the whole armor of faith. For Home-Doing Review your major problems. Make some effort toward solving at least one of them. LS SF CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 3—''The Comfort of Faith'' Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Three By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "The saddest thing that can befall a soul is to lose faith in God...." —Alexander Smith Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that a life built around faith brings to a woman greater happiness than a life without faith can bring. Commentary on musical selections by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University: The topic chosen for Lesson 3—The Comfort of Faith—immediately suggests vocal or choral music that sets texts dealing with faith. Since we have attempted to include in our recordings musical selections that are well known tothe sisters, | thought it well to include in this discussion three familiar hymns as sung by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. Each of the texts, while dealing with faith, points out different aspects of faith in our daily living. 792 Musical Selections 1. Faith of Our Fathers! Living Still Text by Frederick W. Faber, Music by H. F. Hemy Faith of our fathers! Living still In spite of dungeon, fire and sword: O how our hearts bear high with joy Whene'er we hear that glorious word! Faith of our fathers! Holy faith! We will be true to thee till death! 2. | Know That My Redeemer Lives Text by Samuel Medley, Music by Lewid D. Edwards 3. My Shepherd Will Supply My Need Text is from the 23rd Psalm, Music by Virgil Thompson INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON During the past four years in this series, we have extensively sampled the literature of faith. (See Out of the Best Books, Volume 1, Section 2, entitled "Faith in God and Man," pp. 47-107; Volume 1, Section 6, entitled "Facing Death,' pp. 441-482; and Volume 3, Section 6, entitled "The Substance of Faith," pp. 239-282.) All of us through reading, thought, experience, and observation know that faith as a principle is very broad. It includes not only faith in God and his eternal plans but also faith in humanity, faith in husbands, wives, and children, faith in friends, faith in ourselves and our abilities, faith in the future, faith that right will ultimately triumph over wrong. Much has been published exploring faith and its lack; and great men of all kinds have commented upon one or another aspect of faith. For example, William Faulkner Lesson Department in his Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech of 1950 expressed his faith in man and the future: I decline to accept the end of man. It is easy enough to say that man is immortal simply because he will endure.... I believe that man will not merely endure; he will prevail. He is immortal, not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a_ spirit capable of compassion and _ sacrifice and endurance. Andmany yearsearlier Thomas Carlyle in Sartor Resartus, using typically vivid language, described the power of faith to endure: For man's well-being, faith is properly the one thing needful; how, with it, martyrs, otherwise weak, can cheerfully endure the shame and the cross; and without it, worldlings puke-up their sick existence, by suicide, in the midst of luxury. Obviously, from among the world's thousands of poems and stories of faith, we can explore here only a sample of them. Perhaps the best place to begin is with the Psalms in the Bible, which almost without exception are lovely poems of faith. Two of the loveliest of the Psalms (songpoems) of David in the Old Testament are Psalms 8 and 23. Read them for the loveliness and faith they contain, acknowledging the power and the love of God. No analysis or commentary seems needful; they speak beautifully to all levels of readers. '""A PSALM OF LIFE" BY HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW Tell me not, in mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream!— For the soul is dead that slumbers, And things are not what they seem. 793 October 1968 Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul. Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, Is our destined end or way; But to act, that each tomorrow Find us farther than today. Art is long, and Time is fleeting, And our hearts, though stout and brave, Still, like muffled drums, are beating Funeral marches to the grave. In the world's broad field of battle, In the bivouac of Life, Be not like dumb, driven cattle! Be a hero in the strife! Trust no Future, howe'er pleasant! Let the dead Past bury its dead! Act,—act in the living Present! Heart within, and God o'erhead! Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Footprints in the sands of time; Footprints, that perhaps another, Sailing o'er life's solemn main, A forlorn and shipwrecked brother, Seeing, shall take heart again. Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor and to wait. DISCUSSION OF ''A PSALM OF LIFE" For over a century one of the most popular poems of faith has been "A Psalm of Life" by the American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (1807-1882). Although rather out of fashion today, it won masses of new readers for poetry in generations past, and continues to find a responsive appeal in the hearts of many people. Emphasis in the poem, written when Longfellow was only 31, is upon the importance of robust living, with high goals and high energy to achieve them—that is, upon faith in man and his ability to accomplish. Underlying this emphasis, however, is a strong faith in God and a God-controlled universe. For Discussion What elements in this poem would tend to make it more popular among readers in years past than it may be today? "CROSSING THE BAR" BY ALFRED LORD TENNYSON Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar,! When I put out to sea, But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for sound and foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell, When I embark; For though from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar. DISCUSSION OF "CROSSING THE BAR" Best known of Tennyson's short poems is "Crossing the Bar," written in 1889 when he was 81 years old. The poem lives by its lyrical loveliness, and by the quality of its faith—not a sure knowledge, such as a few people have, but a firm hope, which many people share. A few lThe "bar" here referred to is an underwater sand uprising at the mouth of a harbor or river. There is an old folk superstition that the tide moans in grief as it passes over a sandbar when someone has died or is about to die. 794 ARE YOU STORING WHEAT? Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN Available in two sizes Easy terms - Write for information Headquarters for breadmixers and Corona Wheat Mills SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main Smithfield, Utah 84335 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department days before Tennyson died, in 1892, he instructed that this poem should end all editions of his poetry—a request that has seldom been violated. "UPHILL" BY CHRISTINA ROSSETT! Does the road wind uphill all the way? Yes, to the very end. Will the day's journey take the whole long day? From morn to night, my friend. But is there for the night a restingplace? A roof for when the slow dark hours begin. May not the darkness hide it from my face? You cannot miss that inn. Shall I meet other wayfarers at night? Those who have gone before. Then must I knock, or call when just in sight? They will not keep you standing at that door. Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak? Of labor you shall find the sum. Will there be beds for me and all who seek? Yea, beds for all who come. DISCUSSION OF "UPHILL" Althoughwrittenallegorically, the meaning of this poem will be clear to all readers. Note that it is a conversation poem, with the questions in the first and third lines of each stanza asked by one person and the answers in the second and fourth lines given by another, wiser person— as if the Savior himself were giving reassurance. Class Discussion What is the full meaning of the line "Of labor you shall find the sum." 795 October 1968 TWO POEMS BY CAROL LYNN PEARSON Of the Mysteries I know only as much of God and the world As a creature with two eyes must; But what I do understand I love, And what I don't understand, I trust. Day-Old Child My day-old child lay in my arms. With my lips against his ear I whispered strongly, "How I wish— I wish that you could hear; "Y've a hundred wonderful things to say (A tiny cough and a nod), Hurry, hurry, hurry and grow So I can tell you about God." My day-old baby's mouth was still And my words only tickled his ear. But a kind of a light passed through his eyes, And I saw this thought appear: "How I wish I had a voice and words; I've a hundred things to say. Before I forget I'd tell you of God— I left Him yesterday." DISCUSSION OF TWO POEMS BY CAROL LYNN PEARSON As these two tiny poems delightfully illustrate, Mrs. Pearson has a combination of delicate word-usage with stimulating word-meanings that are both charming in their simplicity and startling in their provocativeness. The poems speak for themselves. "SONNET 29" BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes I ali alone beweep my outcast state, And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries, And look upon myself, and curse my fate, Wishing me like to one more rich in hope, Featured like him, like him with friends possessed, Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope, With what I most enjoy contented least; 796 New Craft Medium __ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of; service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include spostage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah f Zone 1 and 2 - - 55 g@Zone5 _.-_-.7D) Zone3 -~_--.-.60 Zone6 _~__--85 Zone4 _~___-.65 Zone7 _..-- -95 Zone8_- ~~ - -1.05 [a_i PESERET [REwsS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising, Haply I think on thee,—and then my state, Like to the lark at break of day arising From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate; For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings That then I scorn to change my state with kings. DISCUSSION OF SHAKESPEARE'S SONNET 29 This sonnet, is included here to emphasize that one kind of faith is faith in other people. Just thinking of a beloved person, says Shakespeare, can lift one out of a mood of despondency. Some readers may feel that Shakespeare exaggerates the power of love and friendship (in Shakespeare's case the person referred to in the sonnet was a cherished friend); other readers, having known the healing power of love and friendship, will see more meaning in Shakespeare's words. INTRODUCTION TO "WORK WITHOUT HOPE" Up to this point in this lesson we have been exploring various kinds and degrees of faith. Not all literature, of course, expresses faith. To illustrate the despair that results from lack of faith, we turn to "Work Without Hope" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834). Coleridge's problem was not that he did not believe in God, for he was a devout Christian, nor that he did not believe in life after death, for he did, but that he did not believe in himself. "The fearful unbelief is unbelief in yourself," said Carlyle. Lesson Department SILp MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers"' "Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED ~NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Coleridge was a brilliant and gifted man, in many ways the most brilliant and gifted writer of the English romantic movement. But he was also beset with terrible personal insecurity, unhappiness, and lack of self-discipline which resulted in agonizing drug addiction, insomnia, and wrecking of health, both physical and mental. In a moment of despair a few years before his death he wrote "Work Without Hope," one of the most beautiful yet depressive little poems ever written. Here we feel the suffering anguish of a man who has lost faith in himself. Work Without Hope by Samuel Taylor Coleridge All Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair— The bees are stirring—birds are on the wing— 797 October 1968 And Winter slumbering in the open air, Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring! And I the while, the sole unbusy thing, Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing.: Yet well I ken the banks where amar-. Anths blow, Have traced the fount whence streams of nectar flow. Bloom, O ye amaranths! Bloom for whom ye may, For me ye bloom not! Glide, rich streams, away! With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll: And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul? Work without Hope draws nectar in a sieve, And Hope without an object cannot live. CONCLUSION The preceding material in this lesson is excerpted from Section 3 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, the section contains fuller commentaries, notes, and questions for discussion on the selections here printed plus the following additional selections, which explore more fully some significant aspects of faith and its lack: 1. Quotation from John F. Kennedy 2. A printing of Psalms 8 and 23 from the Old Testament 3. The morning song from Pippa Passes by Robert Browning 4. "Easter Wings" by George Herbert 5. "Sunflower" by William Blake 6. Three additional poems by Carol Lynn Pearson 7. "Ode to the West Wind" by Percy Bysshe Shelley 8. "The Darkling Thrush" by Thomas Hardy 9. "Invictus" by William Ernest Henley 10., The short story "Christ in Flanders" by Honore de Balzac Only the poems by Carol Lynn Pearson are still under copyright restrictions. All other selections may be reprinted to whatever extent a teacher may desire. All Transportation Good Hotels—Fine Food & Safe Water 12 Meals Famous Railway in the sky Entertainment—Bull Fights, Folklorico Ballet, Travel Agency FIESTA TOURS MEXICO Personally Escorted Only $359 from Provo, Utah—March 7 to 23, 1969, Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Puebla © Mazatlan and other cities Included: ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Specializing in Mexican Tours Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 Holiday on Skis, Ocean Cruise, Famous High Divers, Xochimilco, Dancing, etc., Deep Sea Fishing (optional) 13 Archaeological Zones—Pyramids, Temple of, Qvuetzalcoatl, Tula, Zochicalco, etc. 798 a. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY cA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or _ ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 799 The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord Praise Be to Thee | Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide Inspirational Reading be] THE HOUSE OF THE LORD $1.25 paperbound by James E. Talmage $2.95 clothbound Deseret Book is proud to re-publish in modern format this classic of Church literature by the late scholar and general authority, James E. Talmage. This volume will be an important aid to those who are going to the temple for the first time. It will also bring to all Latter-day Saints a greater appreciation of the significance of temple work in their lives. Ees | OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. IV by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.60 Surface postage paid anywhere in the world. Vol. IV is the Relief Society Cultural Refinement text for 1968-69, and is geared to the theme: "The World Around Us." This book contains many items of renowned literature from the pens of noted writers, and makes an ideal volume for the family home library. Se SS eseret 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 32% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me [] THE HOUSE OF THE LORD [] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. IV 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 717 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA Total Cost $....000 eee Enclosed find check (7), money order (], checked established account (7. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life Insurance can be the foundation of your family's plans for the future. Missions, college, retirement — all depend on financial planning begun now. Your Beneficial Life agent is superbly qualified to advise you on the insurance protection and the insurance income that can make the future take shape just as you planned it. BE Relief Society Magazine NOVEMBER 1968 1) mm 'Za wa C4 > t wi THE SWALLOWS Back beyond the far edges Of time, refuting thunder And the violence of sound, Up from the cool meadows The swallows of my childhood come, To perch in silent symphony, Black notes on a wire staff Above the impending storm. They shift, move, Rewrite the score Of black notes on the coral Of a sunset cloud, Still composing in the lingering twilight Their silent melodies. Never a burst of song Though wings are everywhere. Only the lost chord of silence To assuage the dreamer's ear. —Dorothy J. Roberts The Cover: ii Design by Dick Scopes ) Lithograpned in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: V3 Symphony of Swallows Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Hlustrations: Mary Scopes 801 While vacationing at beautiful Fremont Lake in Pinedale, Wyoming, | have had a very enlightening experience of reading some two and three year old issues of the Magazine, Thank you, sisters, for publishing the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. You cannot imagine how much the Magazine means to us who live at the end of South America field of alfalfa, wild flowers on the hillside, a hummingbird—all the beauty of God's world. Ardath Esplin Staheli, Enterprise, Utah "Say Peanut Butter'' in the May 1968 issue of the Magazine, by Janice Dixon was delightful. | always Say a little levity leavens the loaf. Florence Bittner, Salt Lake City, Utah | thank the ladies of the Twenty-third Ward, Ogden, Utah, for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. | read every word, from the front to the back. Each article and lesson is inspiring. My hands are crippled with rheumatoid arthritis, and this is the only Magazine | can read, so | appreciate it. Betty Ipsen Young, Ogden, Utah | appreciate the delightful illustration in the July issue (page 508) for my article ''The | am writing to tell you how much | enjoy our wonderful Magazine. The features, articles, Stories, and photography are superb. | have always loved the honor given the sisters who are pictured with their lovely handwork. Genevieve G. Bullard, Roy, Utah Gladys Thomas, Pasadena, California 802 The Relief Society Magazine volume 55 November 1968 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 804 Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States Marianne C. Sharp 806 Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities Belle S. Spafford 812 'To Walk Uprightly Before the Lord'' Marianne C. Sharp 815 My Sisters and | Louise W. Madsen 818 In Memoriam—Elder William James Critchlow, Jr. 819 Norma B. Ashton Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Helena B. Larson 820 Luella W. Finlinson Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zola McGhie 821 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 827 Welcome the Task—Chapter 1 Michele Bartmess 837 Twice Blest Helen Romrell 845 si If Spring Be Late—(Conclusion) Mabe! Harmer General Features 802 From Near and Far 833 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 834 Editorial—Tell It to the Generations Vesta P. Crawford 836 Notes to the Field—Attention English Speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions 851 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 880 'Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 841 The Apron Mae R. Winters 842 Let's Make a Bag for Books Margaret Woods 843 Steamed Bread—An Old-Fashioned Delicacy Ida Isaacson 844 = Zerviah S. Greene Smith—An Artist With a Needle Lesson Department (Lessons for: Northern Hemisphere: February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969) 859 = Spiritual Living—The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances Roy W. Doxey 864 =—Visiting Teacher Message—Effective Communication Alice Colton Smith 866 Homemaking—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor 868 Social Relations—Look for the Guide Line Alberta H. Christensen 873 Cultural Refinement—The Satisfaction of Growth Robert K. Thomas Poetry 801 The Swallows Dorothy J. Roberts Light Upon the Earth, Catherine B. Bowles 811; Cumorah, Marilyn McMeen Miller 817; Significance, Barbara Huff 825; In Wholeness, Mabel Jones Gabbott 836; Choice, Vesta N. Fairbairn 839; Contrasts, Helen B. Terry 840; Interval, Elena Hassell Stanley 850; My Companion, Julie Wilson 850; The Master's Gifts, Mary V. Cameron 865; Better, Christie Lund Coles 867; Song for a Loss, Katherine F. Larson 872; Four Words Defined, Leora G. Larson 878; Loved, Carolle Denton 878. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subgcription Price $2.00 a year; foreign. $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States October 1968 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp w A new honor came to President Belle S. Spafford when she was elected the President of the National Council of Women of the United States in New York on October 17, 1968. Previous to this she has served as second and third vice-president on the board, and, more recently, as chairman of the Constitutional Review Committee. The Council is to be congratulated on its newest president. President Spafford has represented the Relief Society at the annual Council meetings since she became president of the Relief Society in 1945. Her outstanding abilities were soon recognized and responsibilities have come to her in increasing numbers over the years. She has been named as a United States delegate to the triennial meetings of the International Council of Women, in Philadelphia; Helsinki, Finland; Montreal, Canada; Washington D. C.; and Teheran, Iran. At the Helsinki conference in 1954, she was the chairman of the United States delegation. President Spafford is recognized for her fearlessness in espousing and defending those causes which she feels are right. Her tact, friendliness, and wisdom are appreciated. She has made friends with women throughout the world. She was the featured speaker at the recent Eightieth Anniversary of the Council last May. This is the first time that a National Council president has not resided in or near New York City, but special plans for holding meetings and carrying on Council affairs have been arranged so that President Spafford may take on this added heavy responsibility in addition to her vital Relief Society work. As she travels to the faraway stakes for Relief Society, she will also be cementing international ties for the National Council with the women of the free world. 804 Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] 7 w Early in April of this year, it was my honor and privilege to be the guest speaker at a meeting held in New York City in honor of the 80th anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States and also the _ International Council of Women. These two great councils were established in 1888 primarily in the interest mE ORSTERT a 806 of woman's suffrage with two socalled giants of the early suffrage movement, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, as the key figures. Today millions of the world's women are identified with these councils. There were in attendance at this anniversary meeting more than 700 women with sixty-one countries of the world represented. These were capable, serious-minded women leaders who had distinguished themselves in varied fields of human endeavor in their respective countries. They were women of conscience concerned with ways to alleviate the strains under which we are now living and anxious to bring about a more just, orderly, and peaceful way of life. In inviting me to speak, I was advised that it was the aim to have the program recognize the past in the world of woman with particular emphasis upon her work in the field of woman's suffrage, her place today, and what may be expected of her tomorrow. Considerable research was involved in the preparation of my address. Three strong impressions emerged from this research. First, the dedication of women of the past to the cause of suffrage and their conviction of its rightness. So strong were Mrs. Stanton's convictions that according to one of her biographers, Theodore Tilton, "... She would willingly have given her body to be burned for the sake of seeing her sex enfranchised." While Susan B. Anthony, according to one of her biographers, Ida H. Harper, "... Stood ready to sink all personal feelings... For the sake of promoting this cause which she placed above all else in the world." Second, I was impressed with the long and hard struggle of the women, the patience and persistence with which they overcame almost inconceivable obstacles in order to achieve their goal. WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE Third, I was impressed by the worthy motives which prompted early-day leaders to work for woman's suffrage. I found nothing in my reading which indicated, in any way, that the struggle was in order that women might be competitive with men in. Public hfe; rather suffrage was seen as an avenue through which women might have voice in public affairs, use their talents and exercise their judgment in the achievement of a better life for all. They saw it as a means to enlighten women for the enhancement of the society in which they were destined to live. Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities Mormon women were active in the suffrage movement, as we all know. National suffrage was granted the women of the United States with the adoption of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution in 1920. In most countries of the world today, women now enjoy these rights. In a few countries, they are still being pursued. It is of interest that once a nation grants suffrage to its women, there is, as a rule, a general favorable response to the action. For example, so delighted was Iran when suffrage was granted its women, a few short years ago, that the International Council of Women was invited by Empress Farah and the Princess Ashraf (twin sister of the Shah) to hold its triennial meeting in Teheran in honor of the event. When, in comparatively recent years, the women of Chili won suffrage, there appeared in the International Council of Women Bulletin an account of the event from which I quote the following: The formal announcement of this law was attended by brilliant and important personages. After an eloquent speech, the President of the Republic designated this day as a historical date to commemorate this great event for the democracy. Of the country, when a new and an inspired contingent—the women—would begin to participate in the responsibilities of citizenship. With this, a new day dawns for Chili. The president of the National Council of Women of Chili had this to say: The task which awaits women is as great as the difficulties they have overcome; but it is not only Chili that is confronted with this terrifying dilemma, but the entire Western civilization. And it is today that woman should take on her share of responsibility on a par with 807 November 1968 man in the destiny of a world hungry for faith in eternal, spiritual values, impoverished by crises and economic conflicts, bleeding from the wounds of war, frightened by the possible disintegration of the universe—this is_ the opportune moment. At this time we must collaborate, men and women unitedly, if we want a... Ray of hope to dispel the clouds that obscure the future. And, indeed, it does seem that the time has arrived when the focus of woman should no longer be on her rights, but rather upon her responsibilities; when the same dedication that characterized the winning of suffrage should characterize the achievement of the goals envisioned for it by the pioneer leaders of the cause; namely, the use of woman's talents and the exercise of her judgment, the use of the ballot, in making a better world. The times demand on all sides a new degree of public mindedness —an awakened conscience, a penetrating appraisal of those factors which have made nations great, along with re-dedicated allegiance to them. The times call for a greater degree of individual responsibility on the part of men and women alike in preserving the free way of life, together with the self-discipline that marks its wise and orderly use. As I looked out at the 700 women assembled for the Council's anniversary meeting and considered, for just a brief moment, the vast body of organized women which they represented, I was forcibly struck with the power and influence. That are now in the hands of women. This power, properly directed and wisely used, could and would 808 bring about great changes for good. Democracy is a precious heritage. It has been defined as government by _ the people; government in which the supreme power is retained by the people and exercised directly and indirectly through a system of representation. Its base is liberty. Its expression is the voice of the people. The law of free agency is a law of God. Considering democracy a little more intimately, it means the right to go to the Church of our choice' unrestricted, — the right to express our opinions without danger to ourselves, the right to own property, to work and save and make provision for our future; the right to maintain our homes and rear our children according to our own desires and standards; the right to go forward and improve our own conditions and pursue the interests which make us happy without unnecessary restraints or restrictions; the right to realize our full potential as individuals —rights guaranteed us by a government in which we have voice. This democratic way of life did not have its inception with the thirteen American colonies; nor is it peculiar to America. The ancient Greeks were advocates of it. History records that Aristotle taught that a state should be but the joining together of people for the happiness of themselves and families with each one being allowed as much independence as possible, without interfering with the rights of others. He declared that laws would be made and must be sovereign. Modifications in the law would be made by established processes. As early as 1215 Magna Charta was conceived—the foundation and pillar of English constitutional law. It placed limitations on the exercise of arbitrary powers of the King and was a charter of individual liberty for the people. The Bill of Rights set: forth in the Constitution of the United States was patterned after Magna Charta. As Latter-day Saints, we know that God's prophets have taught the importance of freedom which comes through representative government. About 90 B. C. King Mosiah on the American Continent admonished his people: Now it is not common that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right; but it is common for the lesser part of the people to desire that which is not right; therefore this shall ye observe and make it your law—to do your business by the voice of the people. (Mosiah 29:26.) It is highly disturbing that today certain influences are making inroads upon our democracy and its happy productive way of life for the people. Women properly should be concerned with these. May I suggest a few such influences: 1. The moral lassitude on the part of people in private and public life. 2. The ascendancy of materialism over spiritual values. 3. The growing disregard of law and order. 4. The various social devices and programs now being offered which tend to stifle individual initiative, deter self-effort, impair character, and which could ultimately enslave the individual. Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities What can we women do about these? How can we, the average women, the housewives on the farms and in the cities, impede or negate these adverse influences and promote that which has been proved to be good? MORAL LASSITUDE Let us first consider the problem of moral lassitude. Our greatest danger today, according to many thinking people, is from ourselves—from our growing disregard for principle and our reliance upon expediency. The decline in national character is a serious danger to democracy because if we lose our standards, our liberties may also be lost through abuses, corruption, and chaos. Personal integrity, honesty, trustworthiness, honorableness of intent and action, moral conduct in private and public life are the character fibers of democracy. These cannot be "taken on" as an individual, grown to manhood or womanhood, steps out to play his or her part in the affairs of the world. They must be inculcated in the individual in the days of his infancy and youth. These are given root and most effectively nourished in the home. Through her training, example, and watchcare, a mother can implant moral principles in a child so that when his influence is extended into public life, there will be no winking at unscrupulous or dishonorable behavior, but a steadfast adherence to right. In molding national character and creating public opinion that looks upon moral lassitude with a high de- 809 November 1968 gree of disfavor (and this, I believe, is the most effective way of dealing with this evil), it is my conviction that there is no group with greater power than women. This may seem a slow way of dealing with an urgent problem, but, in reality, as we consider the quick pace of time between childhood and adult life, it isn't so slow; but, nonetheless, it is sure. There is no way, in my judgment, whereby women can make a better contribution to public life. MATERIALISM Next, let us consider the materialism that is exerting itself as never before. This is threatening our rich, spiritual heritage. Spiritual strength, faith in God, and a reliance on his providences are essential to human _ wellbeing. Skepticism and unbelief are weapons of despotism. Tyranny and oppression do not thrive in an atmosphere of faith and_ religious devotion. Women have been regarded in the past as architects of spirituality. Today it would seem that the spiritual natures of many of us need an overhauling. Material advantage all too often seems predominantly to motivate our actions at a sacrifice of spiritual values. When the - spiritual natures, deeply embedded: in women, become dormant or choked out, then we have real cause to fear. Women should make every effort to build and strengthen the spiritual qualities of life through faith in God, through participation in Church activities, through developing well-defined religious concepts 810 and beliefs, and through teaching them to their children; through a cultivation of their innate spiritual natures without which there can be no really good life. Not what we have, but what we are should be the watchword of womankind. DISREGARD FOR LAW AND ORDER Relative to disregard for law and order, it is but reasonable that woman as mother, householder, educator, spiritual anchor and the living conscience of her contemporaries, would discountenance any attitude or action that would not uphold the sovereignty of law. True, she would be sensitive to human needs and sympathetic toward correcting or improving conditions which warrant this; she would work toward their betterment, but she would do so in an orderly way. She would not lend herself to action that would in any way agitate militancy or public disturbance. Rather she would concern herself with acquiring an informed understanding of the causes of the condition; she would thoughtfully determine how best to deal with these; she would work toward creating an enlightened public opinion, and accomplish desired changes within the framework of law. All too often, I fear, women who are by -nature inclined to be moved by their emotions, become so exercised over a problem as to lose sight of the proper approaches to its solution. This must be avoided. Mormon women know that latter-day revelation requires of us strict allegiance to civil law. It is my belief that organized women upholding the sovereignty of civil law and working toward needed social reform through orderly processes can be a power for good. ENSLAVEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL With regard to the fourth adverse influence to which I referred, let us exercise our hard-won franchise. Let us sense our individual responsibility to see that persons elected to public office are competent and _ morally sound; that they are persons who will protect the policies and practices of democracy and not yield to new and enslaving ways of governing; persons who will so govern that national character will remain strong. Generally speaking, I believe that people resent help that does not allow for reciprocal effort. Let us as women take measure of our own attitudes and wants. What do we expect of government? Would those things which we want serve the greatest good of the greatest number of people? What are we willing to contribute toward their attainment? Are we content to limit Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities our contribution to complaints or do we sense our responsibility to improve conditions through the orderly and intelligent exercise of our franchise? Let us keep informed on the local, national, and international issues before us. This is not hard to do in this day of extensive communication. Let us listen to the viewpoints of those who seek election to public office and who may have to deal with these issues. Let us consider whether their viewpoints square with the principles that have traditionally contributed to worthy government and the wellbeing of the people. Let us as Mormon women weigh them against the principles which have been taught us through precept and example by our leaders from the very beginning days of the Church. Let us listen to the voice of the prophets. I have faith in the women of the Church. I have faith in the countless good women of the world rising to a realization that they do have influence and power in correcting existing ills and in promoting right, and that they will prove themselves effective in the orderly achievement of a better world. LIGHT UPON THE EARTH Winds and weather move upon the earth— Sun and shadow mark the night and day, But light shall pierce the darkness In the gospel's steadfast ray. —Catherine B. Bowles 811 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conferehce, October 2, 1968] y ' 5 ali _ & he me @ We read in Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants commands given by the Lord to parents in Zion. Never, I feel, was it more necessary to obey these commandments for the eternal welfare of ourselves and our children than it is at the present time. These are fateful last days in the history of the world. Section 1, 812 the Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, saysin different verses,... The voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.... The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. (D&C 1:4,35.) Among the commandments given to parents, we read "And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D&C 68:28.) It is not an easy thing in these last days for mothers to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord. It is true that there have always been temptations in the world, but temptations today seem to be more available, with evil sounds and evil examples allowed, through modern media, to invade the sacred precincts of the home. In 1831, when Section 68 was given, the Lord said he was not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there were idlers among them and their children were growing up in wickedness. Do we wonder what the Lord thinks of the condition of our children today? All we have to do is to listen to the words of our prophets who, in the next few days, will deliver the words of the Lord to us. And it will be for us, aS mothers, to heed those words spoken to the mothers at the Relief Society conference, and then at the great general Church conference, which follows, and the words of the prophets as they visit throughout the stakes. Virtue of Modesty As we think of virtues which we would make the warp and woof of our children's lives, many come to our minds and crowd for expression. A major one is modesty. I recall my mother telling her children that her proper English mother would not allow her daughters to cross their knees, but would reprimand them with the words "Don't make _ yourself cheap." Today, we hear so much about keeping the knees covered that the true meaning of modesty may not be realized. Modesty is not measured by a yardstick. It is that innate feeling and observance for the decencies of behavior, speech, and_ dress. Clothing which covers a knee and even the upper arms may be so immodest as to verge on vulgarity. Such a subtle quality as modesty, can hardly be defined in words. The observance depends, in great measure, upon the example of the mother to her daughters. Let us look into our hearts, do we give lip service and outward compliance in a way to get by, 'To Walk Uprightly Before The Lord" or do we and are we strengthening our characters so that the quality of modesty is an integral part of it, helping us to gain eternal life? Can we imagine an immodest woman in the celestial kingdom? Is that thought a weightier one than style or fashion, or following present trends? Obedience to Law; Upholding the Constitution A second area to which I would speak is the observance of law and upholding the Constitution of the United States. A mother's training in observing the law is powerful for a child. In her daily living pattern she teaches her child not only to observe the laws of God but also the laws of the land. Lessons in law observance are easily taught as she drives a car, as she has her child observe traffic signals in walking, as she observes the word of wisdom in the home and outside, as she observes the Sabbath day to keep it holy. The divinity of the Constitution of the United States is a part of the gospel no matter in what country a Latterday Saint may live, for it was established by the Lord in order that his Church could be established on the earth. Mothers who owe allegiance to the Government of the United States need to train their children to be ready to save the Constitution when that time comes. Brigham Young said on July 4, 1854: Will the Constitution be destroyed? No: it will be held inviolate by this people; and, as Joseph Smith said, "The time will come when the destiny of the nation will hang upon a single thread. At that critical juncture, this people will 813 November 1968 step forth and save it from the threatened destruction." Brigham Young added "It will be so." (Journal of Discourses 7:15.) We do not know how or when this will be, but we need to teach our children to love the Constitution of the United States, and to know that "the signers of the Declaration of Independence and the framers of the Constitution were inspired from on high to do that work." (Journal of Discourses 7-14.) When the destiny of the United States will hang upon a single thread, at that critical juncture, mothers, do you want your children among those who will step forth and save it? They must be law abiding and liberty loving if they will do it. A few months ago a Patriot's Day observance was held in this Tabernacle. A former United States Supreme Court Justice, Tom C, Clark asked "What is the most important thing in the world?" and answered, "I say to you it is the law. Without it we would not be able to live. The world would be governed by force.... The next most important thing in the world is obedience to law and respect for constituted authority." As mothers, let us set an example of obedience to law to which our children will adhere. Love for the Savior Finally, I would speak on the attribute which must govern us as mothers in our daily living pattern and which we must teach our children if they would "walk uprightly before the Lord." It is the knowledge of Jesus as 814 the Christ, the Son of the living God, and our love for him. As we have taught our children faith in Christ the Son of the Living God, so we must teach them love for Christ. As we get a dim, imperfect understanding of the atonement of Christ for all, our love for him increases. The great motivating force to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men, is love of Christ. The great motivating force to keep us on the straight and narrow path to exaltation, is the love of Christ. As mothers we must draw near to him. It is not what we profess to be, nor even what our actions are, which will give us that greatest gift of eternal life. It is what we are—which the Lord knows. In being judged for what we are, there will enter in the words of the Lord with regard to the teaching of our children and where we do not fulfill his command, "the sin will be upon the heads of the parents." Nothing will excuse a mother from obedience to these commandments of the Lord. When children become independent and sometimes even rebellious, it is the day-by-day, hour-by-hour training of the children by the mother which may keep the child from turning away from righteousness. President McKay has testified to the safeguard of a mother's example and teachings in the hour of temptation. May every Latterday Saint mother obey the commandment of the Lord to teach her children to walk uprightly before the Lord and welcome the blessed opportunities for training them throughout life, I pray. My Sisters and | Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] ij w The belief in the brotherhood of man is one of the foremost doctrines of the Church. We believe implicitly in the Fatherhood of God which encompasses the knowledge of the brotherhood of man. Sisterhood is one of the great blessings of Relief Society. Each sister having the concept of the sisterhood of the daughters of our Heavenly Father, knowing that one of the reasons he caused Relief Society to be organized was to foster that sisterhood, will identify herself as a sister in the Society and as a sister to those to whom she can be of service. Each individual member will, with humility, think of "my sisters and I" as she contemplates some of the forces which lead to an abundant life, and as she pledges her service and loyalty. My sisters and I will be benevolent, with all the moral excellence benevolence implies. President McKay has said, "All acts of kindness, of self-denial, of self-devotion, of forgiveness, of charity, of love, spring from this divine attribute." Benevolence is the sum of many virtues and is one of the attributes of the Father and the Son which mortals strive to emulate. The Prophet Joseph Smith was confident that the sisters of Relief Society possessed a knowledge 815 November 1968 of the pure principles of benevolence and practiced them. Each of us has been the recipient of the benevolent deeds of others. From this experience we learn to act toward others in the same manner. My sisters and I will serve the Lord together. With them and through them I will learn compassion. | WILL GO BEYOND MYSELF My sisters and I will serve those in sickness and distress, becoming involved in the misfortunes of others to the extent that our services prove helpful and uplifting. Because I have been one with them in service I may expect their tender ministrations if need comes to me. But further, by their example, I will be led to see the needs of those about me. A heightened awareness of the blessings of service will guide me. I will not be blind to the sight of someone who needs me, nor deaf to the call of the helpless, nor indifferent to distress. I will go beyond myself to a greater loving-kindness. "Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love...." (Rom. 12:10), the apostle Paul admonished. This affection appears in the joy of being together, of working together, of laughing or crying together. Brotherliness or sisterliness is but the manifestation of the Spirit of Christ. It increases in us a great appreciation of the Savior's value of the individual soul. This affection extends far beyond the intimate circle of close friends to sisters in great cities, in small hamlets, in distant lands, across 816 wide oceans, over high mountains, in every part of the earth. The affection of sisters binds us together in a closely knit worldwide organization. Sisterhood implies mutual dependence, a purpose in common and the "oneness" the Lord requires of his daughters. Among life's sweetest blessings is the companionship of those with noble ideals. The influence for good one's life has been is one of the measures of successful living. My sisters and I will study together, learn together, and teach one another. Deeply spiritual experiences will result from learning the great doctrines of the gospel and the simple truisms of the faith. Testimonies will be strengthened. Enrichment will enter our lives as we partake of the refining influences of culture and beauty. An increased understanding of what constitutes the finest literature, the greatest art, the best music will enable us to acquire the knowledge which will make us better women. Spirituality, culture, refinement—do these not reflect the ideals of womanhood of which we are capable? Together we will achieve' them. My sisters and I will be true to the faith. BEAUTY ALL AROUND My sisters and I will endeavor to build happy homes, to bring to our husbands and children all the love and devotion of our hearts and souls. The aura of graciousness, of kindness, of courtesy, of thought- fulness will permeate our homes. There will be beauty all around, spiritual beauty as well as physical beauty, as we enlarge our homemaking talents and practice the feminine graces that are the natural heritage of women. Relief Society is a joyous sisterhood of women uniting to do the will of the Lord. Together the members accomplish important things, yet each individual is benefited from being a part of the whole. No one has lost her identity. The Society is not one which effaces the individual, but one which enhances her abilities, My Sisters and | personality, and character. Each member is cherished and in turn cherishes her sisters. "Whither thou goest," whither thou leadest in righteousness, I will follow, she promises those appointed to lead this great Society. Together, my sisters and I will accept the Prophet's challenge to build up Relief Society to the Most High in the most acceptable manner. The women of the Church will fill their role in its blessed entirety. My sisters and I are grateful to our Heavenly Father for the great blessing of being his daughters. CUMORAH There is poetry in these hills. Even the rain Listens In its breathless hush. The same Wet sacrament Of earth Delivers sound Of all the reverence Here above, below... The ground. There is a secret below this green Wet world of leaf and wood That whispers yet. - The earth is calm, Remembering, And man does not forget: The rain, And all the poetry of life From here that came... And all that someday Breathless... Soon... May speak again. —Marilyn McMeen Miller 817 IN MEMORIAM ELDER WILLIAM JAMES CRITCHLOW, JR. Assistant to the Council of the Twelve August 21, 1892—August 29, 1968 @ Elder William James Critchlow, Jr., Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Ogden, Utah, August 29, 1968 at the age of seventy-six. Elder Critchlow was appointed an assistant to the Council of the Twelve in October 1958, and has since fulfilled many important assignments for the Church. At the time of his death, he was an aid to Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve in supervising stakes and missions in the Southeastern United States. Prior to this, he had assisted Elder Ezra Taft Benson, also of the Council of the Twelve, in supervising stakes and missions in Europe. He served as an advisor to the Primary organization and on the Church personnel committee, while a General Authority. Prior to his call to be a General Authority, Elder Critchlow served in many important Church positions, including seventeen years as president of the South Ogden Stake. Elder Critchlow was born in Brigham City, Utah, August 21, 1892. He was the son of Anna Gregerson and William James' Critchlow. He received his education in the Ogden _ public schools, and was graduated from Weber Academy and studied at the University of Utah. His business career was one of hard-won success. Within 818 ten years he had gone from office clerk to regional manager of the Utah Light and Railway Company, now Utah Power and Light Company. In 1924, Elder Critchlow was married to Anna Marie Taylor of Ogden in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of three children, William James, III, Robert Taylor, and _ Patricia (Mrs. Datus H. Maughan). There are fifteen grandchildren. Elder Critchlow was always dedicated and devoted to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. As a General Authority, he traveled extensively for the Church, attending stake conferences, touring missions, dedicating chapels, and preaching the gospel. Wherever he went he was a popular and _ inspirational speaker, and his_ enthusiastic testimony of the work in which he was engaged was infectious. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to the family and many friends of Elder Critchlow at his passing. Norma B. Ashton Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Helena B. Larson, Member, General Board, Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association ® Quietly efficient, humbly talented, genuinely friendly, Norma Berntson Ashton brings a wealth of ability and experience to the Relief Society General Board, appointed August 14, 1968. She has served in ward and stake Re. Lief Society presidencies, taught committee of YWMIA stake Presidents who re the YWMIA Brighton Home. And on the board of directors for volunteers of the Latter-day Saint ospital, also executive positions in the Cancer Society, the March of Dimes, various PTA 8roups, and president of the Salt Lake Tennis Club Ladies Association. Her educational achievements are likewise many and varied, magna cum laude, she taught in the Salt Lake Schools for two years until beginning her greatest career—that of wife, mother, and homemaker. She married Marvin J. Ashton, First Assistant Superintendent of the YMMIA, in the Salt Lake Temple in 1940. One son, now married, 819 Luella W. Finlinson Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zola McGhie, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Coming to her new calling on the General Board of Relief Society, Luella Wheeler Finlinson brings a rich background of service and devotion to the Church and the community. She was appointed August 14, 1968. Born in South Cottonwood, Utah, the youngest of seven children of Bishop Jesse H. And Rena M. Doty Wheeler, Sister Finlinson comes from a family of Relief So- \ ciety workers. Her mother was in the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society Presidency when the Cottonwood Maternity Home was founded. Two sisters have been ward and stake presidents. She attended schools in the Granite District and graduated, an honor student, from the University of Utah. She then taught in Granite, Murray, and Jordan Schools before marrying Fred Lyman Finlinson, Salt Lake attorney, in 1939. They are the parents of three children: Fred W., a law student at the University of Utah, married to the former Jeanne Braithwaite; David W., business student; and Judith, a sophomore at the University of Utah. Sister Finlinson's devotion to the Church and her leadership have been demonstrated in her many Church assignments. She was a member of the Tabernacle Choir for twenty-eight years; served as ward MIA secretary and president; as teacher and chorister in Sunday School; as Relief Society visiting teacher; as cultural refinement class leader, Singing Mothers chorister, and ward president. Stake assignments include: Junior Girls leader, counselor of Girls Committee, Relief Society visiting teacher message leader, secretary, chorister, regional welfare president, and seven years as South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society President, a position she held until her appointment to the General Board. Her many civic activities include positions in the Parent-Teacher Association, Utah State Barristers Wives, Salt Lake County Bar Auxiliary, political circles, Delta Gamma Alumni, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Salt Lake Council of Women, Lady Lions, Forum Club, and fund raising drives. She is listed in Who's Who of American Women and Who's Who in Western American Women. The women of the Church will truly benefit from the humble spirit, friendly personality, and the great love for Relief Society that Sister Finlinson radiates. 820 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] w The presentation of a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few current official instructions and recommendations from the General Board, is a regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Conference. Heretofore, figures from the most recent annual report have been compared with those of the previous year, giving precise information on growth and accomplishments. In giving this report, we must use figures from the report covering the eight-month period, January through August 1967, which are the only Church-wide figures available to us at this time. This eight-month report does not lend itself to comparison with the previous twelve-month report, so comparative figures will not be used. The growth and expansion of the work have necessitated some changes in procedures; a need to take firmer steps to standardize the work in harmony with the regulations and recommendations of the Church Correlation Committee; a need to provide some new Church approved materials, particularly lesson materials, to meet the special needs of certain Societies; a need for extensive translation of Relief Society materials to serve the many foreign-language organizations. STANDARDIZING THE WORK An effective tool in standardizing the work is the new Relief Society Handbook of Instructions issued in January of this year. The revised Record Books and Visiting Teacher Report Books further standardize the work, as do the present regulations with regard to the use of ChurchCorrelation-approved materials. The four volumes of the Special Lessons prepared for groups needing simplified lessons, as well as the lessons for use by campus Relief Societies during' the summer months, bring further uniformity into the teaching program. Relief Societies are directed not to use courses of study or other programs of their own choosing in substitution for approved programs. With regard to the translation of Relief Society lessons and other materials, it will be of interest to 821 November 1968 you to know that presently Relief Society work is being translated, through the Church Translation Department, into sixteen different foreign languages with additional language translations anticipated. ANNUAL REPORT OF MEMBERSHIP OF CAMPUS RELIEF SOCIETIES Membership figures as of August 31, 1967 showed a slight decrease over those of January 1, 1967. This would have caused concern had we not realized that there are approximately 10,000 sisters enrolled in college campus Relief Societies. After these sisters leave the campus in the late spring or early summer, no record is kept of their Relief Society membership until it is again recorded when they return to school in the fall. We estimate that had the May membership figures for campus Relief Societies been used in compiling membership figures, rather than those of August 31, Relief Society would have shown a_ normal twelve-month membership _increase in excess of 10,000. The General Board now recommends that membership figures as of May 31 be used for campus Relief Societies rather than those of August 31. NEW NURSERY MANUAL We are pleased to advise you that a new Relief Society nursery manual has been prepared through the service of the Church Correlation Writing Committee. We think it is delightful. It contains a few general instructions. It has lessons, stories, songs, finger plays and other recom- 822 mended activities that have been carefully chosen to teach our little pre-school children through enjoyable, meaningful activities. The manual, available for stake and ward, mission and branch Societies, may be used for several successive years. It is to be obtained, through the stake or mission district, from the General Board Office. Price $2. Where wards are far removed from the stake or mission district center, the manual will be mailed direct to the ward or branch upon request. The book is not translated into foreign languages, however. STRENGTHEN LAMANITE ORGANIZATIONS We appeal to you sisters who have Lamanite Relief Societies within your stakes and missions to do all in your power to strengthen these organizations so they will meet the needs of the Lamanite sisters. Help these sisters to live comfortably in the Church and the social environment in which they find themselves. Help them to make their homes inviting to their children. Certainly we. Would not have them lose the beauties of their own culture, but we would offer them every advantage offered every other woman through Rehef Society. No new special lessons are being prepared for use in 1968-69 by the Lamanite sisters. These sisters 'will repeat, as needed, lessons formerly contained in Special Lessons, Volumes 1 through 4. They will also use the regular Homemaking Discussions, Visiting 'Teacher Messages, and the Social Relations lessons printed in_ the Magazine for the current year's educational program. It is anticipated that a new set of lessons will be prepared for the Lamanite sisters for use during 1969-70. EDUCATION As an institution providing general and balanced education that meets the basic needs of woman, Relief Society is without peer. Approximately 25,000 sisters are serving as class leaders, going before their classes well prepared and involving the sisters in meaningful participation in the class discussions. Education materials are available to accompany the 1968-69 courses of study. You have been advised of these through a General Board bulletin issued in July and in the Notes to the Field Department in the August 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. We are pleased to advise you at this time that a picture of the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., author of the book used as a text for the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons with which our Social Relations lessons are correlated, is available through the Deseret Book Company. If one to five pictures are purchased, the price is 35c each, postpaid; six or more may be purchased for 25c each, postpaid. We regret that the Cultural Refinement textbook, Out of the Best Books, Volume IV, was unavoidably not ready for distribution in time for most leadership meetings held in September. The textbook is now ready and may be obtained from the Deseret Book Company for $2.60 per copy, surface mail postpaid. Report and Official Instructions HOMEMAKING We call your attention to the importance of the discussions prepared for use in the homemaking meeting for the forthcoming season. These discussions are concerned with the principles and practices whereby we may achieve beauty and good taste in our home environment and in our family relationships and thereby contribute to the development of spirituality in the home. They should not be neglected; nonetheless, they should not infringe upon time that should belong to other homemaking activities. RED CROSS HOME NURSING CLASSES The General Board has felt the urgency of encouraging Rehef Society members to take classes in home nursing. Through the generous and wholehearted cooperation of the American Red Cross, for which we are very grateful, classes have been conducted with a high degree of success in the Phoenix and Mesa areas in Arizona and are now underway in Southern Arizona, Provo, Ogden, and Seattle areas. Plans are in the making, also, to extend the classes into the Portland area. Other areas will be reached as arrangements can be worked out by the General Board in cooperation with the Red Cross. It is our expectation that thousands of Relief Society homes will benefit from this program. The General Board will appreciate being notified by you when it is felt that a home nursing course may be established in your area. 823 November 1968 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE In the eight-month period, January through August 1967, there were 24,500 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick in their homes. Assuming this same rate of service was continued for the next four months, there was an annual increase in the service of over 5,500 eighthour days. The volume of other types of compassionate service is heartening as you will note in the report published in the April 1968 Relief Society Magazine, and bears evidence that Relief Society is indeed meeting its responsibilities to those in distress. SPECIALIZED WELFARE SERVICES As many of you know, the First Presidency has assigned to the Relief Society General Presidency responsibility for directing the specialized welfare services of the Church. These are services requiring state license, such as adoption and foster-home care of children. We call to your attention Section XVII in the booklet, Administering Assistance that is being distributed by the Regional Representatives of the Twelve in the Regional Conferences now being held. Relief Society stake presidents will receive a copy of this booklet. We also wish to advise you of a statement on these Specialized Welfare Services that will appear in a forthcoming issue of the Priesthood Bulletin. We urge a careful reading of both these statements for your information in order that you may safeguard yourselves against any wrong 824 procedures in dealing with these matters by following the recommendation. RECORDING WELFARE HOURS Relief Society continues to support the Church Welfare program as directed by the General Priesthood Welfare Committee. A new ruling prevails with regard to recording the hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Hereafter, you will record only the number of hours 'contributed by Relief Society members. VISITING TEACHING The Visiting Teacher program continues to grow in size and improve in quality of service with approximately five million visits having been made to homes by 132,000 visiting teachers. The importance of this program has long since been proved. We commend the sisters for their service and Relief Society presidents for their conscientious efforts in directing it. MUSIC There comes to Relief Society through its music program esthetic richness, enjoyment, opportunities for the development of talents, as well as for cultural and missionary service. How spiritually impoverished _ this Conference would seem could we not join in singing the hymns of Zion, and did we not have the blessings of the glorious music of our Singing Mothers choruses, our gifted soloists, and our great accompanists, our beautiful and reverent prelude and postlude music. We are heartened by the growth in the number of Singing Mothers choruses and the excellent quality of their work. These choruses are being recognized, and invitations to sing for important events are increasing. As examples, I cite the presentation of the chorus from the New York and New Jersey areas, conducted by Sister Ellen N. Barnes on last year's 30-minute nation-wide N. B. C. Christmas Eve program entitled "Voices of Christmas," also the recent presentation at Hemisfair of a combined chorus of 375 voices from eight. Stake Relief Societies in the South led by Sister Montez Anderegg. Other choruses have sung on important occasions. The General Board requests that any plans for your Singing Mothers choruses to give concerts outside your own stakes be referred to the General Board for counsel and approval. SONG CONTEST In order further to promote music and through the generosity of Sister Cleone Eccles, a gifted musician and former member of the Board, we are pleased to announce that the General Board will conduct annually a contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music), to be known as "The Relief Society Song Contest." The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art-excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. This year's contest (1968-69) opens with Report and Official Instructions this announcement and _ closes March 1, 1969. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest. The rules of the contest are published in the October 1968 issue of the Magazine. MAGAZINE It is with deep appreciation that we acknowledge the service of stake and ward presidencies and the Magazine representatives in the Magazine circulation program. The present combined circulations of the English and Spanish editions is 273,000. The importance of the Magazine in all aspects of our work is recognized by all of us. GARMENT DISTRIBUTION We also most sincerely thank stake Relief Society presidents for the willing spirit and the excellence of efforts in the Garment Distribution program. You have caught the spirit of this great assignment and are conducting your programs so that the purposes desired by the First Presidency in assigning the work to Relief Society are being realized. It is my personal opinion that Relief Society has never been given by the First Presidency a special assignment of greater or more far-reaching importance and that Relief Society presidents perhaps have never accepted an assignment with a more sincere desire to fulfill it as desired by the Brethren. May we all continue to be blessed in our work with this sacred clothing. 825 November 1968 FUND RAISING We commend ward and stake Relief Society presidents for the wise direction being given to fund raising, for the wisdom shown in making expenditures and_ for the accuracy of the financial accounting. We suggest that you review with your officers Section X, "Funds," pages 61-69 in the new Handbook of Instructions, with special attention being given to the paragraph, "Participation in Commercial Selling,' page 63. We caution you with regard to a growing trend to enter into arrangements for persons to give demonstrations at the homemaking meeting where the sisters, in making the articles demonstrated, can obtain the materials or equipment only through purchase from the demonstrator or a company she represents. Sisters, to hold office in Relief Society is a distinct honor involving responsibility and_ trust. Relief Society leaders need the blessing of the Lord.. We announce at this time the change in the ruling with regard to setting apart of Relief Society leaders, which appears in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints General Handbook of Instructions, Number 20, 1968, page 31, as follows: Bishopric to Call Ward Auxiliary Officers. Auxiliary officers are chosen, interviewed, and called by the bishopric, and, following the sustaining vote of the ward membership, are set apart by the bishopric. Officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations may be nominated by the auxiliary heads and should be interviewed and approved by the bishopric. They may be sustained in their regular meeting of the respective auxiliary and are to be set apart by or under the direction of the bishopric. Auxiliary leaders should not contact new workers until the bishopric has interviewed the prospective candidate and has issued the call. This ruling supercedes the ruling in the new Relief Society Handbook of Instructions on page 41 with regard to the setting apart of officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. With regard to visiting teachers, they are called by authority of the Priesthood for this special assignment, and they go out as emissaries of Relief Society. It is not regarded as necessary under these circumstances that they be set apart. We understand that this is in harmony with the regulations on home teachers not being set apart. Sisters, the women with whom you work are precious women, eager to do right, to meet life with intelligence, and in harmony with the will of the Lord. It is your task to direct the work of Relief Society so that these choice women may delight in their Relief Society membership and through it, be blessed according to their needs and desires. May choice blessings be yours. A candle in the sunlight SIGNIFICANCE Cannot brighten more the day, But that candle is a blessing When the sun has gone away. 826 —Barbara Huff ws Jennifer Miles leaned against the big walnut tree gracing the back yard of the large family home in Springville, Utah. It was early spring, and the mountains to the south were still a beautiful blue and white from the winter's snow. The lake to the west and the sky above were an identical blue. The eastern mountains were beginning to turn green. The air was pleasantly warm and flowers were beginning to bloom all across the valley. Jennifer loved the springtime, for it signified new birth and was a change from the final dreary months of winter; but she loved each new season as it came. She sighed audibly. She was failing in a valiant but vain attempt to get an early start in preparing for final examinations at the university where she was a junior student in business eduChapter 1 Welcome The Task Michele Bartmess ° as told by Annette Giles » cation. When she finished she would be qualified to teach in high school. There were three more semesters, one of which involved student teaching, before she would finish her course of study. She realized that she was going to have to go into the library in Provo, for there she could push away the thoughts that were crowding her mind and study diligently. Recently, she had been having some trouble forcing herself to prepare for her classes, and, at times, she felt uncertain as to whether she ought to be in school, although it was a lifelong goal. She was assured that it was both natural and temporary. Many dedicated students had periods of time when it seemed hopeless, it was called "junior jitters." From the kitchen the aroma of baking bread stirred Jennifer to 827 November 1968 action and she hurried in to see if there might be something she could do to help. "T thought you were studying, dear,' Mrs. Miles commented as Jennifer came into the cheerful yellow and white kitchen, always perfectly clean, even after a baking session. "T guess [ll have to do my studying in the library, where I can't see all the signs of springtime and feel the sunshine warming my bones. I believe my ailment could be correctly diagnosed as spring fever." "You're sure you haven't been bitten by the love-bug, Jenny?" her mother asked perceptively. "How was your date last night?" A flicker of uncertainty clouded Jennifer's features for a_ brief moment, then she said brightly, "The play was wonderful. Some of the student actors are great. They really portray with emotion. I guess it's a reflection on the fine training the university offers." Elizabeth Miles did not pry into the brief hesitation she had noted in her daughter's reply. Theirs had been a close family, and Jennifer was the only daughter. She would come to her in time. "Mother, you're going to ruin my figure," Jennifer protested, as she took the warm cinnamon roll her mother offered. Elizabeth smiled. "No, Jenny, your figure survived two years of British cooking, and most people do put on weight when they go over there." Jennifer knew this to be true, but while she was on her mission she had been consciously careful of what she ate. She had always been slim and_ graceful. She 828 looked like her mother, with long dark auburn hair, and brown expressive eyes. Her mouth was full and generally turned up in a smile. She did have her father's chin, suggesting strength and determination. As Jennifer drove to Provo later, she thought over the previous evening's activities. She wondered if her conversation with Steve was the reason that things seemed all out of proportion today. Their relationship was somewhat strange, she supposed. Although they had tried, or rather Steve had tried to explain it, Jennifer was left somewhat confused and unsure of how she really felt about everything, including Steve. Steve was a quiet person. Everyone was aware of that, but it had never been uncomfortable to be with him, and the silences had been pleasant ones. Jennifer wasn't too much more outgoing than he. She joked and had fun with her friends and family, but was basically serious, and, occasionally, shy. As she had told her mother, the play had been wonderful. It was one she had read, but seeing it portrayed had brought it strangely to life. It was Thornton Wilder's Our Town, done with a minimum of distracting scenery so the characters were the focal point and it had moved the audience deeply. In the climactic final scene where young Emily urges people to live each day fully, for it will be lost when it is done, Jennifer felt tears stinging her own eyelids, and the gentle pressure of Steve's hand told her that he, too, had been deeply moved. After the play, they had walked across campus and sat down on one of the benches beneath a tree in a little grove, where students often came for a bit of quiet aloneness. They discussed the play and its message, and were in agreement about the beauty of such a message. Suddenly Steve had asked, seemingly out of the blue, "Jenny, do you ever feel trapped by life?" She looked at him oddly. "Trapped?" "You know," he went on, earnestly, "by social pressures and all. That if you go against the expected norms, you're some kind of an oddball?" Jennifer could not imagine where this strange beginning was going to lead. This was unlike Steve. "What kind of social pressures, Steve?" "Well," he began hesitantly, "we've been dating for about a year now, and we corresponded for nine months." Jennifer felt momentary panic. What could he be driving at? Was he going to ask her to marry him, or was he trying to end the relationship? Neither seemed likely. "Yes, I guess it has been that long, but it doesn't seem like mo He was silent for a_ while. "Jenny," he finally said gently, "T guess I owe you something after all this time, at least an explanation of my intentions." The thought had crossed Jennifer's mind, but, unlike most girls her age, she was not particularly concerned lest she might not marry. She felt that there was some unfinished business in her life that needed attention before marriage, although what, ~ she had no idea. She had fulfilled her dream of serving a mission in England, but still she felt a restlessness to prepare for some task. She would soon be_ through school, but she knew this was not the task. She was nearly twenty-four years old, and marriage could wait. She enjoyed life and male attention, and she did want to marry and have a family, but not yet. Her friends considered this attitude strange, so she rarely expressed it. She knew that she simply was not yet ready for marriage. Steve spoke again. "I've been getting it from the fellows, you know, about us getting married and all." So this was what he meant by social pressures. She "had been getting it," too, but it would bother a man more than a woman. Steve was twenty-seven years old, nearly through school, a mission and military service behind him, naturally, he was ideal as far as a possible husband was concerned. 829 November 1968 "T really don't know what to say, Steve. I haven't been worried about that. We have a good time together, I feel comfortable with you, and of course, I am fond of you, and respect and admire you. ] just ignore the social pressure." Most of their discussions had been religious, academic, or in a non-personal category. It was difficult for them to express themselves in such a frank and candid manner about so serious a matter. "That is exactly why I am attracted to you, Jenny. Pretty girls are a dime a dozen on this campus, but they all have one thing on their minds—marriage. It scares a man. You're a beautiful girl, Jennifer, I like that, but you're also mature and intelligent. You never put pressure on me by dropping little hints, or staring longingly when we pass a jewelry shop." "Well, frankly, Steve, I'm just not in any hurry to get married. I do want to finish school, and I feel that there is something else I have to do. Please don't ask me what, for if I knew I would set about doing it." "T've said this much, Jenny," he said, seeming to force himself to continue, "I guess I'll finish. If I were going to marry soon, you would be my choice. We are compatible, I admire your domestic talents, you're calm, understanding, and intelligent, I'm always proud to be with you, and believe it or not, I do care about you. But, well—I haven't given marriage too much thought yet. I want a home and family, eventually, but right now I want my master's degree. And there is Mom. I don't even remember 830 Dad. I was just a little boy when the war broke out, and he was killed in Normandy. Mother has helped me as she could through school, and with my mission. I don't know, I'm probably against falling in love, and I have no right to ask you to wait until it becomes convenient for me to change my mind." "Steve," Jennifer asked quietly, when she decided he was through, "are you trying to end this relationship?" He shook his head sadly, and pulled her closer looking into her eyes, his own gray eyes expressing sincere and frank concern. "Oh, Jenny, have I made such a mess of things? That's the last thing I want, I only wanted you to know where things stand." They had talked a little more, without solving anything. Jennifer had been perfectly willing to accept things as they were before, why not now? Why hadn't the relationship taken its natural course, or was this the natural course? Why had his friends put on the pressure, couldn't two people be friends anymore? T he arrival at the library and determination to study, forced Jennifer to put Steve out of her mind in favor of the problems she would be facing as a schoolteacher. She arrived home in time to help prepare dinner. "You look so tired tonight, Mother. You haven't overtaxed yourself, have you?" "T am a little tired,' her mother admitted. Jennifer chewed her lip thoughtfully. She worried about her mother. She had had a heart condition which had _ plagued her for many years. 'There were times when she would suffer considerably, but she rarely complained, yet often, despite attempts by the entire family to prevent it, she overtaxed herself. CD innertime was a_ pleasant time in the Miles family. With four busy youngsters, there were few times when the family was all together. Bickering and squabbling were not allowed, nor was monopolization of the conversation; however, anything which might be of general interest to the family was discussed. Charles Miles maintained that good food digested better amid a happy, pleasant atmosphere. After dinner, Jennifer did the dishes while her father and mother talked quietly in the living room. The three boys, Dave, Pete, and Sam, would be off on a variety of activities, depending upon the season of year. All three were avid sports enthusiasts. Pete loved animals, Dave, a little older, preferred girls, and Sam, the youngest, devoted his attentions to the television set. Quite often, the entire family would gather at the piano for singing. Songs from the hymnbooks and other sources were sung with Jennifer at the piano. Every member of the family had a good voice. Elizabeth's was beautiful. The boys would often beg her to sing an old favorite, and she would gladly comply. On many evenings Charles would be found playing catch with the boys, or fly-up, or a variety of other games. Then Elizabeth would help Jennifer Welcome the Task sew, or work on some piece of handwork she wanted finished. Jennifer thought her family life was as perfect as could be. Their parents had never sent them to church, they had taken them. Each week they held a family home evening. Each evening they had family prayer. It was not mandatory, but was looked forward to so greatly, that it was seldom missed if it was possible to be home at that time. On this particular evening the boys were gone and Jennifer was alone with her parents. "You have seemed restless, Jenny," her father commented. "Is there anything bothering you?" Jennifer sighed. "Oh, I don't know. I can't put my finger on any one thing being wrong, but I feel as if I should be doing something I'm not." "We don't want to pry, dear," her mother told her, "but are things getting serious between you and Steve?" Jennifer didn't answer right away. Then, suddenly, she was glad she was so close to her parents, so she could talk with them. She knew that if there was need for advice, they would give some, and it would be good. She told them about the conversation with Steve. "I didn't really worry about it before," she commented upon completion of her story. "Oh, I guess I wondered at times how he felt about me, but I accepted his not saying anything, and even his staying away for two or three weeks at a time without explanation. I know how busy he is. But I didn't wonder much. Bringing it out in the open must have 831 November 1968 upset some balance or something, because now I feel unsure of him, and also unsure of how I feel. Maybe the fault is mine. I suppose most girls would be worried if the object of their affections was noncommital and _ stayed away for weeks at a time." "Well," her father commented, "many people react differently to situations. You've never been the type of person who gets too excited, on the outside." "T sound like a dull person," Jennifer commented wryly. "T didn't mean to imply that," her father answered. "What he means, Jenny," her mother said, looking fondly at husband and daughter, "is that you can meet problems with a logical, mature attitude. You aren't emotionless, though, we all know that." uJ ennifer sighed. She was really wondering about herself at this point. Summer was coming. She hadn't secured a job. She had no plans. She did feel dull and trapped. This thing with Steve could go on forever, and, perhaps, end in heartbreak, when some younger girl might sweep him off his feet. Jennifer couldn't let her family support her forever. They had Dave in high school, Pete in junior high, and Sam in the fifth grade. She knew that if her mother could possibly have heart surgery, as had been recommended by a specialist in Salt Lake, that would eat into the budget. The more she thought, the more confused she became. They had sat silently, each thinking his own thoughts for nearly half an hour. Elizabeth spoke first. "How would you like 832 to get away this summer, Jenny?" Jennifer looked incredulous. "Where?" "Well, my cousin Bea McPherson telephoned the other night, and mentioned how she would like to have you come for an extended visit, and your father and I thought you might enjoy spending the summer in Houston." "But don't you need me here? I should get a job." Charles spoke up. "We can have Mrs. Bates come more often," he said, referring to the housekeeper they had hired while Jennifer was in England. "And, as for money, you know we have saved enough for each of you children's educational needs and missions." "You need not decide immediately," her mother said, "but we thought that we would present the idea to you. Goodness knows you have had little vacation in many years." "And," her father added, "Bea has been quite lonely since John's death. She is a young woman yet, and the two of you should be good for one another." John McPherson had been killed in a tragic accident six months earlier. "T will think about it, and I can never thank you enough for being such wonderful parents," Jennifer said sincerely, as she prepared to go up to study for awhile. She was thinking of a summer in Houston, what new things it might bring, as compared to a summer in Springville waiting for something to happen. What would happen if she were in Houston and Steve were here? She wondered briefly before opening a sociology text. (To be continued) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Florence S. Jacobsen, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, were special guests for two days at the Hemisfair and were honored at a reception in the Women's Pavilion. Mrs. Vivian Hamlin, President of the Women's Pavilion, presented the two Latter-day Saint leaders with ''Distinguished Visitor's Certificates,'' and lauded them for their leadership among the women of the Church. The Singing Mothers held a reception at the Mormon Pavilion for Mrs. Spafford and Mrs. Jacobsen. Four hundred Singing Mothers of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presented four concerts at the Hemisfair in San Antonio, Texas, in August 1968. The singers represented Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, and were praised by many visitors and were especially complimented by the Vice-President of the United States, Hubert Humphrey, and John Connally, Governor of Texas. Mrs. Byron (Joan) Fisher, twenty-nine, of Salt Lake City, was crowned Mrs. America of 1969 in Saint Paul, Minnesota, August 23, 1968, being chosen from among fifty-one delegates representing the States of the Union. Mother of three children, she is a Brigham Young University graduate, a substitute schoolteacher and a teacher in the Mutual Improvement Association Laurel class in her ward. She has been a volunteer guide for visitors at the Beehive House, restored home of Brigham Young. Mrs. Don L. (Alice) Buehner, Salt Lake City, was Mrs. America 1965, and in 1967 Mrs. Dean (Jaynann) Payne, Provo, was first runner-up in the Mrs. America contest. Caroline Eyring Miner, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, mother, schoolteacher, and civic leader, has compiled—especially for mothers—a book of wit and wisdom expressed in both poetry and prose. Titled There's Always Mother, it contains some of her own delightful work. (Deseret Book Publishing Company.) Doctors Rebecca Buckley and Susan B. Dees, in research to learn why some children catch every disease that comes along while others are almost immune—an unsolved puzzle to the medical profession—discovered that many susceptible children have deficiencies of gamma-globulin in their blood serum. This was true of twice as many boys as girls. This may prove to be of significance. Betty W. Madsen was the 1968 prize-winner in the fourth annual contest of the Utah State Poetry Society for a volume of poems, The Amaranth. Mrs. Madsen has contributed many poems of high literary and emotional quality to The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Kate B. Carter, national president, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, was a speaker at the dedication of the Monument to the Pioneer Women of Arizona, in Phoenix, Arizona. A poem ''In Memoriam" by Bertha Kleinman, outstanding contributor for many years to The Relief Society Magazine, was read. The monument, portraying a copper figure of a mother and child on a granite base and background is believed to be the only monument to pioneer women in the United States. Ann Strobel, several years ago, became the lone woman caster among 106 fishermen to enter a tournament in Spa, Belgium. She won. She has since captured spin and fly tournaments in many places and is now considered the world's top caster. «. 833 Volume 55 November 1968 Number 11 s Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner rene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Dariene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson * Norma B. Ashton TELL If Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following. (Psalms 48:12-13.) In the days of harvest when the fruits of the earth are gathered once more and the cycle of the year is completed, there are many who feel to rejoice in their blessings. Whatever the season of harvest, though the time be different in the hemispheres, the contemplation of gratitude and the words of thankfulness have similarities in all the lands of the earth. It is natural for those who have received an inheritance, a portion of the earth for their homeland, to praise the Giver and express their gratitude. A feeling of reverence has been recorded throughout the generations, as the Psalmist said: ''The mighty God... Hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof." (Psalms 50:1.) Love of home, reluctance to leave, and joy upon returning are inherent in the lives of people everywhere—those who dwell in the shadow of northern mountains, the people of the plains, inhabitants of islands where summer is continuous, and the people of deserts and wilderness. together and all the SONS Of Gog Shouted for Joy." An elderly woman once Was asked to Summarize her thoughts re. 8arding her life Span, its beginnings and its boundaries. To her, life had seeme SPtritua] Pilgrimage S, ev the dst Of her fam ly, 'N Broups of People, she h elt lone} » thinkin "Lam a Stranger all my fathers Wi € recalled the wo ds of Eliza R W from the son Saint early Ove, "ofttim €cret Omething whispered, ou' Nger here: Nd | felt hat |p dered from a Ore exalted here," hen € wo ho had €€n asked to summa life UPON the arth related th Pand & phases of Spiritual insi; yea learnin and the blessj f her Nowledge of Pre-existe € andh testimo y OT eternal Pprec ation of "earth tj » he Called her €Mporal ys, 'NcCreased b acceptance of ol esign Planned fo her and Or all the s NS and aughters fG nother » More delayed N her sp Itual en ghtenment, r JOICed jn Mor Ppat Splendor Of the h, Ch she Could See or hear or h—the right asturti Ss h Oryard the UMMming. Rd that visited th Olu INe€; the Pired Ountains at Surround her with Peace. S as so Sratetul fo tion of the €arth that he fe} as the kj g's d hter in the Bible « I 8lorious Within," There man N, also, Who fee} a deep, Imost Nexpressib| JOY in th relation hip famili S—devotion Parents, Oyalty ang Ove for hus a Evotion to Children, all as a €quence jn the plan the Heavenly Father has Prepared for his daughters, It is the realization of the eternal Plan that lends a 8lory to the earth 835 ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions @ In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each Englishspeaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Since the. Ward or branch class leader has not presented all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, she may bring unused selections from the text into her lesson. "IN WHOLENESS OR IN PART" "According to your faith,'' he said; his word Of healing was as gentle as his touch, And two who once were blind, having much Of faith, could see again. The day | heard The story | was low on faith... Suppose | thought, the one but half-believed, and when Through clouded eyes he saw the Lord—then Was full faith his? It must be that those With scanty measure of belief inherit Scanty blessings. One needs a deeper trust, A greater love, a more committed heart, Unwavering in the sudden storm, to merit Jesus' touch. For as your faith, so must Your blessing be... In wholeness or in part. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 836 / 3 A True Story As Told to Helen Romrell s Ann sat at her desk—usually letters were so easy to write, but today was different. Christmas was almost here, but with all the excitement and _ preparations, Ann still felt a little apprehensive—how would Steve, her firstborn, spend Christmas this year? Germany was such a long way from Idaho, and even though he was completely absorbed in his missionary work, she still worried about him. This would be his first Christmas away from home. She knew he would miss _ his brothers and sister and the happiness they all shared at this special time of year. Well, she must hurry if she was to catch the postman and still make it to Relief Society on time.: Smiling now, she quickly added messages from the younger children and encouragement and love from all. She reread the letter, and was sure that it did not betray her feelings. As she stepped out the door to put her letter in the box, she met the postman coming up the walk. He smiled as he saw her scanning the letters in his hand, looking for the familiar blue aerogramme. Cheerfully they exchanged greetings and Ann hurried inside. She sat down in the easy chair and slowly opened the precious letter, for she savored this moment. It was almost like hearing Steve's voice as she read _ his words, and a smile filled her face. The spell was soon broken as she looked at the clock. She had better hurry or Sister Adams would think she wasn't coming to pick her up. Later, seated in the cozy Relief Society room, decked out in Christmas finery today, her mind went back to the letter, as she listened to the music and waited for the meeting to begin. Wasn't it just too wonderful! Steve wouldn't be spending Christmas alone after all. In his 837 November 1968 letter he had told of a wonderful family who had invited him to share their Christmas with them. Her heart was full of gratitude as she thought of this unknown nonmember family who were giving—giving a gift of love— wasn't that what the lesson brought out today? As the social relations lesson "A City ona Hill," with its beautiful message of Christmas unfolded, Ann again felt grateful to those who had true love in their hearts, and were willing to share. The lesson was finished all too soon—Ann hated to break the magical spell, and was engrossed in her own thoughts as she heard Sister Wright say, "If anyone wishes to give a true gift of love this holiday season, I know a girl at college who is most deserving. She is from the East and cannot go home for Christmas. She will be all alone this season." Ann's heart pounded. She could hardly wait for the meeting to close. Would this be her chance to repay those unknown friends by giving a gift of love to another one in need? Quickly she found Sister Wright. "We would love to share our Christmas with the girl you mentioned—tell me more about her." The Wrights had made it a tradition to extend their Christmas beyond the normal limits of family and close friends, and this year as they were planning their special project, they had asked the help of a professor at college. He surely would know someone who needed help. With his assistance, they had made their plans, but today as Sister 838 3 Wright had listened to the lesson Linda's name kept coming to mind. Linda was one of the girls Professor Wilson had told them about while discussing possible projects, and now she told to Ann Linda's story. Linda was very shy, and had a difficult time looking people in the eye. She went around with her head down most of the time. Her parents sold stove wood for a living. Her mother wrote to her often and expressed her love for her, but her father never wrote. He seemed to resent her coming West for school, perhaps because he felt he could not help her as he should. She had worked to earn her own money to go to school. She was withdrawn, but courageous. She surely needed a gift of love! The arrangements were made and Ann and her whole family anxiously awaited Linda's arrival. A very small, shy, frightened girl came up the walk in a shapeless coat, carrying a very small suitcase and wearing a well-worn, drab, plain, green dress. It wasn't long until she responded to the warmth and the love of the family. She had no brothers, and Ann's four boys were a new experience to her in family living. She loved the baby! Ann and Linda got along well, and a close relationship soon developed between them. The following Sunday the bishop asked all of the students home for the holidays to bear their testimonies and tell about their schools. As he called on Linda, he explained she was a convert of only two years, and was a guest in the ward. Would she care to respond? It took a great deal of courage for Linda to respond with her sweet, humble testimony, and the hearts of the ward members were touched. On the following Wednesday Linda went to Relief Society with Ann and met many of the sisters in the ward. Again she wore the plain green dress, the only dress she had brought with her for a two-weeks visit! Ann took Linda_ shopping, and together they picked out some lovely woolen material, and Ann made her a beautiful wool dress, the first wool dress she had ever owned. How thrilled she was! Not long afterwards, Sister Wright called. She wanted to do something for Linda, too. Would she like to go shopping for a new coat? Linda was hesitant at first, but soon warmed to the graciousness of Sister Wright. It was a radiant, happy girl who returned home that evening in a most becoming red coat. Linda left Ann's home on Christmas Eve to spend the night and part of Christmas day with her roommate in a nearby town. They had wanted to be together, and these were the only two days Twice Blest they could accommodate her. As she left, her arms were full of gaily wrapped packages, gifts from many members of the ward. No one had organized a plan, no one spread the word of her need, but many families had sensed her need and individually responded with a gift of love for this sweet girl! On Christmas morning things were not quite the same at Ann's home. The family was excited, opening their gifts, but something was missing! But not for long— suddenly the telephone rang. It was Linda! She was thinking of them, missing them, and wanting to share the excitement of this very special Christmas with them. "Perhaps the best gift of all" Linda's voice broke, "I just received a letter from my father! My very first! And he sent me ten dollars, and more important, for the first time that I can remember, he told me that he loves me." Ann's eyes were full of tears as she put the telephone up. She turned, walked away from the family noise and into Linda's room. "Here I thought I was doing something for someone, helping someone else, and it is I who have been blessed!" Ann whispered. R CHOICE Who walks with lowered eyes Instead of gazing far May find a penny, lost, But miss the evening star. —Vesta N. Fairbairn. Yy 839 Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts —_ CONTRASTS to-think the fabric Of i my days: should be A web of bright and shining strands, Unshaded, shadow-free. But years have yielded wisdom; | have learned, instead, We weave the tapestry of life With variegated thread. —Helen M. Terry THE APRON Mae R. Winters = One of the fondest memories that I have of my mother is her apron. She always wore one. It was a large straight affair gathered at the waist, with strings that fastened in the back and tied in a bow. The apron was very full. I am sure it had in it several yards of material, gingham or calico for everyday, and fine white lawn or linen, with handmade lace on the bottom, for best. I distinctly remember a very special one, with knitted lace insertion an inch or so wide, with the same matching lace on the bottom. There was always at least one pocket, but usually two large ones. The white apron was for very special occasions: Relief Society homemaking activities, special quiltings, and parties for the sisters. Sunday afternoon it enhanced Mother's best black dress. The everyday one, slow to show dirt, was edged all around with bias tape of contrasting color. I was most impressed with this apron. Its uses were limitless. It made a basket for eggs gathered from the chicken coop, or from a nest found in the tall weeds or grass. Many times Mother would bring in a brood of fluffy yellow chickens in the apron, the bottom edge being brought up to form a temporary nest. The mother hen, squawking and stirring up a fuss, would follow behind. Mother transferred the chickens from a stolen nest to the protection of the stable. The same apron was used, by giving it a swish, to frighten chickens from the flower bed or back porch. To dry a tear from a child's face, wipe away the dirt, and comfort the children, the apron seemed to be made for this purpose. For a game of hide-and-seek there was never a better place to hide than under the apron, for, with our heads under, and our feet sticking out, we were completely hidden. Kindling and firewood, vegetables and fruit found their way into the kitchen by way of the apron route. When company came unexpectedly, the apron was hastily used as a duster on the dining table or buffet. Using it for a pot holder to remove hot pans from the stove, the apron was ideal to lift the steve lid off with the aid of the stove lifter, which saved many burned fingers. A flip of the apron would also scatter the flies, as they hovered about the screen at the kitchen door on a fall afternoon. It also served to wipe a perspiring brow after standing at the hot stove all day canning fruit. Almost everything could be found in the apron pockets: a spool of thread, lost buttons, peppermint candy, cookies, handkerchiefs, bits of paper, a pencil, a piece of string, safety pins, and a coin or two. For me, there is a never-to-be-forgotten memory of the little ones curled up on Mother's lap as she rocked them and pulled a corner of the big apron over their feet and legs, not alone for warmth, but as a sort of drawing them closer into her wonderful ways. She was a pioneer mother, with love to go around and around, and her wonderful apron was just one way of showing it. Tucked away in my chest of memories is one of her ever-useful aprons. In these days of sometimes forgotten aprons, it suggests to me that perhaps my own children and grandchildren have missed some very valuable lessons of life for the lack of a big apron. A very special accessory! 841 Let's Make a Bag For Books Margaret Woods, Walsall, England = We prepare the lesson, accumulate the visual aids, place them all ready—and then cannot think in what to carry them to meeting. But if we make a smart, simple bag that will be weatherproof, too, we shall always be ready. Then, if we make contrasting bags to hold each set of books, we shall be completely organized. The bag is large enough to hold several large magazines, plus three 'or four average size books. Adaptations can be made in the pattern for special sized books. For children's schoolbooks, a similar bag would be handy and durable. Material Needed one yard heavy durable material or plastic material for lining, if desired plastic clothesline for handles Procedure Cut out 'the piece as shown in figure one. After cutting the 6-inch slit with corner slashes (each not longer than ¥ inch) fold back edges of slot to wrong side and glue in place. For woven fabrics omit the slashes, but bind the edges as for a large bound buttonhole.: Hem the 13-inch edge. Fold, as indicated in figure one, wrong side outside, and sew side seams. Turn right side out and hem remaining edges. If a lining is desired, cut an identical pattern and sew it in before putting the bag together. Cut the handles as indicated in diagram 2. There will be two. Fold in half lengthwise right side out with raw edges turned in. Sew along the edge of the length, leaving a tube large enough to thread a piece of clothesline through. Sew one handle to the front in a position to pass through the slot. Attach the other to correspond to the back. Tuck in the corners at the lower edge to form a wider base and tack them to the bottom of the bag. 842 me there Isn't could Prepare me steamed bread, 843 sy the € a new delight In an old-fashioned AN ARTIST WITH A NEEDLE Zerviah S. Greene Smith, Cache Stake, Logan, Utah,. Has led a busy, active life, and has enriched the lives of friends and family through her skill with the needle. She crochets doilies, baby sweaters, and bootees by the score. She has also knitted numerous sweaters, afghans, and slippers. During the First and Second World Wars she knitted scarves, socks and sweaters for soldiers. Her talents also include making beautiful quilts, rugs, and clothing of all kinds. Sister Smith considers her genealogical work as her greatest accomplishment. She has made it possible for temple work to be done for thousands of names, bringing great happiness into hundreds of families. Her own large family book has been microfilmed for use in genealogy libraries. Sister Smith has served as a Relief Society visiting teacher, and in other auxiliaries of the Church, and has been a member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers for many: years. She has four daughters, sixteen grandchildren, fifty-five great grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren. On her ninetieth birthday, four years ago, fifty of her descendants were present to honor her. To all of them she has truly been an inspiration and joy. 844 if Spring Be Latew Any plans for making use of the castle or its grounds were left in abeyance for the time being. The Taggarts planned to visit for a day in Edinburgh and then return home by way of the coastal highway through the Lowlands. Maureen decided to remain in the village to do further research at the castle library. Before leaving, they all went over to the churchyard to look over the ancient family burial ground. A gardener at work informed them that the great yew tree on the grounds was one of the oldest in that part of the country. Maureen was somewhat surprised to find how many of the headstones bore the name of Taggart. "Do you have any records within the church?" she asked. "Yes, Miss, to be sure," was the answer. "But you'll have to Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Mabel Harmer see the minister about that. My concern is only with the growing things out here." She was very much interested. Right here at the seat of her ancestral home, she might find a wealth of material for her family research. The records might even equal those at the castle. When she_ contacted the minister, however, he said that he feared she would find little that was new to her work. He said that photostatic copies had been made of all of their records and he was sure she had seen most of them, either at the Public Records Office or at Somerset House. The library at the castle was a different matter, however. In addition to the huge Bible, with its lengthy records, there were numerous volumes which gave promise of other data. The prospect of rewards looked enticing 845 —providing she could surmount i It was many hours there at any one time. Transportation to and trom her hotel at the village created another problem. She partially solved the first by wearing all the warm clothing she owned and, for the second, the morning when she was fresh, and the downhill in late afternoon, which turned out to be rather fun. On the third morning of her work she was happily surprised to find a blazing log in the fireplace. "How wonderful!" she exclaimed. I haven't seen any trees near enough to be cut and carried here." "The wood wasn't the main problem," Robert answered. "7 keep rather 4 good supply on hand. The problem was to get the chimney cleaned out. I had to rustle a good, chimney sweeP "You can't imagine how grateful I am," she said. See that cheerful fire lifts my I shall move "You'll have to move close to get much good out of it," he agreed. "After all these years it will take more than one day's warming to penetrate much of this cold." A few days later the sun broke through with such warmth that 846 what? You day. I've packed a lunch and we are going for a picnic." "How lovely!" she responded. " Maureen was glad for a holiday. With the sunshine so bright and the sweet smells of spring in the air, she had not looked forward to going into the dark rooms of the castle. Robert led the way, carrying a blanket and the picnic basket. There was just the barest sugBy the time waterfall, she ciate it," he said, as he spread the blanket. "Now, sit down and rest while you enjoy the view." Below the glen stretched out to the castle grounds and beyond, where some of the orchards were just Now beginning to show their first blossoms. "J had hoped to see more spring flowers," she said. "The daffodils on the mall toward Buckingham too, at this time of year. U spring ls late However," he added with a smile, "if spring be late, my love, do not deplore. You'll savor summer's glories all the more." For amoment Maureen was too much taken back to make an answer or comment of any kind. Had he been quoting when he said "my love," or had he spoken the words with any degree of meaning? Finally, she said, "You are a poet as well as an artist, it seems." "Only at times such as this," he replied. "I think that you would find Scotland quite enchanting, if you should decide to remain." "Yes," she agreed, somewhat hesitantly. "I think that I should." "Then we must do all that we can to make you sure," he said, opening the lunch basket. F# They ate more or less in siat C '~ lence. Then Maureen, anxious to keep to a safe subject, asked, "What flowers do you have here, besides the heather, that is?" If Spring Be Late "Ah, what flowers do we not have!" he exclaimed. "In the summer there are hedgerows fragrant with honeysuckle, and pink and white roses. Or they are golden with ragwort. The meadows are rich with the rosyred spikes of the loosestrife and willow herb—of white and pink drifts of cow-parsnip and angelica, pink heads of field thistles, yellow heads of sow thistles. There is the hog-bean, a close ally of the gentian, and the slender water lobelia, with its nodding, pale lilac flowers. I suppose I need not remind you of the bluebells. Ah, you must see Scotland in the summer!" "Now I know that you are a poet," said Maureen lightly. "And remember, I am a librarian. I know poetry when I hear it." "As you will," he responded with a smile and a shrug. "For you I shall be a poet." On their return to the cottage, she stopped briefly to greet the two children, who had just returned from school, and then made her way back to the hotel. She was too much involved emotionally to go to work in the dark library of the castle. Back in her room; she settled down as best she could to think. Unless she was very much mistaken, Robert McPherson's words had been the beginning of a serious courtship. No, actually it had begun at Christmas time when he gave her the painting of the cottage. She had denied it to the suggestions of the family and to herself. She could not deny it any longer. "Tf spring be late, my love.... The spring in her life was late. She had passed now into its be 847 November 1968 summer. But would she "savor summer's glories all the more?" Perhaps. What a lovely place and setting for romance! First, the charming and_ personable Robert McPherson. 'Then, the delightful children—a _readymade family who could well use a mother. The cottage, which she had loved practically unsight and unseen. She must get away, and quickly, to think this over before she succumbed to the spell of its enchantment. She would go and visit the homes of Bobbie Burns and Sir Walter Scott, for she couldn't dream of leaving Scotland without doing this, in any case. Now was certainly the right time. She would go to Scott's Abbottsford and Burn's Ayrshire. By then she would go back to England and collect her thoughts and emotions in a more mundane atmosphere. She spent one last day at the castle, working in the library, and then announced that she had completed her work there and was leaving for a tour of the homes of the literary giants of Scotland. The three McPhersons were openly regretful to see her leave —dJeannie and Jamie quite vocally SO. "But there are hundreds of books in the library," said Jamie. "Are you quite sure that you have read them all?" "No, but I have read the ones I thought would help me with my work. The others I shall have to leave until another day." "If you will stay I will bake you a cake," said Jeannie. "And I shall write you a poem," said her father. 848 Maureen had a hard time keeping her. Composure. For a moment she was sorely tempted to say, "Yes, I'll stay.". Instead, she said, "I thank you all very much, but I'm afraid that I shall have to go. Perhaps I can come back some other day and read the books, enjoy the cake, and hear the poem." She kissed the children and gave her hand to Robert who held it for several long moments. "We'll be waiting for you," he sald. She hurried away, but when she reached the bend in the road she looked back for a last glance at the castle and the cottage. Early the next morning she took a bus for Abbotsford. This part of Scotland was new to her, and she enjoyed it very much. Over and over again she asked herself the question, "Could I be happy here?" So far there was no definite answer. Ni ot even when she arrived back at Bahlen and to the routines she had left, could she find any answer. "One thing is sure," she told herself, "my work here is done. I can no longer be satisfied to ride into London each day and pore over the same books at the libraries.": She arranged for photostatic copies to be made of the records in the great family Bible. She did not plan to take the book itself away. She thought that it should remain in Britain—perhaps even at the castle. When the work was finished, she gave it back to Bruce to keep or return as he might decide. "Between the records in London and what I found at Kirk- —————— wood, I've done far better at my research than I had ever hoped to do. I've seen the castle and found my treasure there. I think perhaps I shall plan on returning home soon." "We had hoped that you would stay," Bruce began. "You in the cottage and we in the castle," interposed Kitty. "Although, of course, if you prefer the castle, there is ample room for all of us." "Of the two," said Maureen with a smile, "I should much prefer the cottage, believe me. But I wouldn't dream of disturbing the present occupants." "T wasn't thinking of disturbing them either," related Kitty. "And if you don't take Robert, I shall hurry and grow up so that I may have him." "You have my permission. Now all you need is that of your parents and that of the gentleman concerned." Maureen had hoped to see Diane married before she left, but the young couple felt that they should wait until Sydney was out of school, otherwise Diane would have to leave her work and move to Cambridge, which was out of the question for the present. He had agreed that they should be married by the Mormon elders and, for this, both Diane and Maureen were very grateful. "T feel that this is one more choice reward for my coming here," Maureen said. "I am sure that Sydney will come into the Church and you will both find eternal happiness." "T, also, am sure," said Diane. "Meeting you on the boat was the greatest blessing imaginable. I If Spring Be Late only wish that you could find the same happiness." "Perhaps I shall," Maureen smiled. She had planned on touring some of the principal countries of Europe before her return and had decided to start with Holland, since the tulip season was now in full swing. Two days before she was to leave she received an airmail letter from Steve Madsen. "I can't make it all the way to Shannon this time," he wrote. "But New York City is on the agenda. If you are planning to return home in May—as you once indicated—I can be at the Kennedy airport any day—any hour—in that first week. All I need is the assurance that there will be a passenger who would be willing to be met." She made a quick change in her plans. "Paris will have to wait for some later trip," she said. "Much as I would love to verify the glories of Paris in the spring. So will Rome. It is more important now to get an early plane to New York City." She found that she could get reservations in Amsterdam, which suited her plans perfectly. In fact, everything seemed to be shaping up altogether perfect. ©) na day in late April she bade farewell to her cousins and Diane and left for Dover where she would take the ferry to Calais and then a train to Holland. "At least I shall see part of France in the springtime, if I do have to miss Paris," she said. "And I'm sure that even a brief view of France will be worthwhile." Her two days in Holland were 849 November 1968 a delight. To ride through acres and acres of tulip fields, bright with blossoms, was something she had expected to see only in pictures. A day at Keukenhof —the beautiful park planted by the various growers, was another delight. The lovely gardens of tulips, in hundreds of different varieties, the hyacinths and daffodils presented a riot of color. She saw beauty even in the brick-lined streets and the never-ending lines of bicycle riders. The air was almost balmy as she took the limousine for the airport. At the desk the clerk asked, "Where to, Miss?" She hesitated. She had _ intended to say, "New York," but the words didn't come. She tried Orx4™r INTERVAL Today | saw him sitting in the sun, VAY ws gw arIr VINI w to picture Steve Madsen waiting for her at the airport, but the image was dim. The clerk looked at her expectantly and repeated his question. "To London," she said. "I am returning to London." Then, while awaiting her plane, she wrote two letters. One was addressed to Steve Madsen in Salt Lake City. The other to the McPherson family in Kirkwood, Scotland. The latter read simply, "I am coming back. This is to remind Jeannie of her promise to bake a cake. For Jamie to gather an armful of bluebells, and for Robert McPherson to write a poem. I am looking forward to a very long and very happy summer." Maureen. His well-worn hat pulled down to shade his eyes, His shoulders bowed through years of endless toil To wrest a meager living from the soil. With trembling hands grasping a battered cane, He waits until the summer comes again. —Elena Hassell Stanley 850 MY COMPANION Pillar strength you lend me, Not a pillar plain, But fluted with the force of love, Crowned with the beauty patience lends, Firmly based with understanding, Made of finer stuff than earth. —Julie Wilson res and descriptive material, see The Reliet Society Magazine for January 1966, Page 50. Pictures are not used in this department, Relief Society Activities Provo Stake (Utah) Relie¢ Society Creates History of The Relief Society Magazine in Displays, May 3, 1968 Tenth Ward: Rosella Rieske, Twenty-Third Ward, Sister Call reports: 'For a Spring social, the Provo Stake Relief Society, with the help of the ward Relief Societies, arranged a special display depicting the history of The Relief Society Magazine. 851 Sa November 1968 East Mill Creek Stake (Utah), East Mill Creek Seventh Ward Presents Mothers Day Social, May 3, 1968 East Mill Creek Seventh Ward Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Gloria Bowers, First Counselor; Faye Olsen, President; Erma Bentley, Second Counselor. Standing, left to right: Doris Westbrook, quilting chairman; Evah Goodman, Secretary; Virginia McMahon, homemaking leader. Quata L. Howells, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: "'A Mothers Day social was held for members of the ward and their families. A lovely dinner was served to 350. A program, featuring families depicting how to make home evenings special through song and dance, was presented, with even the youngest children participating. "A special gift booth featuring Mothers Day gifts and a booth with delicious homebaked treats raised the needed funds for the year's activities."' Taylorsville West Stake (Utah), Taylorsville Ninth Ward Bazaar "It Happens Every Spring" May 10, 1968 Karen Van de Graff, homemaking leader, Taylorsville Ninth Ward, at notions booth of bazaar. June Barker, President, Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A very successful bazaar was held in the Taylorsville Ninth Ward of our stake. The theme for the bazaar was, 'It Happens Every Spring.' "To show love for the bishop, the Relief Society sisters made a quilt which was presented to him during the bazaar. Each family wishing to participate had the name of the family head on the quilt." Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Singing Mothers Present ''Love Makes the World Go 'Round" April 20, 1968 Members of the Oahu Stake Relief Society board, seated, at left; Elaine Mayfield, Second Counselor; second from left: Rita Stone, First Counselor; tenth from left: Betty Skinner, President; Barbara Conway, narrator for the program; Carolyn Hannemann, organist; Myrna Fairbanks, chorister. Sister Skinner reports: ''The Church College of Hawaii was the setting for the Singing Mothers concert and art show sponsored by our stake. The theme was 'Love makes.- the World Go 'Round.' It was carried out in song, readings, and dances pertaining to the cultural backgrounds of the many islands of the Pacific as well as the oriental countries. "The song, 'Labor of Love,' written by Joanne Doxey, led off a tribute to Howard B. Stone, late president of Oahu Stake. A portrait of President Stone was unveiled and presented to his wife, Rita. "Many paintings done by sisters in the stake were on display in the foyer." 852 —,- yp WA GT <r af f November 1968 Glendale Stake (California), Glendale East Ward ''Marriage-Go-Round" Bazaar May 25, 1968 Left to right: Enid Crownover, Education Counselor, Glendale East Ward Relief Society; Jan Callister, Homemaking Leader; Trudy Hess; Inez Burns, President. Unita W. Welch, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Glendale East Ward held a unique bazaar. It was a midday affair featuring three wedding events: bridal shower, wedding reception, and at home, shown at three different homes. Luncheon was served at garden tables. "Displays and bazaar items were keyed to each event portrayed. The event was enthusiastically supported by the ward, and many heretofore inactive sisters were in attendance."' Bakersfield Stake (California), Bakersfield Fourth Ward Makes Numerous Kinds of Quilts Seated, left to right: Alene Davis Bowers and Alfrieta Baker Moyes, quilting committee chairmen, Bakersfield Fourth Ward. Barbara S. Gabbitas, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Within three years, the sisters in the Bakersfield Fourth Ward have made numerous quilts of all types and sizes, twenty-five baby quilts and others large, small, and twin-bed sizes. 'Mabel Smith McDougall was honored for her lovely applique work on baby quilts. She has been a member of the Bakersfield Fourth Ward since November 1919, when it was organized. "We are very pleased with the efforts of the sisters of this ward." Australian West Mission, Remote Darwin Branch Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary, March 14, 1968 Left to right: Margaret Grimes, Secretary, Darwin Branch Relief Society; Semah Mojid, First Counselor; Dorothy Kerr, President; Vidella Vance, missionary. Julia G. Hess, Supervisor, Australian West Mission Relief Society, reports: "The members of the tiny Darwin Branch held a social function in honor of the anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. 'A meal was prepared and served by the sisters. Invitations had been sent to all members of the branch. A program was held and a bazaar followed. "Darwin is a thriving branch, and we are proud of it. It is the most remote branch in the Church, 1600 miles from any other branch of the Church. Their Relief Society is well attended and active."' 854 fin, PO nn Fett 2 0- November 1968 Palomar Stake (California) Presents Bazaar, ''Hawaiian Style," May 26, 1968 Officers of the San Dieguito Ward Relief Society, left to right: Phyllis Schwartlose, First Counselor; Carol Jane Christensen, Second Counselor; Lorraine Brewer, President; Sally Moore, homemaking leader; Lois Wages, Secretary-Treasurer. Phyllis Fox, President, Palomar Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Nine wards participated in our bazaar. Stake relationships with the wards were greatly strengthened. All proceeds from items sold in the booths were kept in the respective wards. "A prize was awarded to the San Dieguito Ward for designing the most authentic and original booth in keeping with our Hawaiian theme." San Diego Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present '"'Eternal Spring'' Concert April 26, 1968 San Diego Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Birdie Best, chorister; Thair Milne, President; Jeanne Robinson, Education Counselor; Karen McGlamory, accompanist; Anne Riggs, organist. Sister Milne reports: 'Our Singing Mothers concert was themed 'Eternal Spring.' It was beautifully presented amid an atmosphere of lovely flowers. Corsages in Relief Society colors were worn by the 140 singers, giving an appearance of a vast flower garden. "All who participated and attended were aware. Of the high standard of Relief Society being upheld. Many hours of practice and preparation were responsible for an outstanding program. Refreshments were served at the close of the concert." Wells Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert February 23, 1968 Seated front and center, left to right: Joyce Vuyk, narrator; Lucile K. Salisbury, chorister; Lou H. Winegar, organist. Pearl E. Lund, President, Wells Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Over 600 people attended the Wells Stake Singing Mother's Concert. The theme for the event was 'The Song of the Heart.' A chorus of 110 presented a program of semi-classical, religious, and patriotic songs. A medley of Dutch folk songs was sung by a double quartette from the Netherlands Branch in their native costumes. "The narrative script was adapted from an editorial by Vesta P. Crawford appearing in the February 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine." 856 Wo, & ae Ya. 4 ae November 1968 Visiting leachers ENcmplily | Seve LOVE San Joaquin Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention, May 9, 1968 Seated, left to right: Martha Miner, organist, San Joaquin Stake Relief Society; Ramona Larson, First Counselor; Zina Shumway, President; Flora Carson, Second Counselor; Garda Meecham, chorister. Second row: Thenalda Broderick; Maurine Skelton, spiritual living class leader; Elva Wolfenburger, homemaking leader; Rouella Brough, Magazine representative; Ranae Williams, social relations class leader; Mildred White, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Shumway reports: ''The poster in the picture symbolizes the purpose of visiting teaching. It shows a large flower, with the petals listing some of the blessings which stem from a heart filled with love. Small flowers of this type were presented to each of the sisters attending our visiting teacher convention to wear. 'Special awards were presented to both the oldest and the youngest visiting teachers, as well as to the ward with the highest visiting teaching percentage throughout the year. Two sisters were honored for the outstanding examples they set by going the extra mile in performing their duties. "At the conclusion of the convention, a fashion show, displaying clothing made and designed by members of the stake, was held. Dainty refreshments were made and served by the stake board." 858 " The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 93: The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 124:25-44.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman prepares herself for the higher ordinances of the temple as her circumstances permit. INTRODUCTION One of the distinguishing features of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is temple building. Beautiful buildings, some of which are called temples, have been constructed in many parts of the world, but none of these edifices has the same function and purpose as a temple built by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The earliest reference to a structure like a temple is the Tabernacle carried by the Israelites in the wilderness after coming out of Egyptian bondage. Because of the nature of the sacred ordinances performed, the Lord referred in a modern revelation to the need for the Tabernacle. This tabernacle was to be "with them in the wilderness..." (D&C 124:38) until a house of the Lord could be built in the land of Canaan where the Lord would reveal ordinances to his people. There is little information concerning the actual ordinances performed in the temples of the past. It is evident that a knowledge of temple ordinances was known very early, perhaps, however, not in fulness. (See Facsimile No. 2 in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, Figures 3, 7, and 8.) The apostles Peter and Paul foresaw the day when _ there would be a restoration of all things spoken of by the prophets in the period known as the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Acts 3:19-21; Ephesians_ 1:9-10.) Since temples 859 November 1968 were a part of earlier dispensations, they would also be found among the Lord's people in the last days. These temples would be places where people from all nations would assemble to worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. (Isaiah 2:2-3; Micah 4:1-2.) Class Discussion Why would you expect temples to be found among the Lord's Seg in the latter days? KIRTLAND TEMPLE © The first temple erected in this dispensation was located at Kirtland, Ohio, and dedicated on March 27, 1836. It was in that year on April 3rd, the keys of the priesthood were restored. (D&C Section 110.) The Kirtland Temple was unlike other temples constructed later. Regular and special worship services and the School of the Prophets were conducted in that temple. NAUVOO TEMPLE From Missouri, the saints settled in Illinois at Commerce, later named Nauvoo, on the banks of the Mississippi River. In accordance with the commandment to build a temple at Nauvoo, the cornerstones were laid April 6, 1841. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts; 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, Vol. 4, pp. 327-331 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC]; Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church His- 860 tory, 13th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1953, pp. 308-309.) The walls of the temple were up to the windows at the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith's death, but the temple was completed to the attic and dedicated November 30, 1845 (DHC 7:534) so that endowments could be administered during the winter of 1845-46. The public dedication of the temple was held on May 1, 1846. (Essentials in Church History, p. 400.) A baptismal font was built in the basement of the Nauvoo Temple, and baptisms for the dead were performed in November 1841. (Essentials in Church History, p. 310.) The temple was burned in the fall of 1848, and the walls were blown down by a hurricane, May 27, 1850. Since the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, thirteen other temples have been erected in the United States and in foreign countries. HIGHER ORDINANCES OF THE GOSPEL The higher ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ consist of those ceremonies and ordinances which are received in the House of the Lord. The fact that there are ordinances which are called "higher," suggests other principles and ordinances which are "lesser." The first principles and ordinances of salvation are faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance of sins, baptism in water for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. (3 Nephi 27:13-21; D&C 33:10-11.) These principles are to be taught freely to all who will listen, but the higher ordinances are not to be revealed except in a temple. IMPORTANCE OF FIRST PRINCIPLES The New Testament teaches that without faith in Christ, repentance of sins, baptism by immersion for the, remission of sins, and receiving the Holy Ghost, it is impossible to "enter into the kingdom of God." (John 3:5; Acts 2:29-39; Romans 6:3-5.) THE NEW TESTAMENT AND HIGHER ORDINANCES The Savior taught his disciples many things which they were to know but which were not for the world. Similarly, the higher ordinances of the gospel may be received by the faithful, devoted member of the Church, but nonmembers and even some members of the Church, are not prepared to receive these temple ordinances. Wherein does the New Testament reveal that there is a segment of the gospel which is reserved for only the disciples? Upon one occasion the Savior took only Peter, James, and John with him on the Mount where a wonderful manifestation was received by them. Concerning this vision, the Savior advised his disciples: "Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead." (Matthew 17:9.) In answer to a question from his disciples as to why he taught the people in parables, the following was given:... Because it is given unto you to Lesson Department know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. (Matthew 13:11-13.) The apostle Paul had the experience of being caught up to heaven, and hearing words which were not lawful for man to utter. (2 Corinthians 12:2-4.) Thus the gospel in the meridian dispensation contained information which was not to be revealed to the multitudes, but the disciples were to receive these greater things of the kingdom. The Book of Mormon also bears testimony to this same truth, as expressed by the Prophet Alma:... It is given unto many to know the mysteries of God; nevertheless they are laid under a strict command that they shall not impart only according to the portion of his word which he doth grant unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence which they give unto him. (Alma 12:9.) However, what if an individual rejects the greater word? Alma continues: And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full. And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the lesser portion of the word until they know nothing concerning his mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led by his will down to destruction. Now this is what is meant by the chains of hell. (Jbid., verses 10- 11.) 861 November 1968 A PROMISE FULFILLED In the teachings of the resurrected Christ to the Nephites, it is recorded that only the lesser part of what he taught the Nephites was written that they might be brought forth in the last days. If the people would receive this part, then the greater things would be given them. (3 Nephi 26:6-11.) Within a year after the Church was organized, the Lord revealed that Joseph Smith held "the keys of the mystery of those things which have been sealed" (D&C 35:18) and that these mysteries were to be known to the saints but not to the world. 65.) The Lord's promise to his saints is -+having its fulfillment today, in that those who are keeping the commandments receive the mysteries of the kingdom, which lead to everlasting life. (Ibid., 63:23.) HIGHER ORDINANCES The higher ordinances, or mysteries of the kingdom, administered in the temple consist of washings, anointings, the priesthood endowment, and marriage for eternity. When the Kirtland Temple was no longer in the possession of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Lord rejected it as his house and promised that the "fulness of the priesthood —. 2 (D&C 124:28) which can be received only in a temple, would be available to the members of the Church with the building of the Nauvoo Temple. (D&C 124:25-28; 40-44.) 862 In connection with the coming of Elijah in the last days, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that there would be a welding of other dispensations with this. One, including the revealing of things from the foundation of the world. (D&C 127:8; 128:18.) MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD AND ORDINANCES In September of 1832, the Lord revealed that the Melchizedek Priesthood, sometimes called the "oreater priesthood," holds the "key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the knowledge of God." (D&C 84:19.) It. Is also said that when Moses brought the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage, an effort was made to prepare the people to enter into the Lord's rest, which is the fulness of his glory where they could behold the face of God, but they would not for they had hardened their hearts. (J bid., verses 19-24.) Without the knowledge of God there is no salvation in its highest sense. To know God ultimately is to become like him, and thus receive all that the Father hath as an exalted being. (Ibid., verses 38-39.) AS indicated, the means by which both men and women may receive the knowledge of God is received by ordinances and, thus, the faithful member of the Church by obedience to commandments may be exalted. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation; Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie; 9th printing, 1965; Salt Lake City: Bookcraft; 3:142-143.) No person can receive the fulness of the priesthood except in the temple. (D&C 124:27-28; DHC 5:424.) PRIESTHOOD ENDOWMENT The Prophet Joseph Smith spent the day of May 4, 1842, in his private office instructing some of the brethren,.. Ln the principles and order of the Priesthood, attending to washings, anointings, endowments and the communication of keys pertaining to the Aaronic Priesthood, and so on to the highest order of the Melchisedek Priesthood, setting forth the order pertaining to the Ancient of Days, and all those plans and principles by which any one is enabled to secure the fullness of those blessings which have been prepared for the Church of the First Born, and come up and abide in the presence of the Eloheim in the eternal worlds...(DHC 5:1, 2.) Elder James E. Talmage defined the temple endowment, as follows: The Temple Endowment, as administered in modern temples, comprises instruction relating to the significance and sequence of past dispensations, and the importance of the present as the greatest and grandest era in human history. This course of instruction includes a recital of the most prominent events of the creative period, the condition of our first parents in the Garden of Eden, their disobedience and consequent expulsion from that blissful abode, their condition in the lone and dreary world when doomed to live by labor and sweat, the plan of redemption by which the great transgression may be atoned, the period of the great apostasy, the restoration of the Gospel with all its ancient powers and privileges, the absolute and _indispensable condition of personal purity and devotion to the right in present life, and a strict compliance with Gospel requirements. (The House of the Lord; 3rd printing, 1963; Salt Lake City: Bookcraft; pp. 99-100.) Embodied in the endowment are opportunities for the participant to receive the necessary knowledge and covenants for eternal advancement. Elder Talmage continues his discussion of the endowment, as follows: Lesson Department The ordinances of the endowment embody certain obligations on the part of the individual, such as covenant and promise to observe the law of strict virtue and chastity, to be charitable, benevolent, tolerant and pure; to devote both talent and material means to the spread of truth and the uplifting of the race; to maintain devotion to the cause of truth; and to seek in every way to contribute to the great preparation that the earth may be made ready to receive her King,—the Lord Jesus Christ. With the taking of each covenant and the assuming of each obligation a promised blessing is pronounced, contingent upon the faithful observance of the conditions. (/bid., p. 100.) FAITHFUL WOMEN The Lord does not hold responsible those individuals of his Church who do not have the opportunity to fulfill commandments. If circumstances do not, at the present, allow for them to receive all of the ordinances of the gospel, they will probably be found in the situation in which Oliver Cowdery found himself: Behold, thou art Oliver, and I have spoken unto thee because of thy desires; therefore treasure up these words in thy heart. Be faithful and diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and I will encircle thee in the arms of my love. (D&C 6:20.) Other conditions being equal, desires go to judgment as well as deeds. Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, in advising young women of the Church who had not the opportunity to marry a worthy member of the Church, said that for these women, by continuing to live worthy lives, the time would come when no blessing would be denied them. (Youth and _ the Church, p. 132.) 863 November 1968 Class Discussion Wherein is the justice of God shown in the truth that righteous desires go to judgment as well as deeds? IMPLEMENTATION The dispensation of the fulness of times was_ prophesied as a period when the teachings and practices of other dispensations would be restored to the earth. Among these would be the building of temples and the performance of sacred ordinances therein. Without these higher ordinances, known in scripture also as the mysteries of the kingdom, it would be impossible for men and women, eventually, to enter God's presence to receive the knowledge of God, which is exaltation in the celestial kingdom. Both men and women receive the blessings of the fulness of the priesthood in the temple, but they are laid under a strict command that they will not talk about this sacred knowledge outside of the temple. This commandment is because of the sacred nature of the higher ordinances of the gospel. The Lord gave his disciples this same instruction because others were not prepared for these mysteries. The holy endowment received in the House of the Lord qualifies the faithful member of the Church to receive the ordinances, covenants, and knowledge which prepare him for God's presence after the resurrection, and with the eternal marriage covenant, for exaltation. Some members of the Church, particularly women, because of their circumstances (not being married to a worthy member of the Church or being married to a nonmember, or unmarried) will not be denied their righteous desires, if they remain true to the covenants of baptism. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 5—Effective Communication Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how effective communication is an avenue to successful relationships. A few years ago a university professor was lying on the floor playing with his young son. The boy, reaching out, touched his father on the cheek, as he said, 864 "You have a nice face, Dad." The father thought to himself, one of the pleasures of parenthood is that your children at least think nice things. A few minutes later his son said, "It's nice to see your face again, Dad." His father replied, "Why do you say that? I haven't been away. I go to the University and I come back every day." "I know," exclaimed his son, "I know you are here, but usually when I look at you, I just see your legs and your tummy." In recounting. This, the father said, "Now this is not much different from how we view things differently between the generations, and just an awareness of this fact may help solve some communication difficulties." How much of our failure in communication lies in the different vantage points from which we look at a problem or an occurrence in life? What role does our age, experience, our capabilities, sensitivity, awareness, and our point of view play in our interpretation of an event? What effect do these have on our communication with someone concerning them? When do our emotions prevent us from hearing accurately what is being said? When does our desire to be right create barriers against understanding? How does our pride keep us from admitting the truth? Are we often preoccupied when we should be listening? When we claim that Lesson Department someone doesn't understand us, is it possible that we are really saying, a won *t see your point of view,' "Why can't you be like me?" ¢ or "I'm not going to change, but you should." or "T understand, but you don't." Does our anxiety, our preoccupation, or our lack of interest convince our children and our husbands that we do not understand them and that they must seek others as confidants? In trying to promote better communication, and, thus, create more successful relationships, we should: 1. Listen, with undivided attention 2. Try looking at things from the other's point of view 3. Be sensitive to hidden and unspoken problems; often, what is being discussed may not be the real problem Think of the needs of others Avoid unkind wit Never belittle the other person Try to help the others, as well as ourselves, learn from failures rather than condemnation 8. Lead—don't argue. SCD CA 5 Remember:. Let us reason together, that ye may understand;" (D&C 50:10.) "In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found..." (Proverbs 10:13.) "She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness." (Proverbs 31:26.) < THE MASTER'S GIFTS ) God loved the flowers So he gave to them the dew, And he loved me, | know, For he gave to me—you. —Mary V. Cameron 865 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 5—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how we can teach our children to be habitually courteous and well mannered. INTRODUCTION It is natural for parents to want their children to behave well, but too many of these parents forget that the conduct of their children is a natural outgrowth of observation, practice, and training. Any conduct which is not the product of one or all of these processes is not natural but is artificial. Good manners are not artificial but, as we learned in our previous discussion, they are the outward indication of the inner virtues of love, kindness, and consideration for others. To act courteously is to fulfill the laws of good conduct, and these laws, like all others, must be taught and practiced. If children are taught at an early age—in fact, the earlier the better—by example and by practice to do "the kindest things in the kindest way," it will become a natural part of their lives. The old proverb "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6) is as applicable here as it is in any other phase of his learning process. 866 The manners and courtesies we teach our children are a part of them throughout their lives. This is particularly valuable to missionaries representing their families and the Church throughout the world. They are better and more effective missionaries if they extend courtesy to all with whom they come in contact. Good manners are an important asset in gracious living. HOW SHALL WE TEACH OUR CHILDREN TO BE COURTEOUS AT HOME? One young Relief Society class leader and mother of ten says: My wonderful husband deserves a great tribute because of his kind and thoughtful nature. For instance he will say, 'Son, please open the door for your mother,' or 'Help your mother on with her coat.' He is always appreciative of my work in the house, and he thanks me for sewing on buttons, mending, and doing any other little chores. He also is very considerate in remembering to thank the children when they help out in any way. I. By constantly practicing acts of courtesy one with another. A. Responding to all requests and favors with "Please" and "Thank you." B. Showing respect for each other in conduct and speech. 1. Listening attentively to each other. 2. Avoiding' displays' of temper between parents or children. 3. Respecting each other's privacy. (Even small children desire moments of privacy and seclusion.) By practicing and_ teaching obedience. 1. Honoring the priesthood. 2. Maintaining and teaching a respectful attitude toward parents and Church leaders. 3. - Observing all family rules and requirements. 4. Responding promptly and willingly. 53. Fulfilling personal responsibilities and commitments. By maintaining cleanliness and order. 1. Observing personal habits of cleanliness. 2. Practicing politeness and rules of good conduct at mealtimes. 3. Keeping one's room and personal belongings in order. By frequently expressing love and appreciation to each other and to the children. (Love should be the motivating force for all of our thoughts and actions. ) By realizing that each member is an individual with his own personality, his own abilities, and his own needs and that he should be treated accordingly. By observing regular family prayers, with each _ family member taking his turn and by teaching—from infancy—the great importance of individual prayers. Lesson Department HOW SHALL WE TEACH OUR CHILDREN TO BE COURTEOUS IN PUBLIC? I. By teaching them the principle of the second great commandment, "Love thy neighbour as_ thyself." (Mark 12:31.) II. By teaching them respect for other people's rights and property. III. By teaching them respect for officers of the law, public officials, and teachers. IV. By teaching them to observe civil law. A. Traffic rules and signs. B. Property signs—public' and private. C. Any others. VI. By teaching them to help other people whenever possible. A. Crossing streets. B. Opening doors. C. Giving up seats to the elderly. By teaching them the proper use of public services and utilities. A. Telephone rights and courtesies. B. Escalators, elevators, swinging doors, etc. C. Bus and streetcar deportment. VIL. CONCLUSION When children have been reared in a loving home and have been taught to be obedient to their parents and to their Heavenly Father—when they have been taught to have respect for law and consideration for the rights of others—when, in addition, they have had nurtured within them a prayerful heart— then we can be sure that their conduct will be courteous and well mannered. Better keep a memory BETTER Free and sorrow-blended, Than to bear it guiltily, When a dream has ended. ~Christie Lund Coles 867 SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 5—Look for the Guide Line Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out that the Latter-day Saint woman need not be deceived by false values and standards of today, if she will look for and heed the guide lines of gospel teachings. INTRODUCTION The Latter-day Saint woman of today may easily become confused as she contemplates the complex world in which she lives, and as she faces unfavorable situations, some of which are forced upon her. Material possessions may assume unwarranted importance in her thinking and, thus, deceive her into imprudent decisions. She may be deceived by false religious doctrines which are current and with which she or her children may come in contact. She may be deceived by false social values or by an attitude of self-righteousness, if she is not vigilant. Fortunately for her, however, gospel principles, general guidance of the Church, and specific admonition of General Authorities may prevent these deceptions. "THERE WILL YOUR HEART BE ALSO" (Luke 12:34.) Class Discussion 1. Do you believe that striving for material possessions may keep a 868 Latter-day Saint woman from attaining more important and permanent values? 2. In what ways do women influence the spending of money? 3. Do you believe that many wives today press for luxury possessions to the extent of jeopardizing their husband's health? Several aspects of material possessions have been considered in previous social relations lessons. One lesson (see lesson 5, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1967, pp. 869-870) discussed the need to simplify our lives and the value of wanting less of the nonessentials which may encumber our lives. We will now consider materialistic possessions as they may influence human relationships and as they may advance or hinder the Latter-day Saint woman from achieving the important goals of life. In today's world of abundant material comforts and items of luxury, with so many beautiful and useful things to see and to purchase, the question of the relative importance of material things may, with profit, be fre- quently reviewed. Am I spending too much money? Too much time? Too much interest on material possessions? Are questions the thoughtful woman asks herself. ELIZABETH TELLS HER OWN STORY I am a woman to whom material possessions have meant much, very much. I admit that I have given up some very important things in order to have them. I suppose one could say that I had successfully "'kept up with the Joneses" —that is, until something happened. After my husband's death, I planned to meet our son at the termination of his mission, a calling which I had not been too enthusiastic about. We planned to travel in the foreign country for a few weeks before coming home together. As the jet plane soared high into the endless blue of sky, I looked down at the earth below. Nothing could be seen but the clouds which separated me from earth, from my city, from my precious possessions housed in a more than comfortable home. I thought of my most recent purchases, which are beautiful. I admit that I really hated to leave them. But, at the moment, they seemed pretty far removed. It was not the possibility of needing to relinquish them permanently that impressed me, but the fact that their beauty and importance somehow seemed too dim in my mind. They were of wood, of porcelain, and of silver, and they seemed remote to my present situation. When I deplaned at the city of my destination, my son was all enthusiasm. I must meet the wonderful people to whom he had taken the gospel message. He loved them, he said. He loved them for their humility, for their willingness to learn of the gospel, and to do all that it required. I was not prepared for the individuals to whom he introduced me nor for the homes in which they lived. Such frugal living, such utter simplicity, and yet Such genuine hospitality I had not seen before. One woman said, "To think that you would send your son all the way toa foreign country just to bring the gospel to me and to my family! And to give us Lesson Department that book." She pointed to The Book of Mormon upon the table. "To give us that book," she repeated. "It is almost too wonderful to believe." Her repeated reference to The Book of Mormon impressed me. I later purchased a number of copies, and, as I visited the homes of my deceased husband's relatives, as I had promised him I would do, I left in each home a copy of this new witness for Christ. I learned something about living from those homes, about warmth of family relationships, about sharing, and about caring one for another. "You've changed," I said to my son on the return plane trip, recalling the youth who had gone into the mission field, and seeing now, the more man than boy, who was returning from it. "And I know why." "You've changed, also," he said, "I wasn't sure you'd stay in some of the homes where I took you." "Nor was I, at first. But I wouldn't have missed the experience for the world." Now that the traveling is over, the correspondence with these wonderful families has brought me into an exciting genealogical project for my husband's and also my own ancestral lines. I often ask myself, "How could I have been so deceived by material possessions? The guide line was there all the time. I suppose I just wasn't aware of it." Class Discussion 1. What does this woman's story mean to you? 2. Do you believe that having a nicer house and prettier or more expensive clothes — strengthen your relationship with your neighbor? 3. (a) Do people really love us for what we have? (b) May possessions create a barrier between friends? 4. To what extent do you think luxury possessions are justified? FALSE RELIGIOUS DOCTRINE Discussion Question What may a Latter-day Saint woman do to detect false religious teachings? 869 November 1968 Although Latter-day Saints, generally, may know what the gospel teaches, the Latter-day Saint woman should, of herself, be aware of gospel principles and teachings. This awareness may help her evaluate opposing beliefs which she or her children may encounter. In the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual lesson "Be Not Deceived," President Clark speaks warningly of various religious beliefs held by many socalled Christians. He states that many theological critics object to the eschatology passages of the New Testament. And eschatology is defined as: "The doctrine of the last or final things, death, resurrection, immortality, the end of the world, final judgment, the future state; the doctrine of last things." (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69.) According to President Clark, these critics would disregard anything which lies outside the range of the known laws of nature. They would place everything beyond the moral teachings of Jesus in the realm of myth, legend, symbolism, or allegory. This would destroy the divine origin of Jesus, his miracles, and his resurrection. This would mean that the following would be considered merely as myth, symbolism, or allegory: 1. The resurrection of Jesus and his subsequent appearance to many individuals. 2. The appearance of heavenly beings to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 3. The prophecies concerning the millennium when "angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding 870 the trump of God...." (D&C 88:92-111.) (Other illustrations might be suggested.) President Clark states: I would like you to appreciate that without the eschatology of the records of the Savior's life, we should have nothing left but husks, moral teachings, and ethics which, if lived, would make us a great people, a humane people, a peaceful people, but would not carry us back into the presence of our Heavenly Father. (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1962, p. 255; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 13.) Under the heading "Warning of False Prophets," President Clark states further: I want to read now just a few verses from the Olivet Discourse, the discourse which the Savior delivered on the Mount of Olives at the near conclusion, or conclusion of the third day of the Passion Week which he had spent in the temple or the temple precincts. I am going to read from all three Synoptists, because each says essentially the same _ thing, but in somewhat different language. (Behold the Lamb of God, p. 252; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968- 69, Lesson 13.) The three scriptures which President Clark then quotes are: And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. (Matthew 24:3-5.) And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any man deceive you: For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. (Mark 13:5-6.) And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye not therefore after them. (Luke 21:8.) President Clark continues: I think perhaps when we first read these extracts we may think that the Savior is talking primanily of a person, somebody to come to impersonate the Christ and claim to be the Christ. It seems to me, however, from the way in which these records are made and what they say, that the Savior also had in mind anyone who would come and say to you, "This is Christ that I teach; that is Christ that I teach; that is the Christian doctrine." In that sense I think that these scholars about whom I have already read, who would discard everything that they could not account for by the known laws of nature, they are in effect false Christs, for they are telling us that the things that we believe in Christ are myths, tradition, symbolism, allegory; they did not exist.... Let us beware of this false Christ, false Christianity, which is taking root among some of our intellectuals. Be not deceived, believe it not, follow not after it.... (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 13.) RECENT REPORT The result of a questionnaire sent to 3,000 Protestant clergymen is reported in an issue (February 1968) of a popular magazine. It reveals how these men feel about prayer, God, sexual freedom, social conformity, and their roles as ministers. Among the younger theologians, most saw Jesus as a human, although with a humanity which was different from our own. Half of them felt that the virgin birth of Jesus was essentially a myth and, therefore, eliminated him from the Holy Trinity. Many rejected the idea of a personal God, preferring to describe God as the "force of life," the "principle of love," "ultimate reality," and so forth. Some went so far Lesson Department as to say that the Bible gives very little guidance for specific problems, saying that it has very little to do with the hereafter, if there is a hereafter. Reference to this report is made in this lesson because these recent findings so clearly illustrate and support President Clark's comments and warning. We should keep in mind that the statements of the theologians are not those of isolated critics, whose viewpoints might influence a small segment of our society only, but represent the attitudes and opinions of ministers in some Protestant churches of today. Class Discussion 1. To what extent might the Latter-day Saint woman or her children be influenced by reading such a report or by association with non-Latter-day Saints whose minister teaches such fallacious doctrine? 2. What guide lines will fortify the home against these teachings? (See Lesson 13, "Be Not Deceived," Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69.) WHERE MUCH IS GIVEN Where much is given much is expected. This is a common maxim. Related to the Latterday Saint woman it may imply that, since she has been given much spiritual enlightenment and been blessed by available counsel, much is to be expected of her by way of performance. She may recount her many blessings, speak of her standards and of the self-image which influences her actions. She may be heard to say, "I just wouldn't do such a thing." 871 November 1968 Class Discussion 1. In the light of the foregoing paragraph, (a) is there danger that the Latter-day Saint woman may unknowingly project an attitude of self-righteousness? (b) Would her attitude of self righteousness be fair to the Church? 2. May we really be deceiving ourselves as to our worthiness? The Prophet Joseph Smith admonished Relief Society sisters to "... Beware of self-righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than others..." (B. H. Roberts, A Comprehensive History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1949, Vol. 4, p. 606) CONCLUSION President Clark, in lesson 13 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, deals with false religious doctrine. This correlating lesson discusses other areas where the Latter-day Saint woman might be also deceived. A guide line, according to an international dictionary, refers to a rope or cord used to guide one's steps, especially over rocky terrain. It is like the guidepost, placed usually at intersections of two or more roads, in that each is for the guidance of the traveler. The term may be used appropriately in this lesson, for we are travelers over the rocky terrain of life. There are crossroads of thought and action which, often, may require a wise choice or a prompt decision. For the Latterday Saint woman, the most important guide lines are the teachings of the gospel and priesthood counsel. For Home-Doing Ask yourself: 1. Am I deceiving myself? 2. Am I being deceived by others? 3. Am I alert to guide lines which may help me solve particular problems? -——-— SONG FOR A LOSS This know, dear heart—(be comforted) In every love that is, this comes: A time to give it back to God, Who gave it to you... Who strains to keep is discomfited, (His love takes on so many forms) —Love can be staff or can be rod— Know this, for it is true, That when one love seems ended, And your joy turned into pain, Remember God attended You formerly, and stands again Ready, though the world seems empty... Love lives, eternally! 872 —Katherine F. Larsen CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Four By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "We are born to grow and can only develop by keeping ourselves in vital communication with the world without and within us." —J. 5S. Spalding Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that, in true development, increasing complexity is matched ART: by enlarging capacity. 'Lady Jean'' by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Painting reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, page 691. INTRODUCTION As children we usually yearn to grow up; it is only the adult who longs for youth. If, as Wordsworth suggests, "shades of the prison house begin to close upon" the growing child, children are often more realistic about freedom than their parents. The responsibilities of adult life obviously limit complete freedom, and all but relentlessly indulged youngsters willingly accept this. The small girl playing house is trying to the best of her ability to take care of her doll family and pretended household chores. In so doing she is an appealing embodiment of the two elements on which all maturity is based— work and love. If her love still lacks discrimination and her work is childishly random, her instinct is sure. "SILENCE" BY MARIANNE MOORE (under copyright) The first selection in this section, "Silence" by Marianne Moore, helps us to see at least one standard by which our love can be refined. First of all we must recognize that sensitivity is a distinguishing characteristic of mature love. In her deft, opening lines, Miss Moore touches briefly on various kinds of insensitivity; those who make long visits are insensitive to others; those who must be shown standard tourist attractions are insensitive both to others and to themselves. Truly superior people know that real concern for others 873 November 1968 has little to do with superficial companionship and that those who try to keep us from indulging ourselves are really our friends. What makes this poem effective is the way in which these ideas are presented. The indirection of Miss Moore's lines forces us to think about what she is saying while the specific details she uses help us to participate in the situations she describes. The result is that we come away from a poem about growth having experienced growth. Discussion Question Although the title of this poem is "Silence," we soon discover that Miss Moore has in mind a special kind of silence—that which is the result of deep, restrained feeling. How important is restraint in the achievement of maturity? "THE MOTHER'S DILEMMA" FROM "THEIR MOTHERS' SONS" BY EDWARD STRECKER (under copyright) The second selection this month focuses on a kind of love which isa hindrance to the growth of both mother and child. Dr. Strecker's article is effective because he never descends to sensationalism or technical jargon to present his point. He is content to pose the problem and possible consequences of overly protective love in language that is both simple and disarmingly forthright. He is understanding enough to concede that just being a mother creates a dilemma for which there is no easy solution. His compliment to his readers is that just seeing the general problem clearly may make individual decisions easier. 874 The integration of love and work found in real maturity is only hinted at in "Silence" when its concluding lines suggest that the truly sensitive are anxious to encourage others' on-going effort. In "The Mother's Dilemma," we see this fusion of love and work more explicitly. It is not enough to love our children devotedly. Unless we work at teaching them how to give as well as take, we have stunted their emotional growth. Failure to prepare her child for independence exacts as much from the mother as the child. Both remain in a state of arrested development; both forego the satisfaction of maturity. Discussion Question Assuming Dr. Strecker's assertion that "the vast majority of men and women are made or broken before the first ten years of their lives" is at least approximately true, what specific things can a mother do to help her children become independent without feeling rejected? "THE RIVER MERCHANT'S WIFE" BY EZRA POUND How one's love for another should develop is the theme of our next selection. Ezra Pound's rather free translation of an ancient Chinese poem helps us to see how old, yet how fresh, are the stages in developing love. Anyone who is happily married can testify that falling in love is exciting, but growing in love is more deeply satisfying. Perhaps the one line in "The River Merchant's Wife" which tells us that married happiness must be worked for occurs at the end of the second stanza. Although her marriage has been arranged, and she is too bashful to laugh or even look up, the young bride looks forward and not back. That this effort cost her something is suggested in the next line when she admits that her first year of married life was characterized by her "scowling." That her effort was worthwhile is testified to in the adolescent intensity of her desire to have her dust mingled with her husband's "for ever and for ever and for ever." Discussion Question The wife in this poem surely does show restraint in expressing her love. To what extent, if any, is the point of "The River Merchant's Wife" in conflict with the theme of 'Silence'? "SONNET 7 FROM HOLY SONNETS" BY JOHN DONNE At the round earth's imagined corners, blow Your trumpets, angels, and arise, arise From death, you numberless infinities Of souls, and to your scattered bodies go; All whom the flood did, and fire shall o'erthrow; All whom war, dearth, age, agues, tyrannies, Despair, law, chance, hath slain, and you whose eyes Shall behold God, and never taste death's woe. But let them sleep, Lord, and me mourn a space, For, if above all these, my sins abound, "Tis late to ask abundance of Thy grace, When we are there; here on this lowly ground, Teach me how to repent; for that's as good As if Thou hadst sealed my pardon, with Thy blood. Our opening selections have stressed various manifestations of love. Our concluding ones emLesson Department phasize work. In "Sonnet 7," for instance, John Donne is painfully aware that he is not prepared for judgment day. The suggestion that his sins "abound" above everyone else's may be deliberate exaggeration, but it is indicative of his state of mind. He is not interested in gauging where his sins might be viewed in relation to other persons, for any sin implies estrangement from God. Neither is he willing to depend upon the grace or mercy of God once his earth life is over. Now is the time and here is the place to repent. It is interesting to note that Donne does not contemplate effortless change, but when the Lord helps him understand how to repent, the rest is up to him. Donne simply asks for time to grow into the kind of person whose life does not mock the Savior's sacrifice. Discussion Question "Sonnet 7" helps us see that repentance is at the base of spiritual growth. To what extent is repentance at the base of all growth? "EARLY MARRIAGE" BY CONRAD RICHTER (under copyright) "Early Marriage" involves us in the development of two young people, a brother and _ sister, Rife and Nancy Belle, who must grow up almost over night. Yet this is no story of courage under actual fire. The young boy and girl who must make several days journey through hostile country are not called upon to fight Indians, but they must fight their own fears, develop enough self-control to strengthen each other, and grow up to the 875 November 1968 point that they can face whatever the next day brings. As we might expect, love is the impelling force: the girl's love for her husband-to-be, the boy's devotion to his sister. But the real impact of the story comes in watching them work out of youth into adulthood. We know from the first that Rife's apparent unconcern and Nancy Belle's calmness are carefully and deliberately imposed from within. The effort it is costing young Rife to keep control of himself is hinted at repeatedly in the stiffness of his actions, and Nancy Belle's mature understanding of her plight is effectively suggested in her controlled emotions. She doesn't even hug her brother when he returns with the lost horses lest this break in the discipline she is imposing upon herself, might weaken them both. Discussion Question What is the danger in growing up too fast? What areas of your life are apt to suffer if you assume responsibilities beyond your years? "MY KINSMAN, MAJOR MOLINEUX"' BY NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE "My Kinsman, Major Molineux" was among the earliest of Hawthorne's tales to appear in print, but its critical reception was mixed. Some thought this to be simply a tale of the necessary replacing of the old by the new. Others felt that it was no more than the account of an ignorant country youth who was frustrated in his search for help from a prominent kinsman and, as a result, finally joined in public condemnation of him. 876 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 26 -— January 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Cheneye Sy Bisley pS pl pil) Ss pil BE ag MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable in struction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house IS prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service Cloth Cover $350: Leather Cover Yearly Index Included $5 50 Advance payment must accompany all orders Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed Postage Rates from Salt Lake City. Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 5 75 Zone 3 60 Zone6. 85 Zone 4 65 Zone 7 95 Zone 8 105 Ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road. Salt Lake City. Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486 1892 Lesson Department Recent critics have been more impressed. They have usually recognized this as one of the great accounts of developing manhood. Note that even the young hero's name, Robin, is suggestive of spring-like hope and anticipation. Our identification with Robin may be so real that it is painful to relive our own adolescent frustrations and embarrassments in his story. Who has not, at some time in his youth, expected someone else to help make his fortune or provide an unearned opportunity? In his essay "The American Scholar," Ralph Waldo Emerson quotes the Swiss educator Pestalozzi to the effect that his own maturity began to be evident when he learned that '"'no man in God's wide earth is either willing or able to help any other man." If this verges upon cynical overstatement, it does dramatize the necessity for each person being responsible for his own development. Poor environment may make certain kinds of growth difficult, and seeming lack of opportunity may coerce our choices, but young men and women do rise above poverty and degradation through unremitting use of their own resources. There is no more encouraging note in this story than the continuing possibility of each person's achieving that success which is appropriate to both his aspiration and determination. Discussion Question We are often told that experience is the best teacher, yet some of Robin's experiences seem to leave him so depressed that they rob him of initiative. Are there some experiences a person cannot afford to have? 877 November 1968 Ad For reumd (betwen $1.75 & #250) send 'oft: _. Treasure up ity your min fterson, calligrapher, and elegantly oid ot) qualify parchment. S Tete 'A unique and urusual gift-ideal for framing. ¢ Ff selections and prices Putte Enterprioes £0, Box ae oult Lake City, Ut. A401 99 FOUR WORDS DEFINED PEACE is being loved in the deepest dimension. LIVING is loving someone beyond explanation. DEVOTION is serving others with sincere dedication. FAITH is saying ''I will" when the time comes for action. —Leora G. Larsen LOVED A child breathes And with this life Held for a moment In loved curved arms, Come light and shadows. A child grows, Is molded to His environment, And reflects the lives Of those that break the shadows. A child matures, And, if cradled well, The world is to him As a rainbow prismed On an edge of glass. —Carolle Denton CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Store At 45th South and Interstate 15 (4370 South 2nd West) Send 50¢ for our brand-new, 100-page Crafts Instruction Catalog. You'll be glad you did! Dealer inquiries invited ZIM'S Box 7620 Salt Lake City, Utah 84107 Dept. R. M. 878 "a.. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY > \e eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 Bel. RECORDS | Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 879 The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord | Praise Be to Thee | Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson Richfield, Utah 96 Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines Logan, Utah Mrs. Minna Mandelkol Kirchoss Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Agnes Anderson Thompson Layton, Utah 95 Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona 94 Mrs. Bertha Ellen Winn Johns Coburg, Oregon Mrs. Evelyn S. Koehler South Lake Tahoe, California Mrs. Stella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Minnie Margetts Ross Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lucy Jacobs B. Winterton Charleston, Utah 93 Mrs. Clara Elizabeth Woodbury Barlow Sylvester Adams Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Semantha Cornelia Shurtleff Agren Ogden, Utah Mrs. Laura Finlayson Coombs Santaquin, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann (Mayme) Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah 880 92 91 90 Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mae Francell Henri Herring Orem, Utah Mrs. Patrea Christina Peterson Keisel Manti, Utah Mrs. Helen Hunsaker Allen Tremonton, Utah Mrs. Adeline Lorenia Peterson Bone Garland, Utah Mrs. Salley Courtney Dykes Tallahassee, Florida Mrs. Addie Thorne Nelson Roy, Utah Mrs. Rose Hone Pay Spanish Fork, Utah Eden, Utah Mrs. Mary Melindia Thompson Spencer | Provo, Utah Mrs. Minnie Kirk Clawson Ramah, New Mexico Mrs. Mary Ann Fields Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah Mrs. Fanny Butenschon Metalman Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Laura Wilson Ross Portland, Oregon Mrs. Almeda Perry Brown Downey, California Mrs. Mary Ann Faddies Farrell Coalville, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Robins Herbert Salina, Utah Mrs. Vinnie Eveleen Imlay Marshall Pima, Arizona Mrs. Jennett Mitchel Smith | An endless source of captivating and thrifty recipes to delight the whole family! CASSEROLES... Tasty recipes that will become favorites in your family. Casseroles for brunch, lunch, dinner, outdoors, and special occasions... Everything from cheese broccoli casserole to cauliflower souffle... Chuck wagon skillet to honey-yam casserole. Handy editorial guide to left-overs magic, convenience foods, how to cook ahead and freeze family meals. La — MORMON GIPES MEATS... Never run out of ideas, draw on these delicious recipes tried and tested and shared with you by Relief Society sisters throughout the U. S. Recipes for braising, roasting, panfrying, broiling, stewing, barbecuing and. Baking. Bart gy, a0 Oo #4 VOaiy Recipes -- avs bd x *¢ ' on SALADS... NEW, just off the press, mouth-watering salad and appetizer recipes from Mormon homemakers everywhere. Complete details on preparing picture-perfect salads for Juncheon, snacks, and family dinners. Categorized by egg salads, frozen fruit salads and molds, vegetable salads, party and dessert salads, poultry salads, seafood salads, and pasta salads. Each recipe book contains over 2,000 recipes! Lifetime spiral binding that lies flat DESERET BOOK COMPANY for convenient use. Illustrated. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me:...... Copies of CASSEROLES... Copies of MEATS Total Cost $....0.00..... | enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [_] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 3%% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Copies of SALADS 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY JIL) 55050STATE............ Ee ZIP. Nov. R. S. Mag. 68 (Please send details of fund raising plan [1] ) Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 13 Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Pumpkin Pie for a real family taste treat. PUMPKIN PIE 3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon unflavored 1% cup U AND | SUGAR gelatin (or 1 envelope) 1% cups cooked or % cup cold water canned pumpkin 3 stiffly beaten egg % cup milk whites % tsp. Salt % cup U AND | SUGAR % tsp. Ginger 1 baked 9" or 10" % tsp. Cinnamon pastry shell % tsp. Nutmeg ra ee Beat egg whites and % cup sugar, and set aside. Beat egg yolks and Y%cup sugar until thick. Add pumpkin, milk, salt, and spices. Cook in double boiler until thick. Soften gelatin in cold water, stir into hot mixture. Fold in egg white mixture. Pour into baked, cooled pastry shell and chill. Top with whipping cream. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. The Cover Frontispiece "Art Layout Illustrations MARY AND HER SON You must have wondered When he went away How they would receive him.. Tall and gentle Son. All his words were wheat Within your fields, But remembering Egypt And the hidden flight, You feared that stony Acres stretched before Him now and thorns. In firelanes at dusk You heard the laws Fall, as if fresh minted, From his tongue. His Parables were beautiful To you, yet | believe You sensed the coming sword.... All this before his shadow Quit your door, Your warm loaf napkined In his lonely hand. For you The spinning, candlemaking, Fleece.. Oh, heavy, heavy wheel Oh, wheel of wood Turning toward the doorway Where he stood. —Margery S. Stewart "Flight Into Egypt''—Murillo (1617-1682) > / > 17 ¢ a 5 ~ ~ Transparency supplied by the Detroit Institute of Arts Reproduced with permission Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press "Come Follow Me'''—Painting by John T. Harwood Reproduced by permission of Brigham Young University The original of this painting hangs in the library of the Joseph Smith Building Dick Scopes Mary Scopes My August (1968) Magazine came today and, of course, | was pleased with my story in it ("Kitchen Money"), but | was especially pleased with the illustrations (by Mary Scopes). She does a beautiful job. The characters illustrated were just as | had pictured them in my mind, Particularly Jase and Mrs. Bryson. Please give the illustrator a special thanks for me. The illustrations add so much to the interest and charm of the Magazine. > Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah with each issue. Bonnie B. Singleton, President, Atlanta Stake Relief Society, Chamblee, Georgia The Relief Society Magazine is a constant inspiration to the women in our stake. Ma you always be blessed for your part in it. Evelyn R. Bluth, Preident, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, Santa Monica, California cover to cover. | love all of it. | certainly didn't know what | was missing. Loretta G. Hansen, Tremonton, Utah We want to express our appreciation for the wonderful articles in the Magazine, especially the editorial in the September issue—"it Is the Little Things That Count" (by Counselor Louise W. Madsen), and the one on visiting teaching "Because They in the ward, but also many inactive members who were grateful to receive the truly inspired Magazine. It is a wonderful gift and also a missionary tool. Nona Stopher, Mt. Pleasant, West Australia | would like to express my gratitude for the beautiful message in '"'Because They Care" (by Zelma R. West) in the September Magazine. Having been called recently to serve as president of the Lakeview Ward Relief Society, | realize more than ever the importance of visiting teaching and the need to visit each sister in the ward. Our lives are truly enriched by The Relief Society Magazine. Jo Beth Bradley, Springfield, Idaho 4 The Z Relief Society a Magazine volume 55 December 1968 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 884 The Need of Family Influence Alvin R. Dyer 890 ~==The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1968 Evon W. Peterson 900 #With a Heart Full of Gratitude Relva B. Ross 905 Christmas Seals for 1968—A Partridge in a Pear Tree Fiction 893 Grandmother for Christmas Dorothy C. Robinson 906 =A Story for Christmas Jody Shields 912 Her Best Was Enough Cora Hill Arnold 932 Welcome the Task—Chapter 2 Michele Bartmess General Features 882 From Near and Far 901 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 902 _—--Editorials—The 138th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church; Far From Bethlehem Vesta P. Crawford 960 _—sC— Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out Now Let the Time of Christmas Be Told 913; Christmas Home for the Children, Oa J. Cannon 914; Cookies for the Children, Dora D. Flack 916; Candy Animals—A Family Tradition, Leone J. Layton 918; Christmas Comes to Denmark, Inga H. Nielsen Dougal 920; Christmas Is for Friends, Tasma P. Dansie 922; Christmas Comes to Australia, Margaret Felt 924; A Pioneer Christmas 925; A Genealogical Christmas -Tree, Gladys Hibbard Eccles 926; A Christmas Clown 926; Christmas Heritage in Rialto Stake 927; ''Look Books'' for the Little Ones 928; The Honor of Being a Mother, Roxana Farnsworth Hase 930; Hobby Features: Lula Jameson Taylor, Martha Jane Chappel Head 931. Lesson Department Lessons for: Northern Hemisphere: March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 937 Spiritual Living—Salvation for the Dead Roy W. Doxey 943 —sVisiting Teacher Message—''Draw Near Unto Me and | Will Draw Near Unto. You...."' Alice Colton Smith - 944. Homemaking—Take Pride in What You Have Celestia J. Taylor 946 ~=— Social Relations—That We May Be One Alberta H. Christensen 951 Cultural Refinement—''The Appreciation of Beauty'' Bruce B. Clark Poetry 881 Mary and Her Son Margery S. Stewart David, Udora Morris 899; Faith, Catherine B. Bowles 900; Told By a Shepherd Boy, Syivia Probst Young 904; The Present, Mary Hunter 911; South Window, Ardith M. McBride 930; The Star We Share, Dorothy O. Rea 936; First Hurt, Christie Lund Coles 442; The Artist's Touch, Alda Larson Brown 950; Retrospect, Ruth G. Rothe 955; Remembered Summer, Vesta N. Fairbairn 958; Marriage, Katherine F. Larson 958; Happiness, Zara Sabin 960. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. PTI TY YY TY TY TS The Need of Family Influence President Alvin R. Dyer Of the First Presidency {Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] O I think this afternoon we have listened to talks of great wisdom and very high caliber which bespeak the leadership of this great organization today. I have always felt that the Church and kingdom of God ls highly benefited by the Relief Society organization as it continues under its present great leadership, to carry out with intelligence and spirit, the purpose for which it was organized. This morning in meeting with President McKay, who gave the appointment for me to be here today, he asked to have his heartfelt feelings and blessings expressed to you of the Relief Society at this meeting, and there is, perhaps, no one on earth today who appreciates more the value and purpose of this great organization. My remarks today go more directly to the individual than anything else, and particularly to the influence a mother can wield in the lives of her children. The greatest asset of America is not its mineral and oil wealth, not its industries or stockpiles of atomic and hydrogen power, not in its ability to explore space in search of answers to the mysteries of the universe, not even in its great universities, and perhaps not even in its religious institutions, in the freedom of which our constitution was 884 founded. America's greatest asset lies in the potential of her people or the potential of the individual. Man is greater than that which he creates, and God is greater than his ruling power. HOME, THE CENTER OF CIVILIZATION The greatest asset to the individual is the home, where the initiation to mortal life is that of a warm, loving, and righteous atmosphere of a family. A place where the bumps and hurts of childhood and the quandaries of adolescent years find refuge, understanding, and _ strength; a place that, regardless of what might be twisted and out of order on the outside, will be organized and at peace on the inside. The home is the center, the bulwark of civilization; it is not in the state, nor is it in any system that would control the individual. Freedom and the exercise of agency within that freedom is, as has already been spoken of today several times, the God-given right of agency of every man and woman. And this finds its highest expression in the citadel of the home, for the home is the center of civilization, and the primary responsibilities of the home rest upon the parents. The greatest trust that can come to a man and woman in this life is the placing in their keeping the well-being and training of a spirit child of God, for which they have provided a physical body. Concerning this the Lord has said, "they shall teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D & C 68:28.) In ancient times, in the days of the patriarchs, the family life was the whole of life. One of these patriarchs proclaimed this: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." (Proverbs 22:6.) A full interpretation of this scripture implies a way of righteous living on the part of the parents and a teaching of this way unto the children. One would be blind to the truth, or completely apathetic, if the perils, turbulence, and confusion of our modern times were not recognized. As the core of our civilization, it is the problem of the home to stabilize the famThe Need of Family Influence ily unit; for parents to seek for and take on new strength to meet this problem. The safeguarding of the lives of children; the prevention of their entanglement with superficial surges of spiritual and moral decay, is a prime necessity, if we are to save our civilization. BRING CHILDREN UP IN LIGHT AND TRUTH Acting upon divine revelation from God that conveys this communication unto parents: "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth," (D&C 93:40), the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has renewed its efforts, with greater emphasis than ever before, to strengthen home ties, to build family unity, to bring the reality of God and his purposes into the home, for we know, as the whole of mankind should know, that the failure to do this can only multiply the conditions of moral decay and the lack of spiritual direction that are already upon the world. Of this the Lord in a revelation in our "own time has said: You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction. And now a commandment I give unto you—if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house. (D&C 93:42-43.) To hundreds of thousands of Latter-day Saint families who are obedient to this divine counsel there develops order out of chaos, righteous purpose out of lack of direction, and a great appreciation for each individual, 885 December 1968 which is pleasing unto God. A greater sense of coordinated values, which builds personal strength, inducing a power of restraint against the superficial things of life is needed. Truly the righteous, well-ordered homes, if the leaders of nations could accept it, is the panacea for their most serious problems. Here is God, if we will but accept him, communicating with his children —to all of mankind—pointing the way. EDUCATION AND THE HOME It is true that our schools play a great part in educating and molding the lives of our youth. But often, without proper home environment, schooling becomes ineffectual. For example, we have the following comments from leading educators: "While about thirty per cent of those who enter high school drop out before graduation, what of the others beyond this who remain to be assumedly exposed to our educational systems and the caliber of teachers who hold forth?" says Ernest O. Melby, Professor of Education at Michigan State University, who infers the lack of effectual school training is due to some extent to home environment:. A large proportion of those who stay in school to graduate leave school with a very poor education, so poor that it unfits them for anything but a low order of skilled labor. Can the teachers be saddled with the sole responsibility... For the failure of the school system to meet the needs of a dangerously high number of pupils? Obviously not. Home environment, financial pressures on the family, and the sheer problem of educating such vast numbers—all have a great deal to do with the crisis. (From the October 886 1964 issue of Redbook Magazine, Copyright © 1964 by McCall Corporation. Reprinted by permission, page 61.) But the incompetence of teachers to give the help needed is also a factor, which again emphasizes the need for educational discipline in the home. James B. Conant, former President of Harvard University, makes this statement, and I quote: The United States today spends a higher percentage of its income on education per child than it has ever spent in its history—yet the net results are discouraging. He goes on to say, in summarization, that children are exposed to about forty teachers on the educational pathway from kindergarten to a high school diploma. With extreme good luck, says Conant, five out of forty or about twelve and one half per cent will be first rate. His statement is quoted further: The others, presiding over seveneighths of your child's career, will range from the adequate—that is reasonably competent, but routine and _ uninspiring—downward to those seriously deficient teachers who are poorly informed, indifferent about their work or temperamentally unsuited to the life of the classroom. (Ibid., page 60.) Thus we can attribute to the classroom that only which it can achieve. THE HAPPY HOME FORMULA The happy home is the heart of success of the family unit. This is achieved by the combined efforts of parents and children. Some few years ago President McKay provided a ten-point program to produce a "Happy Home." I shall refer to these conditions here essentially as he was inspired to give them: 1. Young people should ever keep in mind that the foundation for their own happy home begins in the behavior of pre-marital life. Loyalty to friends, to future husband or wife. To avoid indulgences that will mar the conditions of happiness. 2. Young people should choose their husband or wife by judgment and inspiration as well as by emotion. Wrong choices continue as a cause of unhappiness in the home. 3. Approach marriage with a lofty view. It is ordained of God. It is not something to be entered into lightly, terminated at pleasure, or ended at the first difficulty that may arise. The restraints of youth should ever be acting to preserve the sanctity of marriage that the home may have the proper setting. 4. The noblest purpose of marriage is procreation, the bringing of children into the atmosphere of a righteous and well-ordered home. 7 5. Let the spirit of prayer and reverence pervade the home, that children and parents alike may grow with inward peace that cannot be overthrown by things that transpire outside the home. 6. Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other—'"unless, of course, the house is on fire'— swearing is a vice that has no place in the home or any place, for that matter. 7. Learn the value of self-control. There is an ancient teaching that you find in Proverbs. "He that conquereth himself is greater than he that taketh a city." 8. Foster home ties by continued companionship. In this sense absence does not make the heart grow fonder. It is companionship that fosters love. The vows and covenants of troth are sacred and should be kept. There is nothing in life as compelling as the companionship of husband and wife and the confidence and love of children. There is nothing in this world important enough to sacrifice these conditions. 9. Makeaccessible to children proper literature, music, and appropriate television and motion pictures. 10. Parents by example and precepts should encourage participation in Church activity, thus establishing life's two great The Need of Family Influence paramount ideals. First, to build character, and second to render service. Let children feel that if they would make a home happy—if they, in just a small degree, repay the kindness of parenthood and the sacrifices that Mother and Father have made—they will develop in themselves noble characters. (Taken from The Life and Accomplishments of David O. McKay (unpublished) by Clare Middlemiss.) In supplementing these ten points, the home, I believe should emphasize spiritual strength. Sister Spafford has spoken so well of this today. In this respect, the characteristic of my own mother which I best recall was that of spiritual perceptiveness. This seemed to pervade her life most dominantly. It actually created an atmosphere in our home which bore unmistakable evidence, influence in my life and, I am sure, the lives of other children. She was a "peacemaker" and an example of "meekness." I am told that those of this nature will "see God" and "inherit the earth." TRIBUTE TO MOTHERS I recall an experience associated with spiritual thought, which concerned my own' mother. Many years ago, while fulfilling a mission to the Eastern States, I was privileged, with other missionaries, to participate in perhaps the first pageant-type program at Hill Cumorah. This event came as the climax to our summer activities which had us traveling without purse or scrip throughout the country areas of the mission. My own assignment was in Pennsylvania. On a given day, all missionaries turned their faces toward Palmyra, New York, and with banners 887 December 1968 across our backs, upon which was a picture of the Hill Cumorah with appropriate wording, much to the curiosity and questions of many people, all missionaries managed to arrive there in time to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the revealed existence of The Book of Mormon. For three days, to listening thousands on Hill Cumorah and in the Sacred Grove, the saga of the opening of this dispensation and the coming forth of The Book of Mormon was unfolded in song and the spoken word. Today, that story is told on the slopes of Cumorah in a magnificent pageant. This was an important event in my young missionary life. And, of course, my letters home expressed my great anticipation of this event. From my mother came these words of reply and I quote: It will be an honor to stand on the sacred ground where one of the greatest events in history transpired. Surely those who are chosen to be there will be blessed. We all look forward (meaning the family) with interest to that event, for you will actually view the place where the Angel Moroni stood and delivered the plates to the Prophet Joseph Smith. No doubt holy angels will be present and you and others will feel their presence. If our visionary eyes could only be opened we could see and feel many things. (Letter of July 30, 1923.) It is from the last statement, "If our visionary eyes were opened we could see and feel many things," that I desire to speak this day, and in doing so I pay tribute to my mother who possessed a deep sense of spiritual perception, and to all of you mothers here today and to those who are listening in, for 888 it is from womankind and the home that most often come the teachings of spirituality. With reference to the influence of mother, both seen and unseen, I recall the following experience in my own life. In our missionary journeys, as I mentioned, we spent our summer months in the country, traveling the back roads and country lanes without purse or scrip, as they would say in that day. This meant that we would ask for our lodging each night in a home of the people with whom we were doing missionary work. A MOTHER'S MESSAGE In late August of one of my missionary summers we_ were traveling in the country hills of Pennsylvania. One Sunday evening near the little village of Dornsife, my companion and I had found lodging with a very kind lady. She was living in a fine farm house, well kept and as neat as a pin. She happened to be alone at the time, her family was away, but she had no reticence in making us her guests. - All during the evening, as we discussed the gospel with her, and the following morning before we departed, she seemed to go out of her way to make our stay ~ pleasant. For some reason which I did not understand at the time, she seemed to favor me, being especially kind and thoughtful saying at one time, "How proud your mother must be of you." That night, even though I was tired from the long walk and the missionary work of the day, I could not sleep. I thought of my own mother most of the night. I was quite troubled for some reason. Finally, just before dawn, I fell asleep. Two days later, while holding an open air meeting towards evening on the front steps of a village store not far from Dornsife, to which we had invited the farm people in the surrounding area to attend, an automobile drove up. The presiding elder of our conference stepped out of the car and came directly to me, asking that the meeting be closed. This was promptly done. He then handed me a telegram stating that my mother had suddenly passed away on Sunday, and that the family wanted me to come home. As I sat there trying to compose myself from the shock of this news, my mind went back to the previous Sunday, spent in the home of the woman who was so kind. Strange as it may seem, it was while we were there that my mother had passed away. The president of the mission, who wasthen Brigham H. Roberts, requested that I come to the mission headquarters before returning home, but all the way there I prayed that I would not have to go home. At the mission headquarters, which was then 273 Gates Avenue in Brooklyn, I slept in one of the upper rooms of the _ chapel, which was next door to the mission home. On that evening, and I was supposed to leave the next morning for home, I prayed most earnestly that I could stay and fulfill my mission. In the midst of my prayers I strongly felt the presence of Mother. I felt her hand upon my head. I did not see her, but I knew that she was there. It The Need of Family Influence was then that, also, I knew that I would not return home; for she left that message with me. Later that night, toward midnight, a telegram was brought to me in this little room, and it read: "Stay on your mission. God bless you," signed Father. AN EVER-PRESENT INFLUENCE The influence of a good mother is always present in the lives of her children, whether she is seen or unseen. The Prophet Joseph Smith's confinement in Liberty Prison gave to the saints, by inspired and revealed utterance, many noble and lofty truths, and I would like to conclude my remarks with a statement that he made while he was confined in that small fourteen by fourteen foot prison. Said he:.. The things of God are of deep import; and time and experience, and careful and ponderous and_ solemn thoughts can only find them out. Thy mind, O man! If thou wilt lead a soul unto salvation, must stretch as high as the utmost heavens, and search into and contemplate the darkest abyss, and the broad expanse of eternity—thou must commune with God. How much more dignified and noble are the thoughts of God, than the vain imaginations of the human heart! None but fools will trifle with the souls of men. (Documentary History of the Church, Vol. III, page 295.) I am grateful, my brothers and sisters, and _ particularly you sisters who are here today, for the great and continuing work of this organization, and I extend to you the challenge of the great influence that the mothers of this Church can be in the lives of their children. And I bear record of this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 889 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1968 Evon W. Peterson General Secretary-Treasurer President Belle S. Spafford conducts the Officer's Meeting at Relief Society Annual General Conference, supported by her counselors and forty-four members of the General Board. O Thousands of devoted Relief Society leaders from many parts of the world assembled in the historic Tabernacle on Temple Square, in Salt Lake City, on Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, to attend the Relief Society Annual General Conference. There were representatives from stakes and missions in the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, 890 South America, Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, Germany, South Africa, and the Pacific Islands. President Hugh B. Brown, President Joseph Fielding Smith, and President Alvin R. Dyer of the First Presidency, and Elders Harold B. Lee and Marion G. Romney, Advisors of the Council of the Twelve to Relief Society, and Elder Henry D. Taylor, The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1968 Assistant to the Twelve, were in attendance at various sessions of the conference. The proceedings of the two Wednesday meetings and the Thursday afternoon meeting were televised in color over Station KBYU in Provo. Delayed television broadcasts of the afternoon sessions each day were presented in the evenings. Parts of these sessions were also broadcast in English and some in Spanish over the Church-owned radio station in New York, Station WNYW. Portions of the conference were also broadcast over KTVU serving the Oakland, San Francisco, and Nevada areas on Friday morning. Non-English speaking representatives were able to hear the proceedings of the conference through simultaneous translation in German and Spanish. All of the sessions in the Tabernacle were conducted by President Belle S. Spafford, who was supported by her Counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and_ forty-four other board members. In the opening session on Wednesday morning, President Spafford gave a report of the activities and growth of the organization during the eight-month period, January 1 to August 31, 1967. She explained that in line with the new fiscal year for the Church, the annual reports for 1967 covered only an _ eightmonth period and, therefore, comparison of the activities with the previous year could not be made. She commended the leaders in the various stakes and missions for the devoted and efficient service they had rendered in behalf of Relief Society. Directives and guidance were also given in the Official Instructions. President Spafford announced that, due to certain circumstances, four of the General Board members had been released during the year and she introduced two new members. Heartwarming testimonies of their conversion to the Church and of the blessings they had received through the gospel and their activity in Relief Society were borne by Norma Fernandez de Milla, President of the new Montevideo Stake in Uruguay and Mary C. Dawson, President of the new Perth Stake in Australia. Eileen Witehira, President of the new Auckland South Stake in New Zealand, offered the invocation. The music for this session was provided by a chorus of Singing Mothers from the Rigby Stake conducted by Barbara Ellis, with Roy. M. Darley at the organ. President Joseph Fielding Smith stressed the need for righteous homesand theimportant role of mothers in the rearing of children and admonished them to teach the gospel in their homes so that the children would develop strong testimonies. Elder Marion G. Romney spoke concerning the words of President John Taylor at the organization of Relief Society, "He rejoiced to see this institution (Relief Society) organized according to the law of heaven." An outstanding combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the Lake Mead, Las Vegas, Las Vegas Central, Las Vegas East, Las Vegas North, and Moapa 891 December 1968 Stakes, under the direction of Ellen N. Barnes, with Roy M. Darley at the organ, provided music for the afternoon general session. This chorus also furnished the music for both sessions of the General Conference of the Church held on Friday. President Spafford and Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen gave timely and inspiring addresses. Sister Afton W. Hunt also spoke, representing the General Board. President Alvin R. Dyer, representing the First Presidency, spoke on "The Need of Family Influence." A beautifully planned reception was held on Wednesday evening in the Relief Society building. More than 3,000 Relief Society leaders from stakes and missions were greeted by the General Board. The theme of the reception—'A World-wide Sisterhood"—was_ carried out through the use of flags representing the many nations where Relief Societies are organized. Attractive posters and displays featuring The Relief Society Magazine and the new Nursery Manual were viewed by those present. Departmental sessions were conducted on Thursday morning by General Board committees for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, homemaking leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and also spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement class leaders. Specific and detailed instructions relative to the respective programs were given, as well as inspiring messages. On Tuesday, preceding the 892 conference sessions, stake and mission presidencies and homemaking leaders viewed a display of many hundreds of beautiful articles which represented many arts and crafts that can be taught or demonstrated in homemaking meetings. In the closing session of the conference, held Thursday afternoon, a panel of four short talks on "Relief Society in My Life" were given by a grandmother, a husband, a daughter, and a son. A delightful dramatization "To Hearken and to Obey," written by Luacine C. Fox, depicting the value of Family Home Evening and recognizing father as the head of the home, as well as stressing the need of obedience to counsel and instructions from the General Authorities of the Church, was presented. Elder Harold B. Lee spoke on "The Obligation of Membership in Relief Society" as stated in the message of The First Presidency in 1942, and Henry D. Taylor's address was on "The Cardinal Principles of the Church Welfare Plan." At the conclusion of the conference, representatives of Relief Society in attendance seemed reluctant to leave. Each had been inbued with the spirit of love and of sisterhood to be found in Relief Society. Their testimonies as to the divinity of the organization had been strengthened, the importance of their callings as leaders in the great organization had been enhanced, and their desires to be better wives, better mothers, and better leaders in Relief Society were increased. The spirit of love and sisterhood permeated all of the sessions of the conference. Grandmother for Christmas Dorothy C. Robinson* 0 Dara Powell placed a hand into her jacket pocket. Her daughters, Debra five, and Laurie three, had just thrust hastily folded papers into the pocket. "Am I supposed to read these?" "No! — No!" the girls cried, "just put them in the mailbox. Santa will get them." "Santa! Tomorrow is Christmas Eve. Youshould have written before." "We did, but we didn't want him to forget." Dara went out and shut the door firmly behind her. Then she took the papers from her pocket. On Debra's, the word Grandmother was printed in large sprawling letters, and Laurie's crude drawing could mean nothing but a grandmother with a pie-sized cookie. They *Dorothy Clapp Robinson, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and devoted Relief Society worker, passed away in September 1968. She contributed serials, short stories, poems, and articles to the Magazine, and was a winner in The Relief Society Short Story Contest four times. 893 Decem ber 1968 had copied from their colored picture book. A grandmother! 'As if one could be plucked from thin air— or thick, as the air was now. Dara looked to the north. No wagon coming. Neal was late. He had gone to town for a_ last load of supplies, hoping to outguess the weather. Perhaps the storm would hold for another hour or two, but no longer. A cloud that had hung menacingly over the south mountains all day, was now a curtain hiding the horizon and flying before a vile-tempered wind. Their second team had been lent to a neighbor for the winter, so there was nothing Dara could do to avoid a collision between the storm and the wagon, but she could do the chores. Across the fields to the east, a tall stone house stood foursquare to the weather. It had tall shuttered windows that stared like sightless eyes, but there was no smoke coming from either chimney. It simply could not be. Old Granny Collins, who lived there alone, burned coal in zero weather. There was not even that almost invisible bluish ° swirl above the chimneys that told of a banked fire below. Granny was stingy, but not that stingy. She had money in abundance, but little else. She might have gone to town to stay at the hotel for the winter. Dara shuddered with cold. She started again for the barn. If this storm proved to be as vicious as all signs indicated, they might be snowed in two, three, or more days. Maybe a week. No smoke. Come to think of it, she hadn't noticed any all day. Had she 894 seen any yesterday? She could not remember. Suppose the old woman had miscalculated, as Neal had. She might be away, but she might be there alone. Keeping fires going in such weather was a man's job. Dara had done all she could to create a friendship between them, but Granny's heart was locked as securely as her doors. Every would-be friendly gesture was only a hope, in her mind, of getting a hand in her purse. Dara stopped again and looked at the house. If Mrs. Collins were a different type of woman, she might have asked her to play grandmother for a few days, but probably, she would not come if Dara asked her. Last year Neal had run her ranch on a share-crop basis, and had had great hopes of doing well with it. The season had scarcely begun, however, when the old woman: began making accusations of mismanagement, dishonesty, and had even tried to have the lease cancelled. "It's because she doesn't trust us," Dara had said to Neal. "T doubt that," Neal had answered. "You must not pay too much attention to her words. She has had some pretty poor deals with some of her renters. She is a lonesome old woman, not quite sure of herself. What she needs is compassionate understanding." At the chicken house, three of seven eggs Dara gathered were cracked by frost. She hoped her favorite pullets would survive the storm. The acrid air of the barn was comfortably warm now, but before the storm was over, the cows, too, would have felt its strength. She milked the two cows and filled all the mangers with hay. As she opened the door to leave, a small brown hen rushed awkwardly out of the semi-darkness. Her feathers were slick with frost, her toes were swollen, and She lifted each foot with labored care. She tried to fly to the manger railing, but could not make it. Shifting her lantern, Dara lifted the hen and set her on the railing. Immediately, she dropped inside the manger and snuggled into the hay and straw. She clucked hoarsely to tel] her contentment. Stubborn old thing, Dara thought. She never would roost with the other hens. She might have been made into a stew long ago, but the girls loved her, and each summer she hatched a dozen or two baby chicks. This time, her perverseness had nearly cost her life. Eéaving the barn, Dara was instantly aware of a drop in temperature. Too cold to snow, but a few hard-driven flakes Struck her face. She kept her glance away from the house to the east. Old Granny Collins would have provided for an emergency. But, like a magnet, the house again drew Dara's attention. Only the outline was Visible. If Mrs. Collins was to be rescued, it would have to be tonight. "Debra," she asked, "can you and Laurie stay alone for awhile?" "Course, Mama. Are you going to find Daddy?" "No, dear. Daddy will find us. I am going to see if Granny Collins is all right." Grandmother for Christmas "But she won't let you in. Remember when she made you bring the new bread back and the pie?" Laurie spoke with apprehension. "You may freeze." Debra's eyes were dark with fear. "If she isn't home, will you hunt for her in the pastures and on the lavas?" "No. I promise I will come straight back. Come, get undressed and into bed." Dara opened a bed in the kitchen as the bedroom would be too cold. After feeding the girls, she tucked them in with their books and crayons. She put one more brick in the oven to heat, and put matches and knives out of reach. She blew out the lamp and hung a lighted lantern in the east window. "That will guide you home," Debra said, "but I am afraid of the storm." "What do we do want protection?" "We pray to Jesus." 'And perhaps Mrs. Collins is praying for someone to help er." "No. She doesn't pray. -She told me so." There it was—the type of influence she would be bringing into her house—if she brought the old lady home. But I would never be able to live with myself if I didn't check on her, Dara thought. Debra _ prayed first. When she had given thanks for Daddy, Mama, Laurie, and the grandmother Santa was going to bring, she prayed for everyone traveling in the dark. She raised her head, "That means you, too, Mama, and Daddy, because it will when we 895 December 1968 be dark before he gets home." She lowered her head again, "And please help Santa to get our grandmother here on time." Laurie's prayer was a repetition of Debra's, but she added clearly and distinctly, "Don't let anything happen to our grandmother. She can make the cookies when she gets here." Dara poured out all the anguish for her heart in supplication for help, for protection. When she arose, she told herself she would have to have help if she was to reach Granny Collins. When she was dressed to go out into the storm, Debra suddenly asked, "Mama, will you stay there if she can't walk?" "No, no." Dara's mind had been jerked to another problem —how would she bring her back? "Don't worry, dear. I'll find a way. Promise you will stay in bed. Don't open the door. If Daddy gets here first tell him where I am." Kissing them again, _ she went through the door that opened into the woodshed. She closed the door firmly behind her. Feeling about, she found a lantern and lighted it. By its light, she found a long slender sled. Neal had built a threesided box on it so she could take the girls sledding without danger of losing them. It slipped easily after her. I was very easy to tell the girls not to worry, but when she was away from the shelter of the house, and the wind struck her, she hesitated. She did not want to go. What was there in it for her? Nothing but a dangerous, grueling task. 896 On the country road, the wind had a clean slap at her. Snow blinded her eyes and powdered her face. It was not more than a mile to the Collins ranch, but the storm stretched it to ten. Three times her feet slipped and she sat down hard. Suppose she broke her leg? Neal might be lost, and the girls might set the house on fire. It might be a costly trip to see if one old lady had gone to a place of safety. She sometimes stayed at the hotel in Bower for the winter. Dara reached the big house. She did not waste time at the front. At the back, she went up three steps onto what had once been a screened porch. There was no light. She pounded on the door. It was oaken and tightly locked. She thought she heard a faint cry, but one could always hear voices in a shrieking wind. A torn piece of canvas slapped viciously against the porch screen. Dara followed the wall to a low window. She tried to raise it, but it, too, was locked. Desperate with cold and haste, she turned and hit the nearest pane with her elbow. At the second try, the glass shattered. Dara reached in to release the catch, but there was none. She removed a glove and felt along the casing. As she suspected, a nail had been driven into the wood then bent. A sure way of preventing the window from being pushed up. What fear Mrs. Collins must live with! Dara had to stop and thrust her hand inside her jacket to warm it. Her fingers were numb and clumsy. Then she went back trying to twist the nail. Sud- denly it gave, and she pulled it out. The sash responded reluctantly, but it did go up. Dara crawled through, held her lantern up, then closed the window. The air in the room was stale and cold. "Mrs. Collins, where are you?" From a bedroom came a faint reply. Dara found the room and held the lantern high. The old. Lady lay in bed under a mountain of covers. One look, and Dara knew she had not come an hour too soon. The face was pinched and blue. If Mrs. Collins had demanded to know why she had broken into her house, Dara would not have been surprised, but she was surprised at the casual look of acceptance—as if she had been expected. She turned back the covers and gasped with horror. Mrs. Collins was fully dressed, with the exception of one foot. A wooly house shoe barely covered the toes. The ankle was badly swollen and an angry red. "What happened?" Dara asked, but did not wait for an answer. "I'm taking you home with me." Replacing the covers, she took two blankets and a pillow, then went into the kitchen. As she would have opened the door, she visualized the sled she had brought. Mrs. Collins, with her sore foot, could never be bent to fit into that box. The pain would be excruciating, and Mrs. Collins did not have the strength for it, but Dara could not stay with her, and every minute was increasing the danger. Dara went outside and looked about. Through the Grandmother for Christmas thickening storm, a darker bulk loomed. The horse! Why hadn't she thought of him before. Unless Mrs. Collins had put him elsewhere for the winter, he should be in that barn. Dara made a dash for the barn. The horse nickered a welcome to her. As fast as her numb fingers would allow, Dara harnessed and backed him between the shafts of the single buggy. Thanks to Mrs. Collins' orderly habits, it was accomplished in record time, but when Dara tried to lead him from the barn he bucked. The barn was warm and the storm frightening. "Come on, Charlie," she demanded sternly, and led him from the shelter to the kitchen door. She carried quilts and blankets, and then the old lady. She put her on the buggy seat. Luckily, Mrs. Collins was small, and just now very thin, or Dara could not have managed. She wrapped the blankets about the sick woman and tried to fasten one blanket over Granny's head so the wind could not hit her directly. "My bag. It is by my bed." "We can get it later." "T want it now!" So Dara brought it and was thankful. It was the very thing to support the bad foot. It was an old fashioned canvas affair and very heavy. The few minutes lost in time were more than compensated for by keeping Mrs. Collins' legs from hanging. The barn door was closed, the kitchen door closed and locked. "Go on, Charlie." The going was not easy. Loose 897 December 1968 snow soon clogged the wheels and the footing for the horse was bad. Dara expected at least an occasional groan from under the blankets. Only once did Mrs. Collins speak. Charlie slipped and regained his footing only when a feeble but stern voice from under the blanket commanded him to pick up his feet. And he did. Dara was happy for the interruption. She was afraid - the old lady might be unconscious. A feeling of great respect grew in Dara. It could be as Neal had said, she hadn't taken the compassion to try to understand the old woman. Then out of the storm, so thick Dara could scarcely keep her eyes open, she saw a pinpoint of light. It came and went. "Tt's the lantern in my kitchen window," she cried out in defiance to the swirling snow. "It is startling." "So shines a good deed in a naughty world.'" Then almost immediately, " 'According to your faith so shall it be.' " No longer was there any question as to the old lady being a fit grandmother to the girls. Could she, Dara, be a fit daughter? Charlie needed no urging to stop at the kitchen door. He stood shaking while Dara carried Mrs. Collins in and laid her on a couch in the living room, instead of in a cold bedroom. The little girls were asleep, and Dara gave each a_ swift prayerful kiss as she went out into the storm to care for the horse. He wasn't accustomed to being housed with cows and bucked a 898 little, but, inside the. Barn, he welcomed the shelter. After the stable door was closed and locked, Dara stumbled back to the house through their tracks. After removing her heavy clothing and wringing her hands to bring life to them, she turned to Mrs. Collins. She did not dare expose her to much warmth at first. She warmed a glass of milk and fed it, a sip at a time, to the sick woman. Gradually,. Color flowed back into the sunken cheeks. Her eyes fluttered open, and a trembling hand. Reached: for the cup. Her eyes followed Dara's movements back and forth. Her feet and hands were torturing her in the special way. Frost can, when faced with warmth. "Why don't you sleep?" Dara asked Granny. (It seemed normal now to call her Granny.) "I will take care of your ankle as best I can until Neal gets here— if he gets here." "He'll come," Granny whispered. "He won't be here until after the blizzard is over, but he will be here safe. He has faith and good judgment." And he did come, when the kitchen clock pointed to a little before ten. Was it possible so much had happened in so short a time? Granny took one look at him and was instantly asleep. "What happened?" Dara had removed Neal's gloves and was rubbing his fingers between her palms. She helped remove his boots and shoes and chafed his feet. "Chub went lame and I had to leave him and the wagon with Tom Fields. I rode Jim home and I went by way of Granny's. I thought you would have been there, but I had to be sure." The hours of the night dragged on. They took turns dozing and changing compresses on the swollen ankle. "IT. Am sure the bone isn't broken," Neal said after his fingers had probed gently, "but she will need care for a long time. Jim Carling at the hotel said she told him she was spending the winter with us, and that she was renting her place to me on a share-crop basis. I'm glad you went after her before you knew it." Granny suddenly opened her eyes. "Get me my bag," she told Neal. He opened it for her and on the top lay a packet of papers. "All ready for your signature." Neal's hands shook a little as he took the papers. "You're a remarkable woman, Granny Collins, and the Lord has blessed us both." Toward morning, Mrs. Collins relaxed into a restful sleep. The danger was over, and with good care Granny would not lose a Grandmother for Christmas "We'll build her a room in the yard,' Neal whispered, "That way she can be alone when she wants, but still near enough for care when she needs i" "And she will be a permanent grandmother for the girls." "She's come," Debra cried. "Laurie, we have our grandmother already." Then she looked inquiringly at her mother. "But she is Granny Collins." Dara smiled and nodded with a finger on her lips for silence. "Heavenly Father sent her, and I'm sure she will be better than any stranger Santa Claus could find." "Can she make cookies?" Laurie asked. To her, a grandmother was a grandmother regardless of the name she bore. In her ears, Dara could hear the cluck of the little brown hen. "If she can't, she can do other things." "Weare a family, then," Laurie grinned at her sudden perception. "There are Granny, and Daddy and Mommie and us." Outside, the storm shrieked and threatened, but inside there was peace and understanding. Foot. ES And then is gone. A brighter day. For it was here. And then returns. And love. For he was here. DAVID A sunbeam quickly flashes through the sky The world a lighter place, the day A soul makes earth a visit brief Pain a little sharper, awareness greater still, ~ —Udora Morris 899 With a Heart Full of Gratitude Relva B. Ross D When the time comes that your fingers will not work, your vision is dim, your hearing dull, and your feet unsteady; you cannot sew, you cannot read (not very much), you cannot shop, but you are 'just fine, thank, you," what do you do? You remember! You remember the gay times, the happy times, the times you realized you had made a step forward. You remember the first Christmas tree, a pungent juniper Father brought in after you and two little brothers were asleep; the flaxen-haired doll, high on the tree in the Alpine chapel, which Santa handed to you at the community Christmas party; the early walks through the crisp snow to call greetings to friends and relatives; the wonderful year when your own little son first realized what it was all about; the six o'clock pageants which truly inspired the spirit of Christmas, and the time when your tall, handome son was home on leave and no one allowed a second's thought that this would be his last Christmas. What do you remember? The wonderful books you have read, the armchair travels you have taken to the far corners of the earth; the history you have lived vicariously from the beginnings of time; the excitement of sharing romance with the heroines of fiction, and the emotion experienced in acquaintance with the poets! What do you see? Utah valley from the top of Timpanogos; the Canadian Rockies and prairie sunsets; Utah County when, after a twoyear absence, you round the Point-of-the-Mountain and know you are home again! You recall the satisfaction of adding a new ancestor to your family tree after weeks, or months, or maybe years of research. And, from all through the years, you remember with deep gratitude the kind, thoughtful friends and relatives who have smoothed the path and made the way clear when the going got rough; those who continue to be concerned for your well-being, who call, write letters, shovel snow, and even make it possible, by. Addressing the envelopes, to get letters mailed. So to each of you, everywhere, a heart full of gratitude and again the old familiar, but never trite, wish: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! FAITH The winter of youth is coming to me Showing the scars of adversity. Ways may be thorny, pain hard to bear, But | know in God's goodness | may share. —Catherine B. Bowles 900 , Woman's — espaere a rniure, Sef CE PE ORRACAPEA TAC ACAD Ramona W. Cannon Genevieve Powell, although she is blind, is a successful journalist in the State of Kansas. She is helped in getting around and managing her busy life by her seeingeye dog, Ricci. Mrs. C. C. Long, Ozark, Arkansas, president of the woman's auxiliary to the American Medical Association, is calling upon all state medical auxiliaries to join in launching an action program to end television and movie violence. She hopes for cooperation from other women's groups, P. T. A., and religious units. Mrs. Walter Varney Magee, from Lakewood, Ohio, President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, is asking for concerted action throughout America against ''the proliferation of lurid sex, crime, and violence in movies, television, magazines, and paperbacks."' Mrs. Charlotte Leyden, associate director of public education for the National Cancer Society, is working to make a success of films ranging from cartoons to tragic incidents, to be shown throughout the country to battle billion-dollar advertising favoring cigarettes, alcohol, and drugs. Rumer Godden, in Gone: A Thread of Stories (Viking), prefaces each story or group of stories with an autobiographical note relating the writing to some portion of her own life. ''All of them read as if plucked from the heart of life,"" says critic Katherine Gauss Jackson. Ruth Milburn (Mrs. Frank R.) Clark, who was graduated from Brigham Young University with an A. B. Degree in 1918, and who later received a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California, has been associated with the University of Denver since 1945, receiving Professor Emeritus rating in the spring of 1968. She is a recognized national authority on children's speech rehabilitation and was professor of speech pathology at Denver. She was voted the outstanding woman professor in 1959. She resides in Denver, where she continues her research and writing. Mrs. Betty Mintz is a navy astronomer for the United States. She is especially noted for her observance of Icarus, an asteroid (starlike body smaller than the planets), which wheels around the sun every 409 days. Mrs. Mintz reports that much valuable scientific data are being received through a study of Icarus, involving a general testing of the theory of relativity. Dr. Leona Holbrook, professor and chairman of the department of physical education for women at Brigham Young University, has received an Honor Fellowship Award from the American Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. Recently Dr. Holbrook directed a study in educational planning in health, physical education, and recreation in Chile, South America. 901 f q The 138th Semi-Annual ynference of the Church Volume 55 December 1968 Number 12 = Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elina P. Haymond ifary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz E: zabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner trene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia ). Taylor 902 Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luetla W. Finlinson Norma 8B. Ashton Mayola R. Miitenberger Maurine M. Haycock O The 138th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the historic Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 4th, 5th, and 6th, 1968, in a time of radiant autumn sunlight and harvest time in the ''valley of the mountains." Thousands of saints crowded the Tabernacle and other buildings to hear the words of comfort and counsel, and other thousands throughout the world, by television, telstar, and radio, rejoiced in the testimonies and the inspired guidance of the General Authorities. The singing for the conference was inspiring. The Singing Mothers from the Las Vegas region, under the direction of Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, presented music for the Friday sessions of conference. President David. O. McKay, now ninety-five years old, presided at all the sessions and attended some meetings. His opening and closing addresses were read by his son Robert R. McKay, and his address to the priesthood was read by his son David Lawrence McKay. It was with gratitude and a feeling of special blessings that the saints were privileged to see their Prophet and to hear his words testifying of the divinity of the gospel and its message to the world. President McKay stressed the great need for more religion in the home, and advised Church members to serve their fellow men, and to observe in all their actions the fruits of true religion. He expressed love for the saints and concern for their welfare and gave them the blessings of his calling. ce | am grateful most of all for the gospel, the true Philosophy of a happy life, which Sanctifies and makes Operative all other blessings. There is a general The faithfulness of the members of the Church in the Payment of their tithes and In his fervent closing address, President McKay blessed the saints in all the world: the people of Nephi, round about the temple which was in the land Bountiful... And behold, they saw a Man descending out of heaven... And he came down and stood in the midst of them... And... He Stretched forth his hand » +. Saying: Behold | am Jesus Christ, whom the Prophets testified shall come into the world. (3 Nephi 11:1-10.) O The radiance that shone roundabout Bethlehem when the Savior was born Was' prophesied and planned to be a light unto all the world. Not only for the Magi on their far journey, and not alone for the shepherds "abiding in the fields' —not only for those who heard the angels' Matthew, in writing of the sacred birth in Bethlehem, spoke of the prophet who had said "They shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.... And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor..." (Matthew 1:23: 26) The precepts of the gospel, which were carried by the Savior in his ministry, became the counsel given when he Stood in the synagogue 903 December 1968 at Nazareth ''where he had been brought up... And all wondered at the gracious words."' (Luke 4:16-24.) The gospel message illuminated the multitudes from the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon ''which came to hear him.'' The gospel of salvation restored by Jesus was taken by his own word to the towns and the cities and the wayside, the seashore, and the mountains, and in Jericho he declared: ''For the Son of man is come to seek and save that which was lost." So it was not alone for Bethlehem that the message came, but for all the world and all time. Even in a far country, in the Western Hemisphere, the Savior chose twelve disciples, blessed the people, and ministered to the children. He gave unto Nephi and other chosen ones directions for the establishment of his Church, and he told the multitude of his further mission: ''But now | go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth whither he has taken him."' (3 Nephi 17:4.) The message of the everlasting gospel came as a restoration in the latter days when Joseph Smith, in the early spring of 1820, saw in a pillar of light ''... Two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description.... One of them spake... And said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear him!" (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:16-17.) Let us remember that Christmas is more than stars and song, more than good will, more than a sacred observance of the Savior's birth in Bethlehem—it recalls the eternal and everlasting gospel for all time and for all the world—for the ages which have passed away— for the present—and for the time to come. VPC %* TOLD BY A SHEPHERD BOY | followed them to Bethlehem After the wondrous word, After the choir of angels came, oe After the song was heard. Over the hill to Bethlehem, Down to a stable door, Into the yellow lantern light, Softly across the floor, Softly beside a manger bed, To find the Christ Child there— How sweet his face, how small his hands, How silky, fine, his hair. Cradled low in a little stall, in a place where the cattle dwell— My heart was filled with a warming joy, A joy no words can tell... | followed them to Bethlehem, While the stars glowed tenderly— Now | keep my sheep on a lonely plain, But a king could envy me. —Sylvia Probst Young 904 Christmas Seals for 1968 'CHRISTMAS SEALS FIGHT A Partridge in a Pear Tree - Tuberculosis... Emphysema Z Air Pollution National Tuberculosis and Respiratory Disease Association IT'S A MATTER OF LIFE AND BREATH O The 1968 Christmas Seal has lifted its motif straight out of old English foiklore. The Seal is ''a partridge in a pear tree''—a plump brown partridge and a ripe golden pear on a field of blue and yellow. Christmas Seals have become a cherished, world-wide holiday custom. It is only proper that this year's Seal is based on another cherished tradition. "The Twelve Days of Christmas'' is the rollicking old English folk song in which ''A partridge in a pear tree'' is one of the lines. Much of the fun of the song has always been trying to remember its long list of ''gifts'' that ''my true love sent to me," ranging all the way from two turtle doves to twelve drummers drumming. Yet, Christmas Seals also mean another gift. The breath of life. Take a deep breath. Easy, isn't it? Most of the time we are totally unaware of the breathing process. But for many, each breath is a painful struggle for life. These are the victims of emphysema, chronic bronchitis, asthma, tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases. They are not few in number. Estimates based on household interviews show over fifteen million Americans have asthma or hay fever; nearly four million have chronic bronchitis; sixteen million have chronic sinusitis, two and one half million have other chronic respiratory conditions, including emphysema; 90,000 have active tuberculosis, and an additional twenty-five million Americans have tuberculosis germs in their bodies. Christmas Seals for them mean a gift of health. Through education, research, community service, and other Christmas Seal endeavors conducted by thousands of volunteer and staff workers, the gift of health is made possible. It brings hope to those whose breath of life is waning. For others, the programs of prevention offer hope that they will not one day be numbered as victims. Won't you strike back at tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases which hit you hardest where you breathe? Use Christmas Seals on all your cards and holiday gift packages. And make one of your season's gifts a generous contribution to the Christmas Seal Campaign. It's a matter of life... And breath. 905 'a a O We were not, as my brother Fred used to say, "exactly the poorest family in the community," then he would add, "but it's for certain we aren't the richest, either." We had most of the necessities, but the extras were few and spaced far between. So it was that, by average comparison, our Christmases were rather lean. I remember we used to stare wide-eyed with awe and wonder at the stacks of packages under the Christmas trees at our cousins' homes. All around the bases of their trees would be richly and fashionably wrapped presents—and it wouldn't even be Christmas for another week. At our house, Santa brought everything on Christmas Eve. There just weren't any other 906 presents. To be had, except what we gave each other. These were usually things we made ourselves and we kept them secreted away until Christmas Eve. Then we would get them out and place them in a chair near the tree so Santa could distribute them with the bounty he brought when he came. On Christmas Day we would open our presents, wild with excitement and delight. As soon as everything had been _ opened, inspected, and given an initial breaking-in, we were off for our cousins' houses to see how they had fared. Somehow, looking at all their treasures, made ours seem pale by comparison. We always took fruitcakes, homemade candy and cookies to them. Almost always they gave us grocery boxes of oranges, nuts, and canned goods. The Christmas I remember best was just before I turned eight. My older sister, Marcia, was ten, and she had learned to crochet during the summer. She announced with a great deal of pride that she was going to crochet Mom a pair of hot pads made like little girls' dresses. She had been saving her allowance for the thread, and she had asked her Primary teacher to help her with the pattern. I was really impressed and wished I knew how to do something really beautiful like that. All I could do was some embroidery, but I didn't really enjoy doing it. Besides, I didn't have the kind of money it would take for a scarf or a pair of pillow slips to work. | os hristmas was drawing closer, and we were busy getting things ready. Almost every night we would shut ourselves in our bedroom and work on the gifts we were making for everyone. Marcia would be crocheting as swiftly as she could, being very careful to keep her stitches even and not to miss any. I would sit on our bed and watch her and wish I had something special for Mom, but I could think of nothing. One day I had gone through some boxes on the back porch to see if I could find some odds and ends to trim the book tote I was making for Marcia. Mom had said she would help me sew them on if I could find some scraps and cut out the designs. In one of the boxes I found an old picture frame. The glass had been broken out, but there were A Story for Christmas still the backing pieces of cardboard and a torn, yellowing piece of paper in it. I recognized it immediately, and it gave me a sharp twinge of regret when I remembered how it had come to be hidden away in the scrap box. On the paper was a poem, surrounded with drawings of flowers, birds, a small house, clouds, and grasses. It had hung in the kitchen ever since I could remember, and we children had read and re-read the poem so many times we all had it memorized. Then, one day, we had been fighting and chasing each other with the broom, and I had accidently knocked the picture to the floor. The glass broke into a hundred pieces, and some of them had torn the paper on which the poem was written. Mom had come quickly. At first she didn't say anything. She just stood for a minute with a strange look on her face. Then she quietly shooed us out of the room so we wouldn't get cut on the broken glass. It was so unusual for her not to say something that we went in a hurry but lingered at the doorway. We looked back to see her on her knees picking up the broken pieces of glass, and we could tell that she was crying. She never said anything about it. Not even when Daddy got home from work that night. He didn't seem to notice its absence from the wall, either. All during dinner we could not keep from stealing guilty glances at the spot where it had hung, all the time expecting Mother to mention it and Father to take proper dis- 907 December 1968 ciplinary measures. But nothing was said, and the frame and torn paper had just disappeared as if it had never existed. Now, as I held them in my hands with a wave of memories sweeping over me, I knew what I was going to do for my gift to Mom this year. Very carefully I wrapped the frame in the scraps I had picked out for the book tote and carried it to my room. I hid it in the bottom of my drawer, underneath my pajamas, until I could assemble' the materials I would need. I would have to have Daddy or Wayne, my oldest brother, cut a new glass for me. In order to get the right size, I would have to measure the cardboard backing. I made a mental note to do that first thing. Then I would have to have a piece of paper to do the printing and drawings on. It had to be special paper, heavier than most, with a silky finish. It never occurred to me to doubt if I could copy the printing and the drawing accurately enough to be acceptable. I just knew that this was what I had to do for my mother for Christmas. The next time we went to town for groceries, I went away from the family and hurried to the dime store where Mom did much of her shopping. I knew they had a stationery department, and I was sure that was where I would find the paper I needed. The clerk was very helpful and, together, we tound just the right piece of paper. But it came in a package, and if I bought the whole package, I would not have enough money 908 for the gold ink I would need. I had to have gold ink, because that is what was on the other one. It was such a good idea that only to do it half way would be worse than not to do it at all. I would just have to get more money. But how, this close to Christmas? A fat, wet tear slipped from my eye and ran down my cheek. "What's wrong?" asked the kindly clerk. "Isn't this paper what you wanted?" "Yes, yes," I replied, trying vainly to hold back the other tears that were pushing to spill out after the first, "only, only I don't have enough money to buy a whole package and gold ink, too." I sobbed. "Hmmm." The clerk tapped her chin with a forefinger. "Would it help if you bought only one sheet?" She smiled. "I could sell you one sheet for a nickel." "Oh, yes!" I breathed happily, wiping my tears on the sleeve of my coat. I handed her my money, and she took one sheet of paper from the package and put the rest of the package in a special place under the counter. She got a small jar of gold ink and rang up the sale on her cash register. Clutching the sack she had handed me, I hurried back to the grocery store just as the family was about to launch an all out search for me. "Where have you been?" they asked. "We were terribly worried about you." "T was just doing some shopping," I said. Since everyone was feeling the spirit of Christmas, no one said any more about it, and we went home. I went straight to the bedroom where I had been assembling all the things I would need. I had only two days left until Christmas. I would have to hurry. I would also have to be very careful in my haste to keep from spoiling it. To make mistakes would be worse than not to do it at all, I told myself as I got out pencil, pen, and scrap paper. School was out for the Christmas holiday, so I would be able to spend most of the day working on my gift. Marcia had finished her hot pads and had them wrapped and hidden away until Christmas. She was free to play in the snow, or ice skate, or whatever her fancy dictated. And her fancy certainly did not relish watching me prepare my gift. She did not know what it was going to be, and I did not want her to know. I didn't want anyone to know. I wasn't sure they wouldn't laugh and say it was silly. Very carefully I practiced each drawing over and over until I felt I could do it well enough to set it down on the silk-surfaced sheet. I drew them lightly in pencil and then outlined them in India ink. The gold would provide accents and be the finishing touch. The next day I began the lettering. First I practiced copying each line over and over until my fingers hurt. Then I rested for awhile before I started lightly penciling the letters on the sheet with the drawings. I had had some doubt about my ability to print the letters small enough and neatly enough, A Story for Christmas but as I stared at the torn original, I realized that it, too, had been printed by hand, and I felt that if they (whoever "they" may have been) could do it, so could I. "Please don't let me spoil it now." I dipped the pen in the ink and sent up a silent prayer, "Dear, dear God, please let it be neat.... Please don't let me spoil it now." I drew the first letter with its fancy curlycues and thicker lines, and sighed audibly as it came out perfect. The other letters were plainer, but smaller, and they must be kept of uniform size. I paused to rest, dipped the pen, uttered my prayer silently in my mind, and set down the other two letters in the first word... Then the rest of the letters in the first line... And so on. Very carefully and cautiously I drew over each letter with black ink, praying that it wouldn't smear; praying 909 December 1968 that it wouldn't drip; praying that the lines wouldn't waver; praying that it would be a worthy gift. At last it was finished. I put on the touches of gold and left it to dry for a minute while I got out the frame and the new glass and the wrapping paper. Then, I slipped the glass into the frame, set the sheet with the poem against the glass, placed the cardboard backing in place, and tapped the small nails into the holes to hold it all in place. I wrapped tissue paper around it, then placed it in an emptied Christmas card box and wrapped it. It was Christmas Eve and my fingers hurt, my shoulders ached, and my eyes burned from the strain, but my gift for Mom was ready, and my heart was light as I left the bedroom and closed the door softly behind me. "The next morning I could hardly open my presents, I was so excited and somewhat apprehensive. I kept close watch on Mom as she opened her gifts. She smiled a big smile and gave Marcia a special hug when she unwrapped the hot pads. They really were something, I thought with a twinge of uncertainty. At last she was opening the package that held my gift. My breath caught in my throat. It seemed everyone was watching, and I couldn't help wishing they wouldn't pay any attention. Mom carefully drew aside the tissue paper and looked at the framed poem, the crude drawings, the rough printing. For a_ long moment she sat staring at it, then she slowly threw back her 910 head and I sensed, more than heard, a sob catch in her throat. I was intently avoiding looking at her. My full attention was concentrated on the new pair of ice skates I had received for Christmas, yet I knew that she threw me a look out of the corner of her eye, as she rose and carried the gift, box and all, into the kitchen.. "She's crying," softly, "why?" "T don't know," Fred answered easily, not bothering to take his eyes off the electric train set he was trying to assemble around the base of the Christmas tree. I assiduously avoided answering and I looked the other way as I wiped a tear from my own cheek. Suddenly, I couldn't stay there any longer. I grabbed my new skates and my coat and ran outside. Everyone would think I had gone to try the skates out. I ran through the snow with tears blinding my eyes. My precious, rotten, horrible gift had been rejected, and it served me right! I collapsed sobbing on the tree trunk where we sat to change our skates, the image of Mother throwing my gift, box and all, in the trash vivid in my mind. Daddy found me there. He had followed Mom into the kitchen, then had followed me outside. "What's wrong, Kitten?" he asked gently as he pressed my head against his shoulder so the rough weave of his jacket could absorb my tears. "She didn't like it!" I sobbed in my misery. "Nonsense!" he replied, quickly, "Honey, she loved it. Believe me, Marcia _ said Kitten. I don't think she has ever received a gift that pleased her more." "Then why is she crying?" "J doubt you'd understand." He paused so long I was afraid he wasn't going to try to explain. After a long minute which I spent drying my eyes and blowing my nose, he went on, "You see, Kitten, that poem was given as a gift to your grandmother many years ago. When our first baby was born, Grandma gave it to your Mom. She said that Momma should always remember the message of the poem and that, if she did, it would help and inspire her as much as it had helped and inspired Grandma. Momma had me hang it in the kitchen where she would be able to see it and read its message. She loved it very much." "Then, why didn't she get it A é A Story for Christmas fixed when we broke it?" I asked, not yet convinced. "Well, it bothered Momma to love that particular picture so much. She hated to make a big. Fuss over it. You see, Kitten, she was the one who gave it to Grandma in the first place." He took my hand, and together we walked slowly to the house. Inside it was cosy and warm, and the Christmas turkey was beginning to spread its fragrance from the oven. There was Momma, her eyes shining as she stood against the sink peeling potatoes. Marcia was gathering the wrapping paper and ribbon from the living. Room floor. Fred and Wayne were arguing (quietly yet) over the electric train, and there was my gift, hanging on the wall in the exact spot it had hung for so long, ever since I could remember. 4 THE PRESENT If | gave my love a present of a tinkling silver bell, Could it chime the hour | met him that my heart remembers well? If | gave my love a present, a chain of gilded gold, Could it bind and entwine him better than my love could hold? If | gave my love a present of a bluebird and his song, Would his call entrance and thrill him more than my voice ere long? If | give my love a present it will be of my heart, For bird can't sing, nor bell can tolt, nor golden chain can bind, That which is not freely given with the heart, the soul, and mind. —Mary Hunter 911 Her Best Was Enough Cora Hill Arnold O The wagon wheels needed grease; the horses needed grain; but most of all Addie and the children needed rest from the jolting of the wagon and the running to keep up as the tired team plodded on. The long ride from Alpine, Arizona, to Roosevelt, Utah, had been hard on them all. Addie's shoulders drooped and Duane reached over to pat her hand. "Just one more hill and we will be there," he said encouragingly. Addie's tired smile lighted up her whole face. She did love Duane and she was so proud of their six children—five girls and one boy— and they were beautiful. She was happiest when she had a baby in her arms. If only she wasn't so tired! But the journey was over now and they would all be busy getting their new home in order, and then, maybe, she could rest. The journey's end did bring peace and contentment to the little family, but as Christmastime approached, Addie knew there was nothing special for the children. Her heart was filled with SOrTOW. On Christmas Eve, one of the older girls awoke in the room above the kitchen. She crept silently to the crack in the floor to see who was still up. There was Addie with the children's worn shoes before her. She was lovingly polishing each pair with the black from an overturned stove lid. Tears were streaming down her face. Pearl's heart nearly burst with love as she looked at her mother's face. Addie finished polishing the shoes. Then she set the table, putting on a clean cloth and, going to the makeshift cupboard, she brought to the table a sack of hard candy. Under each plate she placed two pieces. That, and the polished shoes, were the best she could do for the children's Christmas. But Pearl's eyes shone as she watched, and her mouth watered as she looked at the candy. She knew this would be a good Christmas once again, with each child feeling sheltered by a mother's love. SL SLL LA SADE LL DEL ELT 912 \ Transparency by J M. Heslop eT a all E. Lloyd is an heirloom for the family to treasure, The Grandfather Clock of Tracy The child - David Lloyd. Reminding them of a gracious heritage. 913 Wh Wea ad. Color photographs by the author OPT nun. OFS7O GOT mt a rd i 'ae | R077 RAW '; wsedowm ee - mw he i es V7 ' as Home for the Children SZS5725 Wanda Badger ® Outside, in addition to the lights on the house, we had six evergreen trees with lights. Our front door was guarded by two toy soldiers standing at attention under flocked velvet canopies of red and white. A large red bow tied toy drums and horns te an evergreen bough as a door decoration. Each time the door was opened a music box played "Jingle Bells." Just inside the door, an artificial tree was decorated with small toy soldiers, drums, and wise men, and lighted with small elfin lights and tiny sparkle lights. A manger scene was displayed next to the old family Bible which was opened and marked with a velvet ribbon to Luke's story of the birth of Jesus. Above the scene was a ribbon with the words "The Christmas Story is a true story." The fireplace was hung with ten red velveteen stockings, one for each of our nine children, and one for our dog Pierre. On the mantel was another manger scene of porcelain which lit up periodically, along with tiny lights around the wreath. The wreath was made of gilded cones, with clusters of flocked velvet fruit, and a velveteen ribbon. The candles were gold and jeweled. Next to the mantel was a white flocked tree, with multi-colored lights and 914 balls, with an angel on top. Under the tree was a miniature train and track running around a town which was made by the children. It included houses, a church, skating pond with skaters, ski hill with skiers and sleigh riders, an oldfashioned sleigh being pulled by a horse, and a forest with tiny deer peeking through the trees. On the rooftops of the houses, were Santa and his sleigh and reindeer. The round dining room table was covered with a red felt cloth with white fringe, and centered on the table was a gingerbread and candy house with an arrangement of dolls. In the windows stood a "Twelve Days of Christmas" tree of white felt with sequin-covered felt figures—pears, the partridge, and each of the characters in the song. This we designed ourselves. Entering the kitchen and family room, one passed a candy wreath, with scissors for young hands to help themselves. Above, on the mantel, was an oldfashioned clock with a Hickory Dickory Dock mouse of felt perched atop. Of course the hands of the clock were set at one o'clock. Hanging from the rafters of our family room, was a pink velveteen and crepe paper pig pinata full of candy for New Year's Eve. This also we designed ourselves. Our four youngest children were dressed in red polka-dot night shirts and gowns, with matching nightcaps and red velveteen ribbons. 915 enarte) LLACICXA; ookies for Children' Dora D. Flack Ms by J M. Heslop ¥ — ogee enn a amc Assistant cookie makers: Marlane, Karen, Marie; head cookie maker Dora D. Flack, second from the right. 916 Fancy cookies, frosted trees, a gingerbread house, brown fudge, and white divinity—a brilliant background of red poinsettia flowers. Invite your friends and all the neighboring children. Cookies, cookies everywhere! But don't touch until Christmas! Cookies and children go together like bread and peanut butter. Here is a project for the whole family to enjoy. Santa heads can be frosted with a spatula. Coconut is pressed into white icing for beard and fur. Red food coloring paints the rosy cheeks and laughing mouth. Use blue food coloring for the eyes. A decorator set, with tips, does a more artistic job of frosting the cookies. Christmas trees can be iced green with chocolate trunks and decorator balls pressed into the green frosting. Use a doughnut cutter to make angels. Cut plain round cookies and slash twice on a slight curve. This divides the cookie almost into thirds. The bottom third becomes the body. Use the "hole cutter" to make the head, which should be placed on top of the body. After baking, decorate as desired. Paint faces with food coloring. Wreaths are also made with a doughnut cutter. Stars, gingerbread men, and flowers add variety to cookie plates. Are you looking for perfect "packers" for missionaries and servicemen? Yule Cookies and Coconut-Nut Cookies (packed with miniature marshmallows to take the "bounce") arrived in New Zealand in perfect condition two months after being mailed. This Christmas, add cookie-making to your family traditions. And, by all means, let the children help. They will enjoy it and so will you!; (Continued on page 929) 917 Transparencies by J M. Heslop Sister Layton and her grandchildren admire the antmals—and make identifications. Grandchildren: Carol Layton, center front; Raymond, Joan, James, Christine, and Sister Layton. Yy Ly IS f eam cleus f nimals—A Family Tradition mo > ) Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society @ One of the days we looked forward to at Christmastime was the day when Mama brought out the old molds for the making of candy animals. The molds had belonged to Grandfather Robert Gardiner, who had been apprenticed to the trade of baker and confectioner in Dundee, Scotland, and had established a small candy factory in Salt Lake City, about 1868. There was real suspense in the making. Grandfather had not left the recipe for the candy, and Mama had to experiment each time. Would they be too soft? Would they come out of the molds without breaking? It was a great achievement to get the deer out with the horns intact, and the perfect one was a showpiece through the entire season. Each batch of candy was distinctive in color and flavor, the yellow ones were lemon, the pink anise, the green might be hme or peppermint. 918 Meet the many animals—especially the traditional Christmas animals—the donkey, the camel, the reindeer. Also, the horses have come for Christmas. Of course, we were not allowed to sample the animals, but as we were never able to judge just the right amount of candy to fill the molds, we dropped the remainder by spoonfuls on heavily oiled platters and, oh, how luscious were the flat, round, clear candies we might have to eat. If you were fortunate enough to have a grandfather (or anyone else) who gave you some molds, I pass on to you the recipe we found most successful. 2 c. Sugar Y, tsp. Salt (optional) lc. Light corn syrup food coloring Yc. Water any flavoring desired Combine sugar, corn syrup, and water. Cook slowly, stirring until sugar dissolves. Cook to hard crack stage, remove from heat, and pour quickly into molds that have been oiled (preferably with a heavy oil, such as olive oil), and heated. If you are not fortunate enough to have such molds, perhaps they may be borrowed or purchased, or, an experiment might be made using cookie cutters and attaching the two sides together with the warm candy mixture. Your family will love the flat discs of flavorsome color this recipe makes. ° Christmas Comes to Denmark 4 SASF Inga H. Nielsen Dougal (from Aarhus, Denmark) ® An old Danish custom demands that no visitor to your home during the Christmas season may be allowed to leave without having tasted your Christmas cookies (Klejner)—otherwise, you run the risk of the visitor "carrying the Christmas spirit " away. Transparencies by J M. Heslop A lovely table setting. Mrs. Dougal has placed her heirloom china on a snowy cloth. The pattern is called Kongelig Muselmalet, made by the Royal Copenhagen China Company, Copenhagen, Denmark. The pattern is over one hundred years old, and is still being made today. The design is hand painted by people who have had at least three years experience in china painting. Mrs. Dougal's Grandmother gave her most of the pieces, but she has supplemented with a few extras. She is wearing the national Danish costume. 920 Mix all ingredients together into a dough and set.. Aside to cool for about half an hour. Roll out thin Recipe for Klejner (Smalls) ) and cut into long strips about 11, inches wide. Cut the strips across diagonally into smaller strips about 4c. Flour 3¥, inches in length. In the middle of each of these P 1 c. Butter smaller pieces make a slash with the point of a v4 Comeet cream © knife. Pull one end of the piece through the slash 1 /p © — to form a half-knot. Drop into boiling fat and cook /2 tsp. Salt of -_— _ | until golden brown, turning now and then with a fork. Lift out with a perforated spoon and place in a strainer to allow the fat to drip off. Makes approximately 150. Vanilla or lemon peel a F ~~. Be é seo 2 yr a - A, | 4. % -. + wy nt le. Ie # VU: (Se a rt: em Gat ee 30 = phy oot "t perma - =~. Bi ee. Eae a Pealtr::::. A & - cama An heirloom replica of the first Christmas. Note the "stone" towers, the arched gate, the camels at the end of their far journey—the mother and the child. This setting for the Christmastime has given joy to many children, and to grownups, as well. The delicately carved figurines are beautifully colored and placed with care. 921 ASASEA SZ, Christmas Is for Friends SASA4575 Tasma P. Dansie A woman who lives alone invites her friends to dinner Transparencies by J M. Heslop Wedgewood table setting, with pink can figurines for centerpiece. Dles, crystal, and silver. Clustered white ® Plan a casserole as the main dish when you entertain your friends during the holiday season. Begin the dinner with a fruit cup—perhaps a mixture of orange, grapefruit, and pineapple segments, interspersed with maraschino cherries for sparkling color; prepare a tossed green salad (with radishes); and, for dessert, thin slices of fruit cake, or frosted homemade eclairs. Recipes for three favorite casseroles are given here. Perhaps you will want to try them all during the holidays. Pieces of turkey could be substituted for chicken in two of the casseroles. Chicken-Broccoli Casserole 2 tbsp. Flour Add milk to make a thick paste or use one can of cream of chicken soup (10 ounces) in place of the milk. Pour over chicken. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake slowly about 1 hour in 300° oven, cover dish with aluminum foil. 922 1 to 2 lbs. Broccoli (parboil) Brown 4 to 6 chicken breasts in butter. Make white sauce by mixing: ¥, square butter (2 ounces) Chicken Parisienne Place 4 large or 6 medium-sized chicken breasts, skinned side up, in an 11 x 7 x 1%, inch baking dish. Combine 1 can (13 ounces) condensed milk and one can (10 ounces) mushroom soup, and 1 3-ounce can or 7/4, cup mushrooms and liquid with 1 c. Dairy sour cream. Pour over uncooked chicken and sprinkle generously with paprika. Bake at 300° for 1 to 14, hours or until tender and a golden brown. Serve over hot, fluffy rice. Ground Beef Casserole 1 lb. Ground beef 1 c. Uncooked rice 1 large onion (chopped and 1 c. Chopped celery (uncooked, sautéed in oil) finely chopped) 1 can cream of mushroom soy sauce, salt, and pepper to taste soup (10 ounces) Brown the beef in a large frying pan. Add the chopped onion, cream soup, rice, and seasoning, and cook slowly until done, approximately one hour. Just before removing from heat add the celery. It should be crisp when eaten.: " Seated around the table, left to right: Zina Harper, granddaughter; Emma L. Thomas, lifelong friend; Edith P. Johnson, Tasma's sister; Tasma, at right. 923 RW Rao7) sy Z W377 ety 7 Reb = = OIL 574 os) A WIZ Christmas Comes to Australia Margaret Felt Perth, Western Australia J M. Heslop @ Australian plum pudding, typical of the great island continent, is much like plum pudding made in other lands where people of British ancestry have made their homes. Each country, however, and each individual housewife makes various alterations and additions, and adjusts her cooking methods to the utensils and equipment available. Each cook, also, takes thought and measurement of the supplies she has available—and the pudding is always delicious and pleases the families who remember and observe the customs of their forefathers. Australian Plum Pudding 2 c. Flour lemon peel to taste (or other citrus peel) 1 c. Bread crumbs cinnamon, cloves, and other spices to taste 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Beef dripping 1 c. Raisins 1 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Currants 1 tsp. Bicarbonate of soda 114 c. Boiling water Sift flour, add bread crumbs, sugar, spices and fruits. Mix dripping, butter, soda, and boiling water in separate basin and add to first basin immediately. Boil in floured cloth 6 hours. Serve with sauce. Sauce Y, pint water 2 tsp. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Treacle (molasses or syrup) 1 dessert spoon cornflour (cornstarch) 1 tsp. Butter Blend cornflour with a little of the water. Put the rest of the water and treacle on to boil. When boiling, stir in blended cornflour and let boil 3 minutes. Add lemon juice and butter. This pudding is eaten on Christmas day after the big dinner, consisting of roast chicken, potatoes, peas. Before it is served, dimes and nickels, are inserted into the pudding. Of course the money has been sterilized first. Children love to see who gets the most money after everyone has eaten his portion of the pudding. 924 ome. YZ pO YFZTuO WSTuO GES GES TES 783, A Pioneer Christmas 7725 Log Cabin on Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah @ Log cabin homes in pioneer times, and cabins in the woods and wilderness in more modern days, have been lighted with candles and lanterns, and with flames from the fireplace. Christmas trees have been decorated with popped corn and paper chains and small calico dolls—with red berries from the mountains, and with brightly colored parcels, if any could be found. Sometimes, at Christmas, a real live lamb shared the cabin warmth and reminded the children of the shepherds mentioned in the Bible, and the pictures that artists have painted of small lambs which may have been brought to the manger in Bethlehem. Christmas candy was made of molasses or honey, perhaps mixed with butter and twisted into shapes of shining splendor. Pine nuts, carefully shelled, were passed ~ around, and sometimes black walnuts were available. There are those still living who remember the wonderful "raised" doughnuts that were unequaled among desserts, and are still considered a great delicacy. Some pioneer cooks made pies using elderberries and service berries for filling—the berries had been picked on the autumn hillsides and dried for winter use. Eventually, there were dried apples and dried peaches. Roast beef, roast pork, chicken stuffed with dressing sometimes made the Christmas merry, and some of the English saints served roast goose, and the Danish mothers made many kinds of sweet rolls, rich with dried berries or dried fruit—in the days before raisins and currants were available. Scones were common in pioneer households, and precious small amounts of sugar were saved for many months for a "sprinkling" on the scones. A log cabin was large enough for the celebration of Christmas—for in the cabin were family and food—warmth and love—and the father with opened Bible—and the mother singing carols treasured from a far-off land—and children rejoicing in their new home. 925 Gladys Hibbard Eccles @ A Christmas family tree graces the home of Gladys Hibbard Eccles of San Bernardino, California, each year. A white tree (flocked or sprayed) isdecorated sparingly with colored balls, and name tags for each member of the family are made from red plastic or any desired stiff substance. A tiny figure may be added to the tags for decorative purposes. As new names are found through genealogical research, they are added to the tree, and as new babies are born into the family they become part of the tree, and as they grow older and the family tree returns each year, the children realize that they are, in truth, bright beloved branches on an everlasting family tree. Color photograph by the author Pa) a n A Christmas Clown = & From Laramie Ward Cheyenne Stake, Wyoming Evelyn B. Willey, President Cheyenne Stake Relief Society Aleen B. Kohler, President Laramie Ward Relief Society @ A toy booth made to represent a generous clown, graced the first bazaar held in the Laramie Ward of Cheyenne Stake. The booth was designed by Jeanette F. Mikesel (pictured) and the art work was completed by Dorothy F. Cole. Many toys, easy to make but delightful to the children, were featured in the booth. The base for the booth was a banquet table padded with old sheets to protect the (Continued on page 930) 926 S37 Christmas Heritage In Rialto Stake (California) oO Elaine McKee President, Rialto Stake Relief Society ®@ "Froliche Weihnachten" was the theme of the Christmas bazaar held in the Rialto Stake. Pictured, left to right in front of the entrance to the bazaar are: Roxie Hubbs, chairman; Elaine McKee, President, Rialto Stake Relief Society; Odessa Clawson, President, Rialto Ward Relief Society; Theone Mosher, Homemaking Counselor, Rialto Ward Relief Society. Among the many lovely displays was a Christmas decoration table covered with a traditional red cloth highlighted by green decoration. On the table were many lovely decorative items which would enhance the home at this festive time of year. On the wall behind the table was a lovely "Egg Carton Tree," simple enough to be made by the children. It is constructed of six egg cartons cut proportionately to achieve the tree effect. These are backed on cardboard, and the end of an egg carton forms the base of the tree. The tree is sprayed gold and decorated. A tiny nativity scene is placed at the base. A six-foot Christmas tree was decorated in the traditional simplicity of the past, with small toys, artificial gingerbread men, and gingerbread houses, candy, beads, and popcorn. Santa Claus dispensed gifts from the tree for the little ones. The refreshments were on a circular table with a candy covered gingerbread house as a centerpiece. The table was covered with a full length skirt of white felt, edged with gold fringe and decorated with felt cutouts. The cutouts were very clever reproductions of Santa and his reindeer, Mr. And Mrs. Snowman, and Christmas trees, decorated with rhinestones and sequins. 927 °7.**Look Books'' for the Little Ones 723 RH Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts ® It has often been repeated that a gift of the hand is truly a gift of the heart. When listing our most treasured gifts over the years, a gift made by someone dear usually rests atop the inventory. Sister Alice M. Graves, Mesa, Arizona, makes for each one of her twenty-two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren a gift which they hold most precious. The "Look Books," as she has aptly named them, are constructed of durable posterpaper, with covers of a bright color. She puts the book together with binder rings, using reinforcements on all holes. She then paints the reinforcements on the covers to match. The books for the smaller youngsters consist entirely of pictures which come from greeting cards and discarded books. Sister Graves saves her own greeting cards, 'Look Books" for the Little Ones and is assisted by friends and neighbors in saving all sorts of cards. Knowing the children and their likes and dislikes enables her to prepare a book to suit each child's interests. She also tries to include in each book, at least one picture of a child praying to remind the children of the importance of prayer. The books for the smaller children need no words, for they make up their own stories as they go along. The older children who have learned to read, enjoy verses which go along with the pictures, Sister Graves writes all of the verses herself, and they are delightful. The grateful mothers have reported that these books aid in keeping the children quiet in meetings. Because of special construction, the books are not noisy and they last for years. Many of the grandchildren have special places for their special books, and one young man has had his book for four years, has looked at it nearly every day, and it remains in the same beautiful condition it was in when he received it. Sister Graves also makes a lovely gift for her older granddaughters, her daughters, and daughters-in-law. It is a cookbook constructed in the same way as the "Look Books," and appropriately illustrated. It contains her favorite tried and true recipes. These books, also, are treasured gifts. COOKIES FOR CHILDREN (Continued from page 917) Sugar Cookies 114, c. Soft shortening (part butter) 1 tsp. Lemon flavoring 2, ¢. Sugar 5 c. Sifted flour (wholewheat flour may be 4 eggs; used) 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 2 tsp. Salt Sift together dry ingredients. Cream together shortening, sugar, eggs, and flavorings. Mix together to make a soft dough. Chill at least one hour. Roll. Cut. Bake 6 minutes for thin cookies at 400° and longer for thicker cookies. Yule Cookies 1 c. Butter substitute 21, c. Sifted whole-wheat flour 2 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder Y, c. Honey Y, tsp. Salt 3 large eggs, or 4 small 2 tsp. Quick cooking oatmeal Yc. Orange juice 1 c. Seedless raisins 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind: 1 pkg. Fruit cake mix (or make your own) 3 tbsp. Lemon juice 1, c. Coarsely chopped nuts 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind 4 oz. Bottle drained maraschino 1 apple, coarsely grated cherries or ¥, c. Candied maraschino cherries (4 0z.) Cream sugar and shortening. Add honey and eggs, and beat until light. Add all fruits and fruit juices, beating after each additon. Sift flour, salt, and baking powder together twice and stir in. Mix in oatmeal and nuts. Drop on greased cookie sheet. Flatten lightly with fork dipped in sugar. Bake at 350° for 12-15 minutes. Store in tightly covered container. Coconut-Nut Cookies whites of 2 eggs 1 c. Dates, finely cut 2/, c. Brown sugar 2 c. Chopped walnuts ¥, c. Honey 1 to 1% c. Shredded coconut 1 c. Shredded coconut for rolling cookies Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar to make meringue. Add honey, chopped nuts, dates, and 1 c. Coconut. Mix-well. Drop by teaspoon on coconut and roll until thoroughly coated. Place on greased cookie sheet and bake at 325° to 350° for 15-20 minutes until slightly browned. Do not remove from cookie sheet until completely cooled or the cookies will collapse. 929 December 1968 Chocolate Oatmeal Cookies 2c. Sugar. Y, tsp. Salt Yc. Milk 3 c. Quick oatmeal ¥, c. Butter or substitute ¥, c. Chopped nuts 3 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Coconut 1 tsp. Vanilla Combine sugar, milk, butter, cocoa, and vanilla in saucepan. Bring to boil slowly. Remove. Add oatmeal, coconut, and nuts. Quickly stir until thick enough to drop by teaspoon on waxed paper. Let cool to set up. A CHRISTMAS CLOWN (continued from page 926) finish. The frame was built around the table from scrap lumber with uprights and crosspieces to support the clown's face. Chicken wire was attached to the basketball standard to form the basis for the hair. Cardboard for the clown's face was obtained at a hardware store. It was made in two pieces for ease in handling. The features were painted with poster paint. The hair was made by attaching colored napkins to. The chicken wire, with crepe paper used for additional decoration. This was a popular booth at the bazaar, both with adults and especially with the children. The Honor of Being a Mother Roxana Farnsworth Hase Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was born of Mary, thus bestowing upon woman the - greatest honor that could possibly be given her. Motherhood its a sacred and beautiful thing. Let every woman who has been. Given this privilege, rejoice and be exceeding glad. Let her magnify her calling that her ~ children may honor and bless her because of her good example and her teachings, that her days may be noted as worthy upon the earth, and great shall be her reward in heaven. SOUTH WINDOW My south window is a. Happy place, | go there when I'm sad To gaze on varied scenes which lift My heart and make it glad. The seasons change the scenery My south window is a happy place, From daffodils to snow, | stand there every day But the feeling never changes— To let my heart laugh in the sun It's a lifting, lilting glow. And throw its cares away. —Ardith M. McBride 930 Lula irewwen Tester, Loa Ward, Wayne Stake, Utah, ae remaining cunnattinn to keeping busy. She will be eighty-six years old soon and enjoys many interesting and fulfilling hobbies and activities. She makes quilts, crochets doilies, makes pillows, rugs, and many other articles of handwork, which grace her home and the homes of many relatives and friends. She does a great deal of gardening and yard work, including mowing the lawn each week. She enjoys baking bread and cookies. She has served in the Relief Society presidency and is still an active visiting teacher. She seldom misses a meeting. She is the mother of fourteen children, grandmother of fifty-seven, and greatgrandmother to sixty-four. ~, Martha Jane Chappel Head, Young © Stake, Farmington, New Mexico, *- celebrated her one hundreth. Birthday in November. She was baptized into the Church in 1884, when the entire Catawaba Indian * tribe, of which she was a member ssa ~ jin South Carolina, joined. Sister Head is the mother of twelve eueinaan: There are twenty-eight grandchildren, ninety-nine great-grandchiidren, and three great-great-grandchildren. She has always loved working in her garden and throughout her life she has sewed for her children, and she is still an expert knitter, and loves to teach this art to her grandchildren. She is an excellent cook. Sister Head has served in many positions in Relief Society, and still enjoys attending her meetings. 931 's | Michele a as told by Annette Giles Chapter 2 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles is disquieted by a discussion with Steve Rey, a young man whom she has been dating, who tells her he is not ready to marry. Although she is in no hurry to marry, for she is convinced that there is something else she must do first, his attitude worries her. Her parents sense that Jennifer is uncertain about several things and suggest a trip to visit Bea McPherson, a recently widowed cousin, in Houston, Texas. UJ ennifer settled herself in the luxury of the beautiful home that John McPherson had left his wife. The air conditioning felt too good for words to express. Jennifer commented on_ the beauty of the large, exquisite home. "Yes," Bea said, "it is lovely. While John was alive it was full of happiness and sunshine, but now it seems too big and too 932 lonely, although I would hate to give it up." It was obvious to Jennifer that the oil business was a prosperous one, for the furnishings of the house and the grounds left nothing to be desired, although the comforts of her family home in Springville appealed more to Jennifer's tastes. "Do Randy and _ his wile spend much time with you?" Jennifer asked, referring to John's older son by a previous marriage, whom Bea had reared along with a younger boy Dean, who was serving a mission in Taiwan. "Oh, yes," Bea's face lit up. She had been twenty years old when she married John, Randy had been seven and Dean scarcely four. It had been a challenge, accepting a ready-made family at that age, but with the help of the gentle widower whom she loved so much, she had been an ideal mother and both boys loved her dearly. "Randy and Paula are expecting a baby," she announced excitedly. "Why, that's wonderful!" Jennifer exclaimed. "When?" "In November. Can you imagine mea grandma?" Beadrawled in her soft Texan voice. It was hard, indeed, to imagine Bea as a_ grandmother. She was thirty-six years old, and looked and seemed even younger. She wore her naturally blonde hair short, and always looked as if she had just stepped from the beauty salon. Although there was now a tinge of sadness in her soft, blue eyes, they still sparkled mischievously, and a pleasant smile played at her eyes and lips. She had a delightful sense of humor, and her first thoughts were always of someone else. "T hate to give up this home, because it has always been the boys' home and they have so many pleasant memories here, as have I, of course. It is roomy for certain," she _ said gesturing about. "Perhaps they can both fill it with grandchildren, then it will be more tolerable." Jennifer smiled. How sad that Bea had not had her own children. "Did it ever bother you that this home was built for someone else?" Jennifer ventured to ask, with some curiosity. "Oh, no," Bea said. "I was so impressed with it after the first time I saw it, nothing else ever mattered. And if you are about to ask if I ever had problems because of John's first wife, the answer is no, even though I was Welcome the Task very young. So many women think that they have or would have a problem, because they are afraid of being compared to someone else, and they aren't certain of their husband's love. That's not the way it should be. I know John loved Emily deeply. But he also loved me, for my qualities, the person I am. I was young and made mistakes, and had some growing to do, but John was always patient and kind. He never said anything about Emily doing things differently, although we spoke of her often." Bea stopped for a moment, and Jennifer could think of no appropriate comment, so_ remained silent. "I can live with this loss," Bea continued thoughtfully, "because I know that John is happy with her there, and together they will welcome me when my time comes. Which shouldn't be for a good long time yet," she added brightly. Jennifer was moved by what she considered a beautiful testimony of real love. "I know she will love you Bea, for everything, but especially the marvelous job you have done in rearing her sons." "And I'll love her for leaving the sons I could never have, to be reared." Bea smiled. "I hope you brought your bathing suit," she said, pointing toward the pool which looked so inviting. Jennifer was somewhat awed by the many things there were to see and do in the large city. She could not imagine two million people existing much the same way a few thousand did in Springville. But, for the time being, Jennifer was enjoying the change very much. 933 December 1968 "Tell me about your young man," Bea suggested, one afternoon as they relaxed by the pool. "Well," Jennifer said, "what would you like to know?" "All you are willing to tell, his general description, and how you met, how things are looking. I'm not prying, I'm just curious." "T'd like to tell you, even if you were prying," Jennifer told her cousin fondly. "T like romance stories," Bea answered with a twinkle in her eye, looking young and eager. "Well, in that case, we had better go in and turn on the television," Jennifer told her. "You are likely to be disappointed." "T'll risk it," Bea said. UJ ennifer began her story reminiscently. "Well, I met Steve after I had been in England almost a year. He was my district leader, and I could tell right off that he was older than the other elders. I discovered later that he had been drafted just after his first year of college, and before a mission call could come. I had a keen sense of what is right and wrong, so I avoided the very appearance of evil, as they say. It seemed hard at times, for he was my immediate supervisor." "This sounds exciting,' Bea interjected with a smile. "T was impressed with his qualities as an elder, and as a person, so I avoided him whenever possible, although I didn't really think he even knew I was alive. As luck would have it, we were both transferred into the mission home at the same time, and the night he left, we had sort of a farewell testimonial for 934 him, and afterwards he said to me very seriously, 'Sister Miles, when I get home, if I wrote to you, would you write back?' I could hardly believe my ears, but assured him I would, and I did. So for about eight months we corresponded quite regularly, and when I got home he started dating me." "This is exciting,' Bea said with enthusiasm. "Well, go on. Tell me what he is like." Jennifer's thoughts flew back to the night of their discussion. She had seen him twice more after that, before she left Springville. They had both been involved with final examinations, and she had left soon afterward. On these subsequent dates, nothing more was said, although Jennifer felt that there was a definite strain on the relationship. There was nothing she could put her finger on, for she had grown accustomed to Steve's quietness, and his manners were always impeccable. Somehow, she felt dissatisfied, or perhaps disenchanted, she wasn't sure. "Well, Bea, he's quiet—and that isn't an understatement. The strong silent type, you know. He is very considerate, and has excellent manners. He is very intelligent. He is majoring in journalism, but I think he intends and hopes to be a fiction " - writer, and he plans on working toward his master's degree. He is twenty-seven, hard working, yet easy going. "T am impressed," Bea commented. "And I suppose he is superbly handsome." Jennifer smiled. One thing she could recall vividly was Steve's looks, and it set her heart to beating a little faster. "Well, he played football on the official United States Marine Corps team for a start. He's of Scandinavian descent. According to him he is five feet twelve inches tall. He has sandy blonde hair, blue-gray eyes, and a terrific smile. I have a picture of him in the house." Lu ater that afternoon' Bea spoke with Randy on the phone. After she hung up, she asked, "Jenny, would you like a date to the Astrodome to see the Astros play the Dodgers?" "With whom?" Jennifer asked. "A friend of Randy's, his name is Dick Craddock. He and Paula and two friends and their dates are going." "Tt sounds exciting," Jennifer said sincerely. She liked and understood baseball, and Steve had insisted that she get to the Astrodome. She wasn't sure he would quite approve of the circumstances. On second thought, she decided, it probably wouldn't bother him in the least. Jennifer confided in Bea about her conversation with Steve, and the older woman's only advice was not to hold her breath waiting on a man who had excuses against marriage, no matter how valid they might be, unless, of course, she simply couldn't live without him. Jennifer explained -how she felt that there was something in her own life to attend to, before she was ready for marriage, although she did not know what it could be, for she had served her mission, and was well on her way through school. Bea laughed kindly. "Jenny," Welcome the Task she drawled, "you are a very level-headed young lady, and I'm meaning to pay a compliment by that." The morning of Jennifer's date to the Astrodome, Bea commented that she didn't look as though she had slept well. "Well," Jennifer confessed, "I kept having these horrible nightmares about Dick. In one he was so suave and sophisticated, and plain good-looking that I felt terribly uncomfortable and out of place. Then, in the next, he was at least a head and a half shorter than I am. Oh, Bea, don't you know anything at all about him?" "Now, Jenny," Bea said sternly, "you know Randy better than that. I've never met Dick, but Randy speaks well of him, they are associates in the oil business. Dick is well-educated, a returned missionary, and probably a very nice person. And, young lady, there is no reason why you should feel out of place with a handsome man. End of lecture." While Jennifer did trust Randy, she tarried in getting ready, and needed perhaps fifteen minutes after Paula, Randy, and Dick arrived. Bea was entertaining them all when she finally descended the stairs. At least her nightmares had been unfounded. Dick was older than she had thought he would be, around thirty-five. He was pleasant, with brown hair and brown eyes. His glasses became him. There was something about him that Jennifer could not quite describe, but later she decided that he looked as if he carried a great sadness within him, although he smiled nicely. 935 The game was exciting, finally ending in an extra-inning, onerun victory for the hometown -team, much to the delight of the fifty thousand plus who cheered wildly. The immense Astrodome made quite an impression on Jennifer. Any sport could be played in any weather, plus housing cultural and _ religious events. It was truly a twentieth century edifice. The company she was with was delightful, and Jennifer could hardly keep her eyes off the third young couple in the party. Jim Long was one of those young men girls dream about, with dark skin, thick dark hair, sparkling blue eyes that laughed constantly in a teasing, flirtatious way. When he spoke, Jennifer could see why he was studying law, and, in the meantime, worked as a radio disc jockey. She thought wr that television might suit him better, for the audience rating of women would soar. Of course Jennifer had to concede that he was with an equally attractive blonde, who was obviously bored with baseball. He devoted much of his attention to Jennifer. Dick seemed not to mind in the least his flirting with Jennifer, and Jennifer could hardly resist the temptation to be flattered and impressed with Jim. When they arrived home, much later, Bea was reading in bed. As Jennifer passed by and peeked in, Bea called, "Hi, dear, did you have a nice time?" Jennifer | dropped herself despondently on the edge of the bed. "Oh, Bea, I just did the worst thing a girl can do. If I had any brains, I'd be dangerous." (To be continued) THE STAR WE SHARE Each of us had our Bethlehem, A mother's arms, a starfilled night, An angels' choir singing there... Beyond remembrance, beyond sight. When we left our heavenly home, We knew, as he, the path would be Beset by the treachery and tears Which followed him to Calvary. 936 He could mend a broken soul As we would kiss away a tear. We cannot do the miracles He could do when he was here. Still.... When Christmas is upon the land, Faith's message is ringing clear. The Heavenly Father, who sent his Son, Is the same who sent us here. —Dorothy O. Rea Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 94—Salvation for the Dead Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C Sections 127-128.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 OBJECTIVE: the baptism of her progenitors. INTRODUCTION In September 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith, at Nauvoo, Illinois, addressed two epistles to the saints concerning record keeping and the subject of baptism for the dead. (D&C 127-128.) The Lord had already revealed some matters regarding baptism for the dead. (Ibid., 124.) The first time this doctrine was mentioned in public was at the funeral of Seymour Brunson, who died in August 1840. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1949), Vol. IV, p. 231 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) When Elder Wilford Woodruff returned from England in 1841, Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 The Latter-day Saint woman meets her responsibility of making possible at which time he heard that this doctrine had been revealed, he said he was overjoyed in the thought that he could have this ordinance of salvation performed for his mother who was dead. Converts to the gospel have had similar feelings when they learned that they may help in the salvation of their deceased loved ones. A GLORIOUS DOCTRINE In one of the Prophet's epistles he quoted Paul's letter to the Corinthians wherein he refers to baptism for the dead in relation to the resurrection. (I Cor. 15:29; D&C 128:17.) In the Prophet's explanation of this doctrine, he said:.. And in an especial manner this most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel... (D&C 128:17.) SS) December 1968 Every Latter-day Saint who has seriously considered the importance of the doctrine of salvation of the dead has had the assurance that this teaching is in accord with the justice and mercy of God. He understands that the plan of salvation would be woefully incomplete unless there were some provision whereby those who did not have an opportunity to accept the gospel in this life might receive it in the next world. In addition, he realizes that this glorious doctrine gives him a greater appreciation for and interest in his progenitors who made it possible for him to have this earth life. His comprehension of the total plan of life is enlarged in the contemplation that he agreed to this plan in the premortal world where salvation of the dead was a part of that plan. (/bid., 128:5.) He thrills that he has the opportunity to bring joy into the lives of his departed, as expressed in the words of Joseph Smith:... Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free.... And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor, and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers! (Ibid., verses 22-23.) Class Discussion Why do you think that the doctrine of salvation of the dead is a glorious subject? A MODERN REVELATION On October 3, 1918, President Joseph F. Smith was contemplat- 938 ing two New Testament scriptures from the apostle Peter. Both of these scriptures referred to the time when the Savior—between the time of his death and his resurrection—went to preach to the spirits of the dead and thus the dead would be judged as "men in. The flesh" (I Peter 4:6) who had heard the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Ibid., 3:18-20.) He later reported to the Counselors in the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles and the Patriarch, the 'vision of the Savior's ministry among the dead, and they unanimously accepted it. A brief summary of that vision follows: President Smith saw the right- ~ eous dead in the spirit world filled with gladness awaiting the advent of the Son of God among them. 'There was no darkness among the righteous, but peace and rejoicing. He saw that the Savior went to the righteous and commissioned them to take the gospel message to the wicked who were assembled in another part of the spirit world.... Thus was the gospel preached to those who had died in their sins, without a knowledge of the truth, or in transgression, having rejected the prophets. These were taught faith in God, repentance from sin, vicarious baptism for the remission of sins, the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, and all other principles of the gospel that were necessary for them to know in order to qualify themselves that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. (Gospel Doctrine, Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith, ninth ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1952, p. 474.): Class Discussion What does the foregoing summary of the "Vision of the Redemption of the Dead" (Ibid., 472) contribute to your understanding of the Savior's visit with the dead? MAN'S SPIRIT The Lord has revealed that man is spirit, and he is eternal. (D&C 93:33.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said: In tracing the thing to the foundation, and looking at it philosophically, we shall find a very material difference between the body and the spirit; the body is supposed to be organized matter, and the spirit, by many is thought to be immaterial, without substance. With this latter statement we should beg leave to -differ, and state that spirit is a substance; that it is material, but that it is more pure, elastic and refined matter than the body; that it existed before the body, can exist in the body; and will exist separate from the body, when the body will be mouldering in the dust; and will in the resurrection, be again united with it. (DHC 4:575.) A PLACE OF EDUCATION One of the purposes of the spirit world is to provide an opportunity for those who have not heard the everlasting gospel to learn it. It is a place of repentance for them. Members of the Church also will have opportunity to further perfect their lives. It is erroneous to assume that the person at death is any different in the spirit world than he was in earth life as far as his beliefs, attitudes, and _ characteristics are concerned. (Alma _ 34:34.) Deathbed repentance does not assure salvation after a life of negligence or wickedness. The penitent thief on the cross by the Savior did not go to heaven but to the spirit world for further education. (Luke 23:29-43; John 20:11-18; Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Lesson Department Smith, p. 309.) The transition of death does not change one's character. President Brigham Young said that changes must come in the same way that changes come in this life, by desire and effort. (Roy W. Doxey, The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future, pp. 83-84.) The faithful, devoted Latterday Saint, having accepted the atonement ofJesusChrist through the first principles and_ ordinances of the gospel, will not be under the influence of Satan after death. Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 3:94-95.) On the other hand, the wicked, unrepentant will more or less be subject to the Adversary's power. (Ibid., 7:240.) RIGHTEOUS AND WICKED In the world of spirits there are two divisions—paradise and hell. From the day of Adam down to the time Christ ministered to the spirits in prison, there was a great gulf between these two places. (Luke 16:19-31; Nephi 9:12-13; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 14:229; Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised, 1957, p. 463.) Christ bridged the gulf. Since then the gospel has been taught in both paradise and hell, and there has been consequent intermingling of the righteous and wicked spirits. Thus the Prophet Joseph Smith, speaking of conditions as they now exist in the spirit world, said: "Hades, Sheol, paradise, spirits in prison, are all one: it is a world of spirits. The righteous and the wicked all go to the same world of spirits until 939 December 1968 the resurrection." (Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings. Of the' Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 310.) In explaining the words of Alma, who was speaking upon the subject of the spirit world in the day of a sharp cleavage between hell and paradise, President Joseph F. Smith said:... The spirits of all men, as soon as they depart from this mortal body, whether they are good or evil, we are told in the Book of Mormon, are taken home to that God who gave them life, where there is a separation, a partial judgment, and the spirits of those who are righteous are received into a state of happiness which is called paradise, a state of rest, a state of peace, where they expand in wisdom, where they have respite from all their troubles, and where care and sorrow do not annoy. The wicked, on the contrary, have no part nor portion in the Spirit of the Lord, and they are cast into outer darkness, being led captive, because of their own iniquity, by the evil one. And in this space between death and the resurrection of the body, the two classes of souls remain, in happiness or in misery, until the time which is appointed of God that the dead shall come forth and be reunited both spirit and body, and be brought to stand before God, and be judged according to their works.... (Gospel Doctrine, Selections from sermons and writings of Joseph F. Smith, ninth ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1952, p. 448.) MISSIONARY WORK Probably one of the most important activities in the spirit world is missionary work. In the "Vision of the Redemption of the Dead" received by President Joseph F. Smith, the following is given: I beheld that the faithful elders of this dispensation, when they depart from mortal life, continue their labors in the preaching of the gospel of repentance and redemption, through the sacrifice of the Only Begotten Son of God, among those 940 who are in darkness and under the bondage of sin in the great world of the spirits of the dead. The dead who repent will be redeemed, through obedience to the ordinances of the house of God, and after they have paid the penalty of their transgressions, and are washed clean, shall receive a reward according to their works, for they are heirs of salvation. (Gospel Doctrine, p. 476.) BASIS OF SALVATION FOR THE DEAD On January 21, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple, the Prophet Joseph received a vision in which he was permitted to see the celestial kingdom. Among those he saw were some people he knew on the earth, one of whom was his brother Alvin, who had passed away before the gospel was restored. The voice of the Lord came to him saying: All who have died without a knowledge of this Gospel, who would have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God; also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have received it with all their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom, for I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts. (DHC 2:380.) BAPTISM FOR THE DEAD In the merciful plan of the Great Creator, provision was made for the salvation of those who would die without a knowledge of the gospel. The same principles and ordinances that save the living also save the dead. (1 Cor. 15:29; Joseph Smith, DHC 5:424.) Since the plan provides that mortals must perform the ordinances on the earth in temples, baptism for the dead is performed by proxy, the living representing the dead. Proxies also stand for the dead in receiving the higher ordinances of the gospel in the temple. The first baptisms for the dead in this dispensation were performed in the Mississippi River because there was not a temple where the ordinance could be performed. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, thirteenth ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1953, p. 305.) Subsequently, these baptisms were discontinued by revelation until the baptismal font in the Nauvoo Temple was completed. (D&C 124:31-35; Joseph Smith, DHC 4:426.)... The baptismal font was instituted as a similitude of the grave, and was commanded to be in a place underneath where the living are wont to assemble... (D&C 128:13.) RECORDS OF THE DEAD The Prophet Joseph Smith, by revelation, counseled the saints that their records should be maintained in order, and that proper recordings should be made of baptisms for the dead. (D&C 127: 5-9; 128:2-4; Joseph Smith, DHC 5:141.) What is recorded on the earth shall be recorded in the heavens, wrote the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 128:8.) Inasmuch as we shall be judged out of the books which are maintained on the earth it is essential that the Church members maintain a proper record of their dead. By this means records are also kept in the heavens by the binding authority of the priesthood. (D&C 128:14; Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses 7:84.) Class Discussion How does the preparation of pedigree Lesson Department and family group sheets assist us to comply with the Lord's commandment regarding our kindred dead? OUR SALVATION The prophet Malachi prophesied, and the angel Moroni instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith, regarding the coming of Elijah to the earth before the second coming of Christ. (Malachi 4:5-6; D&C 128:17; 2.) On April 3, 1836, Elijah committed the sealing powers of the priesthood to the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery. This power also included the work for the dead. (D&C 110:13- 16; Joseph Smith, DHC; 2d ed., 1950, Deseret News, 6:183-184.) The Prophet taught that the saints could become saviors on Mount Zion by performing temple ordinances in behalf of their dead. (DHC 6:184; Obadiah 21.) In this same sermon, he said: The Saints have not too much time to save and redeem their dead, and gather together their living relatives, that they may be saved also, before the earth will be smitten, and the consumption decreed falls upon the world. (DHC 6: 184.) The importance of the work of redeeming the dead by identifying them and having the necessary ordinances performed for them is indicated by the following statements from the Prophet:... For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also; for it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and glories should take place, and be revealed from 941 December 1968 the days of Adam even to the present time. (D&C 128:18.) This doctrine presents in a clear light the wisdom and mercy of God in preparing an ordinance for the salvation of the dead, being baptized by proxy, their names recorded in heaven and they judged according to the deeds done in the body. This doctrine was the burden of the scriptures. Those Saints who neglect it in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. (DHC 4:426.) Class Discussion How important is work for the dead? IMPLEMENTATION An integral part of the doctrine of salvation of the dead is the subject of the spirit world. Every person at death goes into that sphere of existence where the principles of salvation are taught. Faithful members of Christ's Church will continue their labors in that world in behalf of the dead, preparing them for their final stage of existence, the resurrection. The Lord has instituted the practice of baptism for the dead and the performance of the higher ordinances in temples that exaltation may come to the dead. This opportunity to perform genealogical research and temple service for one's kindred dead, if accepted, will help the Latter-day Saint to uproot selfishness, greed, and other barriers to his own salvation, as he helps those who cannot help themselves in the spirit world. The initial step in this program is to enroll in a ward genealogical class to learn the rudiments of genealogical research. With this training, one can complete his four generation family group sheet project, as requested by the Church. Becoming involved in this activity should increase one's desire to continue to become a savior on Mount Zion in fulfilling his obligation to his kindred dead. The magnanimity of the gospel plan is indicated in this important doctrine revealing God's mercy and justice. Before the final judgment is rendered, every person must receive his chance to have the blessing of accepting the gospel. What the living do or do not do in behalf of their kindred dead will redound to their own everlasting exaltation or condemnation. FIRST HURT There was a look in her eyes of surprise and an incredulity that this could be, She, who was loved so, how could she know that we would have spared her this with touch, with kiss, But we could not; we stood, hurt as she, sorrowing at this swift pain she would know again. 942 —Christie Lund Coles VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 6—''Draw Near Unto Me and | Will Draw Near Unto You..."' (D&C 88:63.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To realize that our lives are more meaningful if we are close to our Heavenly Father. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (D&C 88:63.) In all sacred literature there is no invitation more inviting,. Gracious, nor full of promise. "Draw near unto me." This warm, affirming solicitation is like a beckoning hearth fire on a stormy night. Amid confusion, grief, and evil, comes this reassuring summons of our Lord. God, the power, authority, and omniscience of our universe, asks us to join him in a great companionship. Like all. Friendships, it must be on a reciprocal basis. Friendship, if it is to remain alive and growing in worth for both participants, takes time and effort. If one seldom sees or communicates with a_ friend, interests may grow apart, and the friendship may tend to lose its meaning. To answer the call of our Lord, to enter this intimate relationship with him, we must spend time with him, not merely a few hurried minutes a day, and we must diligently seek him. "Draw near" connotes. Desire to be close. "And Adam and Eve, his wife, called upon the name of the Lord...." (Moses 5:4) and he answered them. "Seek me diligently" implies effort and persistence. Solomon offered "a thousand burnt offerings...." (I Kings 3:4.) "... The Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night: and God said, Ask what I shall give thee." (I Kings 3:5.) "Ask, and ye shall receive..." (D&C 4:7); with unwavering faith Joseph Smith asked, and God and Jesus Christ visited him. "Knock, and _ it shall be opened unto you" (/bid.); thousands knock and God opens to them the riches of eternal life. The scriptures and the lives of many men and women testify to the fulfillment of God's promises. To these people has come the greatest experience of all, the understanding and _ assurance that God lives and that the universe has been created for righteous purposes. This knowl- 943 December 1968 edge is more desirable than the combined material riches of the world. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst. After righteousness: for they shall be filled." (Matthew 5:6.) Those who draw near to God have the sustaining strength to face the problems and evils of this world with a clear perception as to the meaning of their lives and of the way to inherit eternal life. They have the warm reassurance that God draws near to them. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 6—Take Pride in What You Have Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show the importance of taking pride in our possessions—particularly those pertaining to the home—and the value of using them to the best advantage. INTRODUCTION Pride, like many other human characteristics, has two faces. The one looks with appreciation upon that which is rightfully his and brings in return the blessings of contentment and peace. The other looks with envy toward the acquisitions of others, seeking only the self-gratification of possession for its own sake, and reaps dissatisfaction and discontent. Too often our young people grow up with the idea that the world is theirs for the taking— that hard work and the putting forth of energy and effort in obtaining the things they desire belong to a different age, and one which touches them not even remotely. As a consequence, 944 they approach marriage wanting and expecting all of the comforts and conveniences of living which their parents have spent a lifetime in accumulating. Our responsibility to our children, as well as to ourselves, is to show how, by taking pride in justly acquiring and taking care of our possessions and by making the most of what we have, we can find deserved and _ lasting contentment. These results do not come from looking with envy toward the possessions of others. Basic within each one of us is the need to have pride in the things which belong to us. It follows that we should be concerned with taking care of what we have so that others may recognize these virtues and learn how to utilize them in their own lives. HOW CAN WE USE WISDOM IN ACQUIRING OUR HOME FURNISHINGS? We should evaluate. Our particular needs and set realistic goals for attaining them. (Keeping within our budget.) We should plan well in advance the purchases we will make, their approximate cost, and their order of importance to the overall plan. We should buy only those things which will contribute to the comfort and beauty of our home. We should avoid impulse buying or the purchase of so-called bargains which we have not planned for. We should be willing to postpone the buying of things we would like but cannot afford. We should, whenever possible, choose furniture that will serve our present needs and still serve to good purpose as our home expands. We should invest what money we spend in things of lasting and superior quality, except where budget-stretching substitutes are immediate and temporary necessities. (Even these, wisely chosen, can add to the attractiveness and personality of the home.) HOW CAN WE UTILIZE WHAT WE HAVE TO THE BEST ADVANTAGE? Many things have been discarded. Which could, with the application of a little work and imagination, have been made into valuable and' attractive additions to our homes. Chairs and sofas can be rejuvenated with attractive slip covers. Dressing tables and stools can be "glamorized'"' and individualized by draping or skirting with harmonizing fabrics. A colorful spread and smart pillows can give an outmoded bed an attractive modern appearance. Painting, antiquing, enameling, lacquering, and other methods of refinishing can restore life and beauty to chests, tables, chairs, and other furnishings. Lesson Department The application of fabrics, leathers, and decals to pieces of furniture can rejuvenate them into gay and exciting pieces. Goldleafing is a popular new innovation which can be used for reconditioning furniture and accessories. A HOME WORTHY OF OUR PLANNING IS WORTHY OF GOOD CARE It is just as important that we take care of our cherished possessions as it is that we acquire them in the first place. We should know that good care is as important to the beauty and complexion of our homes as good grooming is to our _ physical bodies—and that it is equally as uplifting to our morale. Furniture and accessories should be kept free from dust and finger marks as well as treated with respect in moving and handling. Carpeting and rugs_ should be vacuumed regularly and_ spot-cleaned whenever necessary. Valuable art objects or treasured heirlooms—petit-point pieces, delicate ceramics, valuable books, and _ other prized possessions—should be placed where they are protected from rough handling or careless treatment. Glassware, china, linens, and _ silver should be kept clean and sparkling and free from tarnish and stain. Children should be taught to take good care of their own possessions and to keep them in their proper places. CONCLUSION People in countries throughout the world have for centuries been cherishing and preserving treasured heirlooms and works of art. They have taken pride in developing and encouraging the arts and handicrafts of their respective countries. We, with 945 December 1968 - them, have learned that to take pride in the things we cherish is to take care of them. There can be little satisfaction in having beautiful things if they do not add beauty to our homes and enjoyment and pleasure to our lives. If we would teach our children to value and appreciate their possessions and take pride in creating and maintaining beauty in their lives, we must exemplify these qualities in our own. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 6—That We May Be One Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the value of unity in the home and in various Church activities involving the Latter-day Saint woman. Lesson Follow-up Have a sister report (3-4 minutes) on a scripture, which, in her opinion, is a guide line for a general problem facing the Latter-day Saint woman today. INTRODUCTION This lesson, which is in correlation with Lesson 28, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, titled "Warning to the Priesthood to Follow Counsel," is based on an address by President J. Reuben Clark Jr., delivered at the GeneralPriesthood Meeting of the Church, April 8, 1950. Excerpts from this address and from a conference address of 1943, which also considers the subject of unity, will be used in this social relations lesson. President Clark's message 946 may have important application to a Latter-day Saint woman's home life, her Church service, and, also, to neighborhood and community affiliations. President Clark frequently spoke of the importance of unity. In both public address and in his written works, he stressed the need for unity; unity in belief, unity in spirit, and in action. It was a subject near to his heart. Referring to New 'Testament teachings on this subject, President Clark cites the following scripture wherein Jesus declares his oneness with the Father. From the prayer of Jesus prior to his going to Gethsemane, we read: Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us....... That they may be one, even as we are one. (John 17:20-22; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 10.) UNITY IN HOME AND NEIGHBORHOOD Questions for Discussion 1. Of what value to the Latter-day Saint mother with young children is unity within the neighborhood? 2. In what way is unity of special importance to adult Latter-day Saint women, where there are no children involved? THE HOME THAT UNITY BUILT This is the home that unity built. It was an ordinary house in appearance—with walls and windows and roof—but with a very firm foundation. Inside were the usual fixtures. The parents were well intentioned and intelligent. And there were children, just ordinary, intelligent children. But there was something special, very special, about this house. I think it began when the couple, sitting down together, talked things over. They said, "From this moment forward, this will be a home, not a house, for we will make it a place of happy agreement. We will make it a place of peace, where human relationships are warm and congenial. We will invite love to be ever present, most of all in discipline. Our children will know that they are wanted and loved. We will endeavor to make sharing and respect for the rights of others a part of our thinking and of our daily action. We will play and we will pray together. There will be problems, disappointments, and _ sorrows, Lesson Department this we know, but our faith will support us." And these things happened, just as they had planned in the house that unity built. Listen to their children: Little One of Five Years: "T like our family home evenings because all the people in our whole family are together." The Almost Ten One: "T don't go fishing on Sunday, like some boys I know, but, on other days in summer, my dad takes me and my brothers on fishing trips." The Fourteen, Wishing-He-Were-Sixteen: "No, I can't drive the car, not yet. But the family works things out pretty well car-wise." HOUSE OF DISCORD This is the house that discord built. It was a nice house, with all that a nice house needs—walls, windows, foundation, and roof. There were children, intelligent, innocent children. And there were well-intentioned parents who hoped to establish a successful home. They really hoped that they would, but that is where they left the matter. They did not decide together what they wanted of life as a family. They did not say, "The foundation of this house will be strong and everlasting, for we will fortify it with love and with religion." They did not say, "As the children increase in number, we will work and play and go to church together, that there may be unity and peace in this house." They said none of these things. Moreover, because they did not look ahead and plan, they brought into this house some unneeded even undesirable, things. Some 947 December 1968 were so illusive you could scarcely identify them. Then something happened, though it was not a sudden happening. It began when the mother started to listen. She had not done much listening, being so involved in her multiple interests. And listening, she heard the LittleOne-of-FiveYears say to a neighbor child, "Yes, we do have one sometimes, but it's a half-family night at our house, Sally and Bob don't want to be there." And once she heard the Almost-Ten say, "One of my parents says Yes, fishing is all right for Sundays, but the other one says No, church ise And when she listened again, she heard Fourteen, Wishing-HeWere-Sixteen say, with emphasis, "No one in our house pays any attention to anyone else. Nobody seems to care and nobody listens, so what's the use of telling what your troubles and your plans are? I'm fourteen and in the groove, but you just wait until I'm sixteen and I'll make my voice heard." Then the mother said, in anguish, "Something is wrong. Something must be done. This is not a home; it is a house, and it's a house of confusion. It's a house with no compass, with people going every which way. There is no unity, no oneness here." And as she took inventory of her house, she was amazed how few undesirables there were, but also amazed to see how vital and how destructive their influences could be. Now the father had also made some observations, for he had heard the voices of children, above the din of quarrel. So the father 948 and the mother began to list the undesirables which their roof was sheltering: "Criticism of others must go first," the father said. The mother added quickly, "Yes, faultfinding must go, also, so that there will be more room for love." And the father said, '"Love, we will make the rule of consistent discipline." "And we will listen," the mother said, "that we may know what our children think and hope for, and are capable of achieving, and we will counsel thoughtfully." "It will not be easy," the father said, "but we will start now, today." "t know," the mother agreed, "it would have been far easier had we been one in mind, one in spirit, and one in righteousness, right from the beginning." And it would have been. Question for Discussion What do these fables mean to you? President David O. McKay sald: Unity and its synonyms—harmony, goodwill, peace, concord, mutual understanding—express a condition for which the human heart constantly yearns. Its opposites are discord, contention, strife, confusion. I can imagine few, if any, things more objectionable in the home than the absence of unity and harmony. (President David O. McKay, "Unity of Purpose Important to the Accomplishment of God's Work," The 137th SemiAnnual General Conference, The Improvement Era, December 1967, p. 34.) UNITY IN THE CHURCH Speaking, generally, of unity within the Church, President Clark said: Brethren, if this Church is to grow as the Lord wants it to grow, if the: people are to become as righteous in their living as the Lord wants them to become, there must be unity in this Church. It will not do for presidents of stakes or for bishops or for heads of auxiliary organizations to chart their own course. If we are to move forward we must move together. I loathe war so much that I hate to use any illustration in connection with it; but I do call your attention to this fact, of which we are all sensible in these times, that there could be no successful campaign by a series of armies if they did not act in unity. If every general "went off on his own," there never would be a successful operation. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., address at General Conference, April 8, 1950 (Manuscript); Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 28.) IN HARMONY WITH PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH On the importance of Church members being one with the President of the Church, President Clark states: If we are going to bring about and accomplish the great purposes which the Lord has marked out for us and of which we have heard so much, so eloquently, so beautifully, and so truthfully in this Conference, we must be one. As I have said to the Priesthood of this Church over and over again in the past: If we are one, really one, bringing together all of our wills and our forces of character, and our powers, and our abilities into harmony with the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of God on earth at this time, there is nothing which is beyond our power in righteousness. And I can think of nothing that today is more important than that we as individuals shall seek, each and everyone of us, to be one with him who is the Lord's anointed, called and ordained to head His Church. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, October 3, 1943, 114th Semi-Annual Conference Report, pp. 125-126; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 29.) With the foregoing in mind, I recall to your minds that the Lord has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine." We cannot be one unless we are one in spirit, in belief, in knowledge, and in action. There is no other way...." (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Conference Address, April 7, 1944; 114th Annual Conference Lesson Department Report, pp. 110-116; "The Way of Unity," The Improvement Era, Vol. 47, May 1944, pp. 270-271; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 29.) Class Involvement Questions 1. Do you think faultfinders and commandment breakers are more harmful to Church progress than persecution from without? If so, why? 2. How harmful might be one single Latter-day Saint woman's faultfinding and criticism to the unity of the Church in her area? Discuss briefly. UNITY IN THE AUXILIARIES That unity is of real importance to the forwarding of Church auxiliary purposes, may be attested by every administrative officer of these organizations. Class Involvement Discuss how Relief Society may benefit relative to unity: 1. When members cooperate by trying to understand the program. 2. When they are willing to take direction and counsel. 3. When they are consistent in their performance. 4. When they are friendly with one another, especially to the newcomer or nonmember visitor. 5. When they refrain from criticism of each other and of the local leadership. 6. When they conform to the general standards of the organization at all times. NOT FOR TODAY ONLY Unity within the Church is not a need of today only, but has been important to the spiritual wellbeing of the Church whenever it has been upon the earth. In the early days of the Christian Church, the apostle Paul was much concerned about dissension in the various branches and the need to strengthen them through unity of the membership. 949 December 1968 To the Roman saints Paul wrote: Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and the things wherewith one may edify another. (Romans 14:19.) Be of the same mind one toward another.... (Romans 12:16.) To the Philippians he wrote: Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel. (Philippians 1:27.) Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. (Philippians 2:2.) SUMMARY The unifying influence of being one in spirit, and mind, and action with others of like belief, can scarcely be overstated. It is especially important to the general welfare of the Church today and to all areas of Church organization. This has always been so. Unity involves human relationships, one to another, and, assuch, it is an indispensable factor in maintaining harmony within the home, in creating a congenial neighborhood, and in promoting community progress. Unity need not lessen the exercise of one's inherent free agency —for in righteous unity one retains the priceless gift of individuality. President Clark implies this fact in the following phrases —"one in purpose, one in will, one in faith, one in obedience, one in service, one in righteousness, but different personalities." (Melchizedek PriesthoodManual, 1968-69, Lesson 10.) How evident is the lack of unity in all nations of today's world. For Home-Doing Ask yourself: In what ways can I, as a Latter-day Saint woman, increase unity, harmony, and good will in our home, and in my neighborhood, and in the Church? Begin now. O" THE ARTIST'S TOUCH So pure was the world when | was a child— Transparent and clear as a winter's night.... When hearthfire gleamed with warmth and love, For those were the years when the world was white. How wondrous the world when childhood was gone, And youth blossomed full as a summer's dream.... When days were Junetime.. For those were the years when the world was green. How restful the world now that youth has passed, And peace lies bounteous in the harvest fold.... When days stretch mellow as in autumn's dusk, For these are the years when the world is gold. ~.. With emerald-glow, —Alda Larson Brown 950 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—The Appreciation of Beauty Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Five By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "I pray Thee, oh God, that | may be beautiful within." —Socrates Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that beauty enriches living and that a life in harmony with truth and virtue is the most convincing manifestation of womanly beauty. MUSIC Beethoven Symphony #7 in A Major, Opus 92 First movement, Péco Sostenuto—Vivace Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University The topic chosen for Lesson 5 The Appreciation of Beauty gives wide scope for selecting a piece of music to be included in this presentation. Edna St. Vincent Millay's sonnet, ''On Hearing a Symphony of Beethoven" in the text, however, would naturally lead us to choose a movement from one of the nine symphonies of that great composer. The first movement of the Seventh Symphony is selected because of its combination of profundity and cheerfulness, of nobility and lyricism. It is familiar, yet not as well known as some other symphonies. ART: ''Stowstorm"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British Painting reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, page 685. Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, page 690. Like most of the other concepts that we are exploring in this series of lessons, beauty (and its opposite, ugliness) is manifest abundantly both in the natural universe and in our human lives, to say nothing of the whole world of art (literature, music, painting, cated to the creation and sharing of beauty. In order to touch upon these several aspects of beauty, we are dividing this lesson into three subsections: first, beauty in man and woman; second, beauty in nature; and _ third, beauty in art. 951 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON sculpturing, etc.), which is dedi- December 1968 BEAUTY IN MAN AND WOMAN Anyone who can appreciate beauty knows that there is visual beauty in the human form and face equaling whatever else of beauty the world has to offer. Painters and sculptors have spent more hours re-creating the beauty of the human face and figure than on all other things combined, and poets, too, have lavished their most eloquent words in praise of human beauty. Thus, we find Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849) writing a poem "To Helen" that glows with lovely phrasing as he describes Helen of Troy, ancient symbol of the idealization of pure beauty: Helen, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, way-worn wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo! In yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand! The agate lamp within thy hand, Ah! Psyche, from the regions which Are Holy Land. There is, however, another kind of womanly beauty more beautiful than any that is merely physical. Indeed, physical beauty at its loveliest is radiant with the reflection of inward spirituality. And even when physical beauty seems altogether lacking, there can exist an integrity of character, a pleasantness of personality, and a conscious good grooming that are far more attractive than mere prettiness or handsomeness. We can't all be pretty or hand- 952 some, but we can all be friendly and genuine. George Eliot (1819- 1880) had this in mind when, in her novel Adam Bede, she argued for honesty and realism in literature: These fellow-mortals, every one, must be accepted as they are: you can neither straighten their noses, nor brighten their wit, nor rectify their dispositions; and it is these people— amongst whom your life is passed— that it is needful you should tolerate, pity, and love.... So I am content to tell my simple story, without trying to make things seem better than they are; dreading nothing, indeed, but falsity.... All honour and reverence to the divine beauty of form! Let us cultivate it to the utmost in men, women, and children —in our gardens and in our houses. But let us love that other beauty too, which lies in no secret of proportion, but in the secret of deep human sympathy. "STELLA'S BIRTHDAY" Jonathan Swift (1667-1745) also knew that surface beauty is a deceptive quality. In "Stella's Birthday" he shows his lifelong devotion to his beloved Stella (Hester Johnson). He makes her not only a very believable woman, but also a very adored woman. The poem is charming and lovely, not so much because Stella at thirty-four is double her sixteenyear-old size, as because Swift makes clear that he loves her for her mind, her wit, her personality, her goodness rather than for her mere physical beauty: Stella this day is thirty-four (We shan't dispute a year or more)— However, Stella, be not troubled, Although thy size and years are doubled, Since first I saw thee at sixteen, The brightest virgin on the green, So little is thy form declined; Made up so largely in thy mind. Oh, would it please the gods, to split Thy beauty, size and years, and wit; No age could furnish out a pair Of nymphs so graceful, wise, and fair: With half the lustre of your eyes, With half your wit, your years, and size. And then, before it grew too late, How should I beg of gentle Fate (That either nymph might have her swain) To split my worship too in twain. In the preceding four years of this series we have, again and again, presented portraits of admirable men and women—not perfect, because they are human, but with admirable qualities. (See Section 5 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books for a listing of about thirty of these portraits.) One further example of beauty in character, referred to in lesson 2, is Socrates. (See Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, Section Two.) "T pray Thee, oh God, that I may be beautiful within" is the statement by Socrates with which this lesson begins. If ever a man had courage and integrity, which together make beauty of character, Socrates did. Unflinching honesty compelled him to die rather than to violate his integrity. He said, moreover, that whatever the consequences, one should recognize the authority of the law. And so he drank hemlock poison, comforting his friends who had gathered round in his prison cell as the numbness of death crept upon him. All of this is recorded by the great philosopher Plato, who was Socrates' pupil, in the dialogues Crito and Phaedo. The following brief passage is from the Crito: Think not of life and children first, and of justice afterwards, but of justice first.... Depart in innocence, a sufferer and not a doer of evil; a victim, not of the laws, but of men.... Men of Athens, Lesson Department I honor and love you; but I shall obey God rather than you. BEAUTY IN NATURE In "Fra Lippo Lippi," one of his great poems on art, Robert Browning says: You've seen the world— The beauty and the wonder and the power, The shapes of things, their colors, light and shades, Changes, surprises—and God madeit all! — For what?... What's it all about? To be passed over, despised? Or dwelt upon, Wondered at? Oh, this last of course!— you say: But why not do as well as say—paint these Just as they are, careless what comes of it? God's works—paint any one, and count it. Crime To let a truth slip.... If you get simple beauty and naught else, You get about the best thing God invents—... This world's no blot for us, Nor blank; it means intensely, and means good— To find its meaning is my meat and dnnk. The speaker is Fra Lippo Lippi, one of the major Renaissance painters of Florence, into whose mouth Browning puts his own philosophy of art—that God created a world of beauty, and it is the artist's opportunity to reproduce this beauty, isolating points of beauty for greater appreciation. Many poets, as well as painters, share this philosophy of art, and hundreds of excellent poems are concerned primarily with describing the beauties of nature. One of the most gifted of all nature lovers was Gerard Manley Hopkins (1844-1889). Hopkins combines a love of nature with a worship of God, clearly seen in the following little poem called "Pied Beauty": 953 December 1968 Glory be to God for dappled things— For skies as couple-colored as a brinded cow; For rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim; Fresh-firecoal; chestnut-falls; wings; Landscapes plotted and pieced—fold, fallow, and plow; And all trades, their gear and tackle and trim. All things counter, original, spare, strange; Whatever is fickle, freckled (who knows how?) With swift, adazzle, dim; He fathers-forth whose beauty is past change: Praise Him. Finches' slow; sweet, sour; Stippling is a method of painting by dotting with the end of a brush, which is exactly the right way to describe the "rose-moles"' dotting the sides of a certain kind of trout—one of the several multicolored things that Hopkinsdraws attention to in this exciting little poem. Equally superb as a nature poet who both described the beauties of nature and created beautiful poetry in the process is John Keats (1795-1821). No poet was concerned about beauty more than Keats, who in Endymion said "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" and in "Ode on a Grecian Urn" said "Beauty is truth, truth beauty,—that is all/Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." SONNET 'COMPOSED UPON WESTMINSTER BRIDGE" Another great nature lover, who found not only beauty in nature but also sublime religious experiences, was William Wordsworth (1770-1850). Of his many nature poems, one of the finest is a sonnet "Composed upon West- 954 minster Bridge" which describes the huge city of London asleep in early morning, bathed from all sides with the beauties and wonders of nature—the gliding river, the open fields, the streaming early-morning sun, and the pure smokeless air in the sky overhead. The sonnet provides us with at least two levels of appreciation. First of all, it is aesthetically beautiful—the liquid sound of rhyme and rhythm, the clean, clear images, the simple but dignified diction. Beyond this aesthetic appeal lies deeper meaning, however. The city is personified as a sleeping giant, wearing the beauty of the morning like a garment (lines 4-5), with a mighty heart beating as it sleeps (line 14), and with the pure world of nature all around. The "smokeless air," contrasting with the smoke and grime of normal city atmosphere, seems especially significant, apparently symbolizing the purity of nature's spirit which pervades the entire scene. The result is a poem enchanting in its loveliness as we feel the slumbering power of the great city of London almost transfigured in the beautiful full dawn of morning. Earth has not anything to show more fair: Dull would he be of soul who could pass by A sight so touching in its majesty. This City now doth, like a garment, wear The beauty of the morning; silent, bare, Ships, towers, domes, theatres, and temples lie Open unto the fields, and to the sky, All bright and glittering in the smokeless air. Never did the sun more beautifully steep In his first splendour, valley, rock, or hill; Ne'er saw I, never felt, a calm so deep! The river glideth at his own sweet will: Dear God! The very houses seem asleep; And all that mighty heart is lying still! ROSE PARADE TOUR December 26 - January 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 RETROSPECT When my children were young, And careless or mussy, My grandmother smiled, As | tried to be fussy; And she laughed, as with pride | assuredly stated, "Things will be different, After they're mated, No broken knick knacks— No finger marks then, My house will be tidy And spotless again." But now, | laugh, too, At such trivial talk, For my first darling grandchild Has just learned—to walk! —Ruth G. Rothe Lesson Department BEAUTY IN ART In its concern for beauty, literature treats not only beauty in people and beauty in nature but also beauty in art. In this sense, literature both discusses and creates beauty. As an example of sheer artistic beauty in poetry we draw attention to "Kubla Khan" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. (Because this poem is fairly long, we do not have space to print it here; but it is printed in full in the text and is also easily available in many other volumes of poetry.) Many readers feel that there is deep symbolic meaning in this poem, and perhaps there is. Various interpretations have been given, both philosophical and allegorical. Other readers argue that the poem contains no deep meanings but is simply the marvelous beginning of a verse narrative, such as "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" or "Christabel." Still other readers feel that it is primarily descriptive. Our purpose in citing the poem is to illustrate artistic excellence, the sheer beauty of language in the creative hands of one of the great word masters. Whatever else "Kubla Khan" is, it is hauntingly beautiful poetry, "directionless melody" as one critic said, hovering over a dream landscape combining the extremes of beauty and terror. No matter which passage one examines, the wordhandling is flawless—a magic interweaving of alliteration, assonance, rhyme, onomatopoeia, shimmering imagery, varying rhythms—all the devices that in the hands of a master give to 955 December 1968 poetry the beauty of music as well as the more obvious qualities of literature. "ON HEARING A SYMPHONY BY BEETHOVEN" BY EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY Up to this point we have used selections concerned with beauty in literature. Writers are also concerned, of course, with beauty in the other arts—music, for example. Music delights us when we are happy, comforts us when we mourn, gives courage when we are frightened, stirs us when we are apathetic, sustains us when we are soul-troubled, and fills us with religious adoration when we worship. That music can do all these things, and more, is attested not only by the experience of humanity through centuries, but by hundreds of stories, poems, and essays bearing record of the power, delight, and beauty of music. As a sampling of all these, we now print just one little poem—a sonnet by Edna St. Vincent Millay entitled "On Hearing a Symphony of Beethoven." Miss Millay's poetry, ranging from ecstasy in her early poems to bitterness in her later verse, reflects the complexity of her years of struggle to find happiness. A lover of beauty wherever she could find it, she especially loved music, finding in it a temporary escape from the frustrations of her personal world. We - feel this point of view in the poem that follows, a poem of intensity—in its language, in thought, and in emotion: Sweet sounds, oh, beautiful music, do not cease! Reject me not into the world again. 956 With you alone is excellence and peace. Mankind made plausible, his purpose plain. Enchanted in your air benign and shrewd. With limbs a-sprawl and empty faces pale, The spiteful and the stingy and the rude Sleep like the scullions in the fairty-tale. This moment is the best the world can give: The tranquil blossom on the tortured stem. Reject me not, sweet sounds! Oh, let me live, Till Doom espy my towers and scatter them, A city spell-bound under the aging sun. Music my rampart, and my only one. CONCLUSION The lesson printed here consists mostly of excerpts from Section 5 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, Section 5 contains "There Is a Garden in Her Face" (poem) by Thomas Campion; Sonnet 130 by Shakespeare; "Love Poem" by John Frederick Nims; "Moonrise" (poem) by Gerard Manley Hopkins; "To Autumn" (poetic ode) by John Keats; "Apology for Bad Dreams" (poem) by Robinson Jeffers; the text of "Kubla Khan" by Coleridge; "What Is Poetry?" (essay) by Gertrude Stein; "Ars Poetica" (poem) by Archibald MacLeish; an excerpt (discussing two of Turner's paintings) from Modern Painters by John Ruskin; "On the Grasshopper and Cricket" by John Keats and "Cargoes" by John Masefield, and fuller discussions of all of these than space permits here. The selections by Nims, Jeffers, Stein, MacLeish, Masefield, and Millay are still covered by copyright restrictions. All other selections may be reprinted as desired for teaching purposes. . We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY YY Xow eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antenini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 957 The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord Praise Be to Thee |! Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide December 1968 REMEMBERED SUMMER 'The summer mountains, Waterfalls, Splashing fountains In the rocky brook, Deep pools, sun-bright, The pines in tall Green silhouettes Against blue space Of infinite sky, The soft caress Of whispering wind, Bird song and flight— This loveliness Returns to mind, Evoked now by The single treasure Of a blue jay feather Marking my place In the winter book. —Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn BEAUTIFUL All Grain Stone Ground Flour Mill, @& For full Me | information, write * Dept. R. S. P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 BEST WISHES FOR A Hepes my Fraser of a. DESERET FReEews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 MARRIAGE | feel a silken thread Each day wind 'round my existence, Not in tangles, But in patterns; Not to bind me, But to free. | have wanted the thread-like duties Marriage has brought, Not to stop my doing, But to guide my steps, Not to prevent my youth and joy, But enrich. | have found here peace To last the eternities. So this is what heaven is all about. —Katherine F. Larsen 958 9961-2981 ALAIQOS AAITIA AO AMOUSIED Wist Ye Not That 9 Must Be About | My Father's Brsiness?"™ vu. REUBEN CLARK, UR Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 The Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, __ fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pin Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10—12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 ''Wist Ye Not that | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 959 am. A "422 ff LAA 4A ° Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 101 98 95 94 93 92 960 Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Katie Holliday Cragun Portland, Oregon Mrs. Mary Allen Jungerheld Kalamazoo, Michigan 91 Mrs. Emma Johanna Ottesen Halverson Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Minnie Crum Carnes Safford, Arizona Mrs. Anna Mary Ball Frewin Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho Mrs. Bertha Ellen Winn Coburg, Oregon Mrs. Eda Picot Martin Anaheim, California Mrs. Mary Peterson Brown Safford, Arizona Mrs. Lucinda Johnson Orosi, California CNS HAPPINESS Mrs. Clara Parkes Jones Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Rosamond Murphy Packer Ogden, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Boh! Peck Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Compton Hess Long Beach, California Mrs. Nellie May Thomas Boyce Humphre Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. Jakobina Tvedt Miner Berkeley, California Mrs. Rose Ellen Webster Berry Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Tora Burr Case Provo, Utah Mrs. Teenie Bowns Cox Woodruff, Utah Mrs. Amanda Olsen Edler Heber City, Utah Mrs. Alzada Marquess Holt Winslow, Arizona Mrs. Adah Alzina Harper Martin Central, Arizona Mrs. Elizabeth Richards Owens Joseph, Utah Happiness is a four-year-old Dancing in the wind— Flying hair and hands outstretched, Skirts billowing behind. Happiness is a four-year-old Exhibiting her charms, Seized by shyness suddenly, Held fast in Mother's arms. —Zara Sabin a Christmas is for You by Berta Christensen Make Decembe;' s family home ive, Here js speCially Selected Christm as lore for f yment durj amily enjo ng the Christmas holidays, Prose and poetr Yina beautify] gift volume. A Cherished "emembrance. $3.95 od Thayne Through Colorful, delightfy| drawings follow a young boy =xPeriencing € learns ab he time When the avior wil] € again. COM Pany 4 East so. TEMPLE AND aT COTTONWoop MALL SALT LAKE City 472 WASH}: MAIN s Lake City, Utah 84170 or ange, California 92668 NGTON BLYD OGDEN T.. O| GE. CALIFORNIA range add 5 % sales tax, Fa Se tC ee ae eee ca ia oe a et Soha & the true sto ls f Christmas and as residents of California ay °. ° G N | PUMPKIN PIE 3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon unflavored % cup U AND | SUGAR gelatin (or 1 envelope) 1% cups cooked or Y% cup cold water canned pumpkin 3 stiffly beaten egg ¥Y% cup milk whites Y tsp. Salt % cup U AND | SUGAR Y% tsp. Ginger 1 baked 9" or 10" ¥ tsp. Cinnamon pastry shell 2 tsp. Nutmeg SS See Se SE ee Beat egg whites and '/, cup sugar, and set aside. Beat egg yolks and!/, cup sugar until thick. Add pumpkin, milk, salt, and spices. Cook in double boiler until thick. Soften gelatin in cold water, stir into hot mixture. Fold in egg white mixture. Pour into baked, cooled pastry shell and chill. Top with whipping cream. Pti? The magic of Sugarplum Land Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Pumpkin Pie for a real family taste treat. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.
