The RGI|iCfi SOCIiety Magazine JANUARY 1967 ts - ae ter" Ses Nott iy e vb +more Te SS The word which characterizes the New Year is the word happy. "Happy New Year" rings out in joyous sound. Similar expressions are found in different languages in different countries. They contemplate the past year with its sunlight and shadows and wish for a new year of happiness. This wish is extended by the General Board to every Relief Society member in the year 1967. As we extend this wish to you, we are mindful of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith: Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God. But we cannot expect to know all, or more than we now know unless we comply with or keep those we have already received (DHC V:134-135). Each one to whom we offer this wish lives under different economic, social, and physical conditions, but each one has one great spiritual blessing. You each have the good tidings of great joy. You each have this blueprint for happiness. You each have the divine gift of a loving Heavenly Father to you his beloved daughter—The Relief Society. Relief Society will assist you wondrously on your twelvemonth pilgrimage on the path for happiness. As you persist, your burdens will drop from you. To each Relief Society member we send this message of love—"Happy New Year!" General Presidency, The Cover: J Relief Society Centennial Memorial Campanile Transparency by Howard Barker Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Art Layout: ff Dick Scopes Itlustrations: § Mary Scopes Frontispiece: § Brook in Winter, Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner —_ 2 For a year and a half | have received the wonderful Magazine as a gift from a Brigham Young University student, and nothing has added more joy to being a mother than this helpful publication. | look forward to the wholesome stories, the inspirational editorials, poems, and special features, and delight in trying out the recipes and other household suggestions. | know of nothing else like the Magazine! Although | am not a Latter-day Saint, through the Magazine | have come to respect and understand the beliefs of the Church. ' Mrs. W. Franklin Burditt Briarcliff Manor New York Since June 1965 | have received a gift subscription of The Relief Society Magazine through the mission home in Buenos Aires, and | am so thankful for the monthly message of beauty, love, and virtue it brings to me. It is the most feminine magazine | have ever read, because it reflects the deep feelings, thoughts, and problems of good women of today. Mrs. Liliana R. Riboldi Rosario, Argentina When things of the earthly life which are not to my liking gather too closely around, | find that prayer and a story from the Magazine set me to a better way of meeting the moments. Naomi Pollett Mountain View, Wyoming | am very grateful for our wonderful Magazine which | have been receiving for the past four years. This little Magazine has played a great part in helping me progress in self-improvement ever since | became a member of the Church five years ago, and | have recommended it to everyone | meet, subscribing to it for members of my family and friends, from time to time. Violet M. Tate Pennsauken, New Jersey We love The Relief Society Magazine and are so grateful for the strength and support it gives to us in the important work to help the sisters in France, Belgium, and Luxembourg to understand the purpose of this choice organization in helping them to serve the Lord as members of his Church and mothers in his kingdom. We are anxiously awaiting the day when it will come to us in French so that the full worth of the messages therein can reach into the hearts and homes in the Franco-Belgian Mission. Helen H. Paramore, Supervisor Brussels, Belgium | would like to thank you for the article "Surface Cleaning'' by Dorothy C. Little (August 1966). Many mornings | had felt that cleaning and clearing up things around the house was just too much for me to cope with. But I've tried the methods suggested in the article, and they work. Hope Moon Sugar City, Idaho | have very much enjoyed the continued story '"'Wheat for the Wise'' (concluded in July) by Margery S. Stewart. | think | shall feel the same way about the story ''Tell Me of Love' by Rosa Lee Lloyd. (beginning July 1966). Nothing in the Magazine goes unsavored. Lillie Hendricks Big Springs, Texas | have read the editorial '"'A Pattern for the Daughters of Zion'' by Vesta P. Crawford (July 1966) many times, and | have tried to visualize the time and the effort, which are put into the words that go straight to the hearts of the sisters. What lovely words of wisdom you have put forth for the daughters of Zion. Lorene P. Revill Spencer, Indiana The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 January 1967 Number 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 1 A New Year Wish General Presidency 4 The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom MHarold B. Lee 14 Relief Society Memorial Bell Tower Belle S. Spafford 19 Award Winners—Relief Society Poem Contest 20 The Navajo Rug—First Prize Poem Barbara J. Warren 22 To the Grand Teton—Second Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 24 Naomi to Ruth—Third Prize Poem Mabel Harmer 26 Award Winners—Relief Society Short Story Contest 27 Who Loves Here?—First Prize Story Myrna Clawson 37 ©=Fight Birth Defects—Join the March of Dimes George P. Voss Fiction 38 Christmas Begins With a Tree Marilyn McMeen Miller 47 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 7 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 2 From Near and Far 33 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 34 Editorial: The Joy of Volunteer Service Marianne C. Sharp 36 Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of 1966 Magazines Memorial Honor Funds Discontinued 53 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 80 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 43 Unwelcome Caller Nancy M. Armstrong 45 Sandwich Surprises Joyce B. Bailey 46 Agnes Kunz Dansie, Versatile Artist of Handicraft Lesson Department 58 Spiritual Living—The Millennium Roy W. Doxey 64 Visiting Teacher Message—"As Oft As Thine Enemy Repenteth of the Trespass..." Alice Colton Smith 65 Homemaking—Keeping Records Celestia J. Taylor 67 Social Relations—"When Ye Do What I Say" Alberta H. Christensen 73 Cultural Refinement—"Virtue Nourishes the Soul" Dr. Bruce B. Clark Poetry Waiting is Winter, Kathryn Kay 36; Beyond these Tears, Mabel Jones Gabbott 37; Love's Magic, Leone W. Doxey 44; Nocturne, Gilean Douglas 72. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Oe manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] w I would not have you think that my coming in late and not being able to hear my esteemed and beloved friend and brother, Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve, indicated any lack of respect. I would have wished to have been here. I know his great power of uplift; and I would have felt happy had I been here to have received it; and, also, it would relieve me of an anxiety that I might be repeating what he may have said to you already in this session. Before, or shortly after I became a member of the Council of the Twelve, I was called to the office of the President of the Church, and he said, ""We have Brother Callis and Brother Cannon who are the Advisers to the Primary, and we have been thinking we need someone near the age of the Primary children as an Adviser." You can imagine my anxiety when I was told about about two years ago that I was being relieved of that responsibility and was now being made an Adviser to the Relief Society. I don't know whether that has any significance or not, but at least it gave me a rather queer feeling. Before I accepted this responsibility, I gave Sister Spafford a rather negative or evasive answer. I had some other commitments that I thought might prevent my being here at this time, but after a little deliberation and a little shifting, she was called and was told that I would be able to accept the assignment. She replied, ''Well, that's fine because his name is already on the program." Now that's how we get assignments from Sister Spaf- The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom ford. I thought you would be interested to know. I want to say to you that those of us who work closely with Sister Spafford and these counselors in welfare work, for more than thirty years as a matter of fact; Beehive Clothing Mills with the intricacies and the problems which you all know are tremendous as you meet the problems out in your wards and stakes; with the Correlation Committee; and the Advisory Board, which includes the heads of all auxiliaries and the Priesthood; and now as Adviser to Relief Society; and besides having the opportunity to have traversed some of the territory where President Spafford has gone and meeting women of renown from all countries, I want to say to you with all sincerity and with no attempt to "gild the lily," that I think we have had few women among us who have attained the worldwide stature and is so recognized as a power for good among the women of the earth as we have today in Sister Belle S. Spafford. If you knew what I know you'd know that I wasn't overshooting the mark by that statement. I have been asked to speak on a particular subject, broad enough, I'm sure, that a series of talks would not be sufficient to exhaust the _possibilities— "The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom." So I shall narrow what I say about this subject under four different headings, and then make a few conclusions so that, if you care to, you can bring it all together and add to it as many others as you wish. The Lord declares what his work and glory is. To Moses, he said, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). Since that profound declaration of Mother Eve in the Garden of Eden after the Fall, the exalted place of women in the plan of salvation was clearly defined. These words that I will quote to you now are said by students of the scriptures to be the greatest short sermon ever delivered, delivered by a woman. Now note what she says:. Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient (Moses 5:11). Lehi explains and amplifies what Mother Eve said, when, apparently, his son Jacob asked for an explanation of the Fall and why evil was permitted in the world. Lehi made this explanation: And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end. And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin. But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things. Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy (2 Nephi 2:22-25). January 1967 If immortality, then, is the first step in the achievement of the Lord's work and his glory, it is readily to be understood that the process by which immortality is achieved is through the bearing of mortal offspring by mortal mothers in holy wedlock and sired by mortal fathers. Woman's role in God's eternal plan of salvation has here, then, been reaffirmed. Will you think of this, in this day of mass hysteria over birth control by artificial means? It might be well for Relief Society mothers to consider the role of woman in the great plan of salvation as the Lord has explained it. The woman's role involves a partnership, hopefully with a noble son of God. It was the apostle Paul who declared this interdependence between men and women to be achieved only in holy wedlock. Here are a few of his quotations: 'Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God" (I Cor. 11: 11-12). "... But the woman is the glory of the man" (I Cor. 11: 7). "Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it.... So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself" (Eph. 5:25, 28). "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh" (Matt. 19:5). The sacred nature of this partnership is nowhere better explained than by our own Pres- 6 ident David O. McKay, and is now quoted in our 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, if you want to check this when you get home, page 63. This is what we're teaching your husbands in their weekly Priesthood meetings. I read this to my wife and she commented, "But why don't you teach this to the Priesthood rather than to the sisters?" Well, we want the sisters to know what their husbands are being taught, and if their husbands are not going to Priesthood meeting, they will see that they get there to hear these lessons taught in Priesthood meeting. Now this is what the President said, and you can understand what my wife meant: "Love is the highest attribute of the human soul, and fidelity is love's noblest offspring." Most, if not all, of the virtues are the natural fruit of genuine love. President McKay has given inspired counsel regarding the physical dimension of the love relationship between a man and his wife. He said: "Let us instruct young people who come to us to know that a woman should be queen of her own body.... "Second, let them remember that gentleness and consideration after the ceremony are just as appropriate and necessary and beautiful as gentleness and consideration before the wedding. "_.. Chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood, and self-control is the source of true manhood, if you will know it, not indulgence.... "Let us teach our young men to enter into matrimony with the idea that each will be just as courteous and considerate of a wife after the ceremony as during courtship" (Melchidezek Priesthood Manual 1966, page 63). Now you have companion lessons to these in the Relief So- The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom ciety, don't you see? And you, having been schooled in the Relief Society, your husbands receiving this kind of a lesson in the Priesthood, the meeting of the two lessons~brings an ideal Home Evening lesson, where father and mother, with their growing-up sons and daughters, are taught these fundamental principles. The curse of infidelity is plainly set forth also by President McKay in this same Priesthood manual that I'm talking about. He says: As teachers, we are to let the people know, and warn these men - and this is not imagination - who, after having lived with their wives and brought into this world four or five children, get tired of them and seek a divorce, that they are on the road to hell (Ibid., pp. 63, 64). That comforts me a little, because I quoted something to a certain lovely sister who was having trouble with her husband, that no woman was expected to follow her husband to hell, and I am reinforced when President McKay made this statement: It is unfair to a woman to leave her that way, merely because the man happens to fall in love with some younger woman and feels that the wife is not so beautiful or attractive as she used to be. Warn him! Nothing but unhappiness for him and injustice to those children can result (Ibid., page 64). I saw what I think was the pinnacle of understanding in this respect when the president of the American Medical Association was here to give an address before our Utah Association. They, the auxiliary to the Utah Association, had arranged for some entertainment for his wife, but she became ill and could not accompany him, and the sisters, of course, were very disappointed, and one of them asked him, "Is your wife just as beautiful as she always was to you?" And he answered, "Yes, just as beautiful, but it does take her a little more time." Sometimes as we go throughout the Church we hear a husband and wife who come to us and ask that because they are not compatible in their marriage, they having had a temple marriage, wouldn't it be better if they were to free themselves from each other and then seek more congenial partners? And to all such we say, whenever we find a couple who have been married in the temple who say they are tiring of each other, it is an evidence that either one or both are not true to their temple covenants. Any couple married in the temple who are true to their covenants will grow dearer to each other, and love will find a deeper meaning on their golden wedding anniversary than on the day they were married in the house of the Lord. Now don't you mistake that. The duties and purposes of the Relief Society in this regard have found expression from one of the Presidents of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith, in which he emphasizes another phase of the woman's role as a member of the Relief Society. Now I have spoken of the one phase as a creator in company with her husband. Now note what President Joseph F. Smith says: I will speak of the Relief Society as one great organization in the Church, organized by the Prophet 7 January 1967 Joseph Smith, whose duty it is to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition. I expect to see the day when this organization will be one of the most perfect, most efficient and effective organizations for good in the Church but that day will be when we shall have women who are not only imbued with the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and with the testimony of Christ in their hearts, but also with youth, vigor and intelligence to enable them to discharge the great duties and responsibilities that rest upon them. Today it is too much the case that our young, vigorous, intelligent women feel that only the aged should be connected with the Relief Society. This is a mistake. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women in their duties - domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, pp. 386, 387). I was startled upon one occasion to have announced by a certain women's organization that one of our past Relief Society presidents had graduated from the Relief Society into this other women's organization. Let there be no uncertainty in the minds of our Latter-day Saint women as to the Relief Society being the greatest of all women's organizations. There is no other greater organization on the face of the earth for the Latter-day Saint. Wife or mother. Sister Spafford has so kindly spoken of my daughter Helen. (This isn't on the script, darling.) When she was a teenager, the patriarch gave her a blessing. 8 Her older sister had received a blessing in which she was told that she would be a missionary, a great missionary, and _ this sweet daughter was told that she would be a shining light in the great Relief Society program of the Church. Carefree, careless, both of them; they may have placed their own individual interpretations, but now the wheels of time have moved on. This other, yes, who knows, she is now an angel, maybe, in the realms on high, is one of the great missionaries. In the temple today, one of the Brethren bore witness to having sat in meditation and having recalled an experience in the Logan Temple when a sister in deep sorrow had come to him because of the loss of her companion, then a few days later she came back and was all in ecstasy, never happier in her life than now, and he said, "'What's happened to change you?" "The last few days," she said, "T went to the assembly room in the Logan Temple. There were some other couples in that room, and as I sat there, I heard the most heavenly music. Then, after it was ended I said to the people there with me, "Did you hear that music?" They all said, "Yes, we heard it." In my mind, as he spoke, I thought of my own sweet missionary daughter. In my mind's eye she could have been accompanying that kind of heavenly choir because she majored in music to be the great missionary that God apparently intended her to be. Woman's place in training her family is the third phase of this The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom work that I want to mention. ['ll quote a few significant scriptures and then draw some obvious conclusions. The Lord said: But, behold I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me; For it is given unto them even as I will, according to mine own pleasure, that great things may be required at the hands of their fathers (D&C 29:46-48). Now what is the age of accountability and what are those great things that God requires of the fathers of children, which, by inference, means mothers as well, during this period before little children begin to become accountable before the Lord? Now the age of accountability, the Lord, in another verse of revelation, says is eight years of age. No one can be received into the Church unless he has arrived: at the age of accountability. Parents are admonished to have their children baptized when they are eight years of age and teach them the fundamental principles of the gospel, and their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins and receive the laying on of hands. Children should be taught to pray and walk uprightly before the Lord, and so on. Now the conclusions and logical deductions. Great things are required of fathers and mothers before Satan has power to tempt little children. What are the great things? Have you ever thought of that? Before Satan has a chance to lay hold on a little child, it is the responsibility of the parents to lay a solid foundation by teaching Latter-day Saint standards by example and by precept. In other words, to you and to the sisters over whom you preside, it means the making of a career of motherhood. Let nothing supersede that career. Do teach mothers to take full advantage of the Family Home Evening lessons each week. I was down to Cedar City just after Family Home Evenings were provided with a full course of lessons for each week. Why that startled the Church to think that now we had prepared a lesson that the parents, each week, could teach. Six hundred fifty thousand manuals were sent and put into the home of every parent, so no one could say, "We didn't have a manual," or "We couldn't afford one." They were put in the hands of every parent. And I was anxious to see how we were getting off at this stake conference. I asked if they would call in some in whose homes the family home night lessons were being taught, and they called a young Singing Mother from out of the chorus upon the stand. This mother said they had just begun their lessons when she and her husband were asked if they would be dance instructors until after the dance festival. Now you have heard of things like this happening. As they began to try to find a night when they could get all these participants in the festival, every night was preempted except one, and you can guess what night that was. It was the night of the Family Home Evening, that had supposedly been held sacred for 9 January 1967 Family Home Evening. Well, they said to the children, "We guess that until the festival is over, we'll have to give up the Family Home Evening." So, with regrets, they went to the task of this dance festival, and a few nights thereafter they came home late, weary from their exertions. They were awakened around daylight the next morning by the sound of their children's voices in the front room downstairs. When they went down the children were all dressed, and there was a blazing fire in the fireplace. The fifteen-year-old daughter, the night before, had engineered the children in preparing the preliminaries for an early morning breakfast which consisted, as I remember, of peeled potatoes which, when allowed to stand overnight had taken on a darkish hue—black potatoes. When the parents asked what this was all about, they said, "Well, Mother and. Dad, when you said you couldn't find a night for us to have Family Home Evening, we counseled together and decided, then, that hereafter we were going to have Family Home Evening at five o'clock in the morning. We are all here now. Breakfast is ready. It will take only a few minutes; now give us the Family Home Evening lesson." And as this sweet mother stood there and the tears streamed down her cheeks, she said, "As I sat down to that breakfast of blackened potatoes, they were the best tasting potatoes that I have ever had in my whole life, and I resolved that never again was I going to let anything take precedence over my responsibil- 10 ity in teaching my family on a Family Home Evening." Now, you teach the women and mothers to do likewise. Mother's first sacrifice is to become a mother. I was going to do something today, Helen, but I don't know whether I dare or not— just a quote from our oldest daughter when she had her first baby. She was in a hospital in California, and I was going to read a bit from Helen's sixteenyear-old letter to her mother in an attempt to demonstrate in our own family how the great influence of mother had been passed on to two lovely daughters who, in turn, now are passing it on to ten grandchildren. Presumably those ten children, if the record is kept up, will go on and on throughout the generations as these, my family, become part of my eternal kingdom in the world yet to come. I don't think I'll try to say what I thought I would read to you. My feelings are a little bit tender today. Pain and suffering coming in or going out of the world seem to be a part of the plan, and mothers were promised that in pain and travail they would bring forth children. You remember Mother Eve's promise. She and her daughters would be saved in child bearing. Saved! I thought. That meant protected so they would go through delivery of their babies, unscathed. I'm not so sure that that's what it means now, but I know that if mothers will do their part, even though it costs their lives, that their eternal reward in our Father's celestial world will be certain. I was up at Blackfoot, Idaho, The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom I guess I shouldn't have said that, but I'll have to go through with it now. I had made a blunder when I found that there had been assignments to husbands and wives that took them both out of their home at the same time, and left their children. Unattended. I scolded a bit over the pulpit, and one of the counselors scolded me between sessions by saying, "Well, we'll have a whole stake resignation after that talk." I thought I'd better repent. So, in the afternoon session, I was sitting by the Relief Society president of the stake, a lovely mother, now in her late sixties. She had raised a family of nine, and all of them while she was presiding in one capacity or another. She had been in Primary, in the MIA, and now president of the stake Relief Society. And without knowing what she would say, I said to her, "Sister, I wish you would get up and tell these folks how you've been able to raise a remarkable family, all of them now married in the temple, and still be able to carry on in your Church work as-you are." I couldn't have written the script for Sister Christensen's talk any better than she gave it. She said, "Well, first, I followed the example in raising my family of my own wonderful mother. I merely followed the example she gave us, so I tried to raise mine as she had raised us. Second, I have a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should have a Church activity just as he had. So when we were called to a position, we would sit down with the bishop or stake president, and we would try to work it out and see if, while daddy's responsibilities were taking him out of the home, I could be there with the children, and when my responsibilities took me out of the home, daddy could be there with the children." She said, "That's the way we have worked together so that our children were never left without father or mother." Finally, she said, "Third, I have an unshakeable testimony of the divine mission of the Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ." I say to you, there are the three hallmarks of great motherhood in the training of children in a family home. And now, finally, a fourth role of mothers is the building of a home here and laying a foundation for a home in eternity. What is a home? There are some rather apt quotes which indicate what I want you to get. "Home is a roof over a good woman." But if the roof is lacking or the woman is lacking, it isn't any home. It takes both. "Home is the seminary of all other institutions." "The most essential element in any home is God." "A man is always nearest to his God when he's at home and farthest from God when he is away." (This could be true to a degree, that in the home, there is the good in-. Fluence of a true wife and mother.) "Home is the place when you go there they have to take you in." That's the boy or girl who stays out late until you've worried yourself sick and comes trooping in at one, two, or three o'clock in the morning, but, after all, that's his home, that's her home. Yes, home is the place that when you go there, they have to take you in. 11 January 1967 Now just a word about another subject. President Joseph F. Smith said something else that I've carried in my mind these years, something about the importance of owning your own home. Now we're drifting away from that today. And I want you to get the importance of what he said here. It was early the rule among the Latter-day Saints to have the lands so divided that every family could have a spot of ground which could be called theirs; and it has been the proud boast of this people that among them were more home owners than among any other people of like numbers. This condition had a good tendency, and whatever men said of us, the home among this people was a first consideration. It is this love of home that has made the saints famous as colonizers, builders of settlements, and redeemers of the deserts. But in the cities there appears now to be coming into vogue the idea that renting is the thing. Of course, it may be necessary as a temporary makeshift, but no young couple should ever settle down with the idea that such a condition, as far as they are concerned, shall be permanent. Every young man should have an ambition to possess his own home. It is better for him, for his family, for security, for the state, and for the Church. Nothing so engenders _ stability, strength, power, patriotism, fidelity to country and to God as the owning of a home - a spot of earth that you and your children can call yours. And besides, there are so many tender virtues that grow with ownership that the government of a_ family is made doubly easy thereby (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, page 305). Now a home, I would impress, not only a home here, but building a home for the eternity. This is a phase of it, and I shall close with this, with one or two obvious conclusions. The Lord said: 12 And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise.... They shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever (D&C 132:19). Now, the Prophet Joseph Smith, commenting on this scripture, explained: Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pages 300-301). Our First Presidency in our latter days has said: So far as the stages of eternal progression and attainment have been made through divine revelation, we are to understand that only the resurrected and glorified beings can become the parents of spirit offspring. Only such exalted souls have reached maturity in the appointed course of eternal life; and the spirits born to them in the eternal worlds will pass in due sequence through the several stages or estates by which the glorified parents have obtained exaltation (The First Presidency, June 30, 1916, "The Father and the Son," page 8). Now the conclusions. Woman has within her the power of creation in company with her legal and lawful husband here, and if The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom sealed in celestial wedlock, may have eternal increase in the world to come. Woman is the homemaker in her own home, and an exemplar to her posterity in the generations that succeed her. Woman is a helpmate to her husband and to render him more perfect than he otherwise would be. Woman's influence can bless a community or a nation to that extent to which she develops her spiritual powers in harmony with the heaven-sent gifts which she has been by nature endowed. If she does not forfeit her priceless heritage by her own willful negligence, she can be largely instrumental in safeguarding democracy and downing a would-be tyrant. Year in and year out, she may cast the aura of her calming and refining influence to make certain that her posterity will enjoy the opportunities to develop to their fullest potential their spiritual and physical natures. Now this is a rather sensitive thing that I shall close with. We had one in high station in government circles who has made a suggestion which was highly applauded, according to a great educator whose words I'm going to quote. It made the suggestion that all young persons in this country, boys and girls, perhaps, should be required, whether in peace or war, to give a year or two of their lives in some kind of national service. Then this wise educator said this. Now don't you quote me as saying this, but you say that I said, he said that: There are a lot of folks who think that it is just as vital for a young Los Angeles woman to get married and rear a family with respect to law and rights of men as it is for another young woman to work in a poverty program of some sort. The young engineers who develop techniques in our industry are as important to the strength of this country as the special] assistants who inhabit the big Federal agencies. There are weeks in this city, in fact, when after a plethora of conferences and meetings, such as the recent one on the status of women, the residents would gladly barter half a dozen status officials for one mother who wants more than anything to bring love and beauty into the lives of her children, or they would trade a whole conference in Washington for one grandfather who would round up the _ neighborhood children and take them on a hike. (Dr. Max RAFFERTY, California State Superintendent of Public | Instruction.) Now that's, unquote, all of that I quote for you to think about. So I close with a prayer, God render our wives, our sweethearts, our mothers even more perfect in order to hold the bearers of the Priesthood, under their influence, to a truer course of happiness here and eternal joy in the world to come, for which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 13 Relief Society Centennial Memorial Bell Tower President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Services Commemorating Bell Tower Completion, September 29, 1966] w A quarter of a century ago, the General Board of Relief Society and the sisters in the stakes and missions of the Church under the leadership of President Amy Brown Lyman, busily engaged themselves in preparing appropriate observances for the 100th anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The Church-wide celebration was planned to be held in connection with the Relief Society General Conference, April 1942. (At that time, Relief Society held semi-annual conferences.) A number of impressive and significant programs were planned, designed to make the Centennial an epical period in the history of Relief Society. As plans moved forward, however, Sister Lyman and _ her board began to feel a need for a permanent memorial—something that would endure long after the 100th birthday was passed. From 14 Howard Barker an article in The Relief Society Magazine (November 1941, page 769) by Mary Grant Judd, Chairman of the Centennial observance, I quote:... Unless we do something about it, the time will come when this wonderful occasion will be a thing of the past and will live only in our memories. And so it has come to the General Board with ever-increasing clearness that some permanent memorial should be left—something of lasting value. The Centennial Observance Committee, consisting of Mary G. Judd, Edith S. Elliott, Rae B. Barker, and Anna B. Hart, was assigned to make recommendations and work out details for the permanent memorial project. Again I quote from Sister Judd: Casting about for a suitable project, the idea came to mind of hanging the historic Nauvoo Temple bell in a permanent and beautiful setting.... . = ork " * ~ Courtesy, Salt Lake Tribune Services at the Completion of The Relief Society Memorial Campanile, September 29, 1966 Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, offering prayer at the podium; President Hugh B. Brown, of the First Presidency, seated, fifth from the right behind the podium; Elder S. Dilworth Young, of the First Council of Seventy, seated in front of the podium third from the right. General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford seated seventh from the left behind the podium. We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women more efficently to do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung. There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West came Eliza R. Snow,... And safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our founding meeting. Sister Lyman was enthusiastic over the erection of a permanent Centennial memorial, not alone in recognition of a highly significant event in the history of the Church—the founding of Relief Society—but in recognition of the lofty position accorded women in the restored gospel. She responded warmly to the idea of a Campanile for the Nauvoo Temple bell, for she knew the ties that bound Relief Society to this historic vessel. The First Presidency — President Heber J. Grant, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Pres- | ident David O. McKay — gave the General Board "not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement" to go forward with the erection of the bell tower on Temple Square. Accord- 15 January 1967 Photos by Howard Barker ing to General Board records, it was later learned through the Presiding Bishopric, that the idea of hanging the Nauvoo bell in a permanent setting had been under consideration for some time, but no definite decision had been made. The sisters felt that perhaps the decision "had been slowed up in order that Relief Society might have the privilege." The structure was to be built by small contributions from Relief Society members. The service of an able architect, Brother Lorenzo Snow Young, a grandson of Brigham Young and a grandnephew of Eliza R. Snow, was enlisted to design the tower. The base was to be of granite, the top of grilled bronze to harmonize with the bronze bell. There were to be four plaques in bas-relief—one on each of the four sides near the: base. The plaques were to be designed by an eminent Utah sculptor, Dr. Avard Fairbanks, with three of the series, in turn, titled: 'Pioneering,"' "Education," and "Benevolence."' The fourth was to be an inscription plaque, a tribute to the sisters and their work, entitled: "The Relief Society Centennial Memorial." Work on the project moved forward. The granite was delivered; the bronze grillwork top was made ready; the plaques were cast, when, suddenly, the tragedy of war came upon us. Many of the regular activities of Relief Society had to be curtailed, some temporarily discontinued. Centennial plans had to be greatly modified and work on the Campanile was stopped, including the financial contribution program. Materials were stored Relief Society Centennial Memorial Bell Tower in facilities arranged by the Presiding Bishopric, to await a favorable day for the completion of the historical memorial. It was not until 1945 that activities were restored to normal. In April 1945, a new Relief Society Presidency was named — President Belle S. Spafford, with Marianne C. Sharp and Gertrude R. Garff as Counselors, succeeding President Amy B. Lyman, Marcia K. Howells, and Belle S. Spafford. Shortly thereafter, death claimed President Heber J. Grant, and a new Presidency of the Church was sustained—President George Albert Smith, with President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay as Counselors. President Smith endorsed the erection of the Campanile on Temple Square, making clear to the new Relief Society Presidency their responsibilities to complete the project which had meant so much to Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of Relief Society. Because of the urgent need of Relief Society for a headquarters building, however, which involved a big collection program, President Smith and his Counselors deemed it advisable to hold in abeyance the completion of the memorial until the Relief Society Building was erected and dedicated. Prior to the completion of the Building, President Smith was called home, and President McKay was sustained as President of the Church, with Elder Stephen L Richards and Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., as Counselors. Through the years, President McKay, familiar with the history of the memorial, has not lost ERUCATION aes 17 January 1967 sight of this uncompleted project. From time to time the question of its completion has been considered with the Relief Society Presidency. At no time has there appeared to be any thought of abandoning the project. It was a happy occasion when, on August 19, 1966, the Relief Society Presidency received word that authorization had been given by President McKay to go forward immediately with the erection of the structure. It was to be located on Temple Square at a site agreeable to the Relief Society Presidency and the Temple Square Committee. The site determined upon by those two groups was midway between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall, toward the west wall of the Square. In response to the express desire of the General Presidency, authorization was granted to meet the costs of completing the structure from General Board funds. Brother Howard Barker, a former member of the Church Building Committee, assigned to the Campanile project, and a man who has shown dedicated interest in the memorial through the years, has devoted endless hours to locating and assembling the stored parts, a number of which had been moved from their original storage place. Fortunately, every part was located. Elder Mark B. Garff and his associates on the Building Committee promptly took hold of the erection of the structure, putting forth special effort to have it ready for viewing during this conference. We are, therefore, pleased to announce the completion of the Relief Society Cen- 18 tennial Memorial — a project initiated a quarter of a century ago. We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the support and cooperation of Elder Mark E. Petersen, Chairman of the Temple Square Committee, and his associates on the committee. These brethren have been understanding and considerate. We appreciate the efforts of Brother Mark B. Garff and his associates, and Brother Howard Barker for his valuable service. To our present First Presidency, President David O. McKay, Presidents Hugh B. Brown, Nathan Eldon Tanner, Joseph Fielding Smith, and Thorpe B. Isaacson, we express most humble and grateful thanks for their interest and concern in bringing to fulfillment the dream of Sister Lyman, her Board, and the sisters of the Centennial day that there should be on Temple Square a permanent memorial which you, today, may have the choice privilege of viewing at the close of this meeting—a memorial erected to the honored position of women in the gospel plan; a Centennial Memorial honoring the founding of Relief Society; a memorial approved by three great Presidents of the Church, President Grant, President Smith, and President McKay. And here shall hang the bell known as the Nauvoo Temple Bell — a treasured bell to be preserved in a new and beautiful setting for all to enjoy. And as people pause to view it in its new setting, may their vision be opened to the importance of the place and work of the women of the Church. w The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1966 Relief Society Poem Contest (formerly the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest). The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miss Barbara J. Warren, Lukachukai, Arizona, for her poem "The Navajo Rug."' The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "To the Grand Teton."' The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem ''Naomi to Ruth." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. > award winners Miss Warren is a first-time winner in the poem contest, and is represented for the first time in the Relief Society Magazine with her poem '"'The Navajo Rug."' Mrs. Bailey is a winner in the contest for the sixth time. Mrs. Harmer, although well known to Magazine readers for her short stories, serials, and articles, is a first-time winner in the poem contest. Three hundred and twenty-one poems were entered in the 1966 contest, representing the following countries, listed in the order of the number of entries: The United States, England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, the Netherlands, and Israel. Thirty-six States and Washington, D. C., were included in the entries from the United States, with California leading (eighty-three entries), and Utah, Arizona, Idaho, Washington, Virginia, Texas, Oregon, Colorado, New York, and Mchigan, following in number of entries. The General Board is pleased with this response to the contest, and the wide geographical distribution of the contestants. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board thanks the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are also very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. FIRST PRIZE POEM cae SEEN ne i THE NAVAJO RUG Barbara J. Warren Like pieces of fallen cloud, the sheep are scattered on the hillside. In the summer's hot wind and the winter's cold, the woman herds them. To the hills in the day, to the corral at night,, To fresh grass and water she herds them. The rug begins in Strength. A storm drapes itself around the mountain. The sheep are restless. They scatter. The woman tries to gather them. She cannot. She kneels in the dust of the land to pray. The sheep come together. To the rug is added Faith. The sheep are sheared. The wool stands in fat bags against the hogan wall. Now the carding begins. Short, quick strokes. Fibers straight. Dirt combed out. Now the spinning begins. Turning, turning, turning, turning of the spindle While knowing fingers pull the wool into a strong, straight thread. Now the washing begins; now the dyeing begins. Into the rug goes Patience. The rug grows slowly on the loom. Its design, unwritten, has gathered itself in the mind of one Who has long looked out upon the land And seen its ever-changing colors and patterns. The rug is woven in Beauty. The way to the trading post is long, And when the woman gets there, what will she buy? Lengths of sateen and velvet that shine like shimmering jewels on the shelf? New dishes, a cooking pot — hers is so old. No. This and this and — yes — this for her children. And this and this for her man. For herself, not a thing. The rug is finished in Love. The woman is gone. You come to buy. The price is too much? No, my friend. Not for this rug. Not for what is in it. All that the woman is, is in this rug. All she thinks, all she believes, all her skills, all she dreams of and hopes for Have been woven into one in this rug. And for all this, the price is never too much. Because you see, my friend, The rug is the Woman. 20 Barbara Warren First Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Barbara Warren, a young newcomer to the pages of the Relief Society Magazine, writes from her present home in Lukachukai, Arizona, sketching highlights of her life and work: "Il was born in Missoula, Montana, and lived there until graduation from Brigham Young University, when | began teaching in a Government boarding schoo! On the Navajo Reservation. After three years, | resigned to fulfill a Southwest Indian mission. On completion of the mission, | taught a year in Springville, Utah, where my parents now live, and returned this year to Lukachukai to teach a class of non-English speaking Indian children. | am Chinle District Primary president and hold several positions in the small Lukachukai Branch. "With the exception of a story published in my high school literary magazine, this is the first of my work that has been published. | write when | fee! Deeply about a subject. During my time spent among the Lamanite people, | had many opportunities to observe the making of the Navajo rugs. The fine qualities of the women who used all their skills and talents to provide for their families gave me the inspiration and desire to write this poem." 21 SECOND PRIZE POEM 22 TO THE GRAND TETON Alice Morrey Bailey 1 | have seen your head in purple storm, Serene, unpierced by lightning's rapier twist, Impervious to thunderbolt, your form Ethereal or bold in moving mist. At day, a monarch, ruling—jewel-crowned And virgin-peaked, lake-mirrored gray and blue— A kingdom of contented sight and sound— The legioned pines, the moose-cow in the slue. No fear is on this land, yet at your feet, Thin-covered by the earth's uncertain crust, Unfathomed forces lie and spout their heat In geysered vent and deep, infernal thrust. And now, moon-bathed, your splendor glows with light In opal-fired and iridescent night. On such a silver night as this a quake Exploded Hebgen's summer-shadowed floor And slid a mountain's tonnage, tipped a lake And stopped a river—stilled forevermore The laughter in the trees, the soft guitar, The scurryings where dust alone was breath, And here in testament a livid scar And fissured earth remain—and death. The cruel scarp along the mountain's length, The drowning trees, the shore, betray the fault Which undermined the valley's rock-ribbed strength— When all seemed peace—in ruinous assault. And where are they who trusted in its calm, Nor read the printed warning in its palm? If, suddenly, the force which gave you birth Erupts its epicenter at your base, Withstand the throes of inner-tortured earth, Meet threat with strength along your granite face, Travail with triumph. Ride the heaving crest. Let avalanche but serve to shore your beams, Survive as elk survive the antlered test. Let molten rock be solder for your seams. For you are symboled part of balanced law— No stature unassailed is proven might— Point and counterpoint; perfection, flaw. Lf still you stand as now in noble height When winds have swept the dark, volcanic cloud, | shall be full of joy. | shall be proud! Alice Morrey Bailey Second Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Alice Morrey Bailey, a versatile and gifted writer and sculptor, has been a repeated winner in the Relief Society literary contests. She won first prize in the short story contest the year of its initiation, 1942, and has won three times in subsequent years. This year's award in poetry places Mrs. Bailey as a winner for the sixth time. Other poems, many of them frontispieces, as well as stories, articles, and three serials have appeared in the Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Sonneteers (a poetry workshop), the Utah State Poetry Society, Inc., of which she is presently corresponding secretary, the League of Utah Writers, and the Associated Utah Artists. She was a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts for fourteen years, appointed by three successive governors to represent sculpture, and was prominent in formulating the Original Writing Contests now sponsored by the group. She is listed in Who's Who of the West. Her talents and abilities, in addition to her writing, include sculpture, music, secretarial work, and drafting. She presently conducts the Research Report Service at the University of Utah, where she has worked in various capacities for seventeen years. Mrs. Bailey has always been active in Church work, and is presently a member of the Wells Stake Sunday School Board. She is also a class leader in a second session Relief Society, and a member of the Ward Finance Committee (Whittier Ward). She is the wife of R. DeWitt Bailey, and they have three children, fourteen grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. A 23 THIRD PRIZE POEM 24 NAOMI TO RUTH Mabel Harmer Nay Ruth Turn once again your thoughts to Moab's plains Where purple grapes lie warm beneath the sun, Where fragile willows bend to tranquil streams And gentle winds blow coo! When day is done. Sweet Orpah's kiss still lingers on my cheek, Her love has eased a deep and poignant pain. And mine will follow her with rich content As shadows lift and tear-dimmed memories wane. You will not leave? Then Jet us bend our steps toward Bethlehem Where clouds caress the curve of distant hills, Where barley fields lie golden in the sun And in the opal dawn a wild bird trills. And if the way to Judah seems o'erlong | shall not weary, knowing all the while That tired feet and hearts grow strong again When lifted on the quick wings of a smile. Rejoice, my soul! How blessed is she whose child by ties of blood Forsaking others, chooses to abide. How more then I, when bonds of love alone Hold a once alien daughter to my side! Mabel Harmer Third Prize Winner The Relief Society Poem Contest Mabel Harmer, who placed second in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1942, and was an award winner in the story contest also in 1952 and 1955, is well known to readers of the Magazine. Her articles and short stories have appeared in the Magazine since 1933, and her serials have included ''The Lotus Eater,'' ''Love Is Enough," and ''Turn of the Wheel.'' With her poem "'Naomi to Ruth,"' Sister Harmer is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. ''l have tried my hand at almost every type of writing,"' she tells us, "'stories, plays, books, but very little poetry, so | am especially delighted to be a winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. | have had eleven books published, one a Junior Literary Guild selection. | am affiliated with several writers groups, and currently am serving as Utah State President of the National League of American Pen Women. | also teach a class in creative writing at the Brigham Young University Center for Continuing Education in Salt Lake City, Utah. My husband is Earl W. Harmer, and our five children are Mrs. Oren (Marian) Nelson, Dr. Earl W. Harmer, Jr., Mrs. Charles R. (Patricia) Spencer, John, and Alan. There are also thirteen grandchildren." 25 g@ The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1966. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Myrna Clawson, Modesto, California, for her story ''Who Loves Here?'' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Marie M. Hayes, Seattle, Washington, for her story "A Gift to the Giver.'' The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Hazel M. Thomson, Bountiful, Utah, for her story, '"'To Warm the Heart." The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1967. Sixty-seven stories were entered in the 1966 contest, including submissions from England, Wales. And Canada. Mrs. Clawson is a first-time winner in the award winners | contest, and her winning story will mark her first appearance as an author in The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Hayes is also a first-time winner and a firsttime author for the Magazine. Mrs. Thomson is already well known to readers of the Magazine through her two serials ''Your Heart to Understanding," and "Because of the Word,'' as well as many other writings published in the Magazine. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Gratitude is extended to the members of the General Board who served on the short story committee, and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries. 26 Myrna Clawson First Prize Winner The Relief Society Short Story Contest Who Loves Here? Myrna Clawson w So that everything would go perfectly, Andrea had spent her entire day preparing for this evening. A chicken and _ rice casserole was waiting in the oven, tossed green salad and banana cream pie were ready, too. She had checked to be sure she had the table all set in the dining room. Bert would be home any minute, they would eat and then get ready for the concert — a pop concert to be conducted by Theodor Ravinsky. Andrea and Bert had attended one of his concerts when they were in college ten years before; and for Andrea no other conductor could equal him. Why wasn't Bert home, wondered Andrea? She decided to remove the rollers and comb her hair out while she waited; this would save time later. She 27 ee atten brushed the hair back from her forehead then teased and flicked the auburn tresses into place. Leaving the mirror, she glanced at herself again, pushed a curl back from her cheek and smiled. She felt warm and wonderful; it had been a long time since she had been so happy, so excited! With almost a start, she realized that Bert wasn't home yet. Now their supper would be late and her schedule disordered. She asked the children to wash so that they would be ready to eat as soon as Bert walked in. He enjoyed dinner with the family; it was a time he could enjoy their reports of the day's experiences. Andrea looked out the front window to see if Bert might be coming, she went back to the dining 28 room, she paced into and out of the kitchen. Why was he late? Bert's arrival erased Andrea's anxiety; there was plenty of time to get ready for the concert. She gathered the four older children around the table and seated Kirk in his high chair. Baby Lucille, who had already eaten, jabbered from the playpen. "Where are you _ going, Mommy?" quizzed Vera, who was six. "Why can't we go?" chirped four-year old Patty. Kirk overturned his pie-filled plate on his head, beamed and announced, "Hat, hat!"' The questions were forgotten as the children broke into uproarious laughter. Andrea felt her plans crumbling around her. "Quiet down and finish your dinners!" she ordered. There was a grave, but short silence as she began to rescue Kirk from the pie. By the time she had the pie wiped off Kirk and the floor, Bert had excused himself and the children had almost finished eating. She cleared the emptied plates along with her unfinished pie. Andrea knew that what she accomplished now was only with permission of the unconcerned face staring at her from the wall. The solemn timepiece told her she had better be satisfied with stacking the dishes; she needed to be getting the children into their pajamas. Andrea sent Patty and Vera upstairs to their room to dress for bed while she undressed Kirk. He held up a bare foot and begged, "Piggy market?" Andrea played "Piggy market" with each foot, then Kirk pleaded, ''Gain." "How 'bout Itsy Bitsy Spider?" As the spider crawled up his arm he squealed and pulled his arm away. Taking his turn, he jumped his chubby hand, spider fashion, up his mother's arm. Andrea bounced him into her arms for a squeeze. He wiggled and squirmed, delighted. When it was time for him to put his feet into his pajamas, she was done with the play and demanded, "Hold still, Kirk! How can I dress you with all your squirming?" "Mommy," pleaded Patty from the stairway, "I can't find my pajamas." "Oh, no!"" Andrea half said and half thought. "T'll be right there as soon as I snap Kirk's top." Who Loves Here? She responded loudly enough for Patty to hear. The search snatched at Andrea's precious minutes and seized almost all of her composure in locating his pajamas — the top in the doll clothes drawer and the bottom under the bed. "T'll help you —" Andrea had started before the phone interrupted. Bert was in the shower so Andrea rushed down the stairs to answer it. THE oh-so-friendly voice on the line reminded, 'Don't forget PTA tomorrow afternoon at three!"' "Thank you," answered Andrea, dropping the receiver, "how could I forget it—three calls to remind me?" she mumbled. Noises coming from the kitchen told her that Kirk must be into something. Sure enough, he had helped himself to the Sugar Crisp and now, on the floor, was doing his best to put them back into the box, To Andrea, it was one crisis after another. The children, who had been hurried and felt their mother's excitement, were in high gear. By the time she had tucked Kirk and Lucille into the beds, Kevin and Dallon, seven and eight years old, had model airplanes in process on the living room floor. Andrea put an end to that. "How many times have I told you that there is to be no airplane glue used in this room? Now take all this mess to the nook table — and use a newspaper on the table!" Andrea's_ schedule indicated that it was time to leave for the concert. Thank goodness she had 29 January 1967 had practice in dressing in seconds. It seemed only moments later when Andrea, although flushed, came into her living room with the semblance of a model introducing next season's lines. The little girls eyed her as_ they would have looked upon a queen. Kevin bounded in and came to a halt. "You sure are pretty, Mom." Dallon, following, added, "I like your new dress." Andrea beamed—she felt like royalty. She was pleased with her accomplishments of the previous day, when she had finished making the silver-blue peau de soie dress with the empire waist. With a second admiring glance, one realized it was a maternity dress. Bert placed his arm around Andrea's waist. 'Shall we go, my dear?" She kissed each of the children goodbye and they stepped out the door just as the phone broke the captivating spell Andrea had begun to feel. As Bert talked, Andrea eyed her watch and calculated that there were only twelve and one half minutes remaining; then she comforted sobbing Patty, who had been the subject of Dallon's teasing, gave instructions for repairing a wing, to an airplane builder, and reminded the baby sitter about Lucille's bottle in the refrigerator. "Uncle Harold will only be here tomorrw morning?" Andrea quizzed Bert as he_ slipped through the first intersection on an amber signal. "I'm glad we didn't miss his call.'' Waiting for the second signal, she knew it 30 would be rare luck if they could buck the traffic in time to hear the first number tonight. Hurry, hurry, hurry since at least four in the afternoon. Bert and Andrea were in their seats now, but she still felt hurried. She wondered what the children might be into at home. It was past the announced curtain time — why the delay? Andrea, so keyed to a rushed schedule, was caught by surprise when Bert remarked, 'I'm glad we arrived early enough to enjoy the anticipation and excitement of the concert hall. Aren't you?". "Yes, I am," Andrea answered blankly. "You know that tooth that Kirk hit when he fell Saturday? Do you think it will turn dark?" The house lights began to dim, the curtain rose, Andrea began to forget. The first strains of melody were relaxing, and she was soon translated from her busy world of reponsibility into a world of music. At intermission, Andrea, enthralled with the performance, chatted with Bert. They were young again as they recalled the first Ravinsky concert they had attended. Andrea felt the romance of the earlier evening. Life was perfect. "Do you think the lady sitting beside you is alone?" Bert asked. A group of concert-goers who had been sitting on the other side of the lady had left. Andrea turned to her, '"'Isn't the music grand? It is so — so lovely I can't describe it. Vivacious, that might be the word." "T'm enjoying it," the lady answered. "T guess this music is special to me because I also know the ideals Theodor Ravinsky lives. Marvelous conductor and outstanding person!"" Andrea bubbled, "Isn't it something that such a man would even come to Bedlington? The paper said he came here by special request. He must be the finest conductor in our country." "Oh, do you think so?" replied the lady, who must have been in her eighties. She had noticed Andrea's dress and, after hesitating, she asked, "Is this to be your first child?" Andrea paused as stinging remarks she had heard before raced through her mind — "Are you PG again?" "Don't you know when to quit?" "No, this will be my seventh child,"" Andrea answered. "Really? How fortunate you are! Children are such a blessing and comfort. You see, I had seven youngsters myself." Andrea only heard part of the remark. The thought of children transported her back to the hustle, bustle, and confusion of one and a half hours ago. How could she be fortunate to have Who Loves Here? Another baby on the way, another demanding cry, another toddler under foot when she was busy, more diapers, more wash, more, more, more...? Tears welled, an unbearable lump was in her throat; she stared at the ceiling, trying to '. Prevent the tears from revealing her feelings. As the light dimmed iW' she felt relief and then suddenly ashamed — children were supposed to be a blessing! Trying to convince herself how truly fortunate she was, she felt, for a moment, she could control the tears; but instead her emotions controlled her and a tear burned down her face. Why couldn't she be thankful for one thing— that the musicians were ready and Maestro Ravinsky's baton, held high, would momentarily command and eighty-five musicians would follow its every stroke and hesitation? Music would fill the entire concert hall; its melody, vibrant strains and drama would again captivate Andrea. The baton flashed, the musicians came to life, and Andrea was filled with shock. The clash, the racing, the clamor of "The Carmen Overture" mockingly echoed the frequent turmoil of her own home. It was children running wildly in the house, children yelling, children bickering, children, noise, confusion, children, children, children.... She felt she couldn't stand another instant of being mimicked. Turning to Bert, enraptured with the majesty of the performance, Andrea resolved to conquer her emotions and enjoy the evening. Music softens the heart, music soothes, music lightens the load, 31 January 1967 music mellows. Andrea ignored her own thoughts and listened, watching the violins. She was swept away~- with the _lighthearted waltz from Strauss' "Gypsy Baron." With the final ovation, Bert nudged her elbow, "Let's go!"' Andrea, entranced, lingered to help the lady with her coat, then arose. Entering the aisle Bert looked back and proposed to Andrea, "She is alone?" "Yes,'' Andrea answered. The lady was still seated, so Bert returned to offer her assistance. She seemed grateful for his help and relied on his arm to steady herself. Reaching the lobby, Bert felt concerned for the woman. His eyes, asking what next, turned and met Andrea's sympathetic glance. "T'm meeting my son just over there," the lady offered. A wave of relief passed over Bert as he learned her plans. Accompanying her across the room, Bert suggested, '"We will wait with you until he comes." 'Would you?" She seemed glad that they would wait. Then turning obviously to Bert alone, in a whisper, she added, "I'd like your wife to meet my son." Bert was a bit baffled, and Andrea felt slighted by the hushed remark. Waiting, as they watched the crowd thin, Bert noticed a man coming toward them and turned to Andrea. 'Is that...?" "Thank you for waiting with Mother," the man interrupted. The lady smiled at her son, turned to Andrea, and said, "I would like you to meet my seventh child, Theodor Ravinsky." As Andrea checked each child before going to her bed, she tousled their hair and kissed their foreheads one by one. What wonderful blessings her children were to her. She hesitated in wonder before leaving the second room. Who are these children? Whom am I loving—teaching? A musician? A teacher? A_ president? A prophet? Who will my seventh child be? Myrna Clawson, Modesto, California, is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. ''Having my story awarded first prize is a humbling honor. My literary experience began about a year and a half ago, with a Brigham Young University correspondence course. In addition to 'Who Loves Here?' | have had two children's stories accepted. My husband Jim and | attended Brigham Young University in 1954, through 1956. There | enjoyed all the classes having to do with homemaking. We now have six busy children, ranging in ages from one to nine. "After spending six years in the Relief Society organization of our ward, | am now serving as counselor in the Primary. Jim serves as counselor in the bishopric. We find many challenges and much joy in serving the Lord through Church work and rearing our family. | am grateful for the opportunities for growth and understanding which the Church and Relief Society provide for young mothers."' 32 "Fiesta Mexicana," featuring thirty women dancers from Mexico City, is receiving enthusiastic acclaim in many nations, including France, Spain, Italy, Germany (Berlin), England, Japan, and the United States. The dancers bring to life, with authentic and beautiful costumes and music from ancient instruments, the ritualistic and preHispanic dances from Mayan and Aztec cultures. Among the dancers, Malinda Ortiz, Princess Teo Xochitel, Maria Luiza Ortix, and Antonieta Casas have received outstanding recognition. Maureen Forrester, one of the world's leading contraltos, 'flawlessly _ performed" the role of Cornelia in Handel's "Julius Caesar" in October for New York City Opera's opening production. "The rich tonalities of her deep velvet voice'' were highly praised. Of Scotch-Irish descent, she was born in Montreal, Canada, and is married to Canadian Conductor-Violinist Eugene Kash. Anna Kuulei Furtado Kahanamoku is the only woman member of the Hawaii State Senate. Reared on the island of Maui, she was early influenced by her parents and other relatives to take an active interest in Hawaiian culture and civic affairs. Her work in the Senate reflects this heritage. She is active in legislation affecting the welfare of women, both in the home and in industry. Formerly a schoolteacher, she encourages Hawaiian women to avail themselves of educational opportunities in order to enable them better to direct and influence their children. Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Lael W. Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and winner of first place in the 1959 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, is author of ''Legacy of Years," a poem collection which won the 1966 Linnie Fisher Robinson $100 prize, and publication by the Utah State Poetry Society. Mrs. Hill, a gifted artist, designed also the attractive and meaningful cover for her book. Miss Dorothy Larrison, from Indiana, is assistant editor for college division textbooks, Bobbs-Merrill Publishing Company. "Textbooks today are superb in content and interesting to read,"' she comments. Mrs. J. Howard Auchincloss, mother of distinguished novelist Louis S. Auchincloss, wielded a strong influence in her home. Her famous son says: "! Always felt Mother should be the novelist in the family. She inculcated my tremendous feeling for fiction. When somebody says 'fiction' to me, my flash association is Mother reading Robert Louis Stevenson aloud." Mrs. Julie C. Fuller is president of the national organization of American Women in Radio and Television. She attends the area conventions each year and is continually alert to the woman's point of view, which, she says, is becoming wider and more fully informed, because women wish to understand why events nationally and world-wide happen as they do, and what efforts women can make to increase the prevalence of law and order on all levels of community life. 33 Volume 54 January 1967 The Joy of Volunteer Service Number 1 @ Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zeima R. West w Never has the need and recognition of volunteer work been so publicized as it is today. In spite of all that governments are endeavoring to do to ameliorate the conditions of people in unfortunate circumstances, it is admitted that there is nothing so valuable to the unfortunate person as a warm, friendly, helping personal companionship which says to the disadvantaged, there is someone who cares, | am a humble human being as you are, and I'm interested in you. | am solicitous of your welfare, | want to help you. From the time a girl reaches maturity there is always some avenue through which she can serve outside her own _ family circle as her family and Church responsibilities permit. This volunteer service will add richness and understanding to her own life, in addition to the satisfaction she will feel in knowing that she is serving someone who needs her service. Over the years, schemes and corporations have evolved which have been established for the betterment of mankind, such as the Red Cross, Traveler's Aid, Health Programs, Child Care Clinics, hospitals, both to heal the body and the mind, assistance to women while in prison and after release, youth guidance work, detention homes, parent-teacher associations, to name a few. In different countries different names are given, but the work is basically the same. While these services are generally manned by salaried personnel, of necessity, for trained guidance and continuity, the success, extent, and effectiveness of the programs are dependent, in large measure, upon the good offices of volunteers. It is the people to people work which humanizes the proferred service and helps to accomplish its purposes. As a Latter-day Saint woman becomes a mother, her time and duties are centered primarily in the home with her husband and children, but a mother who gave service to some worthwhile cause before marriage, will have become conscious of her involvement with the community, and, in all probability, set aside time to engage as a volunteer, especially in programs which touch her children and community. Relief Society members are trained to give service. They are trained to act upon the words given Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith 'to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life.'' They know that they do not live on an island. Then, when the children leave the home, the wife and mother, once again, can offer her volunteer services to that cause to which her training and interests lead her. As a member of the Church, she makes friends of others outside her own neighborhood. She further broadens her outlook on life, and may be an example to others through her dedication to service and her love for others. There is an urgent need, at this time, for volunteers in the hospitals, for volunteers in strengthening the Church's specialized social services, and for other programs mentioned. The great commandment is to love one's neighbor as oneself. One's neighbor may live next door or miles away. Volunteer service is soulsatisfying. Dedication to a worthwhile cause helps one to be about one's Father's business. —M. C. S. 35 Bound Volumes of 1966 Magazines \ Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1966 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 77.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1966 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1966 Magazines bcund for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. Memorial Honor Funds Discontinued By action of the General Board on March 23, 1966, the honor funds of Relief Society to memorialize past presidents of Relief Society and others were discontinued. The Poem Contest formerly honoring Eliza R. Snow will continue as a feature of the Relief Society Magazine just as is the Relief Society Short Story Contest inaugurated in 1942 as a Centennial feature. WAITING IS WINTER Kathryn Kay Waiting is coma, Time of emptiness, The lonely interval between goodbye And the return which terminates heart-stress, Releasing tight-held tears too deep to cry. Waiting is the interim, the hyphen Connecting time-was with time-yet-to-be; The long, long days and nights when moments siphon More moments while we watch helplessly.... But waiting, also, is remembering, Waiting is winter, thinking of the spring! 36. - JOIN MARCH OF DIMES George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations Love works both ways. The child born less than perfect gives his love as freely as all children do. In return, he needs the kind of love that means help and hope for his future. More than a quarter of a million babies born each year in this country need this special kind of love. They need expert medical care that can improve—and sometimes completely correct—almost eighty per cent of the serious conditions caused by birth defects. This is the kind of care available at more than seventy-five March of Dimes Birth Defects Centers throughout the United States. Early diagnosis and proper treatment are given—tender care for those who need it most. The child born less than perfect can be helped across the barriers of disability to find a full, productive life. Your March of Dimes contribution helps finance the Birth Defects Centers. You can help to care for the children who need your consideration and your remembrance. Your help is a measure of your love. Fight Birth Defects — Join the March of Dimes BEYOND THESE TEARS Mabel Jones Gabbott When I look back, let me remember The lovely things and beautiful we knew: The day we met, the ever-burning ember Of our love, the happy times we threw Cares to the wind and laughed together, The hours we shared each other's heart.... Remembering thus, it will not matter whether One day or two or more keep us apart; For we will know love lasts beyond these years, Beyond these lonely nights, beyond these tears. 37 Christmas Begins With a Tree j w After the last string of children had skipped out into the cloak hall, gathering boots and mittens on the final strains of "Jolly Old Saint Nicolas," and the tinsel and nutshells and ribbon from the party had been swept into the baskets, everything seemed to be desperately quiet. As Miss Gold fumbled into her hat and coat, she felt tears stinging her eyes. She imagined these children going to their homes and she ached to follow them. But she saw herself cramped in her musty apartment correcting notebooks —hboth from her own classes and from the classes of Miss Pool who had been ill for so many days. More at Christmas than at other times, Miss Gold reflected, life had seemed to pass her by. A boy she once loved had been killed in an automobile accident. Through the years no one else had seemed to want her for his wife. Last year her mother had died, joining her father, who had passed away many years before. Miss Gold pulled on her gloves and jostled the stacks of papers under her arms. If only she had 38 Marilyn McMeen Miller ies not promised Roberta Pool she would help her with the tedious notebooks. It seemed an extra burden just when her heart should be light and beating in time with "Jingle Bells" and "Deck the Halls With Boughs of Holly.". From the second story window of her apartment, Miss Gold saw the lights of the city sparkling far off over the hill. She stamped off her galoshes, turned up the radiator, and rubbed her hands. There was surely some way to make Christmas possible to bear this year. Finding it was the problem. She might take in a show—she might dine at the Lantern, her favorite place to eat. But then she was tired of always going alone. There was her new ward. She recalled they were planning some kind of MIA party. But there were no single people her age. She was almost forty. No one was really interested in a womout schoolteacher. She shuddered to realize that the years had crept up on her this way. She brushed a shock of hair from her eyes and felt the dry skin of her forehead. Suddenly, her bones felt weak and tired, and she had tears in her eyes again. And the little apartment with not a Christmas light or decorated sprig in it, whirled in her consciousness. There must be some way she could begin! Where did other lonely people begin? There was at least one thing she could do. She could at least get a tree— even a little tree like the one her class had given to the needy family. Even if only for herself, it would help. Tomorrow was the day before Christmas, and most of the trees would be gone. There would probably be one or two straggly ones left, but size or beauty did not matter. Tonight she would see how many of her reports she could get done and then tomorrow she would get a tree. And a sudden thought warmed her even in her bitterness. Perhaps she could bake some cookies and take them and the notebooks and visit Miss Pool. She did not care much for the thin, wiry teacher who was so stern, and was avoided by many of the teachers; but it was something she could do for someone who needed her. Anyway, it was. A thought. After a light bowl of soup, Miss Gold sat grimly at her sitting room table and mechanically forced herself through the piles of words and pictures that lay before her. "And some people think a teacher is lucky because she gets vacations," she muttered once, and just then the telephone rang. "Hello, Sister Gold?" "Yes," she answered. It was Christmas Begins With a Tree someone from the ward. "T know you don't get to come to Relief Society because you teach, but still we thought you wouldn't mind helping us out for the ward Christmas Eve night by bringing some cookies. Would you mind?" the voice on the end of the line seemed very friendly. "No. I'd be happy to help you." Miss Gold caught her own voice sounding grateful. 'I was planning to make some cookies anyway. I'll just bake extra. Come to the party?" She hesitated. "Well, what time does it start? I was planning to do something else. I guess I could do it first, and come to the ward later. All right. T'll bring the cookies myself." Tuis first sign of human life warmed her. At least somebody cared that much, she thought. Correcting the notebooks was hard work. Her back ached and her hand was cramped. But this time she did not want to quit. She wanted to have a glorious Christmas Eve, knowing that Miss Pool's work, at least, was out of the way. And so, in the early hours of the morning, she finally closed the reports, laid down her red _ pencils, and breathed a sigh of relief. She was dead tired. But perhaps it had been worth it, even though she suspected the wiry old lady might not appreciate it. It was a little late in the morning when Miss Gold finally awakened without her alarm. During the night there had been a little skiff of snow, but now the sun was shining. She would be able to walk to get the tree; it was 39 January 1967 such a beautiful day! She decided she would bake the cookies first and then go. At the good smells of melting chocolate and toasting oatmeal and coconut, Miss Gold forgot that she was alone. Now if she had a tree, and watched a good television program, it would seem like Christmas. It was about five o'clock in the afternoon when all the cookies were finally baked, and the kitchen cleaned—and there hadn't yet been a moment to get a tree. It just didn't seem there would be time unless she drove to Miss Pool's and got the tree between going to Miss Pool's and the chapel. Or she might get the tree before going to Miss Pool's, and put it in the car. Sue decided the last course was best, so she boxed the cookies up and bundled Miss Pool's notebooks together and drove to look for her tree. She decided she would have to buy a string of lights. Miss Gold knew that most of the trees would be gone by now, but she forgot that so many of the lots which sold them would be closed. Time after time, she drove up to an empty lot littered with a few straggling branches. The lights were often out and the proprietors gone to spend the evening with their families. It surely looked like Christmas Eve. Even the stores were ending the season. All was quiet. She bought a string of lights and a box of 'tinsel and drove out of town a little distance to a lot she was sure would be open. She was lucky. The proprietor stood balancing from one leg to 40 the other, breathing big white puffs of warm breath into the cold air. "You're a little late, lady," he said. "All we have are big ones. You want some boughs, lady?" "Say, I do believe we have one little pine left."" One of the men came up from a little shack at the side where the smoke spiraled into the air. One little pine? Her heart jumped. It seemed to be a silly thing, yet it made so much difference to her whether there would really be a Christmas in her life or not. "Oh, that will be perfect. Ill take it," she said. The tree was perfect. It was a beautiful and symmetrical, longneedled pine. It bounced around beautifully and smelled so good. It was going to seem like Christmas after all, and just in time. Joyously, she popped it in the back seat and drove to Miss Pool's. The small house that belonged to Miss Pool was completely dark. Not a light was visible anywhere, unless that weak faint glow from the back could be called a light. Betty Gold shuddered. Even her little apartment was better than this. One of the teachers had declined taking the faculty bulletins by, Miss Gold remembered. The nervous, sick woman was probably somewhere in the depths of that house, her same stern self. Betty was a little frightened, but she stepped up to ring the doorbell. There was no answer, and so she tried the door. To her surprise, it opened. "Anyone home?" From far in the back a weak voice called "Who is it?" Betty clutched the cookies and the notebooks under her arm. "Miss Gold. I've brought your notebooks, Miss Pool." "Well, come in, then. Don't leave the door open very long." The little woman was propped up against her pillows, reading under a low yellow light. "T've got your notebooks done, and I wanted to say Merry Christmas to you, too, Miss Pool." SomeHow, Betty did not want to mention the cookies. Miss Pool looked so ill, as though she could not have eaten anything. Her face was drawn into tight lines. She looked tired and sad. "Thanks. Put the notebooks there." It seemed a curt offering of appreciation after the work it had taken, but Betty promised herself she was not going to mind. "So it's Christmas again, is it?" Miss Pool asked weakly. 'Not like the times I remember. I've been thinking about those years, Miss Gold. You're not as old as I am, and you don't remember when all the families got together —grandma—all the aunts—not a soul was left out—and there were trees, popcorn, carols, laughter, joy, everything...." Miss Gold was about to say, "T think families still do get together," but she saw in the lonely old eyes a bright rim of tears. "My younger brother mentioned he'd come and bring his children to say Merry Christmas, but even they have forgotten," Miss Pool said. So there was something, after all, for Miss Pool for Christmas. Christmas Begins With a Tree Miss Gold thought of her own brother and his family so far away. "Are they coming Christmas Eve?" Betty asked, suddenly finding herself hopeful above any other thing that the young family would not forget. "Oh, You know young children don't care about the older generation anymore," Miss Pool said. Suddenly, Betty wanted to make it seem even more like Christmas for Miss Pool, because there seemed to be nothing but a double disappointment. And what if the family did come and the house was so drab? She thought of the tree. Of course. That was the logical thing. For only a brief moment did she hesitate. "Miss Pool, I have something out in the car—your brother's family would love it when they come... Oh... And besides, I brought these cookies." The woman in the bed raised her eyes at Betty's sudden burst of good will. "Can you wait for me just one moment while I run out to the car?" "Cookies? Oh, why, yes, of course... Thank you—how thoughtful!" It took only a moment to drag the tiny pine into the bedroom and set it up on its little wooden stand, propping it with the sewing basket and some books. "Miss Gold—you needn't do that... Why, I haven't had a tree in a long time." Betty felt a sudden childish feeling of warmth rise from her heart to her cheeks. The woman's eyes were actually sparkling. "TY believe I have some orna- 41 January 1967 ments from years gone by," the sick woman said, almost trying to hide a new excitement she was ashamed of feeling. "(Down there in that lower drawer. No, not that... In the chiffonier... Yes... There...." Just as the little tree, with its one string of lights, got a spattering of tinsel, the doorbell rang. It was Miss Pool's brother and his wife and three little girls, hesitant and quiet at the sight of the dark house and Miss Gold's presence at the door. Betty had never really been so happy to see anyone, and this feeling astonished her, because this was the family of someone else. She led them to the back room, and Miss Pool could not completely hide her joy and gratitude even though she tried to look stern as she said, "I thought _ you had forgotten me." The little girls immediately went over to the tree and tugged at their mother's hands. "IT didn't know Aunt Roberta would have a Christmas tree," one of them said questioningly. "Oh, it's so pretty." "Christmas came to house, after all." "We brought you some presents, Auntie." Betty's heart felt unusually warm and trembling, and she felt tears well up in her eyes. Without saying much, she would leave them now while Miss Pool was passing out the cookies. She moved toward the door and pulled on her coat and gloves. "Goodbye now," she said as inconspicuously as possible. "Qh, just a minute,'"' Miss Pool said loudly, so that everyone in the warm room, standing around your 42 the bed piled with packages and the little glowing tree, turned to watch Miss Gold. "T just wanted to thank you, Miss Gold, for doing these notebooks. Nobody knows but a schoolteacher, I suppose, how much time and energy went into all of that. I know—and I am surely grateful. And thank you— well, just thank you for everything. I hope you can come again during the holidays." Betty's heart thudded, as she nodded goodbye to everyone and made her way out the door and into the crisp winter air. That was what she had needed—somehow to be able to give, and to have the someone who needed that giving, to appreciate it. Christmas might begin with a tree, but it was made up of love. Betty left the warm house with the laughter of the little girls and the sound of paper wrappings being torn off of packages. With a glad heart, she gathered _the other boxes of cookies on the front seat and drove to what she knew would be a most wonderful Christmas party, a wonderful Christmas Eve, and also a warm holiday. Unwelcome Caller Nancy M. Armstrong m Every muscle in my body screamed as I 'climbed out of bed. Never mind, the house was spotless. Windows shone, woodwork gleamed, curtains were crispy white. All the hard work of readying | for Christmas was done. Only pleasurable tasks remained. Last minute touches to decorations, packages, and food would consume the next two days. Then the transcendent day, with eighteen family members invited for dinner. Well, everything was under control. Suddenly, I smelled smoke. Throwing on a robe, I dashed to the kitchen. Thick smoke was issuing around every lid on the range. I tried every conceivable adjustment of the dampers, With each change, more smoke puffed out heavier and blacker. Opening the back door, I called to my husband who was in the. Coal shed filling buckets. The breeze, created by opening the door, wafted smoke into the other rooms. Originally, the old farm house we had purchased our first year of marriage, had doors to isolate each room. But we had had to be modern. In remodeling we removed most of the doors. The smoke surged through the dining room and into my newly decorated living room. When my husband came in, he said, "Something is clogging the chimney or firebox. I'll have to lift the fire out to find out what it is.' I moaned, but there was nothing else he could do. As he lifted the lids, fly ash and soot joined the smoke. After carrying the smoldering coal outside in a bucket, he came back to say he would have to take down the stovepipe. Warm fly ash and soot cascaded down the wall behind the stove as the pipe was removed. I opened the kitchen door and the back porch door so my. Husband could carry the pipe into the yard. I returned to surgey my proce kitchen that resembled a scene from the January 1967 "Last Days of Pompeii." Little swirls of soot whirled here and there on the floor. Fly ash was settling on chairs, table, cupboards, and refrigerator. I sat down at the table, put my head on my arms and wept. My husband came in to say, "A little owl was clogging the pipe. He must have been asphyxiated last night while sitting on the chimney, and fell in."' I who am a complete pushover for all animals and birds could feel no sympathy. I was drenched in self-pity. My husband put his arm around my shoulders. 'At least I know what you need for Christmas now," he said. "What?" I asked through tears. "A guard for the top of the chimney to keep out unwelcome callers." I made no reply. "Oh, cheer up, honey," he said. "It could have been a lot worse." "How?" "Well he could have waited until Christmas Eve to play Santa." Oh, what a gruesome idea! With eighteen guests coming for dinner. My husband filled a bucket at the sink. "Where will I find a scrubbing brush and a box of detergent?' he asked. Raising my head, I managed a feeble smile. "I'll get into a work dress and be right back." Indeed things could have been a lot worse. LOVE'S MAGIC Leone W. Doxey A housekeeper is a homemaker if she shares her love; Tasks do not drag her down, her spirit soars above. Material things in her home become the tools at hand; They work magic when her love is in command. She greets the day with gladness, a song, and sunny smile, A table set attractively makes breakfast worthwhile; Her children go to school with their clothes washed clean, Ironed smooth, and mended with love in every seam. A token of her kindness, so thoughtful and sweet, Is often found in a lunch box——a special treat. Clean sheets on all the beds at night Tuck in love and say, "'Sleep tight.'' Oh, love is a wonderful, powerful thing; The woman who works with it hears life sing. 44 SANDWICH SURPRISES Joyce B. Bailey Busy housewives call time and time again on the lowly sandwich to fill the gap at mealtime. Here are some sandwich ideas to make any husband, teenager, or child wish it were sandwich-time more often! _ Broiled Supper Sandwiches: CHICKEN-CHEESE CHARMERS Place sliced cooked chicken on buttered toast. Sprinkle it with crumbled Roquefort cheese. Cover with strips of bacon (notched to prevent curling), and broil for about ten minutes, or until the bacon is crisp. For a special treat, place sliced tomatoes on the chicken before adding the cheese. This will be a family favorite. PEANUT BUTTER AND TOMATO TOASTED Toast slices of bread on one side. Spread the untoasted side with a mixture of peanut butter, chopped cooked bacon, and bacon drippings. Top this with a thin slice of tomato sprinkled with 14 tsp. Brown sugar. Place under the broiler for a few minutes, serve, and enjoy. TUNA TUG BOATS Cut tomatoes into thick slices and place on buttered toast. Season with salt and pepper and pinch of brown sugar. Drain and flake a 7 oz. Can of tuna and combine with mayonnaise. Spread the tuna mixture on the tomatoes and sprinkle with grated sharp cheese. Broil until the cheese is melted and serve piping hot. CORNED BEEF SANDWICH Combine 14 c. Sharp American cheese with 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise. Add 4 oz. Canned corn beef, shredded, and 14 c. Sour-sweet pickles, finely chopped, 1 tbsp. Grated onion, and 2 tbsp. Chopped celery. Season with salt, if needed, and spread on thick whole-wheat slices of bread with crisp lettuce. CHICKEN SPECIALS Spread whole-wheat or rye bread with cream cheese, softened with a little milk or cream. Add slices of cooked chicken, chopped green olives, and salt. Add crisp lettuce, and what a treat! ITALIAN SUPER SALAD Split a large French roil and spread the halves with mayonnaise. Place thick slices of tomato, a slice of salami, and two anchovies on one slice. Top with crisp lettuce and the other half: of the roll. HAWAIIAN CLUB SANDWICH This is always special, for guests or for the family. Prepare 3 slices of toast for each serving. Cover slice #1 with a lettuce leaf, 3 crisp slices of hot bacon, slices of tomato, mayonnaise, and a drained slice of canned pineapple. Place slice #2 on top and cover it with slices of cold turkey or chicken and mayonnaise. Place slice #3 on top and cut diagonally. 45 Agnes Kunz Dansie — Versatile Artist of Handicraft Agnes Kunz Dansie, Herriman, Utah, learned to quilt when she was fourteen years old. Her pieced quilts in Sunburst pattern and Double Wedding Ring are reminiscent of ''economy craftsmanship" of early days in the mountain valleys. Later, her satin quilts, in exquisite design and with fine and even stitchery, have won awards at many State and County Fairs. She has made more than one hundred quilts. To her skill in quiltmaking, Sister Dansie has added such crafts as crocheting, Knitting, embroidery, making rugs and decorative pillows, baby bonnets and bootees, and sewing aprons and other clothing. As a sort of "'side hobby," as she calls it, she painted some lovely landscapes. Articles of her handicraft adorn the homes of her eight children and thirty-six grandchildren. She has now begun to make gifts for the great-grandchildren. She has served for twenty-three continuous years as Relief Society Magazine representative for her ward, and has never achieved less than a one hundred per cent record. One year she secured 118 per cent subscriptions. She is genealogical representative for her family and rejoices in record keeping and temple work. An admonition she gives for all Relief Society women, and for people everywhere: "When you are given a responsibility, do your best!" 46 = Synopsis: Julie Rideghaven, who has been attending school in California, is called back to her home in Sydney, Australia, because her fiancé Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. Julie's friend Betz Condon accompanies her, and the girls go with members of the Ridgehaven family on an expedition to search for Ron. Also in the party are Aunt Isabelle, who has been very ill; and Wally Ridgehaven, who becomes increasingly interested in Betz Condon, The women take over the housekeeping duties at the station, and the men set out in search of Ron. Julie is concerned over the strange actions of Ron's kelpie, and she feels that the dog knows something about Ron's strange disappearance. W Julie slept restlessly. She was fully awake standing at the window, as the first rays of the sun flickered through the branches of the big gum tree. The men had already gone. She heard them leave before she was out of bed. She bent her head against the window sill, a prayer in her heart. "Julie...." Betz sat up in her bunk. "Please put your dressing gown on. It's cold as Christmas in here." Chapter 7 Tell Me Rosa Lee Lloyd "Tl get dressed," Julie said, reaching for her plaid skirt and bright yellow blouse. 'Casey Jones hasn't come home yet." "That dog!" Betz said. '""Don't worry. He'll come home when he gets good and hungry." "Y'm counting on that—unless he followed the men. His big meal is in the morning, so he might come early. This time ['ll put him on a leash. He won't get out of my sight again." '""He'll love that!" Betz laughed. Julie went to the kitchen. Cleo was already there preparing breakfast. "Isabelle insists on coming to the table this morning," she told Julie, with a wondrous smile. 'She says she feels better than she has for ages. Funny, what love can do for a woman. It brought her back from the very edge of the grave, if you ask me. Oh, I hope she keeps getting better! I hope, I hope, I hope!"' she said fiercely. "She must not slip back, Julie. I couldn't bear it while Dr. George is away." Julie wanted to tell her what 47 January 1967 Dr. George had said about a regression, but she could not break her promise to him. Instead, she asked, "Did you know he sent for Carolyn Bridges? Wally is to meet her plane at noon." "Well, no, I didn't know that. But I'm glad. We'd better put that old couch on the veranda in Isabelle's room. Carolyn can sleep there beside her. That way we'll know she's watched over. Wally will have to cut a pile of wood for the stove in there. It gets cold at night. I imagine Isabelle and Carolyn will hit it off together. They're about the same age." "Oh, yes," Julie murmured. "What kind of fruit or juice do we have, Aunt Cleo? Betz always likes fruit for breakfast." Cleo swung around from the stove. "You tell her Royal Highness to get out here and pitch in. We've dried apricots and dried apples that she can soak and stew." "But isn't there some tinned fruit?" Julie persisted. "T packed it all for the men," Cleo said. "It gets blistering hot out there. They need every little luxury I sent along. Wally can bring some things from the township this morning." "What about Aunt Isabelle? I promised Dr. George that she would have the very best. Fresh meat, too." Cleo nodded. "I've thought of that. You and I will go after some fresh meat this very day. We'll leave as soon as the nurse gets here. We'll take one of the old jeeps out where the sheep are grazing. How would you like a leg of lamb? Ummm. Smackin' good!" 48 "Perfect," Julie agreed. "Lamb is my very favorite." "Mine, too. That way we'll have some bones for Casey Jones." ry "Where is that kelpie?" Julie asked. "I've fixed his plate." "Beats me.' Cleo shook her head. "He is a bit off lately. He's always been the smartest dog in this bush. Uncle Rufe said he could bring in a flock of sheep all by himself. It's not often a dog can do that!" "He's eight years old," Julie said. "Grandfather knows how Ron loves him. That's why he sent him here to the station, so Ron could see him often when he came up from Perth." Julie bit her lip. "I hope he didn't follow the men, Aunt Cleo. He could get lost if they didn't see him." 'He might have gone,' she answered. "All I know for sure is that he's mighty troubled. He knows something's happened to Ron. Kelpies are gentle and peaceful unless something goes wrong. Then they go plumb daffy about it." During the morning the station house hummed with activity. Cleo had a job for everyone except Isabelle, and even she insisted on hemming a few flour sacks for tea towels. "Wally!" she called after him when he followed Betz out to the veranda. "We need heaps of wood cut. And Betz! There are piles of bugs to sweep out. Get busy, you two." "I was only telling her... Wally began. Cleo looked at him, her hands on her hips. "I know what you 9 were telling her, Wally Ridgehaven. Now, get going." Wally shrugged, rolling his eyes heavenward. "'You should've been a drover," he said. But he went outside to chop the wood. "That adorable rascal,' Cleo said to Julie, who was washing the dishes. '""'We love him to pieces, but we can't let him run us around. He reminds me of my Kip—red hair and tipsy smile. Gee, I'm lonely for those little pikers of mine." "Aunt Tricia will take good care of them," Julie assured her. "T know," Cleo said petulantly. "They won't even miss me." "You're their mother," Julie said. ""No one, not even wonderful Aunt Tricia, can take your place." Ciro looked at Julie. There were stars in her eyes. "Righto!" she said, with a sort of glory in her voice. "I'm their mother." She looked around briskly. ""Now, let's see. We've got to get a hustle on. T'll start the bread while you mix up the biscuits. Call your friend Betz, and I will show her how to fix this dried fruit. Those men will be plain starved when they get back here. They'll be sick of tinned stuff." At eleven o'clock Wally and Betz started for the township to meet Carolyn. Cleo and Julie stood on the veranda and watched them ride off together, their red and gold hair bright and beautiful in the midday sunshine. "Can't stop the whirlwind," Cleo said. "Say! Look up the road. I think that moving spot might be Casey Jones!" Tell Me of Love It was. He was limping toward them, so weak and trembly he could hardly drag his feet. Julie ran toward him. She knelt down in the dust beside him. He was soaking wet with sweat, breathless and gaunt, and there was a dripping scarlet wound on his shoulder. "He's been in a fight," Cleo said. "Probably with a _ dingo who's out there after our sheep! I'll get the wheelbarrow." They lugged him into the kitchen. Julie sat on the floor cradling his head in her lap. She bathed the wound with an antiseptic Aunt Cleo mixed up, then she coaxed him to swallow a bite or two of dog biscuit soaked in tinned milk. His brown eyes followed every move she made, pleading with her. He whimpered, trying to get up again. "What does he want, Aunt Cleo?" Julie asked. 'I know he's begging me for something." "T'm a bush woman, Julie. That gash on his shoulder was made by a dingo. And a big one. He wants us to follow him out there and shoot that dingo before he gets our sheep." "We'll go," Julie said. "As soon as Carolyn gets here to stay with Aunt Isabelle." After they had lunched, Julie hurried to her room to put on her high boots as a protection against poisonous snakes. "Why can't Wally go, too?" Betz asked. 'He really wants to go. Cleo promised to show him how to shoot better." "He is needed here, Betz. Aunt Isabelle might need something from the township. And we'll need more wood for the stove." 49 January 1967 "Then let me go with you," Betz kept on. Julie shook her head. "Aunt Cleo has your work planned. You have to watch the bread dough. When it rises, knead it down again. Let it rise the second time, then put it in the oven. Don't let it get too brown. In the meantime, scrub out the cooler with hot water and bicarbonate of soda. We'll have meat and things to store there." "Ts that all?' Betz flared out. "I'm just another Cinderella!" "You have to pay a price for your Prince Charming," Julie said. "Life on a Ridgehaven property is no picnic, Betz. Remember, Grandfather warned you. Is it worth it?" A little smile curved Betz' mouth. "It is!"' she said. "Where is the scrub bucket?" "Same place we keep the broom," Julie answered. Carolyn Bridges came in as Betz went out. Her eyes had wonder in them. "I can hardly believe it," she said, sitting on the edge of Julie's bunk. "Simply delighted. Your Aunt Isabelle is a_ different woman. I keep pinching myself to see if I'm really awake!" "T know," Julie smiled. "TI feel the same way. Did Dr. George tell you what he hopes has happened?" "He wasn't very explicit in his re," she answered. "But he did say it is either a regression or the results of cobalt treatments. We aren't ready to tell it yet. It will cause much comment." "T haven't told a soul," Julie said. Then she added to herself: Maybe the prayers of the Ridge- 50 havens and Dr. George's love had something to do with it. But this idea was only for her secret heart. "Guess I'm ready," she said, putting her rifle under her arm and pointing it downward. "Take care," Carolyn said. "I wonder if I'll ever outgrow being afraid of guns?" "It's being used to them," Julie told her. "My father taught me to use a rifle before I was nine years old. We lived way out in the Dead Heart country. A rifle was part of our way of life. Now prepare Aunt Isabelle and all of you for a beaut dinner." "T'll do that," Carolyn laughed, as she got to her feet. '""We'll be ready for a beaut dinner." Casey Jones leaped to his feet the minute he saw Julie and Cleo ready to leave. He whirled and whimpered, pawing at the door. Then he pulled at Julie's boots. "We'll take him," Cleo said, flatly. "I've a hunch he can lead us to that dingo. We've got to get him. One dingo means murder for our sheep. You have your grandfather's rifle, so J'll take Geoffrey's. It's the very latest, newer than John's. Now let's check. We have our water bags filled, plenty of bullets, and extra petrol." Aunt Isabelle came to, the doorway, looking radiant in her sky-blue dressing gown. She hugged each of them. "Good luck, dear ones," she said in her gentle, cultured voice. Casey Jones settled down on the floor of the jeep, dozing contentedly for several miles. Julie saw the fields of everlasting flowers before Cleo did. They were a rainbow of color and beauty that stabbed her heart. "Let's stop, Aunt Cleo," she coaxed. ''Ron told me of these flowers in his last letter. I want a bouquet." "So do I," Cleo said. "We pass Uncle Rufe's grave. I'd like to stop there and leave them on it." Casey Jones stayed in the jeep flowers. He barked several times as though impatient at the delay, but when they returned he lay down contentedly again. "Good kelpie," Julie crooned to him. A few miles farther on, they stopped near the roadside and Cleo trudged through the dust and bush to a rock-covered grave with an elaborate bronze headstone. Julie could not read the inscription from where she sat in the jeep. "He was the only parent I ever knew," Cleo said when she took the wheel again. ""My parents died in a willie-willie. Uncle Rufe was kind, courageous, and the best sheepman in the country. He worked as boss of the shearing sheds for your grandfather for forty years. Every drover and every shearer in all this area wanted to work for him. I used to go with him at shearing time and i 2 ~ Tell Me of Love cook for the men. I met John at the station back there. One look between us, and we were lost to each other. John knew he couldn't consult his father about our marriage. He would have said no—that his son could not marry the station cook. So John and I went down to Perth and were married. Now we have been through the New Zealand Temple." "What did your Uncle Rufe say?" Julie wanted to know. "Very little," Cleo answered, her mouth twisting. '""He knew it could mean his job with your grandfather. But he sat there in the kitchen that night that I told him and his eyes had a dreamy, faraway look as if he __ was thinking of someone I knew nothing about." "If it means your happiness," he said, ''then marry him. You'll be a fine wife. I'd say John Ridgehaven, Junior, is a lucky boy to have your love. That's all I'll ever say to his father. If he gives me the sack for that — well — there are other sheep yards in Australia. He doesn't own them all. Not quite!" "He didn't give Uncle Rufe the sack, and when he was killed in another willie-willie that hit out here five years ago, your grandfather came all the way from Sydney for the funeral. He brought that headstone you see engraved in bronze letters: 'Rufe Riley Quinn, for loyal and outstanding service'. Look, now we turn off at the next cattle guard. The sheep are out there about twenty miles." "There it is!" Julie said a few seconds later. When Cleo turned the jeep, 51 January 1967 Casey Jones leaped up, barking and growling. He pushed against them holding them in the jeep. "That kelpie is telling us something," Cleo said, puzzled. "Let's stay on this road north and see if he keeps quiet." Casey Jones settled down again, and for several miles he lay with his head on his paws. "There must be another crossing ahead," Cleo said. 'Watch him." WHEN they reached it, Casey Jones bounced to his feet, climbing over Julie, pawing at the door. "This looks like a dead-end trail," Cleo said. "But we'll follow him anyway." Julie opened the door. Casey Jones leaped out, ran up the trail, scarcely limping, then he ran back to them barking fiercely. "We'll stay inside the jeep," Cleo said, "and follow him. That poor old kelpie is worked up about something." They drove a mile from the highway over a bumpy dirt road. Casey Jones ran on ahead, then whirled and ran back to make sure they were following him. "Look," Julie cried out. '"There is a mob of kangaroos. Is that why he brought us here?" "T don't think so," Cleo said, her voice tense. 'Don't let that kelpie out of your sight. He knows where he is taking us." "But maybe we should get a kangaroo," Julie insisted. "Later," she said. '""Not now." Julie saw the danger sign before Cleo did. It was a five-foot plank of wood stuck down through the middle of a big bush to hold it against the wind. 52 "Danger. Blow-hole country" was painted on it in red letters. Julie's heart beat up into her throat. Blow-hole country! Cleo stopped the car. They got out without speaking. Each knew what the other was thinking. Casey Jones whirled and came back. He nuzzled his head against Julie, licking her hands, wagging his tail. They took their rifles and trudged through the bush, following the kelpie. Cautiously. Silently. A few yards away he stopped, body tense. Then he got down on his paws, crawling forward, inching his way toward the edge of a crater-like hole. "Stop!" Cleo warned Julie. "Don't walk there. If you have to follow him—if you think Ron is in that hole, then get down and crawl the way Casey did. That way you can feel with your 'fingertips if the earth is solid. Look — over there. That edge is broken off. Someone walked' too close and tumbled in!" Julie looked in the direction Cleo pointed out. There was a huge bush overhanging the hole. A piece of bright blue and white shirting was caught on a stiff branch. A cry tore from her heart. It was a piece of the shirt she had sent Ron for his birthday! She knelt down, then lay flat, holding her rifle above the ground. She lay flat as Casey Jones had done, crawling toward the hole. She gazed down into the darkness, sobbing: "Oh, Aunt Cleo! He's down there. That's a piece of his shirt on the bush, oh, Aunt Cleo!", (To be concluded) FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication-in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society superVisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Ry | I | i TTT LT) lt ' '! I aS THVT FAH HTT Cache Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers ''Singing Into Spring'' Concert March 31, 1966 Front row, standing, left to right: Neva Simonson, accompanist; Fredonna Dixon, soloist; Carma C. Spencer; Margene H. Liljenquist, organist; Katheryn P. Gibson, President, Cache Stake Relief Society; Bernice C. Baugh, chorister; Hazel E. Larsen, Second Counselor; Alice C. Smith, member, General Board of Relief Society; Una H. Wuthrich, First Counselor; Lucille S. Binns, Secretary-Treasurer; Melba Johnson, member, Cache Stake Relief Society board. Sister Gibson reports: " 'Music is the speech of the angels,' was expressed by Carlyle, and was affirmed by the voices of the Cache Stake Singing Mothers in their formal concert of joyful and spiritual music. 'Singing Into Spring' was the theme of the pre-Easter concert directed by Bernice C. Baugh, in which 130 women participated. Accompanists were Margene Liljenquist and Leona M. Pritchett. Seven ward choruses prepared two numbers each, with their own directors and accompanists, and the combined wards sang three selections. An inspirational narration was composed and spoken between numbers by Carma C. Spencer. Guest soloist was Fredonna Dixon, accompanied by Neva Simonsen. A vocal solo was sung by Camille S. Zahmel of Cache Stake. A violin duet was played by Lois Brown and Mira F. Baker, and a vocal sextette was also featured." 53 January 1967 Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 2, 1966 Clarice M. Cooper, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society, reports. "A very impressive spring concert was presented by the Singing Mothers on Saturday, April 2, 1966. A variety of music was beautifully sung, some spiritual, some patriotic, and some light. Outstanding special numbers ' were given by Blanche Christensen, soprano, and Beryl Smiley, contralto. A trio, composed of Carol Gray, Marie English, and Florence Parsons, accompanied by Elnora Gwynn,. And a reading by Nedra Potter completed the delightful program. "Hazel Perry, stake music director, and Lenore Grundman, stake organist, spent many hours organizing and directing the program, and the Singing Mothers were faithful in coming to rehearsals, which was apparent in the excellence of the performance. After the program, cookies made by the stake board members, and punch were served. "The concert was given as a means of making a little money for the stake Relief Society, with the wards receiving twenty-five per cent of the money from the tickets which they were able to sell. Everyone was cooperative and appreciative, and we feel that the performance was highly successful, both in promoting sisterhood, and in helping the stake financially." North Sacramento Stake (California) Presents Musical Dramatization "The Journey," April 1, 1966 Freda Thayne, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: "*The Journey' was used with permission from Melvina Allen and Geraldine D'Addabbo, East Mesa Stake (Arizona), who wrote the original script. It portrays the progression of one of the daughters of our Heavenly Father from pre-existence into mortality and back into eternal life. Our North Sacramento Stake Singing Mothers (approximately fifty) sang eleven selections, under the direction of Jeannine Eborn and Lynda Bradley of the Relief Society Stake Board. Among the selections rendered were the following: "To a Child, 'Stand in Holy Places,' 'Oh, That I Were an Angel,' and 'Eternal Life." Members of the stake were invited to bring their families, and the program was spiritual and uplifting for all. Approximately 400 attended." Liberty Stake (Utah), Eighth Ward Relief Society Presidency and Homemaking Leaders at Display, August 29, 1966 Left to right: Eulalia Jeppsen, homemaking leader; Leah Mecham, Counselor; Myrtle Richins, President; Arinia Cameron, Counselor; Irene Wagstaff, chairman of the art committee; Gertrude Gillmore, Secretary-Treasurer. Nettie E. Stout, President, Liberty Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture represents a display of beautiful articles completed by a Relief Society where the majority of the members are seventy years or older. In the past five and a half years this society has made and sold 300 quilts, thus keeping alive the art of quilting. Besides Utah and the neighboring states, these quilts have gone to Japan, Germany, Old Mexico, New Zealand, Hawaii, Arizona, California, Michigan, and New York. The unique part about this quilting society is that the work of cutting, appliquéing, sewing, and preparation prior to the actual quilting, is done by homebound sisters. They prepare ahout, three quilts a month, and through these assignments fulfill the desire to be needed and wanted. Other homebound sisters crochet and embroider for the society. Through the leadership of Sister Richins, this ward organization has grown to a membership of 105. And to visit their meetings is to experience the true love of sisterhood." 54 ' "55 January 1967 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California) Presents ''Relief Society in Panorama" May 21, 1966 "Woman Suffrage - 1888,'' presented by Berkeley Ward, left to right: Faye Lloyd; Margaret Williams; Roma Sabine; Afton Whitehead; Pat Moore; Marjean Moore; Gerry Cook (hidden); Annette Jensen. Margaret S. Fife, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: "TI am sure that it is the general opinion of those who saw 'Relief Society in Panorama," which concluded our year's activities, that it was undoubtedly one of the finest productions which has ever been a part of the Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society program. The cast of more than 200 included members of all the wards in the stake, together with the stake Singing Mothers chorus, which made it possible for all of our sisters who wished to do so to participate in one way or another. " 'Relief Society in Panorama' had its inspiration at the 1965 Relief Society Annual General Conference, from the tableau presented in the Presidencies Department. We decided that the highlights of the Relief Society history had great possibilities of not only being presented historically and authentically, but also in an interesting and entertaining way, depicting the pathos, the inspiration, the hardships, and the progress of the Society. We were able to highlight the organization in Nauvoo, the death of the Prophet, the crossing of the plains, and the establishment of Relief Society in Utah. We pictured the sisters' part in the suffrage movement, and by means of a delightful fashion parade, depicting their part in the Utah Territorial Centennial Fair. When we reached the year 1907 our story featured the organization of Relief Society in California, in the Oakland Branch. From that year until 1966, the highlights concerned the development of Relief Society in our own stake. The pageant was written and coordinated by Margaret S. Fife, with Annabell W. Hart and Mary R. Burton in charge of the music." 56 Notes From the Field Swiss Mission Relief Society Holds Convention Zollikofen, Switzerland, June 17-18, 1966 Front row, standing, left to right, beginning fourth from the left: Christian Abbuhl, of the Bern-Luzern District; Hermine Trauffer, wife of the Temple President Walter E. Trauffer; Annamarie Felder, First Counselor, Swiss Mission Relief Society; Johanna Wysard, Bern-Luzern District Relief Society President; Frida Hubacher, Second Counselor; Ann Birsfelder, SecretaryTreasurer., Near the back, center: President Rendell N. Mabey of the Swiss Mission and Rachel W. Mabey, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society. At the right, in the front row, second and third from the right: Emma Bertha Gutmann (eighty-two); Julia Grossen (eighty-four). These two women are faithful members, residing in Biel. Sister Mabey reports: "The picture was taken in front of the Swiss Temple in Zollikofen. This is the Bern-Luzern District, the only one now in the mission. Every other branch is now included in the Swiss Stake." "About eighty Relief Society members attended. Some very inspirational] talks were given by the sisters and by representatives of the district presidency. Then the group was divided for class work. The meals were prepared and served by the different branches. A very lovely concert was presented in the evening by the Singing Mothers, with President Mabey as speaker. "The next morning was an interesting one. Some of our good brethren had put up booths in the cultural hall, and Saturday morning the sisters were busy decorating the booths and arranging the displays of handwork that had been made for the occasion. After lunch, the bazaar went into full swing, and the sisters were happy with buying and selling, and many women from the neighborhood were present. In the evening there was food for all, and an interesting short program concluded the activities." 57 Ne 7 parr SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 79—The Millennium (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 101:23-42) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman makes individual preparation for INTRODUCTION In the first part of Section 101, the Lord said that because of the transgressions of the saints, they were persecuted in Jackson County, Missouri. Despite the fact that the saints had been driven from the land of their inheritance, the Lord said that they would retum to build up the waste places of Zion. (D&C 101:17-18.) In the meantime, the saints were to gather together in stakes that the strength of Zion might be increased. Since 1833, when the saints left Jackson County, the number of stakes has multiplied many times over. At this writing, there are over 400 of these territorial divisions in the Church. These "holy places" are to be places of refuge against the storm of calamities which will befall the 58 participation during the millennial reign. Earth in the last days. (Ibid., 20- 23.) THE COMING OF CHRIST While the saints are established in the stakes of Zion, they are to prepare for the Savior's second coming. The covering between his abode in the heavens and the earth will be removed and "all flesh shall see [him] together." (Ibid., 101:23.) Class Discussion Why do you believe that the second coming of Christ will be a real, actual event? The coming of Christ will be a literal appearance as a personage of flesh and bones. When he ascended into the heavens after his final instructions to his apostles, he promised that he would come in like manner as they had seen him go into heaven. (Acts 1:11.) Jesus was resurrected, his spirit being re-united with his physical body which had been placed in the sepulcher following his death. (Luke 24.) He is today enthroned in the heavens having the same body that he took into the heavens. (D&C 49:6; 130: 22.) On March 7, 1831, the Lord had said that he would come with his holy angels in great power and glory, and he who would not watch for his coming would be cut off. (Ibid., 45:44.) As we take the scriptures literally in regard to Christ's personal appearance, so also we should remember that his coming will be attendant with great destruction. The brightness of his glory will even surpass the brightness of the sun. (Jbid., 133:49.) The wicked will enter the spirit world to be judged according to their works. (D&C 29:9-10; 133: 64; 76:106-112.) The destruction of the wicked at the second coming of Christ is referred to in the scriptures as the end of the world. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:4, 31; SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 1956, pp. 100-101.) When that time comes, the millennial reign of Christ will commence. (D&C 29:10-11.) In some scriptures the condition of the earth is referred to as "'a new heaven and a new earth" (Isa. 65:17; RIcHARDS AND LITTLE Compendium, pp. 185-186 [out of print]). Whereas the present environment of the earth is known as telestial, during the millennium it will be terrestrial. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Lesson Department Salvation, 1:82.) The tenth Article of Faith describes the millennial condition of the earth as "naradisiacal."" This word, given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, suggests a beautiful garden; that is, the earth will become as it was before the fall of Adam. (Ibid., pp. 84-85.) THE CELESTIALIZED EARTH After the earth has served its purpose as the habitat for mortal man, it will undergo a further transformation known as celestialization. Then it will be like a sea of glass having the properties of the Urim and Thummim. By this means knowledge of lower kingdoms than the celestial will be revealed. (D&C 130:9.) This condition is not the same as during the millennium. MILLENNIAL PEOPLE Some members of the Church have an erroneous idea concerning the people who will dwell on the earth during the millennium. Mortals will live during this time. The scriptures speak of a resurrection at the time of the second coming of Christ and indicate that people will be caught up to meet him. It does not follow that the mortals caught up to meet him or those who are not destroyed at his coming will undergo the resurrection. (Ibid., 88: 97-98.) Mortals will live on the earth and follow the same pattern of life that we do now. Isaiah said that people will eat of the fruit of the vine and inhabit houses. (Isaiah 65:21-23.) Children are mentioned in the scriptures as living also. (Isaiah 11:6; 65:20; D&C 63:49-51.) President Joseph Fielding 59 January 1967 Smith has said that honorable people who presently live the terrestrial law will have the right to life then. It will not be only faithful members of the Church who will survive the destruction before and at the Lord's coming.... There will be millions of people, Catholics, Protestants, agnostics, Mohammedans, people of all classes, and of all beliefs, still permitted to remain upon the face of the earth, but they will be those who have lived clean lives, those who have been free from wickedness and corruption. All who belong, by virtue of their good lives, to the terrestrial order, as well as those who have kept the celestial law, will remain upon the face of the earth during the millennium. Eventually, however, the knowledge of the Lord will cover the earth as waters do the sea. But there will be need for the preaching of the gospel, after the millennium is brought in, until all men are either converted or pass away. In the course of the thousand years all men will either come into the Church, or kingdom of God, or they will die and pass away. In that day there will be no death until men are old (Doctrines of Salvation 1:86-87). Among those of "all beliefs" mentioned by President Smith will be those who "knew no law" or the heathen nations. (D&C 45:54.) These will enjoy the blessings of the millennium. If among these nations there are those, however, who will not come up to worship, they will suffer "the judgments of God, and must eventually be destroyed from the earth" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 1956, page 269). This is in accord with what the Prophet Zechariah said of the nations who were left of those who came up to fight 60 against Jerusalem. (Zech. 14:16- 19.) On the other hand, it is not to be expected that all Latter-day Saints will survive the great desolations that visit the earth before and at the second coming of Christ. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: I explained concerning the coming of the Son of Man; also that it is a false idea that the Saints will escape all the judgments, whilst the wicked suffer; for all flesh is subject to suffer, and 'the righteous. Shall hardly escape;" still many of the Saints will escape, for the just shall live by faith; yet many of the righteous shall fall a prey to disease, to pestilence, etc., by reason of the weakness of the flesh, and yet be saved in the kingdom of God. So that it is an unhallowed principle to say that such and such have transgressed because they have been preyed upon by disease or death, for all flesh is subject to death; and the Savior has said, "Judge not, lest ye be judged" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 1956, pp. 162-163). Among the people who will live on the earth during the millennium will be the lost tribes. They will return from the land of the north sometime near or at the second coming of Christ. The destructions of the last days will prepare the way, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, '"'for the return of the lost tribes from the north country." (DHC 1:315.) We know from the scriptures that the Savior visited them and taught them the gospel, and that they have their own scriptures. (3 Nephi, chapters 15 and 16.) They shall come to the Latter-day Saints and there receive their blessings. (D&C 133:26-34; 3 Nephi 21:26; Ether 13:11.) DEATH Class Discussion Wherein is death during the millennium different from death today? (See D&C 101:29.) Separation from loved ones today brings sorrow, but those who die during the millennium "shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye, and shall be caught up, and his [their] rest shall be glorious" (verse 31). The changing of the body will be from mortality to immortality or resurrection. It is said of children that they will "grow up without sin unto salvation" (D&C 45:58). ANIMALS AND MAN The millennial period is known as a period of peace. "And in that day the enmity of man, and the enmity of beasts, yea, the enmity of all flesh, shall cease from before my face' (D&C 101:26; Isaiah 11:6-9). With Satan's power absent and honorable people inhabiting the earth, war shall cease. (Micah 4:4.) Men will convert their military equipment into instruments of peace and productivity. (Isaiah 2:4.) With the Spirit of the Lord upon the earth in rich abundance, the present enmity existing among animals will cease, and man and animal will also be at peace. INCREASED KNOWLEDGE One of the blessings to be received during the millennium is the understanding of many mysteries which have perplexed man. Class Discussion What has the Lord promised us regarding knowledge of the origin of man? Lesson Department It is promised that knowledge concerning man and the earth will be increased greatly. By revelation, men will know the truth regarding man's creation. Yea, verily I say unto you, in that day when the Lord shall come, he shall reveal all things— Things which have passed, and hidden things which no man knew, things of the earth, by which it was made, and the purpose and the end thereof— Things most precious, things that are above, and all things that are beneath, things that are in the earth, and upon the earth, and in heaven (D&C 101:32-34). As a part of the restoration of the fulness of the gospel, it was prophesied that there would be a "restitution of all things" spoken of by the mouths of the holy prophets since the world began. (Acts 3:19-21.) Among these prophecies is the restoration of the sealed portion of The Book of Mormon plates which contain a history of the world from the beginning to the end. These plates will not be revealed during the time of wickedness and abominations, but when the Lord reveals "all things" during the millennium. (2 Nephi 27:7, 8, 10, 11, 22.) Great knowledge has ever been promised those who seek sincerely, and individuals during this period will receive whatsoever they ask. (D&C 101:27; 112:10; 42:68; James 1:5.) The principle upon which this blessing is received is given in Section 88:63- 65. Men today, as well as during the millennium, should ask only for what the Spirit prompts them. PURPOSE OF THE MILLENNIUM There will be a great many of the Father's children who will 61 January 1967 not have received salvation when the millennium is begun. Men will continue to be taught the truth and be capable of exercising their free agency. Class Discussion How will our genealogical research today help us to fulfill one of the principal purposes of the millennium? One of the principal purposes of the thousand-year reign of peace is to perform temple work for those who are eligible for the fulness of the gospel. From the other side of the veil will come messengers that will provide mortals with names of those who, having accepted the gospel in the spirit world, are eligible to receive the ordinances of the temple. Expressed in the language of President Brigham Young, we read:. Before this work is finished, a great many of the Elders of Israel in Mount Zion will become pillars in the Teimple of God, to go no more out: they will eat and drink and sleep there; and they will often have occasion to say— "Somebody came into the Temple last night; we did not know who he was, but he was no doubt a brother, and told us a great many things we did not before understand. He gave us the names of a great many of our forefatherts that are not on record, and he gave me my true lineage and the names of my forefathers for hundreds of years back. He said to me, You and I are connected in one family: there are the names of your ancestors; take them and write them down, and be baptised and confirmed, and save such and such ones, and receive the blessings of the eternal Priesthood for such and such an individual, as you do for yourselves." This is what we are going to do for the inhabitants of the earth (Journal of Discourses 6:295). RESURRECTED SAINTS Because the millennium will be 62 a period of the resurrection, it is improbable that resurrected beings will continue upon the earth as do mortals. Christ will reign personally upon the earth. About this subject, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: °.. Christ and the resurrected Saints will reign over the earth during the thousand years. They will not probably dwell upon the earth, but will visit it when they please, or when it is necessary to govern it (DHC V: 212). During that reign 'judgment will be administered in righteousness; anarchy and confusion will be destroyed, and 'nations will learn war no more'" (DHC V: 63). TWO CAPITALS During the millennial period there will be two capitals on the earth. These will be the Zion on the American Continent and the Old Jerusalem on the Eastern Continent. (Isaiah 2:3.) THE SALT OF THE EARTH What manner of saints should we be to inherit the blessings of the millennium, if alive when it is ushered in? The early saints were reminded that when they accepted the everlasting gospel, they became the salt of the earth and the savor of men. (D&C 101:39.) President Brigham Young said: All Latter-day Saints enter the new and everlasting covenant when they enter this Church. They covenant to cease sustaining, upholding and cherishing the kingdom of the Devil and the kingdoms of this world. They enter the new and everlasting covenant to sustain the Kingdom of God and no other kingdom. They take a vow of the most solemn kind, before the heavens and earth, and that, too, upon: the validity of their own salvation, that they will sustain truth and righteousness, instead of wickedness and falsehood, and build up the Kingdom of God, instead of the kingdoms of this world (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 edition, page 160). Salt was used among the Lord's people anciently as a preservative and also in animal sacrifices. (Lev. 2:13; Ezek. 43:24; Mark 9:49-50.) It was a symbol of the covenant made between God and his people. (Lev. 2:13; Num. 18:19; 2 Chron. 13:5.) When salt is used to represent a people, it means that they will be an influence in carrying forward the truth of the gospel and thus become the savor of men. But if they are represented to be as salt that loses its savor, they will be cast out of the kingdom. (D&C 101:40.) To break the commandments brings a loss of effectiveness with others and a loss of the spirit, and eventual denial of the faith. HE THAT EXALTETH HIMSELF Some of the children of Zion had sinned against their covenants and were cast out of Jackson County, Missouri. Transgressions bring chastisement. (Ibid., 101:41.) He that exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that abaseth himself shall be exalted (Verse 42). The Lord told the saints in this revelation (101) that they did not serve him well during their peace and prosperity, and, therefore, they lost their present inheritance. (Verses 6-8.) In this Lesson Department way they exalted themselves above the Lord's commandments. One of the most serious sins is to become a law unto oneself. To consider that one is beyond receiving counsel from those in authority, constitutes exalting oneself. (D&C 63:55.) SHALL BE ABASED The person who exalts himself lacks humility. Perhaps the instruction of the Lord to Martin Harris might serve to explain what is necessary to become humble. In order for Martin Harris to see the plates of The Book of Mormon, he was told that he must no longer exalt himself but become humble. Behold, I say unto him [Martin Harris], he exalts himself and does not humble himself sufficiently before me; but if he will bow down before me, and humble himself in mighty prayer and faith, in the sincerity of his heart, then will I grant him a view of the things which he desires to see (D&C 5:24). Another requisite for greatness in the kingdom of God is to become the servant of all. (Mark 10:48-44.) Submitting to the will of the Lord is true humility. "Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time" (I Peter 5:6). FOR CONSIDERATION Do you think a discussion with your family on some of the qualities needed to attain greatness in the kingdom of God would be productive? How, as a family, can we prepare for the second coming of Christ? How can we, as mothers and wives, support the Priesthood in the great genealogical program? 63 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 79—"As Oft As Thine Enemy Repenteth of the Trespass.... Thou Shalt Forgive Him, Until Seventy Times Seven (D&C 98:40). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To teach us that we should never withhold forgiveness. It was the hour of agony, of crucifixion, of cruel death. To watch him die was tragedy to the few who stood by the Son of God. Only days before crowds had strewn his path with palm branches and hailed him "King of Israel." Now, forsaken by that fickle throng, condemned by the leaders of his people, he hung in anguish between two thieves. Then said Jesus, 'Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:34). In the midst of his torture, he was filled with compassion for those inflicting on him physical death. He concentrated not on his own pain but upon the needs of those who trespassed against him. In him charity never failed. Centuries later and now triumphant, the resurrected Lord, still counseling forgiveness, said, "... Of you it is required to forgive all men... Let God judge... For he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin" (D&C 64:10, 11, 9). In August 1833, the saints were soon to know persecution and death. In preparing them, the Lord said, "As oft as thine enemy 64 repenteth of the trespass... Thou shalt forgive him, until seventy times seven" (D&C 98:40). Someone hurts our feelings. Shall we strike back? Shall we nurture a grudge? Someone gossips about us. Shall we return slander for slander? Someone takes advantage of us, cheats us, ruins our business or career. What shall we do? God is the same "yesterday, today, and forever' (D&C 20: 12). Long ago in Judaea, Solomon said, ''Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth"' (Proverbs 24:17). During his earthly ministry, the Lord taught, "Love your enemies" and "do good to them that hate you" (Matthew 5:44). In a memorable speech to the Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, '"We have not yet forgiven them [sinners] seventy times seven, as our Savior directed; perhaps we have not forgiven them once" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, The Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, 1956, p. 238). All of us are sinners in some degree. All of us need forgiveness from our Father in heaven. We should, therefore, pray daily: "forgive us our trespasses, aS we forgive those who trespass against us" (Joseph Smith's Inspired Version of Matthew 6:13). In cultivating forgiveness and understanding of others, we open our souls to the greatness of love and, thereby, become eligible for Lesson Department the forgiveness the Lord has promised us. Only then can we truly become generous, loving, hospitable, helpful, good neighbors, and loving, tolerant, patient friends. Forgetting our selfish interests, we can seek out our enemies, forgive them, and try to make them our friends. HOMEMAKING——Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Keeping Records Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show the importance of keeping home-management records. INTRODUCTION During the past few months the homemaking discussions have been concerned with the importance of family financial planning in its various applications to family life and living. These have involved the keeping of certain financial records: specifically, some form of budgeting which would enable the family to work toward the realization and attainment of its goals, and ambitions. Financial records, however, are not the only ones with which the family should be concerned. The management of a home is similar in many ways to the management of a business. Like a business, a family has important documents, valuable assets and_ securities, and other things of significant value to its members. Since memory cannot be relied upon to supply usable or dependable records, these, of necessity, should be preserved and made a matter of written record. To Discuss Almost every mother, at one time or another in her life, is confronted by such questions as: 1. Are you prepared to take care of the family business affairs if anything happened to your husband? 2. In case of emergency, do you know the blood type of each member of the family? 8. Can you furnish the facts relative to your children's health status if it were necessary to do so? 4. Do you know what your family assets are, and can you produce the deeds or certificates to your holdings? WHAT RECORDS SHOULD A FAMILY KEEP? Assuming that the homemaker is convinced of the importance and advantage of keeping records, she, as well as her husband, needs to know what kind of records are 65 January 1967 of importance to the family. She and her husband need to know what they own, where important documents and securities are kept, and how these can be preserved for the benefit and protection of the family. Following is a suggested list which might be of value in the keeping of homemanagement records. I. Family Documents Important family documents and papers should be kept in good form and readily available to the heads of the family. The following are usually included: a. Social Security cards b. Birth certificates of all members c. Church records: baptisms, ordinations, positions held, etc. D. Marriage license e. Wills of both husband and wife family II. Investments Every family should be aware of its assets, as well as its liabilities, and keep a record of them. A. Property owned, and certificates or deeds indicating ownership. B. Bank accounts, including location of banks and administrators thereof. 1. Checkbook stubs. 2. Receipts for payments. C. Government bonds and certificates. Stock III. Benefits An important part of family record keeping is the knowledge which it gives to the members of the benefits which accrue to them from their holdings. A. Insurance: Premium payments and dates when due. 1. Health insurance 2. Fire insurance 3. Other b. Pensions. C. Profit-sharing plans, if any. IV. Health Records Every mother needs to know the answers when she is confronted with 66 questions concerning the health rec-. Ord of members of her family. A. Immunizations: dates and kinds b.. Diseases, predispositions, susceptibilities, and allergies ce. Doctors and dentists consulted d. Medicine prescribed: usage, prescription dates, etc. E. Blood type of each family member V. Calendar Record of Events Every family, of necessity, keeps a calendar record of daily, weekly, or monthly events. A. School functions b. Wedding and social engagements c. Special events d. Routine appointments VI. Personal Family Records How much fun it is to keep a personal record of each child as he or she comes into the family circle, beginning with the first baby picture and following through with each important event which occurs from then on. Such a record instills in the child a personal interest in keeping up his own record, and preserves in the family a feeling of loyalty and pride of achievement. A. Book of Remembrance 'b. Individual scrapbooks and records of achievement c. Photograph albums d. Family travels and vacations e. Family interests and hobbies SUMMARY No matter how interesting and absorbing this matter of record keeping may become, it is important to remember that records are not to be considered as an end in themselves, but as a means for realizing the essential goals and desires of a family. They should be looked upon and used as valuable tools in the intelligent execution of the business of home management, which is of as vital concern to every family as any other part of the business of living. SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4—"When Ye Do What I Say" (D&C 82:10) Reference: ''On Earth and In Heaven'"' (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967 - Lessons 23 and 26) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To point out that personal commitments are involved in the ordinance of setting-apart for service in the Church and in partaking of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. FOLLOW-UP If there is a convert member in the class, suggest that she relate what baptism by the restored authority of the Priesthood means to her. Otherwise, have a member relate briefly the reaction of her family members to the responsibilities involved in the ordinance of baptism. INTRODUCTION This lesson continues discussion of gospel law as manifest in revealed ordinances performed through the authority of the Priesthood. In general, the ordinances considered are familiar to Relief Society women; so familiar, that certain aspects relative to their importance and function as a binding covenant, often may be overlooked. The following questions relate to the two ordinances considered in this lesson: (1) How may the ordinance of setting-apart benefit a woman who has been appointed to render Church service? (2) How is the ancient law of sacrifice associated with the sacrament of the Lord's Supper? (3) What personal commitments are involved in this ordinance? SETTING-APART Setting-apart is a phrase familiar to all members of Relief Society. Many have been involved in this gospel ordinance designed for the bestowal of authority to act in a specified capacity. This ordinance, performed by the laying on of hands by proper Priesthood authority, follows the individual's acceptance and approval, by common consent, of a particular Church assignment. With the exception of the General Authorities and other general officers of the Church and some of their associates, persons who are set-apart are authorized to function within clearly established geographical boundaries (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 26, page 194). Setting-apart is not merely a statement to the effect that the individual has been assigned to a particular Church service; it involves the bestowal of authority, and also the obligation and re- 67 January 1967 sponsibilities which pertain to the particular calling. The officiating Priesthood authority, when and as directed by the Spirit of the Lord, may also give instruction, counsel, and a blessing to guide the individual who is to render the special service. Thus the ordinance of settingapart takes the general form of prayer. The individual being setapart is called by his (her) full name and the statement is made that the ordinance is done in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the authority of the Priesthood. Executive officers of auxiliaries are offically set-apart by the appropriate Priesthood authority. Thus stake Relief Society officers, after having been interviewed, approved, and sustained, are set-apart by the stake president or his authorized representative. Officers called to preside in a ward capacity are set-apart by the bishop or his authorized representative. "The policy of the Church is that there is no need of setting-apart teachers in the auxiliaries" (Ibid.). DISCUSSION 1. In what way does a calling to special Church service set one apart? 2. What general obligations does a woman assume, who is set-apart for a particular position in Relief Society? 3. What responsibility does a Relief Society member have toward the officers in the organization? 4. In what ways is followship as important as leadership? THE PRINCIPLE OF PRESIDENCY Closely associated with the delegation of responsibility, for which individuals are set-apart 68 is the principle of presidency. In relation to Relief Society, we may say that each member of a Relief Society stake or ward presidency, is given a_ specific calling, with attendant responsibilities. The president is the head, her responsibility is to lead, to preside, to make final decisions. Her counselors are called to give support and to counsel. The effective president will, in most instances, make important decisions only after counseling with her counselors. Thus harmony and oneness of purpose are achieved. Counselors should recognize the jurisdiction to which their calling entitles them. They will not only be loyal to the president, giving counsel and support, but will respect the position and decision of the president. This principle, carried into the home, means that the father who is the head of the home, who counsels with his wife, appreciates her support and counsel. The wife, on the other hand, will recognize and honor the position of the husband as head of the home. Thus unity of purpose, oneness of effort, and harmony may be the happy result. FOR CLASS CONSIDERATION 1. Name attributes which encourage harmony in recognizing the principle of presidency. 2. How important to the harmonious and effective progress of a ward Relief Society are the support and appreciation of the members of that Society? "THIS DO IN REMEMBRANCE OF ME" (Luke 22:19) In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the sanctity of the Sabbath is emphasized in the following words: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day (D&C 59:9). Thus, included in the commandment to keep the Sabbath day holy, is the offering up of personal sacraments. "A sacrament is a_ spiritual covenant between God and man" (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 172). In the sacrament known as the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, believers covenant with the Father always to remember his Son, witnessing their willingness to take upon themselves the name of Christ, and to keep his commandments. The ordinance of the sacrament, thus, is the ritual, ceremony, rite, or ordinance, through which members of God's earthly kingdom make and renew solemn covenants to serve the Lord and keep his commandments. The sacrament consists of partaking of bread and water—-which has been blessed and prepared for that purpose by the authority of the Priesthood— in remembrance of the Lord's sacrifice. The covenants which are made as part of the ordinance are some of the most solemn and sacred found in the gospel (Melchizedek Priesthood manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven. Lesson 238, page 172). OF OUR FIRST PARENTS "One of the first great spiritual experiences received by Adam after he became mortal was associated with the law of sacrifice. Of our first parents the scriptural account says that the Lord... Gave unto them commandments, that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstLesson Department lings of their flocks, for an offering unto the Lord. And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the Lord. And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore (Moses 5:5-8) (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 28, page 173). THE LAW OF SACRIFICE Beginning with the first man and continuing for four thousand long years, the God of Heaven directed his people to offer sacrifice in similitude of the future atoning sacrifice of his Son. All of the patriarchs, prophets, and saints of four millenniums offered the firstlings of their flocks on their sacrificial altars, beasts which were without spot or blemish. These sacrifices signified that the Lamb of God, by the shedding of blood and through his own vicarious sacrifice, would atone for the sins of the world (McConkie, Bruce R., Doctrinal New Testament Commentary, Vol. 1, Salt Lake City, Utah, Bookcraft Publishers, 1965, page 718; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 28, pp. 172- 178). SACRIFICE IN ANCIENT AMERICA A knowledge of the law of sacrifice was not limited to the Jews of Palestine. The Nephites in ancient America likewise were taught that an atonement for the sins of man would be made. Before the birth of the Savior, Amulek, explaining the need for and testifying of the future atonement, said: 69 January 1967 For it is expedient that there should be a great and last sacrifice; yea, not a sacrifice of man, neither of beast, neither of any manner of fowl... But it must be an infinite and eternal sacrifice. Therefore, it is expedient that there should be a great anel last sacrifice; and then shall there be, or it is expedient there should be, a stop to the shedding of blood... (Alma 34:10, 18; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 174). Later, when the resurrected Jesus visited the Nephites, he confirmed the passing of the ancient law of sacrifice in the following words: And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt offerings. And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost... (3 Nephi 9: 19-20; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 174). IN THE MERIDIAN OF TIME Relief Society women know that the sacramental service is in remembrance of the atoning sacrifice of Christ. Some, however, may not know that it was instituted in the meridian of time by the Savior, ''to replace the agesold system of sacrifice" (Ibid.). As sacrifice was thus to cease with the occurrence of the great event toward which it pointed, there musi needs be a new ordinance to replace it, an ordinance which also would center the attention of the saints on the infinite and eternal atonement. And so Jesus, celebrating the Feast of the Passover, thus dignifying and fulfilling the law to the full, initiated 70 the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Sacrifice stopped, and _ sacrament started. It was the end of the old era, the beginning of the new. Sacrifice looked forward to the shed blood and bruised flesh of the Lamb of God. The sacrament was to be in remembrance of his spilt blood and broken flesh, the emblems, bread and wine, typifying such as completely as had the shedding of the blood of animals in their days (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, pp. 174-175). SACRAMENT OF THE LORD'S SUPPER The ordinance of the sacrament, as we have it, had its beginning in the meridian of time and was introduced by the Savior himself. The place was Jerusalem. The time: during the celebration of the Feast of the Passover, just preceding the crucifixion. The Feast of the Passover, sacred Jewish memorial festival, was established at the time of Israel's deliverance from Egyptian bondage. At the time of the Savior, people came to Jerusalem from far and near to participate in the annual commemoration of "the outstretched arm of power by which God had delivered Israel after the angel of destruction had slain the firstborn in every Egyptian home and had mercifully passed over the houses of the children of Jacob" (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, Edition 13, page 112). Rituals, specific and detailed, were associated with this solemn celebration. On the day preceding the eating of the paschal (Passover) lamb, the selected sacrificial "lambs were slain within the temple court, by the representatives of families or companies ~ who were to eat together; and a portion of the blood of each lamb was sprinkled at the foot of the altar of sacrifice.... The slain lamb, then said to have been sacrificed, was borne away to the appointed gathering place of those by whom it was to be eaten" (Ibid. Page 593). Some of the disciples inquired of Jesus where they should make preparations for the paschal meal. He instructed Peter and John to return to Jerusalem, saying:... Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in. And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guest-chamber where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished; there make ready. And they went, and found as he had said unto them; and they made ready the passover. And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him. And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer (Luke 22:10-15). This upper room to which Jesus and his disciples came to eat the last meal of which the Savior would partake before his death, was the setting for the introduction of one of the most sacred of gospel ordinances. Jesus appears to have observed the essentials of the Passover procedure, although we have no record that all requirements with which tradition had invested this sacred memorial were followed. It is certain, however, that the very presence of Jesus, soon to be crucified for the sins of all men, Lesson Department his prophetic words prefacing his betrayal, and the introduction of the ordinance in remembrance of his sacrifice, set this particular paschal meal — this the Lord's Last Supper — apart from all feasts of the Passover. INSTITUTED AMONG NEPHITES During his brief ministry among the Nephites, as recorded in 3 Nephi, the risen Lord introduced the sacramental ordinance and gave instruction regarding its continuance among those who would believe. And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done, even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you. And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have shown unto you. And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that ye do always remember me. And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my spirit to be with you (3 Nephi 18:6-7; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 23, page 177). Although the blessings pronounced upon the bread and upon the wine (water) were not recorded in the New Testament, nor do we have a record that they were given to the Nephites on the occasion of the introduction of the ordinance recorded in 3 Nephi, they were, however, "given to the Nephites and were inserted in the Book of Mormon account centuries later by Moroni (Moroni, chapters 4 and 5)" (Tbid.). Revealed to the Latter-day Saints, we find these prayers of blessing on the sacrament in the Doctrine and Covenants (Section 20). A careful reading of these 7] January 1967 prayers reveals both solemn commitment and wonderful promise to all who worthily partake and who fulfill the requirements of "this sacred ordinance. CLASS DISCUSSION 1. Is the sacrament an ordinance of salvation or of blessing? 2. What personal commitment does one make as she partakes of the sacrament? 3. What blessings are to be received? 4. Do you believe (judging from your own attitude and practice) that during the passing of the sacrament, the majority of adults think specifically of the Savior and his sacrifice? Discuss. 5. What does it mean to "renew our covenants" by partaking of the sacrament? Only when we bring to the sacrament of the Lord's Supper a broken heart and a contrite spirit, a willingness to be known by his name and to keep his commandments, are we promised (through this ordinance) that the Spirit of the Lord will be with us. As a woman magnifies her service in a particular calling, she will realize the blessings to which the ordinance of setting-apart entitles her. I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D&C 82:10). FOR HOME DOING 1. Analyze your own attitude toward the sacranzent of the Lord's Supper. Try to make this ordinance more meaningful to you as an occasion for renewing your personal covenants, and by considering the commitments which involve you. 2. Help your children to understand the importance of the sacrament. 3. Evaluate the worth of your consistent attendance at sacrament meeting. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS In presenting this lesson emphasize in the discussion how these ordinances directly affect each sister's life and, in turn, the lives of those who live with her. (See Lesson Helps.) NOCTURNE Gilean Douglas Whaletown, B. C., Canada Now the deliberation of the night Is deep Upon the water; darkness fills The tidal plain between the island hills, And sleep Comes limpidly as thought upon delight. 72 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 6—"'Virtue Nourishes the Soul'' 'Virtue is the health of the soul.' Joseph Joubert Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To show the beauty and truth of the statement The lesson for this month covers seven short selections plus one somewhat longer story, all of which are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Six of Volume 2 of Out of the Best Books. Class leaders and Relief Society sisters having access to the text should study the selections there because space permits only very abbreviated treatment in this Magazine lesson. Also, class leaders should not try to teach all eight selections because there are too many to cover in one lesson. Instead, each leader should choose those selections she feels will be most valuable for her group. Probably most class leaders will want to use the Tolstoy story as the central selection and add two or three of the shorter pieces for enrichment material. (Note to class leaders: The only selection in this lesson now under copyright prohibiting your making copies of it is the little poem "Fire and Ice" by Robert Frost. All other selections may be re-copied if you desire.) GENERAL COMMENT "Man flows at once to God 'Virtue is the health of the soul." when the channel of purity is open." Later in this lesson we will read these words in an essay by Thoreau. Wise thinker that he was, Thoreau recognized, as other wise and inspired men have done, that the cultivation of purity moves us toward God and the allowance of impurity moves us away from God. We have the word of the Savior that this is so, for he said: "Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God" (Matthew 5:8). Note that the emphasis is on purity 'in heart." "Let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly" was the similar admonition of Joseph Smith as he prayed and suffered in Liberty Jail (Doctrine and Covenants 121:45). The beginning of virtue 'is self-control of one's actions, to keep them pure. More difficult is control of one's words, to keep them clean and in good taste. Most difficult of all is control of one's thoughts, to keep them wholesome and_ uplifting. All three controls are necessary for the fully virtuous life. These are beautiful words — virtue, modesty, chastity, purity. Men and women should be chaste and modest at all times—never 73 January 1967 vulgar in action, word, dress or thought. Note that the sentence begins "men and women." There is no double standard among Latter-day Saints. The same principles of virtue and clean living apply equally to men as to women. Moreover, as members of the Church striving toward eternal goals, we should avoid not only evil itself but also the appearance of evil and situations in which we are tempted to do evil. We should in all ways and at all times conduct ourselves with dignity, modesty, and control, remembering that temporary pleasures are always wrong if they endanger permanent joy and peace of mind. The only way to be comfortable with oneself is to be comfortable with one's conscience. This is not to suggest a rusty conscience, but a sensitive, clear conscience. There is no sin so small but that avoiding it will make us better, and almost no sin so great but that one can be redeemed from it through genuine repentance. With regard to chastity and unchastity, however, we should remember that the Lord regards sexual. Relations outside the marriage covenant as a sin second only to murder in seriousness. One cannot restore life when it is taken, nor virtue when it is taken; that is why these are the two most serious sins in human relations. All of these things are, of course, not new. They are as. Old as the gospel, and as true. Indeed, they are a vital part of the gospel, and as Church members we have heard them over and over. The scriptures and the sermons of our living prophets are filled with beautiful, powerful ad- 74 monitions to let virtue govern our lives and to avoid evil. Our purpose, however, in this lesson is to approach these ideals not through scripture and sermon but through art, letting the art-creators of the world add their insight to the joy of pure living and the anguish of impure living. Before moving to the literary selections, we have just two more general items to mention: The first is a reminder that virtue should be genuine and not just surface or narrowed to selfrighteousness. Because the problem of self-righteousness was treated extensively in Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books, we shall not explore it again here. But we do need to be reminded of the danger.: The second item is a brief sampling from President David O. McKay's many writings on virtue, chastity, morality, purity, and motherhood. No one in modern times has commented on these things more than our re- -vered contemporary prophet: Love is the highest attribute of the human soul, and fidelity is love's 'noblest offspring. A woman should be queen of her own body.... Chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood, and self-control is the source of true manhood,... Not indulgence. Sexual indulgence whets the passion and creates morbid desire.... Gentleness and consideration after the ceremony are just as appropriate and necessary and beautiful as gentleness and consideration before the wedding. Chastity is the virtue that contributes to the peace and harmony of the home. More homes are ruined and more hearts broken because of unchastity than by the violation of any other virtue. PROVERBS, CHAPTER 31 The last half (verses 10-31) of Chapter 31 of Proverbs in the 'Old Testament serves as an excellent brief introduction to this lesson on virtue. It identifies the attributes of womanly purity and, like the other Psalms and Proverbs, reflects many poetic qualities in its wording. That is, it is lovely both in its substance and its language. Because the Bible is available to all readers, we will not print any of the verses here but simply suggest that Relief Society sisters turn to the Bible itself. Class Discussion How many specific qualities of a virtuous woman can you identify in this passage? What are these qualities? Search your own soul to see how many you possess. CHAPTER XI, "HIGHER LAWS," OF WALDEN Henry David Thoreau (1817- 1862), with Emerson, comprises the heart of the mid-nineteenthcentury American romanticism, known as_ transcendentalism. Walden (1854) is his masterpiece, and one of the great books to come out of America. At other times during 1967-68 we will explore Walden more fully. Here we present just one small excerpt, a part of Chapter XI on "Higher Laws." Several major points are stressed in this passage: (1) The entire universe is moral, and man must be moral, too, or be in conflict with the eternal laws of the universe. (2) Every person has within him animal desires and divine aspirations. Righteousness Lesson Department consists in subduing the animal desires and cultivating the divine aspirations. (3) Chastity, another name for purity, beautifies personality and fills character with power. Contrariwise, unchastity or impurity brings ugliness and also enslavement. (4) Sensuality expresses itself in many ways, all leading downward to degradation, and all part of one gross sensuality. Likewise, spirituality expresses itself in many ways, all part of one whole of purity, leading upward to God. (5) The body is the temple of the human spirit. Whether it be corrupt or noble depends on whether it is enslaved by sensuality or uplifted by beautiful purity. Thoreau says three things better than we can paraphrase him, as the passage itself shows. Class Discussion To what extent does Thoreau in this passage agree with the excerpt from Chapter 31 of Proverbs in defining a pure person? Point out specific points of agreement describing the qualities of virtue. Excerpts from Chapter XI of Walden: Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never fails. In the music of the harp which trembles round the world it is the insisting on this which thrills us... Though the youth at last grows indifferent, the laws of the universe are not indifferent, but are forever on the side of the most sensitive. Listen to every zephyr for some reproof, for it is surely there, and he is unfortunate who does not hear it. We cannot touch a string or move a stop but the charming moral transfixes us... We are conscious of animal in us, which awakens in proportion as our higher nature slumbers. It is reptile 15 January 1967 and sensual, and perhaps cannot be wholly expelled; like the worms which, even in life and health, occupy our bodies. Possibly we may withdraw from it, but never change its nature. I fear that it may enjoy a certain health of its own; that we may be well, yet not pure.... Who knows what sort of life would result if we had attained to purity? If I knew so wise a man as could teach me purity I would go to seek him forthwith.... Chastity is the flowering of man; and what are called Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open... All sensuality is one, though it takes many forms; all purity is one. It is the same whether a man eat, or drink, or cohabit, or sleep sensually. They are but one appetite, and we only need to see a person do any one of these things to know how great a sensualist he is. The impure can neither stand nor sit with purity. When the reptile is attacked at one mouth of his burrow, he shows himself at another. If you would be chaste, you must be temperate.... Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the God he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them. WHERE LOVE IS, THERE GOD! S ALSO This great old Russian story by Leo N. Tolstoy (1828-1910) is intended to be the central work in this month's lesson. It not only is a famous story by a famous author but beautifully dramatizes the rich breadth of the qualities of virtue. In its broad sense virtue means more than sexual purity. It means goodness; and it embraces all of the qualities of honesty, charity, spirituality, and 76 righteousness that goodness embraces. Also, the story skillfully weaves throughout its substance the language and ideals of Christ's Sermon on the Mount as found in Chapters 5 to 7 of Matthew and 6 to 7 of Luke. This story, along with Chapter 31 of Proverbs and the excerpt from Walden, is intended as a positive illustration of the qualities of virtue. The story and our discussion of it are much too long, however, to be included or even summarized in this Magazine lesson. Therefore, class leaders and Relief Society sisters should turn to the cultural refinement text for these materials. EXCERPTS FROM "THE EVERLASTING GOSPEL" BY WILLIAM BLAKE Earth groaned beneath, and Heaven above Trembled at discovery of Love. Jesus was sitting in Moses' chair; They brought the trembling woman there. Moses commands she be stoned to death— What was the sound of Jesus' breath? He laid His hand on Moses' law; The ancient heavens, in silent awe, Writ with curses from pole to pole, All away began to roll. There is a human tendency to gossip and spread scandal. One of the harsh consequences of gossip is that people are stigmatized, branded; and even people who want very much to repent are not given much chance to do so because of the gossip and the scandal. Repentance is one of the great principles of the gospel, but another great principle, forgiveness, needs to be practiced—by others. William Blake (1757-1827), was a great mystic poet and painter at the beginning of Eng- lish romanticism. ''Be free, and love all things" were the two great principles dominating all that Blake wrote. This little poem is just a small excerpt from a much longer work. It stands alone as a powerful expression of Christ's gospel of love replacing the Mosaic law of punishment and vengeance. Not "an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth"; rather 'whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also" and "love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you." (Matthew 5:38-44.) All readers will remember the particular incident in Christ's life which serves as background to Blake's poem. (See John 8: 3-11 in the New Testament.) The central point of this scriptural passage, and of Blake's poem, and of the present discussion, is that people who have sinned, especially young people who have committed moral sin, should be given an opportunity through love and understanding to repent and turn to righteous living. Sins are multiplied when to one person's sin of transgression is added another person's sin of unforgiveness. OTHER SELECTIONS In addition to the four selections already mentioned, this lesson embraces three poems which explore special ideas and problems related to the ideals of virtue. All of these are printed, with discussions, in Section Six of Volume 2 of Out of the Best Books, where they may be Lesson Department studied and used as desired by lesson leaders. One of these is "Fire and Ice," a little poem by Robert Frost vividly suggesting the terrible, destructive power of passion. Another is 'The City Dead-house" by Walt Whitman, a powerful poem contrasting the beauty of the human body in purity with the ugly waste of the human body in sin. A third is Christina Rossetti's "The Convent Threshold," another powerful poem portraying the anguish of a guilty conscience accompanied by a genuine yearning for the peace of repentance. Class Discussion In what specific ways do these selections help motivate us to avoid impurity and seek virtue in our lives? What qualities of womanhood, as shown by these selections, combine to make a fully virtuous woman? BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index tncluded Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2..... 55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5.......... -80 a DESERET_FREWS PRESS — 17 History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 A Gift to be treasured in all seasons Especially appropriate as a remembrance for the Relief Society 125th Anniversary— March 1967. @ The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Mlustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Orders received after December 15, 1966 at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 South 'America With W. Cleon Skousen Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY 84101 PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR SOUTH AMERICAN TOUR. NAME ADDRESS MURDOCK TRAVEL eu' STATE TEMPLE TOURS NORTHWEST CANADIAN TOURS HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS PASSION PLAY TOURS HAWAIIAN TOURS Call or write for itineraries. James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 COOK ELECT RIC So Pots and pans stay '"'white glove'"' clean' lf its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 79 103 94 92 Mrs. Mary Hudson Bohne Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor Mclintire Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Mary Hegsted Rawson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Gladys Evans Newman St. John, Utah Mrs. Rachel Middleton Jensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Tilton Young San Mateo, Florida Mrs. Emily Elizabeth Davis Schettler Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Bickmore Larsen Preston, Idaho Mrs. Celia Pope Langford Garden City, Utah Mrs. Amy Walker Baker Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Manetta Simonsen Bradley Ely, Nevada Mrs. Agnes Cook Coles Orem, Utah Mrs. Florence Adelaide Stewart Harper Lisbon Falls, Maine Mrs. Clara Tarwater Santa Rosa, California 80 Mrs. Rose Thomas Graham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Selman Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Ella Wheeler Reynolds Springville, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Anna Maria Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Burrow Ure Gardena, California Mrs. Mary Ann Trimble John Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Powell Fox Lehi, Utah Mrs. Mary Arminta Jamieson Robbins Calgary, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Laura Finlayson Coombs Payson, Utah Mrs. Minnie Young Perry Logan, Utah Mrs. Ada Cortina Corti Woodcock Cokeville, Wyoming Mrs. Janie Baxter Maughan Wellsville, Utah Mrs. Janice Marie Poulson Rasmussen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie Christensen Larsen Marsing, Idaho Miss Ellen Copley Coalville, Utah Mrs. Helga M. Bjarnason Jones Spanish Fork, Utah Watch for these special offers! On the back of U and I Sugar Bags. Bonus values for you... These premium offers save up to % on high quality kitchenware and other items. Mirro Teflon Muffin Pan Set Make individual meat loaves or cup cakes. SET OF TWO 5 and a U and | Sugar label. To: Sweet Offer, Box 4600, Manitowac, Wisconsin 54220. Wm. A. Rogers* Stainless Placa set {8 The popular Carolina* floral pattern. 5 PC. SETTING = aa $ 2 00 i \ and a « U and | Sugar 'i am. Label. 7. I" | | ly pe | to: U & 1 Special Offer, Box 161, Sherrill, New York 13461. S,:: \ SUGAR *Trademarks of Oneida Ltd., Silversmiths i URE. Offers on the back of U and I Sugar bags. =panera" FACTORIES AT: WEST JORDAN AND GARLAND, UTAH; MOSES LAKE AND TOPPENISH, WASHINGTON AND IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO. Ne oman Note: These are only two of seven outstanding premium Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah TWO IMPORTANT SUGGESTIONS FOR NEW YEAR READING! HIGHLIGHTS IN THE LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID 0. McKAY $4.95 by Jeanette McKay Morrell Touching episodes from the eventful life of a true prophet of the living God. Written with the warm insight of a sister, this book portrays the greatness of his leadership while reminding us of the personal humility and depth of character that have made him so beloved of his people. THE ART OF HOMEMAKING $3.95 (Revised and enlarged) by Daryl Hoole Over 100 pages of new material to supplement the wealth of information found in the first edition. Sister Hoole has responded to many requests for hints and explanations of the task of a homemaker that were not previously covered. This new edition contains many beautiful illustrations and photographs. Start off the New Year right with The Art of Homemaking! WRITE NOW DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple. Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 I Deseret Be Book or 777 South Main, Orange. California 92669 44 EAST SO. Ate Ri AT COTTONWOOD MALL Please send me: SALT LAKE CITY 77780 MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA p; 2 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY C——— [] THE ART OF HOMEMAKING I enclose a check/money order for total amount $ 00002 nee Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake must add 3!2% sales tax: California residents ordering from Orange must add 4% sales tax. Or. Bill my established account [_] OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT NOW! Send for information. 'RS. Jan. 67 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN [] HIGHLIGHTS IN THE LIFE OF | sewn eh a ' - q a a a? Oo 8 o OF a EMS ws & uu 4 O-s* 7 dd FREI ~ a The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: llustrations: GIFT OF TIME Eva Willes Wangsgaard Over night's purple hill tomorrows come To offer faith, new hope, another chance. In this anticipation lies the sum Of man's survival and the world's advance. Tomorrow is a pheasant in the brush, Its plumage many-hued and prism-bright, Which lifts above the shadows' muting plush, On low-flung wings, a shining arc of flight. However deep the pain or darkness lies, Tomorrow's aura beckons just ahead And brings a gift unseen by finite eyes, A rich surprise with powers unlimited, An iridescent glow, a golden band, A gift of time, love-blessed, divinely planned. Winter Portrait Transparency by Jim Keeler Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Lake Shikotsu, Japan Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 81 | wonder if there could be anyone who waits for The Relief Society Magazine as anxiously as | do. It may well be because the Magazine has so many readers and admirers. Why this anxiety? Well, there are many reasons. First of all, | am from Buenos Aires, Argentina, and, as you know, my language is Spanish, and that is one of the reasons why | am enjoying the Spanish Magazine. Secondly, for the varied topics of interest on many subjects, and because it also appeals to my husband. For this, | have an enjoyable time commenting, and this provides a beautiful and instructive means for a discussion with my husband. Julia P. Mangum Provo, Utah My daughter and son-in-law are Latterday Saints. | am Baptist, but | love The Relief Society Magazine, and we share it with my daughter-in-law, who is Presbyterian! Therefore three homes greatly benefit from it. Mrs. Lydia Leeds Greer, Arizona Our wonderful Magazine has always been a great comfort to me. The beautiful stories teach a lesson that can comfort when one is troubled and worried. The editorial page is so inspiring. Now in my seventy-ninth year, living the gospel is the most important thing in my life. The Magazine helps me so much. | read it from cover to cover and also send it to two of my daughters. Agnes Watts Spring Valley, California 82 wf The Relief Society Magazine has been my favorite for many years. | was especially touched by Pearle M. Olsen's article ''Resembling Mother' (May 1966). If Pearle's own mother was anything like her, she was truly a wonderful person. Other thoughts | enjoyed from the May issue were: "Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother,"" by Leah Green, and Lydia Parker's "Letter to Daughter From Mother." Mabel L. Anderson's '"'Much of Worth -—The Relief Society Magazine" expressed the feelings of women throughout the Church. | also enjoyed ''Offering for Peace'' (poem by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and my heart was particularly touched by ''My Heart Would Break," by Maude O. Cook. Amy Giles Bond Kaysville, Utah | could see joy and delight in my husband's face as he sat down to his Sunday dinner a few weeks ago. As he finished the last morsel of food, | detected a little note of extra special thanks as he expressed his appreciation to me for the meal. So |! Feel | owe this extra special thanks to Asel B. Brodt for her most delightful account in the August Magazine of serving her father's favorite dessert ''Apple Dumplings,"' and the recipe accompanying it. This recipe will be added to my recipe file. All my married life (twenty-six years), my husband has been trying to get me to make him some boiled apple dumplings the way his mother used to make them, so | was thrilled when | came across thi article. Mrs. Blenavond F. Curti Baldwin Park, Californi The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 February 1967 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 84 Compassionate Service in Relief Society Marion G. Romney 97 The Class Leader Makes the Difference Alma P. Burton 114 Reduce Your Risk of Heart Attack Fiction 90 A Gift to the Giver Second Prize Story Marie M. Hayes 105 The Golden Chain—Chapter 1 Hazel M. Thomson 116 Valentines Are Important Frances C. Yost 122 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 8 Conclusion Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 82 From Near and Far 115 Woman's Sphere 112 Editorial: Singing Mothers 180 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations: The Home - Inside and Out 111 Angel Number Three Lael J. Littke ~ 121 A Toy He Will Treasure June F. Krambule 128 Butter Frosting Made With a Mixer Judith Leigh-Kendall 128 Kate's Cookies Kate Swainston 129 Flowers That Last Forever Lesson Department 137 Spiritual Living—The Eventual Triumph of God's Work Roy W. Doxey 143 Visiting Teacher Message—'"'All Victory and Glory Is Brought to Pass Unto You..." Alice Colton Smith 144 Homemaking—Project Thrift Celestia J. Taylor 146 Social Relations—On the Road to Perfection Alberta H. Christensen 152 Cultural Refinement—"Wisdom Teaches Right" Bruce B. Clark Poetry 81 Gift of Time Eva Willes Wangsgaard The Father, Dorothy J. Roberts, 104; Keeping Summer, Enola Chamberlin 120; Our Gift, Sue S. Beatie 151; Winter, Fanny G. Brunt 158; Busy Fingers, Catherine B. Bowles 160. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts wil! Be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 83 Compassionate Service in Relief @ It is an honor, my sisters, to be invited to address you this morning. When Sister Spafford invited me to come here I asked her to give me a memorandum suggesting matters on which I might speak. In response to this request, I received a letter from Sister Sharp who said that I might speak (1) on compassionate services of Relief Society, and (2) on services we are ready to perform as directed by the General Church Welfare Committee. I shall first direct my remarks to the second suggestion. For the past thirty years Relief Society has been, and still is, the bishop's chief auxiliary aide in implementing the Church Welfare Program. Among other things, the ward Relief Society president has been, and _ still should be, called upon to study, analyze, and report to her bishop conceming circumstances of the needy, to prepare orders on bishops' storehouses and to assist in preparing forecasts for future needs. Members of Relief Society have been, and still should be, willing to work at the call of the bishop on sewing, canning, and other welfare production projects. For many years Relief Society was given a major assignment in the field of employment, particularly with respect to women and girls. While under the present welfare organization procedures, the Relief Society is not asked to participate in employment finding and placement in industry, there is a service with respect to domestic employment in the homes of ward members which Compassionate Service In Relief Society the Relief Society is admirably positioned to render. In their visits, Relief Society teachers have opportunity tactfully and wisely to assess conditions in the home. For this, they ought, by proper training, to qualify themselves for and conscientiously do. Following their visits, they should promptly report to their ward Relief Society presidents all the circumstances which, in their judgment, call for welfare or Relief Society compassionate service, including needed female domestic help and employment. Occasionally, there are emergencies which justify immediate action by the visiting teachers themselves at times, and, at other times, by the ward Relief Society president. In such emergencies, I do not think we should be so bound by procedural rules that we would let the patient die for want of help we can render while we hunt for the bishop. I remember a story about a young child who was starting school. At lunch she tipped over a glass of milk. The teacher being somewhat nettled said, 'What would your mother do if she were here?" The child replied, '"She'd get a cloth and mop it up; she wouldn't stand there doing nothing." In all cases, however, the fact should be reported by the Relief Society president to the bishop not later than the next ward Welfare Committee meeting which is scheduled to be held each week at the beginning of the ward Priesthood executive committee meeting. — In addition to these and kindred services, which Relief Society should stand ready to perform, there are other compassionate services which may, at times, be directed by the bishop and at other times be rendered pursuant to Relief Society's general commission. For example: Supplying or rendering domestic help in time of illness, bereavement, or other emergencies; occasionally the furnishing of a meal to the aged or otherwise homebound; calling on or, perhaps, telephoning the lonely in their homes and in hospitals; or writing letters for the incapacitated. A list of such benevolent services might be endlessly extended and still not include all areas of welfare and Relief Society compassionate service. Since Relief Society, as instructed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, carries on its work under the direction of the Priesthood, it might be well here to note that very early in this dispensation, the Lord put the major responsibility of caring for the poor upon the Church, upon the bishop, as the administrative agent of the Church; and since Relief Society is the chief aide to the bishop, I will take a minute to give you the words of the Lord with respect to this responsibility to care for the poor. As early as January 2, 1831, and that was within nine months of the organization of the Church, the Lord said in a great revelation:... For your salvation I give unto you a commandment, for I have heard your prayers, and the poor have complained before me, and the rich have I made, and all flesh is mine, and I am no respecter of persons. Wherefore, hear my voice and follow me...... Let every man esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me. 85 February 1967 And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself. (D&C 38:16, 22, 24-25). And then, in a very impressive parable, the Lord pointed out what he meant by the phrase esteeming one's brother as himself. He said: For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other: Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there—and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just? Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine (D&C 38: 26-27). Then he gave the Church instructions as to what to do about it. He said: And now, I give unto the church in these parts a commandment, that certain men among them shall be appointed... And they shall look toe the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer... (D&C 38:384-35). Five weeks later, in the revelation referred to in the revelation itself as the law of the Church, the Lord said: If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep my commandments. And behold, thou wilt remember the poor.... And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors... (D&C 42:29-31). And then, a little later in the same month, the Lord said again: Behold, I say unto you, that ye must visit the poor and the needy and administer to their relief... (D&C 44:6). 86 Now all these revelations came in January and February, 1831, but the revelation which moves me most on this question is the one given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in June of that year. In this revelation, the Lord directed twenty-eight of the elders to travel, two by two, from Kirtland to Jackson County, Missouri. They were to go by different routes, preaching the gospel as they went. You will recall that they were very destitute in those days; and they would travel— walk part of the way—through a primitive country. Joseph Smith and his immediate companions "journeyed by wagon and stage and. Occasionally by canal boat, to Cincinnati, Ohio," then "to Louisville, Kentucky," and "St. Louis by steamer." "From this city on the Mississippi, the Prophet walked across the entire state of Missouri, to Independence, Jackson County, a distance of nearly 300 miles....? (CANNON, GEORGE Q., Life of Joseph Smith the Prophet, 1958 Edition, page 117). Now I recall these facts to your attention that you may understand the background against which the Lord said to these men as they started:.. Temember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple (D&C 52:40). This statement, given under such conditions, not only impressed upon the brethren the great importance of taking care of the poor, but it seems, from what the Prophet later said con- Compassionate Service In Relief Society cerning the sisters' benevolent services, to have had a telling effect on them also. Pursuant to these revelations, the primary obligation to care for the poor of the Church has been, and still is, the bishop's. Since 1842, however, when the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society, the sisters have been called upon to help. In search of the correct concept of Relief Society's responsibility in Church welfare and compassionate services, I have reviewed the Prophet Joseph Smith's comments concerning, and his remarks to, the Relief Society in its infancy. His words graphically portray his views on these matters which I think should continue to be your guide. I think there is no man, save the Redeemer himself, who was greater or lived closer to the Lord than the Prophet. Now I'm going to quote considerably from the Prophet. I hope you'll think hard and get the point of view of the Prophet about your organization. Under date of February 17, 1842, the Prophet wrote in his journal: I assisted in commencing the organization of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." A week later, the following Thursday, he made this entry in his journal: I attended, by request the Female Relief Society, whose object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes. Now "benevolent" is defined in my dictionary as 'disposed to promote the prosperity and happiness of others; kind; charitable." To go on with the Prophet's entry: There was a very numerous attendance... Of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice (DHC. IV, pp. 552, 567). Now, here in these tremendous statements of the Prophet, we have some very specific areas in which Relief Society may serve without always awaiting the bishop's special call. And then the Prophet continues: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a Jess barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the. Condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC. IV, pp. 567-568). Speaking to the Relief Society again on Thursday, the 28th of April of that same year (that was five weeks after its organization), the Prophet in his remarks 87 February 1967 to them, as reported by Eliza R. Snow, said: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.... If this Society listens to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have power to command queens in their midst (DHTC IV, p. 605). "You will receive instructions" —and this is still from the Prophet: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads.... (DHC IV, p. 607). And then he had something to say about laboring close to home, while your knowledge could extend to the whole world. I thought of Sister Spafford over there in the East, in Asia, when I read this again. Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your Own acquaintance, as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world; but your administering should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Relief Society (DHC IV, p. 607). 88 I thought Sister Spafford was on course this morning when she said what she did about getting mixed up in partnership with other worldly organizations. The minutes of the Relief Society organization for June 9, 1842, quote the Prophet as saying this: The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls (DHC V, pp. 24-25). Of course, there is no other organization on the earth, women's or any other kind, that has a constitution like that from the Prophet of the living God. Now the records give us the setting and nature and reveal the importance of the Relief So- "ciety's objective, which, in the words of the Prophet Joseph, "is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, for the exercise of all benevolent. Purposes." Through the years Church procedures have varied. Since Relief Society was organized, however, it has had a part in every phase, and the sisters have always participated. You have never faltered, and you have every reason to be proud of your record. It is my conviction and faith that you will not falter now nor in the future, and I believe that in the days ahead you will have an opportunity to render even greater service than you have ever been called upon to render heretofore. In addition to responding to the call of the bishop for assistance in Church welfare, and without encroaching upon his Compassionate Service In Relief Society prerogatives, members of the Relief Society should be ever alert to acts of benevolence on a neighbor-to-neighbor basis. Many are the poor, the destitute, the widows, the orphans, and the strangers whose tears are to be dried and whose hearts are to be made to rejoice by your flying to their relief and pouring into their distressed souls the healing balm of divine charity and benevolence. Here are some quotations from a communication recently received by a friend of mine which deliver, I think, a real message on this theme:... Although LDS people are fine citizens (this is a non-member writing to a good member of the Church) and have created a society in which everyone in Utah enjoys living, they do not give the impression of being friendly neighbors to newcomers. In the four moves I have made in Utah, I have never been called on by close neighbors who are LDS.... I had lunch with a businessman who had just moved here from Denver.... He thought he was going to like it here, but his wife is very lonely. They moved into a southeast residential neighborhood, apparently completely LDS, and not one neighbor has come to call on her. I am sure that newcomers would learn to appreciate the basic tolerance and friendship of the LDS people much more readily if it were active LDS policy to welcome newcomers— regardless of religion—not as proselyters, but as neighbors who live together in harmony.... That we render our service in the proper spirit is of first importance. There is a lying and deceptive spirit abroad in the world today that would persuade us that we can discharge our divinely imposed obligations in these matters by turning them over to the welfare workers of the "'welfare state" or to "socialism." But this we cannot do. In these systems, neither the giver nor the receiver enjoys the spirit of the Lord. Acts of benevolence must be done in the spirit of that charity which is the "pure love of Christ," if they are to meet the standards of Relief Society. Mormon says that if one... Offereth a gift, or prayeth unto God, except he shall do it with real intent it profiteth him nothing. For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness. For behold, if a man being evil giveth a gift, he doeth it grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God (Moroni 7:6-8). The Prophet's remarks to the Relief Society, on March 30, 1842, were reported as follows. Listen, he's talking to Relief Society here:... The Saints should be a select people, separate from all the evils of the world—choice, virtuous, and holy, The Lord (he said) was going to make of the Church of Jesus Christ a kingdom of Priests, a holy people, a chosen generation, as in Enoch's day... (DHT IV, page 570). The fact that the Prophet made these remarks to the Relief Society sisters persuades me that he expected them, in carrying out their "benevolent purposes," to be, even as the gospel is in its field, "... A light to the world" (D&C 45:9). I challenge you, my beloved sisters, therefore, in the words of the scripture... Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations... (D&C 115:5). In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 89 SECOND PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest A Gift to the Giver Marie M. Hayes @ As the first bell-like notes of "Silent Night' pealed through the kitchen, Nora brushed her brown hair back from her forehead and shut the radio off with an angry snap. Would Christmas really come this year? She couldn't believe it. Nora was young and attractive, with a_ sprinkling of freckles across her pert nose, but her shoulders slumped and she looked tired. Through the driving Oregon rain that beat in torrents on her window, she watched the yellow bulk of the school bus take shape and stop near the gate. As the children alighted, she performed the daily ritual of counting... One... Two... Three... And then the bleakness of the late winter afternoon settled about her as the bus heaved itself down the road. She knew there were only three, could be only three, yet she watched daily for the little golden-haired boy who would never run up that path waving his latest art creation. Almost four months now, since 90 the accident. Ronnie would have been seven last month. His new bike, the one Cal had bought last summer for his birthday was still in the garage, unopened. It seemed like yesterday. Carol burst into the warm kitchen, wet brown curls creeping out from under her yellow slicker hood, filling the room with nine-year-old exuberance. "Mommy, Mommy, our room's having a Christmas party. Can you come, Mommy, please?" "We'll see later, dear.""' Would they never quit asking her?'' Now, what did you bring home today?" Laura, the brisk December air heightening the glow on her pretty features, dumped armloads of books on the kitchen table and began pulling off her boots. "The little kids in seventh grade are coming to our Christmas dance this year,"' she said disdainfully. The door opened again, and in trudged six-year-old Kerry, her arms loaded with the day's mail, soggy wet and ink running. "Mail, Mommy!" She carried the mail to Nora, leaving a trail of wet mud across the newly waxed floor. "I said goodbye to my friend Cindy. She lives up that way." Kerry waved vaguely in the direction of the tractor road that extended up through the Jensen's farm land. "Oh, yeah, that new family that moved into the Claybourne's old cabin," Laura said, as she opened the refrigerator door and stood, looking in. '"Their name's Wilson. The kids at school say they're on welfare. The oldest girl's in my lit class and she wears awful clothes." ""Sh-h-h, Laura. Not in front of the girls." Laura turned from the refrigerator, holding a piece of stale cake. "'"Hey, Mom, haven't we got anything else to eat?" Nora began thumbing through the mail. "Here's a letter from Grandma." As she read, the girls continued their chatter, dropping boots on the floor and shedding coats. "Girls, Grandma wants us to spend Christmas with them in Montana this year." "Oh, Mommy, can we please?" Carol asked, grabbing Nora's hand and jumping excitedly. Kerry's pixie face lit suddenly, as she sucked in her breath and asked, "Oh, will there be snow?" As she read the letter, memories stirred within Nora. She was once again a child in her parents' old-fashioned stone farmhouse. She could see the crusted snow piled high over the window sills, with icicles, a solid wall, extending down to meet the snow. She felt again the shiver of excitement, waking in a cold bedroom on Christmas morning, felt the warm glow of the hearth fire and smelled the burning pine logs. She pictured the magnificent tree, crowned with an angel and groaning under the weight of sparkling ornaments. It would be a way of getting through this first Christmas without Ronnie. Her mother had surely thought of that. "If we go, Mom, can we wait until after the matinee dance at school?" Laura's voice shattered her thoughts, bringing her abruptly 91 February 1967 back to the present. It was no use. Things couldn't possibly be the same. "Daddy probably can't get away!" Nora said, flinging the letter down and turning quickly to stare out the window. Carol pressed her mother's arm. "You don't want to go without Ronnie, do you, Mommy?" Nora rubbed the sleeve of her dress across eyes damp with tears and shook her head. "Ronnie died," observed Kerry, "our brother's in heaven now. Why did Ronnie die, Mommy?" "Go change your clothes, girls!" Nora said, much too sharply. "Laura, you must have some homework. Get it done right now." "But, Mommy," Kerry persisted, "I want to talk about Ronnie." "No, Kerry, not now!" She had to fight to control her voice. She sank down limply at the kitchen table, buried her face in her arms and waited until she heard the children quietly climb the stairs. She couldn't talk about Ronnie. Not now... Not ever. Sue tried to remember only the gospel's teachings. She knew that someday Ronnie would be hers again, but it didn't help too much. She needed Ronnie now, not in some far-off time she could barely comprehend, but now. Why did Ronnie die? Why? Nothing seemed right without him. Like many bright children, he had created his own imaginary world and alternately delighted and appalled the family with his antics. Once he was a barber and cut Kerry's hair. It had taken months for it to grow out again. 92 When they went to Victoria on the ferry, Ronnie, who had become an explorer, disappeared and threw the crew into a panic. Nora remembered her anger and relief when they found him hiding in a lifeboat. But Ronnie was a special kind of boy, and no one could stay angry with him long. Each night, Nora had tiptoed into his room and tucked the covers up tightly under his chin. Then she would study his face, relaxed in sleep, the long dark lashes brushing against his sunburned cheeks, and a flood of happiness would make her forget the day's trials and remember only the way he looked when he said, "I love you, Mommy." He had been on an imaginary adventure the day of the accident. Nora and Ronnie were picking beans for canning, but Ronnie, the astronaut, had tired of the job and decided to {fly down to the space station. Nora shook her head as she watched the little figure disappear around the house, headed for the mailbox. It seemed only seconds later that she heard the screech of brakes and felt the hard knot of fear tighten within her. She had run, weak-kneed, down the path, and even when she saw Ronnie's white face as he lay, motionless, by the roadside, she couldn't believe that for Ronnie, life had ceased to be important. There was no one to blame. Ronnie had run in front of the car. The driver had tried to stop, but the moments were too few and too precious, and now Ronnie was gone. Why couldn't she believe it? Even now, it was easier to peek around the comers at it. In the Second Prize Story—A Gift to the Giver mornings, if she pretended Ronnie was at school, would return on the bus with the girls, then she could get through the long, gray winter days. But each afternoon it was the same. The bus would stop and the children would get out... One... Two... Three... But no Ronnie. Nora was still sitting in the shadow when Calvin came in for supper. He was tall and dark and soft-spoken, slightly graying at the temples. He was too slender for the heavy work of the farm, but he loved his work and put in long hours each day, pushing himself to the limits of his strength. He dropped into a chair and listened as Nora told him about the letter from her mother. The smiles that very seldom played around the corners of his eyes these days returned as he gently pulled Nora to her feet. "Let's do it, Nora," he urged, tipping her face up to his. "I'd do almost anything to make my best girl smile again." They made their plans. They could reach Missoula by Christmas Eve if the weather held and spend a full week there. Nora craved her mother's solicitous attentions. She felt almost like a child again as she bustled about, preparing for their holiday. The day she baked the Christmas cookies, Kerry brought little Cindy Wilson home from school to play. Nora tied huge aprons about their waists, stood them on kitchen chairs, and let them spread red and green frosting on the crisp, nutmeg-flavored bells. After a few minutes, Cindy laid down her knife and fastened luminous brown eyes on Nora. The eyes were too large for the little pinched face, and her dark hair hung straight and _ lifeless down her back. "We used to have these at our house,"' she said, "before Daddy left." "You may take some home today, Cindy," Nora said, swallowing the lump in her throat. "I'm getting a Baby Boo doll for Christmas, Cindy,' prated Kerry. "What's Santa bringing you?" Cindy hung her head. "Mommy says Santa can't come this year. He doesn't know where we live 'cause we just moved." "Oh, Santa'll know. He'll find us at Grandma's house and that's way over in...." "Kerry, why don't you and Cindy run out and find some pine cones? I want to make a wreath for Grandma's door." Nora hurried the children outside, hoping Kerry would forget the constant chatter about Santa and gifts. She kept thinking of Cindy's shabby clothes and threadbare coat, and the way she eyed the ever-increasing pile of gaily wrapped presents on the dining-room table. Nora thought of Cindy often, but only fleetingly. She was hur- 93 February 1967 rying now, caught up in the traditional last minute struggle to be ready for Christmas. On Saturday, a lovely, feathery blanket of snow floated down to cover the Oregon countryside, leaving only the stately pines green against the white hills. Unaccustomed to snow in their western Oregon home, the girls were beside themselves with joy. "Won't Grandpa be surprised when we tell him we have snow at our house, too!" cried Carol. Tue weather warmed on Monday, and the rain gushed down in torrents, melting the snow, '"Columbia River's rising,'' announced Cal as he came in from work that evening. He shook the rain from his shoulders, and his boots made muddy pools on the floor. "Everybody in Portland's braced for a flood." "We'll be all right once we're over the mountains, won't we?" Nora glanced up from the pork chops she was browning, worry written across her face. "Hope so. We'll check with the State patrol before we start. Wouldn't want to be stranded on Christmas." So the packing proceeded, presents were wrapped, baking finished, and suitcases packed. By Tuesday night the car was loaded and ready to roll. "Scoot to bed, girls," commanded Cal, shooing his pajamaclad daughters up the stairs. We will be dragging you out at five in the morning, so sleep fast.' But Kerry, in her excitement, lay wide-eyed, and, at midnight, she crept downstairs where her parents were listening to the latest reports on the flood. Kerry 94 clutched her doll and asked, "Is it time to go yet, Daddy?" "Sh, Kerry." Cal turned the radio up. "Listen." The newscaster was saying, "The John Day bridge has just been reported washed out. Flooding is widespread on all roads throughout the State, and all interstate highways are closed to through traffic. We repeat... All highways are closed. The Governor has just declared Oregon a disaster area." Cal reached over and shut the radio off. "I'm sorry, honey." His eyes begged for Nora's understanding. "Let's get some sleep. We can unload the car in the morning." Nora's heart sank. She simply couldn't go through this dreary Christmas. "Can't we go to Grandma's?" Kerry asked, stricken. "I'm afraid not, honey. The roads are all flooded." Kerry considered a moment, shifting her doll from one arm to the other. '"'Well then, we'd better call Santa. He's not coming to Cindy's house, and he probably won't come here either unless we tell him. Why can't he come to Cindy's house, Mommy?" Nora gazed at her child, tousled yellow curls pushed back from a high brow, a row of pink toes peeking out from beneath her pajamas, her liquid brown eyes seeming older than her six years, Why it's as though I'd never seen her before, she thought, and, in truth, she really hadn't seen her, not since that day four months ago—and then the vague feeling that had troubled her for days took shape. "Don't you worry, Kerry, San- Second Prize Story—A Gift to the Giver ta's coming to Cindy's house, and will come here, too. We'll help him. Now, off to bed with you. We have a busy day tomorrow." Next morning found the girls heartbroken. Laura moped about in her room, gazing at the solid sheet of rain that seemed to slide down the hill from their house and dissolve into the river that was once a road. Kerry and Carol pestered Laura and quarreled with each other. Ar breakfast, Nora presented her scheme. "Girls," she announced, as she poured steaming hot chocolate, 'the Wilsons have nothing for Christmas. We've been so busy with our own plans that we haven't given them much thought. I wonder, would you share your Christmas with them?" - "Oh, yes, Mommy, let's!" Carol and Kerry chimed in together. "We always get so many toys and things. It'll be fun," added Carol. - Nora looked at Laura who was stirring her oatmeal and gazing at the sugar bowl. "Well, Laura?". "T don't know, Mom.... Well, okay, why not?" One day to prepare Christmas for an entire family! What a - bustle there was in the Jensen household that day. Nora mentally.. Counted off the family. Besides Mrs. Wilson, there were Cindy, Nancy, who was Laura's age, and a boy, Tom, about twelve. The girls would be easy but what about the brother? Well, they would see. She brought out a small turkey, extra cookies, and plum pudding from the freezer. The girls opened some of the packages, exclaimed over their contents, and dutifully wrapped them again, tagging them for the appropriate Wilson child. Laura even donated some of her beloved books. Cal rigged up a wagon to carry the bounty up the tractor road, now ankle deep in mud and water. He trudged out to the far field, where he cut two young pines, one for their own living room, and one for the Wilson's. Kerry and Carol spent hours making paper chains to decorate the trees. At last, as dusk was descending on a very rain-soaked Christmas Eve, they were ready to start. Then, suddenly Laura stopped. "Wait!" she cried. "What about Tom?" They had forgotten Tom. All the presents were for girls, and it was too late now.... Cal caught Nora's eye, his glance asking an unspoken question. "Oh, no, Cal! That was for Ronnie. We just couldn't do that."' The pain in Nora's heart seemed more than she could bear, and tears 'welled up in her eyes. Cal came over and lightly touched her shoulder. "Look, honey, I know how you feel. But Ronnie's gone. The girls have their own bikes, and Tom could really use it." Nora looked forlornly at Cal. "It's no good pretending anymore, is it?" she asked, and her voice caught in a sort of choking sob. "'Ronnie's really gone, and we'll just have to face it." Laura put her arm around her mother. "Don't cry, Mom," she said, ''you've still got us, and we want to help if you'll let us." Nora wanted to cry out with the overwhelming sense of loss that engulfed her, but along with 95 February 1967 the loss came a new feeling of something gained. ''Get the bike, Cal," she said. "Tom really should have it." As she watched Cal load the bike on the wagon, a weight lifted in her heart. Now, at last, she could let Ronnie go. She couldn't do it easily, for to go on without Ronnie was like tearing out a part of herself, but at least she could face it squarely. Ronnie was gone, but the family ties were still there. She had her husband and her daughters, and their memories of Ronnie would be happy ones. Lok forward, she told herself, to the day when we'll all be together again. The horse pulled the wagon along the rain-rutted road. The family walked alongside, thankful for the gentle rain that had replaced the morning's deluge. When they reached the little cabin, with one small light shining in the window, Cal motioned - them back, quietly unloaded the gifts on the porch, and headed the wagon back down the road. Just before they turned the bend, Cal cried, "Merry Christmas!" They hid in the shadows until the front door burst open and the children crowded onto the porch. Even at this distance, Nora could see the look of wonder and surprise on their faces. She felt the tears, mixed with the gentle rain, wet upon her cheeks, and her heart swelled with pride as she watched her own three daughters hugging one another, scarcely able to contain themselves with sheer joy. Cal held her close and whispered, "What a perfect Christmas for our family." Going home, not noticing the rain any longer, someone struck up a Christmas carol. Nora found herself singing for the first time in many weeks. "Sing, choirs of angels... They sang and then Nora felt Kerry's cold little hand inside her pocket. "Mommy," she whispered, ''this is a good Christmas. I'm so happy." "So am I, dear," she whispered back. Nora squeezed the little hand, and, as she let this new thought settle into her heart, she realized, with a rush of love, that it was true. 3? Marie M. Hayes, a writer new to the pages of the Magazine, is the author of the second prize story ''A Gift to the Giver." She grew up in Richmond, Utah, was graduated from North Cache High School, and attended Utah State University. In outlining the highlights of her life, she tells us: ''My husband is P. Kennan Hayes. We were an Air Force family for seven years. We now live in Seattle, Washington, where Kennan manages a securities corporation. We have three lovely daughters and a two-year-old son. Although | have always loved to write, | have worked at it seriously for only two years. My interests include my family, Church work, writing, and archaeology. | am serving on our stake Sunday School Board, and as cultural refinement class leader in Relief Society." 96 The Class Leader Makes the Difference Dr. Alma P. Burton Assistant Administrator of Seminaries and Institutes of Religion [Address Delivered at the Social Relations Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] mI should like to begin this morning by referring to the significance of your position as the stake leader in this department. There are two important points to remember with respect to this marvelous opportunity which has come to you. First, no one but you can do the work or perform your task in your stake, so long as you hold this position of leadership; and secondly, there is a special blessing that comes with every call in the Church. You are entitled to the blessing and assistance that are reserved for this particular calling. There will come to each one 'who is called to a position in this Church, by prayerfully petitioning the Lord for assistance in fulfilling that responsibility, a particular blessing and a spiritual power for the benefit of that person at that time and in that position. The first two years I served as stake president it seemed as though I was on my knees almost as much as I was on my feet, praying for divine guidance from the Lord to assist me in fulfilling my responsibility. Finally, after much prayer, study, and soul searching, I began to feel that I was growing into the calling which had come to me. I think your position is not unlike that, and that additional assistance and added blessings will come to you through diligently seeking the Lord in prayer abqut this position to which you have been called. Having made these introductory remarks, I should like now to discuss with you why 'The Class Leader Makes the: Difference." |. Attitude of the Teacher It is of utmost importance that you view your calling with a positive attitude. This is particularly significant because you are the most important visual aid that will ever be presented to your class. No visual aid that you prepare will be as effective in promoting your lesson as your own personal self. Therefore, you must maintain a positive attitude regarding your position of leadership. Keep constantly in mind the fact that your class members have come to learn, that some of them have made certain sacrifices in order to be in attendance on 97 February 1967 that particular day. Many years ago while working as an assistant manager in a J. C. Penney's store, Mr. J. C. Penney visited our store. He talked with the customers as they came in, and visited with the clerks during that afternoon. In the evening he held a meeting with the employees. I remember only one statement he made, and it was that we should never say to a person who comes into the store, "You don't want to buy something, do you?" I was rather young at the time, but I still remember the impression which this statement made upon me, and how effective it has been in helping me since that time. He said we must always assume that a person who comes into the store has come with the purpose in mind of making a purchase. I submit this same suggestion to you with respect to teaching. You must assume that your class leaders have made considerable preparation and, oftentimes, a definite sacrifice to be present in your department on that particular day because they want to learn. They want the help that you can give them. Use the positive approach. You should have a positive attitude about the materials which have been prepared for use during the year. These lesson materials have been prepared by very capable men and women. Do not find fault with what has been prepared. Do not spend time criticizing it. Use your precious hour in a positive way. Adapt the materials to your situation. The lesson materials have been prepared with the view in mind of giving you the best possible as- 98 sistance. By adopting a positive attitude toward what has been prepared, you will avail yourself of greater strength and power in giving your lesson. Assume the attitude that this is your day and your opportunity and that you have every right to experience success and to find real joy. If you cannot view your position in a positive way, and if you are unable to experience real joy as the social relations leader, perhaps you should consult with your Relief Society president. The attitude of the teacher is all important. A teacher who possesses a strong positive attitude toward her responsibility has acquired one of the most fundamental and important tools for teaching. Il. Lesson Preparation Age should not make a difference in Relief Society. Our great and beloved prophet, President David O. McKay, is one of the most prominent examples of this fact that the world has ever known. On his ninetieth birthday he remarked that he did not feel old and that, although his body was unable to respond as it had done in his earlier years, still his spirit and attitude were that of being young and having love for life and all it affords. My wife had an interesting experience in the social relations department last year when she was choosing a cast for a presentation. One part called for an elderly lady. She chose a sister who was about eighty years old, and when discussing the part to be played, the lady who had had eighty birthdays, but still thought young, said to her, "How The Class Leader Makes the Difference do you want me to dress, as an old lady?" We must always think of our class members as being young at heart. Age should never be a barrier to learning, particularly to learning the things which are presented in Relief Society for the betterment of the home and family. Successful preparation can only be made when the leader bears in mind that age does not make a difference as far as alertness is concerned, and that one should always think of her class members as individuals who have a real desire to improve their knowledge. Successful preparation is best accomplished when the class leader has the class members in mind. Each stake is different and each ward is different. We must determine how best to meet the particular situation that confronts us. The same preparation would not be made to teach every class in the Relief Society social relations department of the Church in exactly the same way. Each leader must have the members of her group or class in mind as she prepares her materials. In this matter of preparation we need to work smarter not harder. The following three suggestions need to be kept in mind in preparing lesson materials: 1. Read yourself full 2. Think yourself empty 3. Talk yourself clear After you have read fully, have thought carefully, and have talked over the ideas to yourself, then try these ideas on your husband and your mature children. ° If what you have prepared is not clear to them nor you, it will not be clear to your class. Conversely, if what you have prepared is clear and meaningful to you, and if these materials are interesting to your husband and your mature children, then you may safely assume (keeping the fact in mind that you must relate them to your particular class) that they will be acceptable to your group. This is what is called maturing the preparation. When the Lord makes a squash it only takes a few months, but for an oak tree it takes 100 years. Make your lesson more enduring than pumpkins. Mature it well. The quality of the lesson will depend on the amount of time devoted to its preparation. However, remember also that one hour of thoughtful preparation is worth more than thirty-six hours of worrying and stewing. But, no matter how well prepared you are, you must not assume that you are the final word in everything to everyone. One should always assume that there will be times when it is highly appropriate to say, "I don't know." The story is told of a young kindergarten child who was drawing with crayons on a piece of paper one morning, and his teacher approached and asked, 'What are you drawing, Sonny?" He said, "I am drawing a picture of heaven and hell." She replied that no one knew what heaven and hell looked like, and he quickly answered, 'They will when I get through with this picture." However good your preparation may be, there will be some things about which someone else may be able to give a better answer than you. You should al- 992 February 1967 ways keep yourself in a frame of mind where you are willing to receive suggestions from others when you reach points that you are not as capable of handling as are they, and involve them in the presentation. This can be done most successfully by making a special assignment prior to the class period. My grandfather was a blacksmith. Among other things, he repaired wagon wheels. As a youngster, I watched him take a wagon wheel apart, repair it, and then put it back together again. I remember seeing him take the hub, which was the main point of beginning -for his wheel, and when he was certain that the hub was sound, he would begin to place the spokes into the hub. Each spoke had to be fitted securely into the hub; and one by one he placed the spokes into it until they were all properly secured. When the spokes had been placed in the wheel, and the connections had been placed between the ends of the spokes in the outer area of the wheel, he would perform the final work to his wheel by encasing it with a large iron tire. Lesson preparation should follow this same procedure. The teacher approaches her subject, the hub or the center of her work and establishes the fact that it is sound. She defines it carefully; then she begins to put into the hub each fact which relates to the central theme as one would the spokes of a wheel. When all of the material has been placed in its proper relationship to the hub, the teacher should then show the working relationship of the total lesson by inserting the 100 connecting pieces at the outer edges, and, finally, by summarization and conclusion, she should put the band about her lesson as one would the iron rim around the wheel. When the wheel is complete, it will perform its particular function; and, when a lesson is prepared in this manner, the message will bear fruit in the lives of her Relief Society sisters and their families. Lil. Presentation of Your Lesson Do not view each class member as sitting on the edge of her seat waiting for you to give your "interesting" lesson. Rather, view her as thinking about the mending she must finish when she returns home; the meal she must prepare for company tonight; the struggle she is having in paying her bills; or the problem her husband has encountered in his work. If you view the members of the class in that light, you will approach your task more humbly, no matter how well prepared you are. If you think only of the wonderful presentation you are going to make and how anxious they all will be to hear it, you will be less effective. The story is told of a young man who was overly impressed with himself and his ability. One Sunday the bishop called on him to respond extemporaneously in sacrament meeting. He walked up the aisle in an extremely confident manner. As he stood at the pulpit his thoughts failed him and, after a few minutes of stumbling over his words, he returned to his seat in a very dejected way. Following the meeting, an older man who had had considerable experience in the The Class Leader Makes the Difference Church approached the young man and said, '"'Son, if you had gone up like you came back, you could have come back like you went up." The following ideas may assist you in thinking about the presentation of your material. First of all, view your audience as sitting there with a don't care or sleepy attitude, and realize that you must get their attention if you are going to present your material successfully. Secondly, view them as having responded to your introduction, but now saying to themselves '""Now why did she bring that up?" Even when you have caught their attention they will challenge you to keep it. Remember that they still have these other problems in the back of their minds, even though they are looking right at you with attentive eyes. Now that you have caught their attention and you are starting them on the journey of the lesson for that day, you must repeatedly give to them thoughts that will center and focus their attention upon the theme that you are developing. This is where you give the body of your lesson —the "for instances," and "the spokes in the wheel," if you will. Finally, you need to bring your presentation to a conclusion that they may know the real purpose of your message. You should view them at this point as looking up at you and saying to themselves, "So what?" If your lesson has been built successfully throughout the hour it will not be difficult for them to comprehend the points that you have been making. In other words, the more successfully one teaches the main part of her lesson from the introduction to the time of the conclusion, the easier it will be to draw the conclusion. When you conclude, do it with a call for action. Use complete and meaningful ideas, using words which you are capable of successfully presenting and words which your listening audience will understand and appreciate. Dr. Karl G. Maeser stated: "The truly educated man will always speak to the most unlearned of his audience." IV. Class Reaction and Involvement You may not get every person involved in the discussion every time, but every class member should became involved in the thinking process about the subject during each class period. The teachers keep all of the members involved by their personal contact with them, by using their eyes in turning attention to the different parts of the room, and meeting eye to eye those who are present in the class. People do not become a part with you in "thinking" unless you bring them into the act—that is, unless you involve them. Let us look at some hypothetical examples of how not to teach if you want involvement: Teacher A knows her material well. She can tell it beautifully, but she looks up at one spot toward the back of the room during the entire period. What do you think is going on in the class members' minds while she is teaching? Teacher B, when someone in the class attempts to raise a question, listens to the question and then says, "We haven't time 101 February 1967 to discuss that now," or "That is something that will come up in next month's lesson." Her preoccupation with her subject matter is so important that she forgets her class. Teacher C has the type of class where everyone can make any contribution that she may wish. The teacher comments, "Well, that was an interesting idea," or "It could be that that is right," or "Would someone else like to say something on that point before we leave it?" Then, to make matters worse, she does not draw the discussion to a conclusion. No one knows whether or not the teacher has a_ testimony or whether or not the answer given is the one that is in line with Church doctrine. Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher A when she shows little or no interest in them? Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher B when she is not interested in what they are thinking? Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher C when she does not exert her privilege as the leader of the group? These types of teachers are like the story of the scoutmaster who was having difficulty in keeping up with his troop. Finally, he called ahead to them, "Wait for me. I'm your leader." Leadership in the classroom must be exercised for the good of the group both individually and collectively. We must involve the members of the class. Now, what should Teacher A have done? Or Teacher B? Or Teacher C? In each instance, had 102 the teacher prepared her material and presented it with the thought in mind of involving those who were in attendance, she would not have performed the way she did. It is important that you involve those who are present in your group, that you show interest in them and in their questions, and that you draw the best possible conclusions, in the light of the discussion, that can be made. Above all, you should leave your testimony because you are the leader. You are the one who needs to inspire the class members. As mentioned in the beginning, you have the calling, and the spirit of the Lord will bless you with particular gifts and will make you equal to your calling if you do your part. Do all you can to make your lesson profitable in the lives of the members of your class. Think of them collectively, but also think of them individually. Send them home with some food for thought. V. Call for Action Ask yourself, "Why am I doing what I am doing in this class this day?" In fact, this is a question that you should keep in mind from the beginning of your preparation. Your answer should be that you are preparing the members of your class in such a way that when they go home they will be dedicated to the proposition of becoming better wives to their husbands and better mothers to their children. We are, in the Priesthood meetings, attempting to assist the brethren better to understand their role as husband and father; and the Relief Societies The Class Leader Makes the Difference are expected to help to train the wives better to understand their role as mothers and wives and to complement the efforts of their husbands in developing a Priesthood-centered home. Great good can come from your efforts, if you perform well as the leader of the social relations department of the Relief Society. The homes of the saints will be strengthened as a result of. Your efforts. Some excellent examples of a "call for action" which the Lord has made through his appointed representatives are those given by Paul the apostle and the Prophet Joseph Smith. (Read Ephesians 5:22-31 and Colossians 3:18-21; also DHC IV, pp. 604-605, 606-607 on women's characteristics and the need of living up to one's privileges.) If you can instill in the hearts of your ward class leaders these great messages (as stated in the foregoing quotations) so that they, in turn, will send their class members home with a determination to be better wives and mothers, you will have accomplished your task. This is your challenge. This is the challenge to every ward class leader of the social relations department. VI. Summary and Conclusion Remember, my dear sisters, you are the only one who can discharge this responsibility, so long as you hold the position. Secondly, there is a special blessing that comes with every calling in the Church. Strive to obtain your privileged blessing in this calling that has come to you. Attempt to follow the five points listed below. 1. Positive Attitude Keep a positive attitude. This special calling has come to you that you may influence for good the members of the Relief Society of the Church. Look with a positive attitude upon your task. 2. Lesson Preparation You cannot teach something you have not prepared. The Lord will not respond to an empty mind any more than a bucket can be filled from an empty well. Prepare well for your task! 3. Presenting Your Materials This is your day and your opportunity to influence for good the lives of your class members. One's attitude may be ever so proper and one's prepparation may be ever so complete, but if it is not delivered successfully the results will not be obtained. 4. Class Reaction and Involvement The best teachers keep the total membership of their class in mind, and they labor to have each member become interestingly involved in the lesson. 5. Call for Action Send your ward class leaders home with a renewed interest in the great privilege of being celestial wives to celestial husbands, having in view that they are developing an eternal family unit to live in the presence of our Heavenly Parents and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I humbly bear my testimony to the divinity of this great work in which we are engaged. I bear witness to the fact that God lives, and that he is ever ready and willing to assist and bless us as we petition him for his help, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of this world, and the Redeemer of all mankind; that this Church is the only true Church; and that President David O. McKay is the prophet, seer, and revelator of God on earth—the one to whom God reveals his will for all people. I bear witness to these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 103 we 2, a Dorothy J. Roberts THE FATHER Dorothy J. Roberts Sabbath was a beloved word— Peace lent him a pillow Coming on velvet feet— And sieep—he kept the law, To bring a father home again Wheat in bin and furrow From the furrow and the wheat... And for his cattle, straw. He had his fields, his family, Tithe and Sabbath offering, The Sabbath and ''The Rod," Bathed and in his best, The brother and the sister Never once to deviate Akin by blood or God. Or break the day of rest.... 104 Sabbath, more than anything— Coming on velvet feet— Can bring a father back again From the golden years of wheat. Chapter 1 @ From the time the train left Omaha, the landscape seemed to match Nora Blake's spirits. As the train neared the mountains, however, and she saw the Rockies for the first time, looming up out of the very floor of the plains, Nora's spirits began to rise with the topography of the land. She even unpinned her hat and stuck her head out of the window to get a better view, feeling the cinders from the engine sting her cheeks. The mountains, etched against the bluest sky Nora had ever seen, fairly took her breath away. Drawing her head back in, Nora smoothed her hair, brown and lustrous, and piled high on top of her head. She took a mirror from her bag and, with some surprise, found her face dotted with the soot from the cinders. She put the mirror back and, rising, held a moment to her seat to steady herself from the swaying of the train before making her way to the washroom. The Golden Chain Hazel M. Thomson At the door she met Mrs. Rennold, the little old lady with whom Nora had shared a seat much of the trip. The older woman = stared. - "Why, my dear! Whatever happened to you?" "The mountains!" cried Nora. "The beautiful mountains! Aren't they magnificent?" "Oh, they're pretty enough," said Mrs. Rennold, "but when you've 'seen one, you've seen them all. But you, you're a sight. Here, now, just let me go back and help you clean this off. Good thing your dress is black. Didn't you know the engine would throw cinders like that?" "No," answered Nora, permitting the older woman to wipe the spots from her face. "I've never been on a train before." "You haven't!" exclaimed Mrs. Rennold. "Now, I had you pegged for a seasoned traveler. I don't pry, of course, and you didn't seem to want to talk much, but that's just the way I 105 February 1967 had you figured out. But I must admit that anyone who had ever been on the cars before would not be likely to open the window and stick her head out just to see a hill. Dear me, I don't know what you will do about your collar and cuffs." Nora looked at these for the first time. She had been so pleased with them, finishing the embroidery on them during the final stages of her mother's illness. They had been so pretty then, but now they looked wilted from the long journey and spotted with the smudges of soot. "Perhaps I can get another set in Cheyenne," she said, as the two women prepared to make their way back to their seat. "We do stop there, do we not?" "Yes, but only for a very short time," Mrs. Rennold replied, easing herself into the seat beside Nora. "Cheyenne is where I get off. You see, I come out West every year to visit my son, and I'm sure it's only a short stop to let passengers off and on, and then the train will be on its way as soon as possible. You may not have time to go to a store." Nora folded the soiled cuffs and placed them in her bag. "TI can get by without, all right. In fact there is really no use in changing them. I may just decide to stick my head out again to get a breath of this mountain air. Isn't it wonderful?" The older woman looked at Nora without speaking, as if to say that air was air, as far as she was concerned. Nora laughed. It seemed good to laugh. There had been so little cause for laughter during the long years of her mother's illness. 106 "Where is it you are going, dearie?" asked Mrs. Rennold. "Tdaho," Nora answered. "Banner, Idaho. I understand it's a very small place, but it was the only opening the teacher's agency had, this being November, and most schools completely staffed with their teachers." "Oh, so you're a schoolmarm, are you?" Mrs. Rennold asked. Nora laughed again. 'Not really. Not yet. But I hope to be." "Well, all I can say, is don't get so wrapped up in teaching someone else's children that you forget all about having some of your own." The older woman raised a finger of warning, shaking it toward Nora. 'And another thing. You won't find many eligible young men in a schoolroom." Acam Nora laughed, this time a bit nervously, almost unwilling to admit to herself that the same idea had occurred to her. Her life, caring for her mother, had been lonely, and she did so hope for her own home one day, and children, lots of children. Mrs. Rennold dozed for awhile, and Nora looked around at the other passengers. The mining man from Chicago in the seat just ahead was sitting with his head back, his hat over his eyes, but his loud, regular snores told that he had joined Mrs. Rennold in an early morning nap. Across the aisle, the young married couple were intent upon dangling the father's watch just above the baby's waving hands, enjoying the efforts of their child to clasp it in one of the tiny hands. Nora watched carefully for a time, then, as the young wife's eyes met hers, she realized she had been staring and turned her eyes away. The mountain chain outside the train window to her left made a never-changing vista of beauty as Nora watched. Again, the strength of the mountains, their rugged beauty, seemed to lift her very soul. Yes, decided Nora, she was going to like living in the mountains after the levelness of the plains. Her life had been like that, uneventful, one day like another. Perhaps now, like the mountains, there would be low spots, but one day she might reach the heights, the golden heights of the whole golden mountain chain gilded with morning sun. It was late in the day before the train arrived in Cheyenne, and Nora bade goodbye to Mrs. Rennold. Nora needed some rest, so she put her carpetbag under her head for a pillow and drew her coat close around her, but it was very late before she dozed off into troubled sleep. The bright November sunlight awakened her. The train was passing through beautiful little valleys and mountains so incredibly beautiful that around each curve of the railroad track was another picture of late autumn loveliness that thrilled Nora's very soul. After washing, and rearranging her long brown hair, Nora returned to her seat. Across the aisle, Mr. And Mrs. Davis were preparing to go to the dining car for breakfast. "Why don't you let me keep the baby?" Nora asked. "I could hold her while you eat, then I The Golden Chain can eat later." "Oh, how very thoughtful," said Mrs. Davis. "But we can't impose upon you." "You wouldn't be,'' answered Nora, reaching eagerly for the baby. "Really you wouldn't. I haven't had a chance to hold a baby since...."" She paused. She couldn't remember, but it would have been long ago, before her mother became ill, requiring her constant attention. "Well, now," said Mr. Davis, taking his wife's arm. "Come along, Mary, and we'll have breakfast without worrying about the baby." Nora felt a twinge of emptiness at the look that passed between the couple. She was glad the idea of helping them had occurred to her. Tue baby slept, rousing once only a little, but in response to Nora's gentle rocking movements it lapsed again into deeper slumber. The parents were gone only a short time. Nora could sense their eagerness to return to their child and the love within the little family. Someday, perhaps... Someday... Nora pushed the thought out of her mind. She had a school to teach. She gave the baby back into its mother's arms amid repeated thank yous, then she also went to the dining car. She ate ravenously. Perhaps it was the freshness of the mountain air, or the altitude. The dining car was almost deserted. Only the mining man from Chicago was still eating. When Nora had finished eating and returned to the passenger 107 February 1967 car, she stopped the conductor as he passed through. "Pardon me," she said, "but do we pass through Salt Lake City?" "No, Miss,"' answered the conductor. ''We are going down Echo Canyon now, and then turn north to Ogden." Nora must have shown a look of disappointment. "Why?" he asked. ''Were you particularly wishing to go to Salt Lake?" "I wanted to see the lake," answered Nora. "I've heard that you can't sink in it. You see, where I've lived I've never seen the ocean, and I thought this lake with the salt...." Then she stopped, embarrassed, thinking she must sound like a disappointed child. The conductor didn't seem to notice. He answered kindly, "You just keep your eyes glued to that window, Miss, when we come out of Weber Canyon, and off to the west you'll see that lake. She's there every day, just sparkling away if the sun hits her just right." Nora smiled at him, grateful for his understanding. She turned again to watch the scenery. It was superb. And, as they left the mountains, Nora saw the lake far to the west, the sky crimson above it. "The Great Salt Lake, folks," announced the conductor. "The city itself is farther to the south, but that's the lake. Good and salty it is, too. Some say fifty per cent. Others claim it's nearer twenty-five. Anyway, you can float in it without sinking." Even as they watched, the color faded quickly from the sky, 108 and the clouds closed together, dark and _ threatening. Nora shivered. Suddenly, the railroad car felt chilly. By the time they reached Ogden, snow had started to fall. Nora sat for a time trying to decide whether she should leave the train for a little while, or just sit and wait until they started again. She didn't want to meet any Mormons. She watched the snow outside the window and saw that it was increasing. She thought of her aspirations, not worldly wealth for herself, but just what did she want? To teach school? Yes, the desire to teach was strong within her. She had thought of it often as she had cared for her mother. But she wanted more than that—a home, a life of her own—her own children to teach. Outside the window, the fury of the storm was rising. The conductor returned from outside the car, shaking the snow from his coat. Nora noticed that she was almost the only one left on the train. "Ts there any danger of getting snowed in?" she asked. "It would take hours of snow, coming down this hard, before we would even begin to get worried," he said. "Don't worry about the snow, but you have to change trains here." Nona's heart jumped. Change trains! Why, of course! They had told her this back in Omaha when she bought her ticket; but it seemed so long ago she had forgotten. The conductor picked up her carpetbag and her larger suitcase and was waiting for her at the steps to help her down. Nora paused at the door, peering anxiously into the swirling snow and the darkness. She could see no other person except the station agent standing in the light of his open door, apparently waiting for her. Still Nora hesitated. "Your train doesn't leave for a couple of hours," called the agent. "Come on in where it's warm." Nora's heart was pounding, and her hands felt weak and shaky as she entered the station. "This is the only passenger for the Idaho train, Joe," said the conductor, putting her bags down. "Fine," said the station agent, smiling at Nora. "We'll take care of her. The next train won't be along for at least two hours, but she'll be warm and comfortable here."' In her confused state of mind, Nora couldn't help wishing she had had chances for more experiences. Even the idea of changing trains had thrown her into a nervous tension. Still she must not regret her decision to come West. She wanted things to happen, and most of all she wanted the courage to meet them when they did. The agent had returned to his work. He wrote for a time, with Nora standing uncertainly just inside the door. Then he put down his pen and indicated the bench by the stove, motioning for her to move over there. "The seat is hard," he said, "but it beats standing. It's warmer over there, too. This is the first real snowstorm we've had and it promises to be a good one." He placed her bags on the bench by the stove and returned to his stool at the counter. Nora moved across the room and sat down on the end of the bench. It was long and wide, and she stifled a desire to lie down on it. The station was very quiet. She could hear only the ticking of the clock and the scratch of the station agent's pen on the paper. The warmth of the stove made her drowsy, but she fought to keep her eyes open. In spite of her efforts she found herself, as she relaxed in the warm quiet, nodding from time to time, but each time, she jerked her head erect again. After what seemed to Nora a very long time, the station agent again put down his pen and looked at her. "You could get a bite to eat next door, Miss," he said. "No, thank you. I... I... I'm.... No, thanks." Nora groped frantically for a reason. She had eaten nothing since noon, and she was hungry. She had begun to feel at ease here with the station agent. He was certainly more interested in whatever it was he was writing than he was in her, but just the thought of going out on the street and maybe meeting Mormons filled her with panic. The storm, raging around the station, might easily serve as a good cover-up for her disappearance. "Can't say as I blame you for 109 February 1967 not wanting to go out in this weather. But you still have quite a wait ahead of you. I'll run over and pick up a sandwich for you." He was out the door and gone before Nora could protest. When he returned, he was carrying a plate under a white napkin. "I told Ma Jones about you, and she insisted on fixing up a plate. Here. Come on up to the counter and eat it while it's still hot." The mashed potatoes were steaming under the best gravy Nora had ever eaten. The piece of chicken had been fried to a tender golden brown, and the two rolls were dotted with melting butter. Nora hadn't realized how hungry she was. "T must pay you for the meal," she said. "How much is it?" The station agent's eyes twinkled. 'You know, that's what I asked Ma. And she said, 'Can't a body ever do a good deed without being paid for it? You just take this plate along, and tell the young lady it's compliments of 'Ma Jones' Eating House.' " Ture was a piece of pie on a second; smaller plate. As Nora started on it, the thought struck her. Perhaps this was the way they did it! Softened up their victims first wich a good meal and then made their move! She stopped, her fork in mid-air, and looked again at the station agent. If he had any ideas as far as she was concerned, he certainly was doing a good job of hiding them. After she had finished eating, she cleared her throat twice before he even looked up from his desk. "What wonderful food," she 110 said. "You will thank your mother for it, won't you?" The station agent threw back his head and roared with laughter. "My mother! Now, Ma would not appreciate that. Why, I'm almost as old as she is." He leaned nearer. Instinctively Nora drew back. "You see, we just call her Ma. Everyone hereabouts does, but as far as I know, she has neither chick nor child. She moved in here about three years ago, and there have been any number of the brethren who would have liked to become Pa Jones, once they got a taste of her cooking, but so far she's just kept to herself and run her business. Does as well as a man could, too." Nora stared at him. "You mean she hasn't a husband? She has lived here all that time and never married?" The man chuckled. "Now don't get the wrong idea about the West," he said. "It's not that she couldn't find a husband. And anyone as pretty as you would have no trouble at all." Nora blushed furiously. "That is not what.... I mean.... I...". "TI should apologize," said the agent. "I was only doing a bit of teasing. But about Ma, that's right. She simply prefers to run things herself, or, at least, she has up to this point. I tell her that someday the right man will come along, and she'll forget some of her independence." He picked up the dishes. "Tl tell Ma how much you enjoyed the meal," he said. "Nothing pleases her like the word that someone enjoys her cooking." The wind swirled the snowflakes inside as he opened the door. Nora moved over again by the fire. After the agent returned, he went directly to his work, making no attempt to resume the conversation, until once again he put down his pen and rose to his feet "Bout train time," he said. "If she's on time from Salt Lake, she will be pulling in in about five minutes." And the train was on time, exactly nine forty-five. As the conductor lowered the steps, he looked past Nora at the station agent. "Only one asked. Passenger?" he An igel Nut t emir ine The Golden Chain "That's all," answered the agent, putting Nora's luggage aboard. "No one out tonight just for the ride." The train was almost deserted. Nora found a seat alone and placed both of her bags beside her. It seemed that they moved very slowly, and the train stopped in every little village along the way. The train grew chilly and, after an interminably long time, at last Nora heard the announcement. "Banner, Idaho!" This was it. Nora picked up her luggage and moved toward the door of the train. (To be continued) Cen phe ee: Pe. She stands there so absorbed in the unfolding of the story of the Christ Child that I am afraid she will forget to say her part, so carefully memorized during the past week ('""Mama, I'm to be Angel Number Three and have a whole sentence to say"). Her tinsel halo has slipped to a lopsided perch over her right eye (symbolic maybe?) and her large paper collar is only a little crumpled. Her eyes shine. To her, the bathrobed little boys are truly shepherds come to gaze at the Holy Babe in the manger, and she and the other little girls actually angels (who can deny it?) come to bring the glad tidings. It is her turn to speak, and I wish that I could adjust her halo and prompt her, but I can only sit and watch and hope I have taught her well enough. Her voice is clear. "And this shall be a sign unto you: Ye shall find the Babe wrapped in swalling clothes and lying in a manger." ("Swaddling," I had coached her. "Say 'swaddling.' "') I am proud that she faces the audience—and the world—with so steady a gaze. She's growing up, my little Angel Number Three, and becoming independent. That's the way it should be; that's the way I want it to be. Then why do my arms feel empty and my eyes well with tears? 111 EDITORIAL Volume 54 February 1967 Number 2 Wi Belle S. Spafford, President HE Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor HE Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart trene C. Lloyd Edith S. Elliott Hazel S. Love Florence J. Madsen Fawn H. Sharp Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Blanche B. Stoddard Anne R. Gledhill Evon W. Peterson Belva B. Ashton Aleine M. Young Zola J. McGhie Josie B. Bay Oa J. Cannon Alberta H. Christensen _—_Lila B. Walch Mildred B. Eyring Lenore C. Gundersen Edith P. Backman Marjorie C. Pingree Winniefred S. Manwaring Darlene C. Dedekind Elna P. Haymond Cleone R. Eccles Mary R. Young Edythe K. Watson Mary V. Cameron Ellen N. Barnes Afton W. Hunt Kathryn S. Gilbert Elsa T. Peterson Verda F. Burton Fanny S. Kienitz Myrtle R. Olson Elizabeth B. Winters Alice C. Smith Jennie R. Scott Lucile P. Peterson Alice L. Wilkinson Elaine B. Curtis Irene W. Buehner Zelma R. West 112 The Lord... Set my feet upon a rock... And established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God (Psalms 40:2-3). @ The voices of the Singing Mothers, through the ages, have marked with beauty and with notes of lasting illumination, the dearly beloved phases of a woman's life. A young babe, new to the sounds of earth yet close to the anthems of heaven, hears her mother's voice in singing, and the music becomes the first rhythmic experience of her life journey. Growing into womanhood in the shelter of the home, again she hears her mother singing as she works about the house carrying joy and gratitude and love from room to room. Returning from school, through the open door, the young girl hears the melody that her mother sings, as she sits in afternoon sunlight and stitches and mends the apparel of her children. Thus, with a heritage of music in her heart, the young woman eventually turns toward dreams of her own home; and all that she has learned of faith and family unity, expressed in singing, becomes her own melody of life. Women have sung in sorrow and in loneliness. Their songs have mingled the trials of a present time with their hopes for a happier future. Women have sung to comfort themselves and to reach for the riches of the spirit. They have sung to impart strength and cour- age to those in need of consolation. They have sung in cottages, in tents, and in cabins. They have established singing in the land. Their spiritual yearnings, especially, have been strengthened by music, and have been lifted to a contemplation of those thoughts and those majestic harmonies which unite the earth with heaven. "lf thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music... And with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving. If thou art sorrowful, — call on the Lord thy God with supplication, that your souls may be joyful... (D&C 136:28, 29). It was a mother who was commanded by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, ''to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads' (D&C 25:11-12). From the singing of mothers in their homes; from the singing of women together as neighbors; from music inherent in their hearts, came the official organization of Singing Mothers throughout the Church. The Singing Mothers inspire and encourage each other in the discovery and development of their talents. The feeling for music and its interpretation is ''caught''; it flows from one sister to another, and each performance becomes a unity of spiritual aspiration. And accomplishment. From singing in the wards, Singing Mother choruses move into everwidening circles of influence and devoted service in the name of music, and in praise of the gospel heritage. In concerts they offer the hymns and the anthems long revered as spiritual treasures, as well as the inspired compositions of the restoration. Many who otherwise might not hear the grandeur of the great chords of music, are offered a world of harmony by the Singing Mothers. In the congregations of the saints, at Relief Society General Conference and at the General Conferences of the Church, the Singing Mothers, in combined choruses, add the beauty and spiritual strength of their singing. Music is a missionary, and the Singing Mothers in television and radio presentations, on their international tour, through their appearances at the meetings of the American Mothers—their singing at the World's Fair—wherever they go, they carry the message of the gospel and become bearers of ''the singing and the sounds of salvation."' The Singing Mothers sing of ''the mountains high.'' They sing in many nations and on the islands of the sea. They rejoice as Relief Society women, offering praises to the. Heavenly Father.... ''Come, Ye. Blessed of My Father'... 'Go Ye Forth With My Word." —V. P. C. 113 Reduce Your Risk of Heart Attack Health Project For Everyone The American Heart Association In the search for a way to prevent heart attacks and strokes, scientists have studied the living habits and medical records of thousands of persons in middle age. The studies showed that those who had heart attacks had one or more of the following conditions or living habits: M@ High levels of cholesterol! Or other fatty substances in the blood M@ Overweight M@ High blood pressure @ Lack of exercise M@ Cigarette smoking @ Diabetes M@ A family history of heart attacks in middle age It appears that any one of these habits or conditions, called risk factors, increases the chances of a heart attack, and a combination of two or more factors multiplies the risk. These habits usually are formed in childhood with the influence of parents. Children imitate their parents, so in eating, watching TV, youngsters very early become subjected to risk factors. When they reach adulthood, the habits are firmly entrenched. The early detection of major risks is one of the most encouraging advances in medical knowledge, for it points to precautions we all! Can take to increase our chances of living longer and enjoying good health. What are the risks you should avoid? Your doctor can best answer these questions. Everyone should have periodic physical check-ups. While there is still no ironclad proof that reducing the known risks will prevent heart attacks, most of the scientific evidence today points that way. At the very least, reducing the risks can result in good general health and physical fitness for every member of the family. Children stand to benefit most of all, by learning early in life to avoid eating and living patterns that may lead to premature heart disease in adulthood. HELP YOUR HEART FUND! HELP YOUR HEART! 114 Ramona W. Cannon Anita Brenner (widow of Dr. David Glusker) is editor of ''Mexico This Month,'"' which presents in color the scenic beauty of that country, and directs tourists where to go and what to see, and whets the appetite for Mexican cuisine, dating back to early Mayan culture. Although she is not Mexican (her parents immigrated to Mexico from Latvia), she has lived many years in Mexico and entertains distinguished visitors at her home in Lomas, a suburb of Mexico City. She also owns a large ranch and is a specialist in growing many exotic varieties of peppers and herbs requisite for use in traditional Mexican cookery. Betty S. Gilson, M. D., of Helena, Montana, is the new head of the Utah State Health Department's Chronic Disease and Heart Section. For sixteen years she was director of the Montana Heart Diagnostic Center, an activity of the Montana State Board of Health. She was born in Minneapolis, received her B. A. And M. D. Degrees from the University of Minnesota, and took her postgraduate training in internal medicine at Lakeside Hospital, Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In addition to her many civic responsibilities with the Montana State Medcal Association, she was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Great Falls, Montana Public Schools at the time of her Utah appointment. Rilda Bee O'Bryan Cliburn, mother of the famous pianist Van Cliburn, was her son's only teacher until he began to study at Juilliard in 1952. Mrs. Cliburn is currently appearing with her son in television concerts in the color special ''A Portrait of Van Cliburn." Montserrat Cabale, a thirty-two-year-old Spanish soprano, has already won world acclaim. In superb performances of "Casta Diva,'' and other arias from Bellini and Donizetti, her voice has been praised as "full, pure, and effortless." Her first appearance in the United States was in April 1965, and she was received ''with instant great approval." Dr. Sylvia Cassell, psychologist, has pioneered a volunteer puppet program at Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, to calm the fears of young patients. The child sees a puppet patient on a small operating table, under a miniature X-ray machine and learns that it is necessary to lie quietly so the picture will not be fuzzy. A doctor puppet talks to the live child (often with the voice of Dr. Cassell herself). In this way the small patient is prepared for his examinations, dye tests, X-ray pictures, treatments, surgery — frequently heart surgery. 'Malvina Hoffman, ''the most renowned woman sculptor of moderns,'"' worked for years on an autobiography, ''Yesterday |s Today,'' which was published in 1965 by Crown Publishers, New York. She died in July 1966, at the age of eighty-one, leaving a prodigious number of works, carved in marble, bronze, and stone, many of them far larger than life-sized. Her ''personal history," as is her sculpture, is created from her heart and enriches the reader in intellectual, spiritual, and esthetic dimensions. The best known work of Miss Hoffman, a pupil of Auguste Rodin, is the ''Races of Man'' group in the Hall of Man in the Chicago Natural History Museum. 115 Valentines. Are Important | Frances C. Yost m Susan McMaughan wiped the frost from the window so that she could watch her five little schoolers board the bus that went past their house. They were beautiful children, and they were dressed nicely, thanks to the fact that she could sew well, and make over. "What are you watching, Mommie?" Little Laurie asked. "Mother's watching your big brothers and sisters, to see that they get on the bus safely." "Will you watch me next year to see if I get on the bus all right?" "T surely will, Mark." "Will you watch us when we go to school, Mommie?" "Yes, Betty and little Laurie, Mommie will watch you every morning." Susan gathered her three little pre-schoolers in her arms and hugged them close. Keeping her eight children warm and fed and with something to wear was a problem that occupied every moment of her time during the day, and most of her thinking time through the night. Susan told herself that it wouldn't be too long before Jim would write and say he had found work. Then he would enclose a check or some greenbacks. Until then she would just have to hold out. The three little children started playing with blocks, and Susan went to the kitchen and took stock of her meager supplies. There was enough sugar for a couple of weeks, and flour to make two or three nice batches of bread. The lone cow was giving milk enough for all, and cream for their cereal, and enough to make a little butter. There was still bottled fruit and a few vegetables in the cellar. Yes, with good planning, she would hold out until Jim could get work. She would keep hoping and praying. She wasn't alone with her brood of eight darling children. God was in his heaven, and was watching and caring for them. Susan cleaned and set to soak the last of the dry beans. Hot chili would make a nourishing supper for all, and perhaps there would be enough for lunch tomorrow for her and the little ones. So it was that Susan McMaughan worked and prayed day after day, hardly taking time to look at the calendar. It was while they were all around the table eating supper that evening that Susan noticed the older children were rather quiet. She hoped things had gone well for them at school. She didn't want anyone to suffer because they were poor. She wanted her children to feel adjusted and have friends... Even though it meant making over and washing clothes out at night. But something was amiss tonight. After the little children were in bed, perhaps she could get them to confide in her. Then, Valentines Are Important perhaps, she could help them with whatever was bothering them. While Martha and Cloe washed the supper dishes, Tom and Victor brought in the coal and kindling. When these tasks were finished, there would follow a session of getting lessons on the kitchen table. Then Susan would help those who needed a bit of assistance with English, arithmetic, history, or geography. In the north bedroom, away from the heater, Susan was tucking the little ones in bed. "Your Daddy would be proud, the way you can say your prayers all alone. Now jump into bed. Goodnight little Mark and Connie, Betty and Laurie. Keep under the covers, because it's dreadfully cold tonight." Susan tucked each one in snugly. She was proud of the comforters on the beds. She had taken the wornout wool blankets and covered them with pretty outing flannel. All the children had helped to tie them. Yes, her children were warm and cozy in their beds, and she was thankful for that. Susan had a song on her lips as she left the bedroom of the little ones, and walked towards the kitchen. Then she heard Tom's voice. Tom was the oldest, and he was more of a man than a boy, even though he was thirteen and in the seventh grade. What was he saying? "Well, don't tell Mother. She can't do anything about it, and it would only make her feel badly." "IT just can't face my friends on Valentine's Day without a single valentine for anyone." 117 February 1967 "Well, for goodness sake, Martha! Valentines aren't that important." This from Victor. Martha stifled a little moan, and Tom, always the benefactor came to her defense. "Of course valentines are important. Victor didn't mean it that way. He was just trying to point out that there are lots of things more important, and we'll have to be brave. Now I have thought this whole thing out, and 'decided the best way to do it is for us all to come home when the valentine party starts in each room. That way we won't be embarrassed getting valentines from our friends, and not having any to give. All in favor?" Listening, Susan McMaughan could see a future lawyer or school principal in her Tom. He was a born leader. She felt it best not to barge in the room just now. She listened, and as she listened, her heart ached. Why hadn't they shared their problems with her? Yet, as Tom had pointed out, there wasn't anything she could do about it. But perhaps there was. She hadn't bothered the Lord about anything but warmth and food and health for her family. Valentines were important, too. What were the children saying? "I guessthat is all right for us. We're big. But little Connie is only in the first grade. Valentines are so important when you're little." Cloe's voice had a flutter in it, which divulged the fact that valentines were still important at her age, also. "Well, we'll just have to bring Connie home with us, and make the best of it." That was Tom's 118 manly voice again. "(Maybe we could make valentines." Martha's voice grabbed onto a last ray of hope. "A person could make one for the teacher, I suppose, but you can't make thirty-three for everyone in the class. And you have to have red paper and lace and stuff to make valentines out of and...." "I guess you're right, Tom." Martha's voice betrayed the fact that she wasn't having too much success at being brave. "So we all come home. I guess there isn't anything else to do. But I sure hate to miss the party." Victor shrugged his shoulders, not considering whether the children would be allowed to leave school. "IT don't know about the rest of you, but I have studies to do." Tom's voice terminated the subject. Susan, listening just outside the door, was proud of her four older children. They studied hard and their report cards registered good grades. Tue next morning, after the children left for school, Susan started cleaning out drawers. There was a chance she could find last year's valentines. Perhaps with a little bleach she could erase names, and they could be re-used. She did find some, but they had been enjoyed until the corners were frayed. They were unfit to pass along. Susan toyed with the idea of taking Martha's suggestion and making some. But Tom was so right. There was nothing from which to make valentines. What few coins Susan had, were now all used for stamps and yeast cakes. Susan watched for the mailman. If Jim sent a check or even a dollar bill, she would buy valentines. When the mailman passed by the house without stopping, she went to the door and called out to him. "Any mail today?" "No, Mrs. McMaughan. Not a single thing. I'm sorry." The afternoon of the thirteenth of February, Susan asked a neighbor if she would watch Mark, Beth, and little Laurie while she slipped down town. It was a hard decision to make, but Susan was ready to swallow her pride and ask for credit at the store. She would buy valentines enough for five schoolers. Susan McMaughan went into the variety store. It was fun to look around and see the lovely things on display. She hadn't allowed herself the luxury of looking in the stores since Jim was out of work. She walked over to where the valentines usually were. The counter was bare. "Where are your valentines?" Valentines Are Important "Sold the last of them last night, Madam." "Oh, no!" "Sorry. Had a run on them. The kids are buying more these days." Susan sighed. Well, being out of stock saved her the embarrassment of asking for credit to buy them. Perhaps they would have turned her down anyway. She walked siowly from the store. Her legs were too tired to navigate. Or was it her very soul that was tired? That evening the children were extra cheerful, polite, helpful, and downright good. Susan was extra cheerful herself. It was a Pollyanna game they all seemed to be playing. Yet it seemed better than to sit down in the middle of the room and cry for lack of valentines. It was while Susan lay awake in her bed that night that she decided what she would do. She would make the prettiest valentine cake! Then, when the children came home from school, they would have a family party. She would cut the cake and serve hot chocolate with it. Susan arose early, long before the February sun had peeked over the horizon. She stirred up batter for a velvet white cake. Instead of baking it in the two square layers, or the two round pans, she poured the batter into one square pan and one round pan. When the cakes were baked and cooled, she cut the round cake in half. She placed the square cake at an angle on her largest and prettiest plate to form the point of the heart. The two round halves she placed 119 February 1967 at the top of the diamond square to form the round parts of the heart. It was a perfect valentine. Susan iced the three parts together. Then, with fluffy white icing, she covered the whole big heart. In: the center she wrote eight names: Tom, Victor, Martha, Cloe, Connie, Mark, Betty, and Laurie. With the decorator, she made little rosebuds, hearts, and cupids. Then she edged the entire valentine with lace icing. The cake was beautiful! Susan placed the cake high on the top of the cupboard out of sight. Then she sighed. The cake wouldn't take the place of valentines for friends, but she had done the best she could, and her heart felt better. The children would know that she cared. The sun came up over the eastern mountains. It was going to be a beautiful day, clear and bright and warm for February, a perfect Valentine Day... Well almost. It was time to awaken the children. What was that? A knock on the door at this hour? Susan went to the door and opened it. There stood the mailman smiling like a valentine himself. Then he seemed to be embarrassed a little. "Good morning, Mrs. McMaughan. This is a little out of order. I usually pass your house about ten-thirty. But when we sorted the mail this morning, there was this big package for your family. Since it is labeled valentines, I thought you might like it before school begins. So I dropped by on my way home for breakfast." Susan couldn't have appreciated this early call more if it had been St. Valentine himself. "Thank you. Thank you very much." Susan was all thumbs as she tore open the package. Out fell two large cellophane packets bulging with valentines. "Children! Children! And see!". There was a fine variety of valentines, even clever ones for the teachers. It was a hurry-up, but joyous morning. There were so many names of friends to write in so little time. Susan couldn't remember when they had all been so happy. After they were gone to school, Susan sat back in her chair for a bit of rest. Jim wasn't a whirlwind of a provider, but he was a thoughtful man. She would use the last postage stamp to write him a valentine love letter, and let him know how happy he had made his little children. Come KEEPING SUMMER Enola Chamberlin When grapes were ripe, and purple plums, And warm winds swayed the grain and grass, | peeled and pitted, cooked and sealed The summer up in glass. And now with snow to claim the fields And cold wind barking at the door, | break the seals and summer lives In scent and taste once more. 120 nip on an es Cen werent oe erent CE THO cerca secant ee 5 9 = 6 | jan June F. Krambule _Teaihe spay a DF eager ee / vi Model in Picture LITT T pe MS i Michael Anderson [Maite -4—/_/ @ Hours of fun were created by Mrs. Ivan Anderson of Shelley, Idaho, and given to grandson Michael Anderson, in the form of an inexpensive, longlasting Christmas gift—one that will stimulate his imagination for as long as little boys like cars and airplanes. It is a "Toy Town'—a sort of magic city—perfect for rainy days or stay-clean hours when Mother has errands to run. This toy is made from a piece of heavy canvas (we suggest about 4' x 6') On it has been sketched a layout of a model city, containing all the buildings Michael is familiar with, including train station, school, church, hotel, hospital, and supermarket. For added measure, the layout includes a construction company for the use of fascinating dump trucks and cranes; a zoo, a farm, and an airport to house the many miniature airplanes that zoom and roar in little boys' hands. Around the outside of the model city runs a train track, drawn, as are all the outlines of buildings and streets, with felt markers so popular with homemakers these days. A box of model trains, zoo animals, and a variety of cars, including ambulances and milk trucks, go with the floor layout and provide hours of imaginative play. Homes along the avenues have garages to house the miniature automobiles. These garages are pockets made of muslin, pleated at the edges, into which chubby fists can push tiny cars. Houses and other buildings, outlined with felt pens, can be colored lightly with crayon. Do you have a "little one" 'with an imagination? Why not draft him a Toy Town and let him spend those indoor hours driving to Sunday School, delivering milk, rushing patients to the hospital, landing his jet, or motoring to the farm? This gift is interesting to make, easy to mail, compact to store, easy on clothes. All things that appeal to grownups—and lots of fun for a youngster. 121 ae Ns WS Tell Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 8 (Conclusion) a "Come back here, Julie!" Cleo demanded. ''We must go for help. It will take men who know how, and all their equipment, to lift him out of there. We'll have to hurry." "TY won't leave him here!" Julie cried out as she crawled back to the safe, hard ground and stood up facing Cleo. "Casey Jones knew he was down there. Why didn't we listen to that good old kelpie? He's been coming out here every night alone, running all those miles. He's begged us to come!" Cleo. Gritted her teeth. "I know," she said. "Uncle Rufe would call me a plain mutton-head. But now—-we've got to move fast. I can't blame you for staying here, Julie. If my John was down there, no one could pull me away either. I'll go for help." "But how, Aunt Cleo? We're forty miles from the: station—almost twenty from the highway. You might not know your way back without Casey Jones." Cleo's eyes had firey little glints in them. "I'm a bush-woman, Julie. I know what to do in an emergency. I'll get back to the highway in the jeep. Then I'll 122 shoot the telegraph wires. That is a signal for help out here. Linesmen answer that call no matter where they are. I can't say how long we'll have to wait. Maybe a few hours—maybe all night—maybe longer. But they will come." "Can you hit the wire?" Julie was incredulous. "It's way up in the sky." "Tt will take a good shot," she answered. Her chin squared off. "T did it when a horse fell on Uncle Rufe. God willing, I can do it again." Julie touched her cheek. "Grandfather says that you are the best shot in Australia," she said. Cleo's wide mouth relaxed. "T'm glad there's something I can do that pleases him, Julie. I've about given up—trying to make him like me." Julie hugged her. "We all have a place in his heart," she said. "I love you, Aunt Cleo, I think you are the very salt of the earth. T really do." Cleo said brusquely: "Take this torch. Hang it on your belt. You have that old survival kit and your water bag. Keep your rifle right by your side. Lift it, don't drag it. Trust old Casey Jones to key you if anything vicious comes near you." She strode off across the bush, her bright yellow hair flying in the breeze. Julie was alone with Casey Jones, guarding Ron, far down in a deep, dark hole. She crawled up beside the dog again. He licked her hands, and nuzzled his face in them. "Good kelpie,"' she whispered to him. A few minutes later she heard the horn of the jeep. Aunt Cleo was riding toward the highway. Julie inched closer to the hole and turned her torch into its darkness. She could see nothing but jagged, crusty earth on every side. She cupped her hands and called down: '"Ron—Ron, darling. I'm here. Ill never leave you. Never. Aunt Cleo has gone for help. So don't give up." Her words were an empty wail with a weird echo. She shivered and closed her eyes. Wild birds circled above them. Hours dragged by. The afternoon sun faded into twilight, and the cockatoos began their unearthly screeching. Great, widewinged bats flew over her. The brittle, dry tufts of grass crackled as something slithered through it. Night came down like a heavy blanket of darkness. There was no moon in the sky. No stars. Julie felt a damp mist on her face and arms. Dear Heavenly Father, she cried into the darkness, don't let it rain until they come. "Ron.... Oh, Ron, darling," she called again and strained to Tell Me of Love listen. This time Casey Jones raised his head listening, too. His body tensed. He barked, wagging his tail. Julie wondered if she imagined it, or did someone say "Julie." She leaned forward eagerly, waiting, but it was only the wind sighing through the bush. Tuzre was a freezing drizzle in the air. She crawled closer to Casey Jones, trying to warm herself against his fluffy hair. They lay quietly listening for some whisper of life in the hole below them. Instead, she heard the crackle of brittle-dry grass as something stepped on it coming nearer. Nearer. Fear beat in Julie like a hammer. Casey Jones' head came up with a jerk. He crawled backwards, jumping to his feet. Julie followed him, lifting her rifle and turning her torch on the approaching object. A huge dingo! She saw it plainly, glittering eyes, teeth bared. His breath was a howling snarl as he leaped for Casey Jones. He had returned to kill him. They fought savagely, biting, tearing at each other. Her torch was focused on them but how could she aim her rifle if she had to drop the torch? Panic rose in her throat, but she beat it down. Closing her eyes, she prayed desperately. When she opened her eyes the big dingo was tearing at Casey Jones' wounded shoulder. Their howls wailed with the wind. Julie reached the bush and put the lighted torch in its branches. It was a spotlight on the fighting dogs. Slowly, carefully, she lifted her 123 February 1967 rifle, aiming at the dingo. She must hit him in the head. If she only wounded him, he would turn and attack her. The shot rang out across the black night. She fired again. The dingo reared back, pawing the air, then he flopped to the earth, and Casey Jones was free. Julie ran to him, cradling him in her lap. She took off her shirt and tore it to pieces, mopping his wounds. "Good _ kelpie," she crooned gently. "Good Casey Jones." The wind rose, whipping about them, freezing the mist in the air. Julie was chilled and aching, but she crawled back to the hole. She must keep on calling to Ron —calling—calling. He must know she was near him. Casey Jones crawled up beside her. He was wet and shivering. They were both weak and exhausted. A hazy sleep enveloped her. The next time she awakened she crawled closer to Casey Jones. He was scarcely breathing. "Oh, no!" she cried into the darkness. "Don't leave me Casey—please don't—die." She lay close to him and murmured encouraging words until he finally licked her hand.... *k ck KK Ck oR | arora heard a man's voice. It was a dear, familiar voice. "She's regaining consciousness," he said to someone. "Julie —you are safe now. Speak to us, dear." It was Dr. George's voice. It was hazy and faded away. Then she heard him again: "You are back at the station, Julie, in Isabelle's bed." Big Dan's voice came to her. "The little Julie is a brave one. 124 It was the sound of her voice that kept Ron hanging on to life. He told me so." "A brave one," Dr. George said. "It was that dingo that backed Ron into the hole. I'm glad she got him right in the head." Julie's eyes fluttered open, but everything was hazy. "Ron... " she whispered. "Where—is Ron?" "He's alive, dear,' Aunt Isabelle said, close to her ear. 'Dr. George has sent for the best doctors in Perth. Father, Aunt Tricia, and the children will come, too. Wally and Betz have gone to the township to meet them. Carolyn is taking care of Ron in the back room." Julie's chest was heavy. She could hardly breathe. It's pneumonia, she thought. She must see Ron. She struggled to sit up, but Isabelle pushed her gently back to the pillow. "Tell me—about Ron.... Her voice was a raspy whisper. "We'll pull him through," Dr. George said. "Get well and strong so you can help us." *T will—oh, I will...." She closed her eyes, breathing hard, trying to fight off the darkness, but she slipped into unconsciousness again. The next time she opened her eyes, Aunt Cleo's face was above her, sweat was streaming down Aunt Cleo's cheecks, and she was rubbing Julie from head to toes with a foul-smelling salve. Julie was hot, sweating hot. She could not endure it. "Aunt Cleo, please don't. Mutton tallow and eucalyptus make —me—so sick. I'm burning up— I can't breathe." 3 3? "Put more wood in the stove, Wally," Cleo ordered. '"She's waking up, but we can't quit. We've -got to sweat this bush chill clear out of her. It's the only way. Keep the stove red hot." "You can't stand it in here, Aunt Cleo," Wally said. "It's hot enough to bake you alive. Uncle John is worried about you." "Tell him—I'm all right. You get more wood. We have to keep on." Darkness came again to Julie. She sank into it. Julie opened her eyes, wondering where she was. She could breathe easily. The room was cool as a green paddock. Grandfather was in the chair beside her bed. "Hello," she said in a thin little voice. He smiled and touched her hand. "She's better, Cleo," he said with a grateful sigh. "Our little girl is all right. Your bush method has won. You did a fine job. Thank you for all of us." "She cooked us all," Wally said. "Dad and Uncle John chopped three loads of wood. I'll go and tell them Julie is conscious." Julie's eyes moved from one person to another, Dr. George, pe er 7 Aunt Isabelle, then to Aunt Cleo at the foot of the bed. She was pale and thinner, but her smile was radiant. "You did it, Cleo," Dr: George said. "Julie didn't respond to anything I gave her. Carolyn and I had all the newest medicines. I have never seen anyone work harder to save a life than you did." Julie saw Cleo through misty eyes.: "She's worth it," Cleo said. "T'll do it all over if she needs it." "She'll make George said. "That's an old bush remedy," Cleo explained. "I saw my Uncle Rufe cook that chill out of my brother Joe when he'd been out there three days." "Ron...." "Where is Ron?" "We made a small hospital in the back room,' Grandfather told her. ""When you are stronger we will take you to him." "Now, Grandfather. Please." She tried to sit up, but sank back against the pillow. "Soon," Grandfather said. "Be a good girl and stay quiet a while longer. We are all close by, Julie."' Someone was always with her. Casey Jones came in, but most it now," Dr. Julie Aaleadl 125 February 1967 of the time he was with Ron. One day Betz came in, red-eyed, as though she had been weeping. "They wouldn't let me come in before this," she said, indignantly. "I nearly died with worry. Even Wally couldn't eat when you were so sick." "That showed his devotion," Julie said, smiling. '"What a sacrifice. When he can't eat, he's really bushed."' "Look, Julie." Betz opened a box she had brought with her. "IT sent to Perth for this dressing gown. Wear it when you go to Ron. You'll look gorgeous in pink." Her voice broke. She put her hand over her mouth. "I have stayed too long," she said. "Aunt Isabelle will scold me. Only Grandfather is permitted to come in here any time he wants to." Julie noticed that Grandfather was always nearby as if protecting her. He is afraid the others will tell me something, Julie thought. She knew they were keeping something from her. Something about Ron. Sue was alone after Betz left the room; with a great effort she got to her feet. The dressing gown Betz had given her was on the chair nearby. She struggled into it, loving the feel of the soft cashmere, tying the silken bow at the collar. She would walk down the hall to Ron's room. She held onto the bed, inching her way along, weak and unsteady, but determined. The door opened and Grandfather came in. He did not look angry nor even surprised. "You are pretty as a picture," 126 he said, sitting in his chair. Julie sat down on the bed. She looked directly into his eyes. "Tell me, Grandfather. About Ron." "He is a lucky boy to be alive," he answered in his quiet way. "He was down there five days with a broken back." His voice was gentle, but Julie thought it faltered. Her eyes had darkened and seemed too big for her pale face. "{T have to know, Grandfather," she said. '"Tell me." He drew a long breath. His face seemed suddenly older and very tired. But his strong, stern chin was steady as a rock. "It will be a long time before Ron will walk again," he said. Julie sat perfectly still. Ron might always be a cripple. She saw the golden sunshine streaming through the window. Her eyes focused on the everlasting flowers that Ron had picked and put in the vase under Grannie's picture. She was in her wedding dress. It had hung on the wall right there ever since Julie could remember. Tears stung her eyes, but she did not weep. This was a time when you had to cling to hope and courage. Grannie had told her many times that to love was to know both bitter and sweet. She reached for Grandfather's hand and held it tenderly in both her own. They sat silently for a long, prayerful moment. "T love him, Grandfather," she said. Her voice had the whole world in its gentleness. "That means I will do anything for him. If he cannot walk alone, I will help him. We will study together until he finishes at the Univer- sity. But, please, if you love us, Grandfather, let us marry now. Don't send me away from him again." He looked up at Grandmother's picture. The deep lines around his mouth softened, but he did not speak. Tue old clock in the corner ticked so loudly Julie wondered if it was the sound of her own heart. At last he looked a Julie. The comers of his mouth turned up in a roguish smile. "Do you think your Grannie's wedding dress will fit you? I am sure that will please her. You are her namesake, Julia Ann Ridgehaven." Julie bent her head. She could hardly squeeze the tears back. But Grandfather did not like tears. He said tears had never won a battle yet. "As soon as you and Ron are both well,'' he went on, '"'we will fly to New Zealand to go to the temple. Would you like a small wedding breakfast at our home on Rushcutters Bay?" Julie nodded. She was too full of joy to speak. His voice bridled: "Remember this, Julie. I insist that Ron finish at the university, then he can teach. The doctors expect he will finally walk, but he must be prepared to take his place in the world, anyway. Education is very important in our life today. I mean to see that my family helps to keep Australia up there working at it." He gave Julie a wise smile. "Your cousin Wally has told me how he feels about Betz." Julie's heart beat faster. Tell Me of Love "T am not surprised," he said. "He and Sue Ellen have been drifting apart. Probably they were not meant for each other." He looked quizzically at Julie, but she didn't offer an opinion. "When Wally finishes at the University next January, if this infatuation for Betz has deepened into real, enduring love, they will have my consent to marry. Your Aunt Tricia and Uncle Geoffrey seem very pleased with her. A little American spirit will be a good thing for the Ridgehavens. In Wally's words, she has worked like a drover out here, and proved she is a bit of all right!" There was a tap-tap on the door. It opened and Aunt Tricia came in with little Kip and Brown. The children looked at Julie with wide, curious eyes. ""We said our prayers for you, Julie," Kip said. "Now, you're up!" Julie hugged them both. "I'm glad you prayed for me," she said, lifting her eyes to Aunt Tricia. "Thank you. Thank you!" The rest of the family crowded into the room. Dr. George called out, "Look at our girl, sitting up. She'll be able to dance at our wedding, Isabelle." "I will!" Julie smiled back. Uncle John put his arm around Aunt Cleo. "Father, Cleo and I want the spotlight for a second. We are expecting another baby." "That's jolly good news," Grandfather beamed. "Another Rideghaven." Uncle John's eyes " twinkled. "Cleo wants to know, if the baby is a boy, would you like us to name him Sir Walter Scott?" 127 February 1967 "T would not!" Fierce lights brightened Grandfather's eyes. "Cleo should remember her own heritage. If you want my opinion, the name, Rufe Riley Quinn Ridgehaven, would please me; in " honor of the finest grazier I have ever known. I am proud that my son John is married to the wonderful girl he reared!" No one spoke. The room held a quiet and sacred stillness. Aunt Cleo's face was lifted. She looked as though she had just been decorated by the Queen. Grandfather unwound his long legs and got to his feet. "Come, my dear," he said to Julie. "I will take you to Ron's room." Wally pushed forward. "Let me carry her to him, Grandfather," he coaxed. "That might be best," Grandfather agreed. "But only carry her to his door. Let her walk to him alone." "She's too weak," Wally protested. "'She's skinny as a crow." "She can go in alone," Grandfather said, "We can always make our goal when we know that someone who truly loves us —is waiting." BUTTER FROSTING MADE WITH A MIXER Judith Leigh-Kendall Using a small mixer bowl, pour in one pound of unsifted powdered sugar. Add 14 cup soft butter and 3 tablespoons liquid (water, milk, or cream). Turn the mixer on to the lowest speed and mix well. Add one teaspoon flavoring, and turn the mixer up high for whipping. If the frosting seems too thick, add another tablespoon of liquid. Whip at high speed a few minutes. This frosting is lump free and saves a few minutes of a busy homemaker's time. It will frost the tops and sides of most layer cakes or a sheet cake. KATE'S COOKIES Kate Swainston 14 cup white sugar Y cup brown sugar 1 egg 1 cube butter (14 Ib.) *2 tablespoons of cream *1 tablespoon of lemon juice 1144 cup flour 14% tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 14 cup rolled oats Mix ingredients together in order listed. Roll and store in refrigerator for two to four hours before baking. Slice and place on baking sheet. Bake at 400° for 12 minutes. *Three tbsp. Sour cream can be substituted. 128 Rose Ella Miller Hall, Jacksonville, Florida, preserves the radiant beauty of flowers in lasting form and color. Roses, lilies, daisies, dahlias—flowers in bouquets, flowers in pools and rustic gardens—flowers adorning the landscape of a cottage in the hills—Mrs. Hall has captured the elusive beauty of the floral kingdom. Her interest in painting developed at an early age when she bought art supplies with her penny-budget. Later in life, she earned her living by painting delicate flowers on silk blouses and scarves. Her paintings have found places of honor in numerous homes throughout the United States. Many of her scenes are painted from happy childhood memories. The Relief Society sisters know that when bazaar time comes, they will have the opportunity of seeing some lovely paintings by Mrs. Hall, as well as hearing the background story of each painting. Mrs. Hall, a member of the Jacksonville Second Ward, Florida Stake, bears a fervent and sincere testimony of the gospel. Her spirit is as beautiful as the colors she blends in the paintings. 129 Relief Society Activities ANS RELIEF Paste toa nenitth Be Idaho Stake, Bancroft Ward Relief Society Compiles Pictorial History March 17, 1966 Arlene T. Torgesen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: "A detailed history had been carefully kept of the Bancroft Ward Relief Society since its organization in 1907, but no pictures had been inserted. In January, Frances Yost (a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine) was asked to secure pictures for Bancroft Ward's history book and to prepare a picture display for the Seventeenth of March social. "Sister Yost decided to display the leaves from the history book. She located many pictures and took others herself. There had been twelve presidents serving during sixty years. By using one page for each president's term, all who served with her could be on one page. The back of the page could be used for events which took place during the president's term. "By the seventeenth of March, at the ward Relief Society social, seventeen pages of pictures on both sides were displayed, with the necessary captions. Each loose-leaf page was covered with cellophane so that the leaves could be picked up and examined closely, as well as turned over. Now the Bancroft Relief Society has a history book really to crow about. Sister Yost is shown in the picture with the historical display. The crocheted bedspread covering the table was also made by Sister Yost." 130 & All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Shelley Stake (Idaho) Flower Show and Cooked Foods Sales August 2, 1966 Helen L. Hanson, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: "An audience of nearly 900 enjoyed an evening of cultural refinement, when Shelley Stake Relief Society presented a delightful Singing Mothers concert, followed by a combined flower show and cooked foods sale. 'Reflections in Music,' conducted by Sharlene S. Eaton and accompanied by Muriel F. Clark and Laree O. Hammer, depicted the choice moments in a lifetimé from infancy to the golden years of spirituality. The same theme was brought beautifully into focus in the cultural hall by a revolving seven-foot high, glittering treble cleft and staff atop a satin-covered table grouped among other beautifully decorated tables, enchanced by gladioli, grape clusters, dainty ceramics, figurines, and a most perfect rose. "Talents and efforts of many were displayed through unique and beautiful floral arrangements placed on tiered tables, and throughout the hall among the booths. Then, on the enticing food tables, were such titles as 'The Good Ship Lollipop,' 'Blackbirds Baked in a Pie,' and decorated to capture attention and urge everyone to buy the tempting foods. "The class displays were exhibited under 'Relief Society—Key to Harmonious Living.' We felt that the event was a great success culturally and financially, as well as being a missionary tool, for we had two nonmembers singing with us, as well as many nonmembers in the audience." 131 February 1967 Franco-Belgian Mission, Verdun (France) Servicemen's Group Holds Bazaar December 1965 Front row, left to right: Zoe Coomes, First Counselor; Audrey Hill, Second Counselor; Lee Noel and baby. Back row, left to right: Lillian Ishoy; Audrey Westlake, President; Georgia Hoffman; Elaine Parker; LaVon Hosey; Janice Greer. Helen H. Paramore, Supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Verdun Servicemen's Group Relief Society is made up of wives of both Canadian and American servicemen stationed in the Verdun, Etain, and Marville area of France. While the Relief Society is small, due to rotation back to the States and Canada, they still reap the blessings from the Lord through service. They have the opportunity of attending conference every three months and meeting with the mission presidency. The American servicemen and families are being taken from France, and the Canadian servicemen are being sent to Germany, thus eliminating these members in France. We are sorry to lose these diligent members who have rendered so much strength and support to the Franco-Belgian Mission." Sydney Stake (Australia) Relief Society Luncheon In Honor Of Retiring President July 29, 1966 Left to right: Janet Dean, visiting teacher message Jeader; Jean Jeffree, Magazine representative; Neta Ehmann, social relations class leader; Ethel Hurst, chorister; Pauline M. Maugh, homemaking leader; Betty Stokes, incoming president; Ethel Parton, retiring president; Valerie Clarke, First Counselor; Mary Frater, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Smith, cultural refinement class leader; Maxine Munn, acting secretary-treasurer; Elsie Parton, spiritual living class leader; Mavis Draper, Second Counselor. Sister Stokes reports: "Sister Parton was called to be district president for a period of six years previous to the formation of Sydney Stake. She then served a further six years as stake Relief Society president. Sister Parton was presented with a canteen of cutlery on behalf of Relief Society throughout the stake." Garden Grove Stake (California) Conducts Art Show June 24, 1966 Left to right: Afton Minson, President; Marjorie Kerr, Chairman of art show and President of new Huntington Beach Stake Relief Society; Gwenith Lewis, co-chairman of art show and stake board member. Sister Minson reports: "Garden Grove Stake presented the first of a proposed series of annual art shows, June 24th, in connection with the stake birthday ball, celebrating five years of growth. Garden Grove Stake was officially divided on June 5th, when the new Huntington Beach Stake was formed. The art show marked a memorable milestone, a gala celebration of a last activity together. Exhibitors were members of the original Garden Grove Stake, and exhibits were of outstanding quality. There were over 300 entries, representing 100 artists. Competition included nine categories, each with first, second, and third awards: Landscapes; Still Life; Portraits and Character Studies; Abstract; Youth Artist, under Eighteen; Ceramics; Sculpture; Stitchery; and Photography. The showing was attended by approximately 400 viewers. Judges were Eileen Quigley and Rita Gillette, from the Huntington Beach Art League. Hostesses were ward and stake Relief Society officers." 132 Reataycentieoum A NaN EARN RARRS Ag AEA ROD TT 133 February 1967 Western States Mission, Roswell (New Mexico) District Presents "Show and Tell'? Day, August 25, 1966 Left to right: Eileen Higgins, Secretary; Annette Mitchell, Second Counselor; Barbara Gibson, President; Joyce Hannifan, First Counselor; Margaret McFarland, homemaking leader. Carrell Thorpe, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports: "For the annual 'Show and Tell' day, the table decor was in keeping with the autumn theme that was carried throughout the cultural hall. The table was covered in gold, and the centerpiece was created by the district Relief Society President Barbara Gibson. The menu consisted of chicken salad, melon boat, fruit cups, and rolls. The recipes were taken from The Relief Society Magazine." Grantsville Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, September 30, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right, former Singing Mothers, given special honor: Myrtle Barrus; Edith Anderson; Annie Millward; Adda Willis; Mary Ann Lenore J. Johnson, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each of the eleven wards in the stake was represented. Many of the sisters traveled long distances to attend the practices. Melba Wells, chorister, conducted. The chorus sang 'Hear My Prayer,' and an original song written by Sister Wells, 'Lift Our Voices Unto God,' which added greatly to the spirituality of the meeting. President Johnson and her Counselors Agnes Clark and Fern Wilson, sang with the group, as did several other stake Relief Society board members. Vera Elfors, who has served as stake organist for many years, and Mignon Christley were the accompanists." Bear Lake Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Cantata "Resurrection Morning," April 10, 1966 Front row, at the right, Ruby B. Dunford, chorister; seated at the organ, Merla N. Bee, organist. Ivy K. Jensen, President, Bear Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the able leadership of our music department, this group of Singing Mothers, composed of singers from the nine wards in our stake, presented the cantata 'Resurrection Morning' by Gates, to an appreciative audience Easter night. Seven members of the stake board are among the group. We felt that by the participation of so many sisters and the deep spiritual message of the songs, that it was indeed a fitting and lovely occasion. Once each year our Singing Mothers furnish the music for stake quarterly conference, also special numbers for our monthly leadership meetings, funerals, and Relief Society functions. Much joy, happiness, and spiritual growth have come to the sisters through the presentation of these special programs." 134 February 1967 New England Mission, New Hampshire District Relief Society Conducts ''Mormon Trail" Bazaar, July 16, 1966 Left to right: Jean M. Hartford, President, Portsmouth Branch; Annette Andrews, President, Concord Branch; Rhea C. Guild, President, New Hampshire District Relief Society; Dorothy Buswell, President, Laconia Branch; Elena B. Putnam, President, Brattleboro Branch; Ethel Carman, homemaking leader, New Hampshire District; Florence Spicer, President, Claremont Branch. Donna S. Packer, Supervisor, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "The mission Relief Society officers were so pleased with the New Hampshire District bazaar. Sister Alberta Baker, our mission Relief Society President, and I were touring the branches the day this took place. "It was a thrilling day for the district, with all eight branches participating, and more than 1,000 people visiting the bazaar. "The Mormon Trail' was set up in a large open field, near a busy intersection, including a shopping center and many motels. Each branch was assigned a step on the trail from Nauvoo, Illinois, to Salt Lake City. The booths were representative—covered wagons, forts, boweries. Each booth had the name of the branch and the name of its step on the trail attached to it. All articles sold were of excellent quality— exquisite handwork, delicious home-cooked food and candy, beautiful quilts, unique gift items, and an antique table. Adding interest and color were the pleasant Relief Society sisters dressed in pioneer costumes. We felt the great power of the Priesthood without whose guidance and help this bazaar never could have been held. We know that our bazaar was a great missionary effort. We felt the Lord's Spirit with us throughout the day, and many people were stirred not only by the excellence of the bazaar, but with a desire to learn more about the gospel." 136 Aine = seater mere -e Lesson Department WE SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 80—The Eventual Triumph of God's Work (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 101:43-75; 103) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks through obedience and diligence to share in the eventual triumph of God's work. INTRODUCTION Section 101 of the Doctrine and Covenants contains reasons for the persecution of the saints in Jackson County, Missouri. Stakes of Zion were to be places of refuge where the saints might gather. (Verses 17-22.) The saints are the salt of the earth by covenant, but the un- 'faithful will, as salt that has lost its savor, lose their usefulness in the kingdom. The Lord said that some saints might be called upon to give their lives in defense of the faith, and to these, he said, there would come a fulness of joy in the eternal worlds. (Verses 35-40.) A PARABLE By parable the Lord revealed wherein the saints transgressed in Zion, and a plan by which the saints in Missouri might be restored to their lands. Anciently, religious truths were given by parable, comparable to the one found in Section 101. (Isaiah 5: 1-7; Matt. 21:33-46.) This form of instruction is described as follows:. The parable conveys to the hearer religious truth exactly in proportion to his faith and intelligence; to the dull and unintelligent it is a mere story, "seeing they see not," while to the instructed and spiritual it reveals the mysteries or secrets of the kingdom of heaven. Thus it is that 137 February 1967 the parable exhibits the condition of all true knowledge. Only he who seeks finds.... The word itself, '"'parable," is Greek in origin, and means a setting side by side, a comparison. In parables divine truth is explained by comparisons with material things (Bible Dictionary, The Holy Bible, Specially Bound for Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints (L. D. S. Missionary Bible), page 114). The parable in Section 101: 43-62 interpreted in the light of Latter-day Saint Church history is as follows: A master (the Lord) sends his servants (members of the Church) into his vineyard (Jackson County, Missouri) to plant olive trees. They are to build a tower (temple) from which they would detect the movements of any enemy who would come to destroy the fruit of the vineyard. The servants did as the Lord of the vineyard required, even to the building of the foundation of the tower; however, they began to question the building of the tower since it was a time of peace. Because the servants were not united in this project, an opportunity was afforded the enemy (Missouri mobs) to overrun the vineyard and cause the servants to flee. Upon hearing of this destruction, the master reminds the servants that if they had done as commanded, even to building the tower and placing watchmen (officers of the Church) upon the walls, preparation would have been made for the preservation of the vineyard. What should be done? One of the servants (Joseph Smith, Section 103:21) was commanded to gather together other servants, the young and the middle-aged, and redeem the vine- 138 yard (gather together sufficient brethren to purchase land, Section 103:23) for it was the master's, and he had paid for it. But someone asks, when should the vineyard be redeemed? The answer was: ""When I will," but the servant was to do as commanded in gathering the faithful to redeem the vineyard. (D&C 101: 43-60.) The revelation continues to explain that the Prophet Joseph Smith had received a seal and a blessing. He was proclaimed by the Lord as a faithful and wise steward, a ruler in the kingdom of God. (Ibid., verse 61.) The Lord knew that the Prophet would do as commanded, for he revealed to Nephi that the Prophet would be a dedicated servant, "for he shall do my work" (2 Nephi 3:8). In the parable just related, the servant did as the master commanded, "and after many days all things were fulfilled" (D&C 101:62). GATHER BEFORE THE JUDGMENT Being driven from Jackson County did not dishearten the saints from continuing the work of salvation in which they were engaged. Those who could, were counseled to continue to gather to places appointed—holy places. These are designated in the revelation as stakes. (Ibid., verses 20-21.) In this revelation, the Lord calls attention to the parable of the wheat and the tares explained earlier in Section 86. At the second coming of Christ, there will be a separation of the righteous from the wicked. The wheat, his saints, will find eternal life in that day, while the tares, the wicked, will be brought to judgment. Eventually all men will be judged according to their works. (Ibid., verses 63-67.) PURCHASE LAND If the saints would return to the land of their inheritance, it | was necessary for them to purchase land in and about Zion, a commandment which is repeated. (Ibid., verses 69-71; 63:25-31.) It was intended that the various branches of the Church should contribute to the purchase of lands. (Ibid., 101:71-75.) SEEK FOR REDRESS The saints were told to importune for redress for the crimes committed against them according to the law of the land. The Constitution of the United States was prepared by men whom the Lord raised up that protection might be afforded against loss of property and liberties. (Jbid., 101:76-80; Lesson 77, Relief Society Magazine, November 1966.) The Lord refers to the parable of the woman and the unjust judge that the saints might know how to seek for redress. (Luke 18:1-8; D&C 101:81-84.) As applied to the saints, they were to seek assistance from the judge; if he would not help then they were to go to the governor, and, finally, to the President of the United States. If satisfaction was not then obtained, the Lord, would, in his time, deal with the Nation. (Ibid., verses 85-91.) RESULTS The attempts of the saints to follow the Lord's counsel on how to return to their lands in Jackson County, is summarized as follows: Lesson Department The Saints did importune the rulers for redress. After having knocked at the doors of judges, they addressed several communications to Governor Dunklin of Missouri. In a letter dated February 4th, 1834, this official acknowledged the duty of the authorities to reinstate the Saints in their homes and to inquire into the proceedings of Col. Pitcher in depriving them of their arms. He also admitted that the entire State was interested in the faithful execution of the laws; "for that which is the case of the Mormons to-day, may be the case of the Catholics to-morrow, and after them, any other sect that may become obnoxious to a majority of the people of any section of the State." He proposed to provide protection for the people while suing in the courts and returning to their homes, but he did not guarantee protection in the continued possession of the homes, and the Saints, therefore, wisely declined to return and invite the mob to commit new outrages (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 652). Following these unsatisfactory promises, additional appeals were made to the civil authorities. When the saints were driven from the State of Missouri, as this source continues: Petitions were sent, and, finally, the Prophet Joseph appealed in person to the President of the United States, but this only elicited the famous answer, "Your cause is just, but I can do nothing for you" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 652). Section 103 The saints in Clay County, Missouri, held a conference and asked for volunteers to go to the Prophet in Ohio to see what could be done to restore the saints to their homes in Jackson County. Elder Parley P. Pratt wrote the following about this circumstance: 139 February 1967 The poverty of all, and the inclement season of the year made all hesitate. At length Lyman Wight and myself offered our services, which were readily accepted. I was at the time entirely destitute of proper clothing for the journey; and I had neither horse, saddle, bridle, money nor provisions to take with me; or to leave with my wife, who lay sick and helpless most of the time. Under these circumstances I knew not what to do. Nearly all had been robbed and plundered, and all were poor. As we had to start without delay, I almost trembled at the undertaking; it seemed to be all but an impossibility; but "to him that believeth all things are possible...." [Mark 9:23.]... We were soon ready, and on the first of February we mounted our horses, and started in good cheer to ride one thousand or fifteen hundred miles through a wilderness country, We had not one cent of money in our pockets on starting. We travelled every day, whether through storm or sunshine, mud, rain, or snow; except when our public duties called us to tarry. We arrived in Kirtland early in the spring, all safe and sound; we had lacked for nothing on the road, and now had plenty of funds in hand. President Joseph Smith and the Church in Kirtland received us with a hospitality and joy unknown except among the Saints; and much interest was felt there, as well as elsewhere, on the subject of our persecution (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1950, pp. 107-109). Class Discussion How does this strengthen your belief that obedience to those over you will be rewarded? The Lord revealed Section 103 which gave the answer to the most pressing question before the saints—when shall Zion be redeemed? As the Lord had said before, it was necessary for the members of the Church in Ohio 140 and elsewhere to gather sufficient money to help redeem Zion, and also to organize a relief expedition. If they would not follow the Lord's counsel, they would be as salt that had lost its savor. A great obligation was placed upon the Church to assist to redeem Zion. It was so important that the Prophet Joseph Smith made the following prophecy: If Zion is not delivered, the time is near when all of this Church, wherever they may be found, will be persecuted and destroyed in like manner (DHC 11:53). Subsequent events proved that Zion would not be redeemed at that time. The branches of the Church were scattered and driven from Missouri into Illinois and, subsequently, to the West. GOD'S WORK TO TRIUMPH In a large sense, the saints were promised that if they kept the commandments they would prevail over their enemies and would, eventually, inherit the earth. This prophecy is in process of fulfillment today: But verily I say unto you, that I have decreed a decree which my people shall realize, inasmuch as they hearken from this very hour unto the counsel which I, the Lord their God, shall give unto them. Behold they shall, for I have decreed it, begin to prevail against mine enemies from this very hour. And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet, and the earth is given unto the saints, to possess it forever and ever (D&C 103:5-7). This remarkable prophecy has its roots in the ancient prediction made by Daniel, concerning the setting up of the kingdom of God upon the earth in the last days. (Daniel 2.) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is that kingdom, and it is destined to fill the whole earth. The keys of the kingdom have already been restored and only time will © see the complete fulfillment when it will cover the earth. (D&C 65: 2.) The assaults of its enemies will never overcome God's work. There may appear to be times when the Church is overcome by the adversary, but these victories are only temporary. Regarding this prophecy in Section 103, President Joseph F. Smith in a General Conference, challenged the world to show that this prophecy was not true. Despite deadly opposition, the prophecy is in process of fulfillment. (Journal of Discourses 25:98.) Before the saints were driven from Illinois after having been previously expelled from Missouri, in 1839, they had founded the city of Nauvoo, which grew to some 20,000 inhabitants. At the time President Joseph F. Smith gave his testimony and assurance of the continuance of God's work, the membership of the Church was slightly over 160,000. Since that time, eighty years later, the Church has grown to well over two and one-half million, with an annual increase of over 10,000. Latter-day Saints do not look for the complete fulfillment of the prophecy that the Church will cover the whole earth until the millennium: They know that when the earth is celestialized it will belong to the saints permanently, and they know that that prophecy is in process of fulfillment.. Lesson Department That the Prophet Joseph Smith had a certain knowledge of the continuous growth of the Church very early in the dispensation, is indicated in the following account reported by President Wilford Woodruff in 1898. A number of the brethren met in a Priesthood meeting, in 1833, and testified to the on-rolling progress of the kingdom of God on the earth, and then the Prophet made this prophecy:... "Brethren I have been very much edified and instructed in your testimonies here tonight, but I want to say to you before the Lord, that you know no more concerning the. Destinies of this Church and kingdom than a babe upon its mother's lap. You don't comprehend it." I was rather surprized. He said "it is only a little handful of Priesthood you see here tonight, but this Church will fill North and South America—it will fill the world." Among other things he said, "it will fill the Rocky Mountains. There will be tens of thousands cf Latter-day Saints who will be gathered in the Rocky Mountains, and there they will open the door for the establishing of the Gospel among the Lamanites, who will receive the Gospel and their endowments and the blessings of God...." I name these things because I want to bear testimony before God, angels and men that mine eyes behold the day, and have beheld for the last fifty years of my life, the fulfillment of that prophecy.... (Conference Report, April 1898, page 57). No one could truthfully say that this prophecy, comparable to the one in Section 103, but more in detail, is not in process of fulfillment. A LIGHT TO THE WORLD Latter-day Saints by covenant of baptism are to be a light to the world. In this calling, they are to show the way to eternal life. If 141 February 1967 obedient to this commandment, they become the saviors of men (D&C 103: 9-10.) Class Discussion What does it mean to be a savior of men, and how is this achieved? As the Savior commanded, we should not hide our talents under a bushel, but "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 5:16). This sobering thought suggests that members of the Church may be saviors of men in several ways: first, in being exemplary in their lives so that people will see the fruits of the gospel and seek it; second, in being exemplars of the truth so people will believe their words when they are taught the gospel; and third, in laboring through genealogical research and _ the performance of temple work for the dead to become helpers in the salvation of others. PROMISE OF REDEMPTION The saints will return to the center place of Zion to build the city and temple. The Lord has so stated. (D&C 101:17-19; 103: 11.) Living prophets look forward to the time when this will be accomplished. The accomplishment for which the Church has been restored, is assured, but as to all members of the Church there is not the same assurance. Those who pollute their inheritances will be thrown down. (Ibid., 103:14.) VICTORY THROUGH DEDICATION Class Discussion What are some of the qualities 142 that will help us attain eternal life? The way to victory and glory, said the Lord, was through three qualities: diligence, faithfulness, and prayers of faith. Diligently performing the duties and responsibilities of one's calling and keeping the commandments, bring the Lord's choicest blessings. In a Priesthood revelation the Lord said: Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen (D&C 107:99-100). The importance of faithfulness in a Latter-day Saint's life and its blessing are given by Elder Delbert L. Stapley in this passage: Complete obedience and _ faithfulness obtain full fellowship in the household of faith and, more importantly, merit joint-heirship with Christ our Lord in all that the Father has committed unto him (Conference Report, April 1961, page 65). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Admonished the Church to live the commandments and then the prayer of faith would be meaningful. Now... Are you living so that you can go. To the Lord with reasonable confidence that he will hear you? Can you go and ask him to heal your little ones? Or yourselves? Or your wife? If you can, when the time comes you. Will be happy and you will go to the Lord in faith, and the prayer of faith availeth much. As I said... It has always seemed to me that in our prayer, and in our faith, we should always say to the Lord, "not our will, but thine be done." [D&C 109:44.] Now... Do not put off putting yourselves in order, if you are not in order, yielding obedience to the commandments of the Lord, so that... When the time comes, you will be able to go to the Lord with a pure heart, and invoke his blessings upon you (Conference Report, October 1952, page 84). Lesson Department Every person who serves the Lord diligently, faithfully, and with the prayer of faith, will find eternal life. FOR CONSIDERATION __In living as we should and performing the duties of our callings, what influence are we having on our families? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 80—"'All Victory and Glory Is Brought to Pass Unto You Through Your Diligence, Faithfulness, and Prayers of Faith" (D&C 103:36). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To learn that achievement requires personal effort and faith. Man has hopes, aspirations, and dreams, and this is good. Young children look out of the schoolroom window and are full of hopes of tomorrow; sweeethearts talk and plan of what is to be; old people reminisce by the fires of what was and contemplate the life to come. Dreams are important, for in them one looks into the future with faith and what he envisions will color and change his present. Man is thus, at least in part, what he dreams. Of what do we dream? Do we wish only for palaces, pleasures, and a life of ease? Or do we long for a time when we can be free, free from sin, evil, and the limitations of our. Earthly life? Do we long for equality, for a world governed by love, mercy, and justice? Do we long to be worthy to dwell with our Lord? How do such "dreams" come true? Longing and dreaming alone are not enough—.... When we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D&C 130:21). "And if a person gains more knowledge and _ intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come" (D&C 130:19). What do we mean by diligence? It is the constant application to one's duty; careful, persevering effort; personal care and attention; painstaking, industrious, attentive. Could the Lord be speaking of diligence when he 143 February 1967 said, "Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness"? (D&C 58:27). In these scriptures and many others, the Lord calls us to constant and persevering effort. No great achievement was ever accomplished without an enormous outpouring of spirit, energy, faith, and effort. No earthly or heavenly victory, in any area, is granted with less. By faithfulness, we recognize that we are' to grow in keeping the commandments of the Lord, to. Study, to seek wisdom, to achieve victory over the limitations of self, to learn to love God and our fellow men, and to serve all. "Remember that without faith you can do nothing; therefore ask in faith" (D&C 8:10). The prayer of faith opens the door through which we receive divine assistance. HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Project Thrift Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To show that through careful planning and knowledgeable buying, a family can be clothed attractively within a limited budget. NOTE The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion. INTRODUCTION Among the problems of family home management, one of the most vital concerns is that of providing clothing for its members. Clothing a family attractively doesn't just happen. It requires the use of all the different resources available to the homemaker—time and energy, money, attitudes, knowledge, and skills. If she plans carefully and utilizes these resources wisely, her efforts 144 will pay dividends in the knowledge that her family is clothed attractively and within the budget. A suggested procedure which would help her to accomplish her goal should include the following: (1) She will determine the clothing needs of her family; (2) she will analyze her budget and determine how best to spend the clothing dollar; (3) she will learn to be a skillful and intelligent shopper. THE CLOTHING DOLLAR Economy in regard to clothing cannot be judged solely in terms of the purchase price. The total expenditure should include, in addition to the initial cost, the amounts paid for upkeep—cleaning, repairing, and remodeling— and any replacements and unforeseen emergency additions. The specific requirements for all purchases should be determined in advance. In buying a coat, for example, decisions should be made as to the type needed, the color, and the maximum amount which can be spent. Consideration should be given to the expected length of service of the article. It is poor economy to buy the least costly item if it will not hold up under the required usage. Items that will not be out of fashion in a short time should be chosen. Clothing which is conservative in style and color is less apt to become "dated" than that which is "high-fashioned" or seasonal. If clothing is to be worn for more than one season it needs to be of good quality; both fabric and construction are important. By stretching the life of garments the costs can be cut. A winter coat that is worn for three years is an economical buy even though it costs more than one which will last only one year. A substantial saving in clothing costs can be realized by 'making clothes at home instead of buying them. Some of the advantages derived from home sewing in addition to the saving of money are the satisfaction of a good fit; the choice of materials; allowance for ample growth of the wearer; and the enjoyment and accomplishment of creative activity. Remodeling clothes is a significant thirft practice if the article to be remodeled is in sufficiently good condition. The skill involved could well be taught in Relief Society homemaking meetings.: THE SHOPPING SKILLS Modern merchandising techniques are designed to interest Lesson Department the buyer; and unless she knows what she wants and what to look for in buying it, she will be completely lost and end up impulsively buying beyond her budget. Some of the things which a shopper should know and do are the following: 1. She should know the best time to buy various articles of clothing. Most stores will follow a _ fairly standard schedule for their promotion sales. 2. She should compare prices by using newspapers, magazines, and advertisements. 3. She should have some knowledge of fabrics and understand the labels on clothing and materials. In the United States the Fiber Identification Act requires the identification and percentages of fibers in yard goods and ready-made clothing. In addition, a tag or label should give instructions on how to care for the garment— whether to dry-clean, wash by_ hand, or by machine, and the temperature recommended for ironing or pressing. Dye processes and qualities such as crease-resistant, wash-and-wear, waterrepellent, and shrinkage should be listed. 4. She should be able to recognize well-constructed garments. She should examine the finishing and width of seams; the buttonholes, slide fasteners, and other openings; and the hems. She should notice the fit, the cut, and the fashion of the garment. She should look for sturdy construction and reinforced areas in garments intended for rough usage. 5. She should know that stores which operate on a cash basis tend to have lower prices. If she uses credit, she should shop for the credit as carefully as she shops for the cash. 6. She will buy only things which will serve the purpose for which they are intended. Some shoppers buy clothing by impulse or on sale, only to find later that it doesn't harmonize with the rest of the wardrobe. 7. She should be aware that distances traveled and time and energy spent add to the cost of the purchase. 145 February 1967 To Do and Discuss A. Analyze your present wardrobe and estimate approximately what it would cost to replenish your needs. Is this more or less than your clothing budget will allow? Would you purchase the needed garments or would you make them? What reasons influence your decision? B. Recall recent purchases you have made — one you consider a good buy and one a poor purchase — and discuss the following questions in regard to each: 1. Why did you want the particular item? 2. Was it an impulse purchase or was it planned in advance? 3. What information did you have concerning the garment-—fabric, fiber content, instructions, etc.? 4. How did you feel in the garment? Did it call forth any remarks or compliments? 5. What are your reasons for considering one a good buy and the other a poor one? CONCLUSION A homemaker can feel justly proud when the members of her family are attractively and appropriately dressed and when they have not exceeded the allotted budget in achieving this goal. She will feel rewarded for the time, energy, and effort it has taken in planning and putting into practice the required knowledge and skills. Ecomony in regard to clothing cannot be judged solely in terms of the purchase price. The total expenditure should include, in addition to the initial cost, the amounts paid for upkeep—cleaning, repairing, and remodeling— and any replacements and unforeseen emergency additions. SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5—On the Road to Perfection References: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood a Manual—1967, Lessons 3, 11, and 13) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To emphasize some gospel teachings which, if followed, will further the Latter-day Saint woman on the road to perfection. INTRODUCTION The gospel of Jesus Christ is the means through which the ultimate glory—exaltation in the celestial kingdom—may be realized. Therefore, all gospel teachings, if followed, will advance man on the road to perfection. 146 This lesson correlates with some areas of lessons 3, 11, and 13 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1967. It discusses several gospel teachings in relation to: (1) motivations which may lead one to do what is right; (2) the responsibility of the in- dividual to further the purposes of the Church. HUMILITY We are admonished by scripture and frequently instructed by those who counsel us from the pulpit, that humility is a character quality essential to spiritual growth. We need, however, to be reminded over and over again that lack of humility retards our progress on the road to perfection. Even the ancient disciples of Jesus, who listened daily to his teaching, who saw in him the example of all virtue, failed to understand the full significance of placing concern for others on the principle of "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 19: 19). Although the Master manifested the qualities of meekness and humility by submitting at all times to the will of the Father, and by a willingness to minister unto the lowly and to his disciples as if he were the least among them, some disciples, at times, seem to have been concerned about their status and position in the life to come. According to Matthew, the mother of James and John was with them on the occasion of the following scripture, and was first to inquire as to the future status of her sons: Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom.... And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. Lesson Department But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you: but whomsoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; »And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many (Matt. 20:20, 21, 24-28). All three, apparently, were thinking in terms of rank and personal honor. Applying the virtue of humility and this teaching of Jesus to our present-day lives, a woman might ask herself: 1. What does humility mean to me? 2. How does humility differ from self-depreciation? 3. What does it mean to respect the office of a calling without taking the honor to oneself? Discuss. 4. How does observing the accomplishments and voluntary service of others help to keep one humble? Elder Spencer W. Kimball suggests how one may become and remain humble, in the following: How does one get humble? To me, one must constantly be reminded of his dependence. On whom dependent? On the Lord. How remind one's self?. By real, constant, worshipful, grateful prayer. How can one remain humble?... By reminding one's self frequently of his own weaknesses and limitations, not to the point of depreciation, but an evaluation by an honest desire to give credit where credit is due.... It [humility] is not self-abasement —the hiding in the corner, the devaluation of everything one does or thinks or says; but it is the doing of one's best in every case and leaving one's acts, expressions, and accomplishments largely to speak for themselves (KIMBALL, SPENCER W., "Humility," Speeches of The Year, Provo, 147 February 1967 Utah, Brigham Young University, January 16, 1963, pp. 3-4; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 11, pp. 76-77). THE RIGHT THINGS FOR THE RIGHT REASONS Inseparably associated with humility, as necessary for spiritual growth, is the need to do the right thing for the right reason. This statement focuses our thinking upon the motives which prompt our actions. Discuss (as time permits) the following possible motives for. Action: 1. External pressure which may cause one to abandon personal conviction or commitment. (See professorstudent examples, Lesson 3, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, page 19). 2. External awards (medals, prizes, a raise in salary, etc.). 3. Habit (developed from seeing others perform in like manner, as is evidenced by children, without consideration of goals to be achieved). 4. Motivation of tradition (a) the family tradition which may enrich the life of each family member, establishing purposeful objectives and rewarding satisfactions or; (b) tradition not always in conformity with righteousness, i. E., the family feud, or the tradition of a people. Moroni refers to tradition as conditioning the Lamanites to hate their Nephite brothers: Behold, can you suppose that the Lord will spare you and come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when it is the tradition of their fathers that has caused their hatred... (Alma 60:32)? "THY NEIGHBOUR AS THYSELF" In the teachings of the Savior, love is often spoken of as a motivation for doing good. Familiar 148 to all is his commandment "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 22:39). CLASS CONSIDERATION 1. Question: Is it possible for a woman to render loving service to another with a selfish motive? Illustration: Sister A. Does many nice things for others. She does so much that people continually praise her for it. Question: Is it possible that the desire for praise rather than love for neighbor may become the motivation for her service? 2. Question: Does referring to one's own good deed lessen the development value to the person performing the deed? Illustration: The woman who says, "TI was just taking a casserole to a sick friend, when I met...." Question: If she habitually calls attention to her own good deeds, what may be happening to her motive? Relevant to the foregoing questions are the words of Jesus: Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth (Matt. 6:2-3). To love one's neighbor as oneself requires much personal discipline; it requires generosity of mind and a willingness to share. It requires understanding and the rendering of services that are motivated by love, devoid of all selfishness. It is a most exacting perfection but one which those who become exalted must achieve. Discuss. SERVICE TO THE CHURCH The Church has work to do; it has divinely commissioned re- ponsibilities. Generally defined, they are: (1) to carry the gospel of Christ to the world; (2) to perfect the lives of its members; (3) to provide motivation and facilities for essential ordinances of salvation performed for individuals who could not do the work for themselves. It is the responsibility of the members of the Church, individually, to help the Church carry out these obligations. As they do so, they experience the greatest satisfaction and joy of life. Motive and general attitude are of utmost importance. Members of Relief Society, and those serving in other auxiliaries of the Church, well might appraise their service with the following questions in mind: Class Discussion 1. Question: Do we ever aspire to leadership positions to which we are not called? (All church activity is an opportunity for growth and even the humblest of callings provides a wonderful avenue for service. "It is not where you serve but how, that is important," President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.). 2. Question: Are we willing to put forth more effort for a calling " which may receive public commendation, than for one which may receive little or no public mention? (The motivations for service should be the desire to further the Lord's work and to fulfill well the purpose for the calling or special assignment.) 3. Question: Do we realize that there is no end to the amount of valuable service we may render if We are not concerned about receiving public credit for it? (Much concentration upon self is selfish.) THOUGH NOT ASSIGNED To carry the glad tidings of Lesson Department the gospel to the world through missionary service is one of the great obligations of the Church. Church members not specifically called to this service, however, also share this responsibility. Innumerable examples evidence how effectively a Latter-day Saint woman may do missionary work through the influence of her life, through instruction, and even through informal cenversation. A Latter-day Saint woman who served on a committee for a national convention being held in her city, tells the following experience: "During the convention, which brought individuals from various parts of the country to our city, many questions were asked regarding our religious beliefs by persons not of our faith. One couple interested me particularly. That they were genuinely good and their interest sincere were quite evident. The first questions, however, were ones I could have answered briefly, but I seized the opportunity to include and explain certain principles of the gospel. Several times during the convention week they asked additional questions. "These words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., kept coming to my mind:; Men will not be punished for not keeping a spiritual law of which they had not knowledge. But by the same token they, not observing the law, cannot receive the blessing of spiritual growth which observance _ thereof brings (J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., Church News, December 4, 1965). "Because of this couple's evident sincerity, I wanted them to 149 February 1967 know the law and to receive the blessings. All this happened a year ago. Recently I received a letter from the couple which said, in part: Thanks, thanks to you for sharing with us something precious we did not have. Thanks for your patience, your 'enthusiasm in answering our questions. We knew by your attitude and your explanation that you were experiencing satisfaction and blessings which we did not experience. We wanted to know what in a religion could make a lay member feel a personal interest, a personal responsibility for the welfare and happiness of— even a stranger. A few months later, remembering you, we welcomed two young missionaries to our home. We have read and studied together and we have prayed; now we have entered through baptism the essential gateway to the blessings of the gospel. Thank you for being willing to share with us the intensity of your faith. SHARED RESPONSIBILITY Lesson 13 of the Priesthood Manual discusses the Priesthood bearer's responsibility to both the Church and to the quorum. The basic principles discussed also may apply to the Latter-day Saint woman and her responsibility in sharing the obligations of the Church. They may apply to her relationship with Relief Society. When temptations come the man or woman who has received spiritual strength by regular attendance to appointed meetings and by partaking of the sacrament worthily, is best able to resist the efforts of the evil one. Further strength is built up by association with other good men and women who understand the need to grow spiritually (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1967, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 13, pp. 96-97). 150 Genuine and rewarding friendships are built by Latter-day Saint women through their affilation and service in the auxiliaries of the Church. Their loyalty makes them a friend to the organization and its officers and promotes unity. Of this loyalty President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has said: An essential part of unity is loyalty. There can be no union where loyalty does not exist. Loyalty is a pretty difficult quality to vossess. It requires the ability to put away selfishness, greed, ambition and all of the baser qualities of the human mind. You cannot be loyal unless you are willing to surrender. There is no growth, mental, physical or spiritual, unless there is some curtailment, some sacrifice may I say, on the part of him who would be loyal. His own preferences and desires must be put away, and he must see only the great purpose which lies out ahead (CLARK, J. REUBEN, JR., Conference Report, April 1950, Salt Lake City, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 180). CLASS INVOLVEMENT With the foregoing paragraph on loyalty in mind, discuss (as time permits) the following: You cannot be loyal unless you are willing to surrender. There can be no unity where loyalty does not exist. The road to perfection is a long road. It is. A road beset with problems and resolutions to problems, with failure and success, with disciplines that must be achieved, with sorrow and with joy. It is the road of relationships —individual to individual in everyday living; the relationship of the individual to the Father, to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost. The purpose of Christ's example and teaching was to give guidance for the problem situations that these relationships involve. To fulfill the admonition of the Savior "Be ye therefore perfect even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect'? (Matt. 5:48) means to resolve these problems, to triumph over the human weaknesses, large and small. "The first enemy to be overcome is that which is within oneself."' The road to perfection would be an impossible road were it not for the commandments of the Father, the mission and teachings of his Son, and enlightenment through the Holy Ghost. How reassuring is the fact that the Savior is our friend, willing to assist us? Loyalty to the Church, loyalty to those who preside, loyalty to one's family members and one's kindred dead; loyalty to all perLesson Department sonal covenants, will make Latter-day Saint women friends of God. Speaking to his disciples, but applicable to all who serve with equal devotion, the Savior said: -Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you (John 15:14-15). FOR DISCUSSION Make full use of questions that appear in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING 1. Appraise your own loyalty to those who preside in the Church. 2. Encourage family members to express appreciation for the efforts of others. 3. Help your children to see that the Church needs them and that they need the Church. 4. Find opportunity to share a gospel principle with someone. OUR GIFT Sue S. Beatie The Father of our spirits, in the glorious gospel plan, Gave his precious Son, a ransom, on earth to die for man. To take away the power of death, and for all our sins atone, That we may claim his promise on the resurrection morn— To dwell with him forever, in his kingdom, free from strife Where we may be exalted in that grand eternal life. How can we ever thank him for all his gifts of love And for the many blessings that reach us from above? He asks that we will love him and all his laws obey That we may be more worthy to walk his chosen way, To share in heaven the glory for those who keep his laws And strive to do his bidding, in every righteous cause. Then let us all endeavor each day to do his will And listen to the promptings of the voice so sweet and still. To share each other's burdens and make the pathway bright For those we meet along the way who may not have the light. The more we do for others, the happier we will be, And more worthy of the heavenly home, which we all hope to see. 151 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 7—'"'Wisdom Teaches Right'"' (Text: Out of the Best Books, Volume 2: Love, Marriage, and the Family) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show that a woman who uses well what she has learned adds wisdom to knowledge. As the ancient Roman writer Juvenal said, The lesson for this month contains two short stories, one excerpt from a novel, and nine little poems, all of which are printed, with notes and discussions, in Section Seven of Volume 2 of Out of the Best Books. All readers having access to that book should study the selections there because space permits only a brief coverage here. Class leaders, obviously, should not try to cover all twelve selections in the one lesson. Instead, each leader should choose those poems or stories which she can teach most enthusiastically and which she feels will be most valuable for her group. (Note to class leaders: The poems by Burns, Wordsworth, and Whitman, the story by Chekhov, and the excerpt from Albert R. Lyman's novel may be reprinted if needed; all other selections, however, are under copyright restrictions and should not be reprinted without permission from the publisher.) GENERAL COMMENT In chapter 3 of Proverbs (verses 13-18) in the Old Testament we read the following: Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. 152 "Wisdom first teaches what is right." For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her. This is only one of the many passages throughout the Bible proclaiming the value of wisdom, or warning of the dangers of too much pride in earthly learning. The Book of Mormon also contains comments on the need for genuine wisdom, as does the Doctrine and Covenants in modern times. Both Oliver Cowdery and Hyrum Smith were especially admonished by the Lord through Joseph Smith the Prophet to seek wisdom as a goal of goals: Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D&C 6:7 and 11:7). Similarly, in a broader sense, all Latter-day Saints are instructed by the Lord diligently to seek wisdom: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D&C 88:118 and 109:7). What then is wisdom? Is it knowledge? Yes, but more than knowledge. Is it experience? Yes, but more than experience. Is it insight? Yes, but more than insight. It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration. At least this is wisdom at its highest. Most of us must be content with only a partial wisdom, because we have only a fragmentary knowledge, a limited experience, an incomplete insight, and a developing faith. However, like faith, wisdom. Can grow as we enrich our learning, broaden our experience, and draw closer to God in righteous living. In addition to personal experience as a source of wisdom, we can also learn from the experience of others. Christ was the world's greatest teacher; but there have been other wise teachers and thinkers who have left us a marvelous heritage of wisdom in thousands of books, available at the price of a little time. We have around us the wisdom of inspired Church leaders, friends, living teachers, and loving family members if we will but draw from each what each has to give. Every human being has something valuable to teach us if we will be teachable. Father, mother, grandparents—these are an especial source of loving wisdom. I remember my own mother as the strongest, most elevating influence of my life. Hers was a noble spirit, which neither poor Lesson Department health nor hard work on a homestead dry farm in Idaho nor the cultural aridness of a small town could smother. She taught me to love books, beauty, truth, service, and the Relief Society _program, in which she taught continuously for over thirty-five years. She told me, in a way that made me really believe, that the goal of life is to give, not to get. She showed me that there are three basic reasons why people avoid wrong and do right: the first and lowest is fear of punishment for wrongdoing; the second is hope of reward for right living; the third and highest. Is righteousness for its own sake. So strong was Mother's influence that need for social approval of others was slight; it mattered only that Mother would approve or disapprove, according to principle. Mother has been dead for over ten years now, but I shall never forget her, nor the lessons she taught, nor the example she set. I have never done any right but that it was partly nourished by her life of sacrifice, and I have never done any wrong but that part of the anguish sprang from awareness that I was betraying her confidence in me. The enemies of wisdom are multitudinous, but chief among them are ignorance, prejudice, superstition, short-sightedness, narrowness, selfishness, and materialism. These must be avoided — as well as the positive aspects sought. Psychologists, teachers, and almost all people nowadays agree that the most important formative years in shaping adult personality and character are the very early years. In fact, some 153 February 1967 psychologists and educators insist that by the time a child is six or seven most of his adult qualities will have been determined. If this is true, or even partially true, then obviously parents must be as wise as possible in providing the right environment during their children's earliest years. What present-day psychologists are now saying, prophets and poets have been saying for generations. 'Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" we read in Proverbs 22:6. '"'As the twig is bent, so shall the tree grow" is an old folk saying. Our heritage is rich with scriptures and comments of this kind, recognizing the importance of wise education in youth. THREE POEMS BY WORDSWORTH AND WHITMAN First a little poem by William Wordsworth (1770-1850): My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in tHe sky: So was it when my life began: So is it now I am a man: So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The child is father of the man: And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. The key line is "the child is father of the man."' Anyone who studies Wordsworth's poetry as a whole knows how modern he is in his recognition of the vital relationship between childhood éxperiences and adult natures. Indeed "the child is father of the 154 man" in the sense that what the man (or woman) becomes is largely determined by what the child experiences. All of this is extensively restated in Wordsworth's masterpiece, The Prelude, which is a long poetic recollection of all the incidents and feelings in his own childhood that Wordsworth felt contributed especially to his personal growth to maturity as a poet. Often he includes in The Prelude incidents which might not appear to be very important but which he knew had a great impression upon him as a child—and therefore great importance. Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up fostered alike by beauty and by fear.... The phrase "fair seed-time" is especially meaningful. Childhood is a time of tender growing when, influenced by experiences of beauty and fear, the attitudes, values, and personality qualities of adulthood are fixed. Thus Wordsworth recalls in richly musical blank-verse lines, two boyish pranks of snaring birds and robbing birds' nests, and then observes, "though mean our object and inglorious, yet the end was not ignoble." The incidents themselves may have been "mean and inglorious,' but the end—the shaping of a grown man—was not ignoble. The third poem in this section is "There Was a Child Went Forth" by Walt Whitman (1819- 1892): Lesson Department There was a child went forth every day, And the first object he look'd upon, that object he became, And that object became part of him for the day or a certain part of the day, Or for many years or stretching cycles of years. The early lilacs became part of this child, And grass and white and red morning-glories, and white and red clover, and the song of the phoebe bird, And the Third-month lambs and the sow's pink-faint litter, and the mare's foal and cow's calf, And the noisy brood of the barnyard or by the mire of the pond-side, And the fish suspending themselves so curiously below there, and the beautiful curious liquid, And the water-plants with their graceful flat heads, all became part of him. The field-sprouts of Fourth-month and Fifth-month became part of him, Winter-grain sprouts and those of the light-yellow corn, and the esculent roots of the garden, And the apple-trees cover'd with blossoms and the fruit afterward, and woodberries, and the commonest weeds by the road, And the old drunkard staggering home from the outhouse of the tavern whence he had lately risen, And the schoolmistress that pass'd on her way to the school, And the friendly boys that pass'd, and the quarrelsome boys, And the tidy and fresh-cheek'd girls, and the barefoot negro boy and girl, And all the changes of city and country wherever he went. His own parents, he that had father'd him and she that had conceiv'd him in her womb and birth'd him, They gave this child more of themselves than that, They gave him afterward every day, they became part of him. The mother at home quietly placing the dishes on the supper-table, The mother with mild words, clean her cap and gown, a wholesome odor falling off her person and clothes as she walks by, The father, strong, self-sufficient, manly, mean, anger'd, unjust, The blow, the quick loud word, the tight bargain, the crafty lure, The family usages, the language, the company, the furniture, the yearning and swelling heart, Affection that will not be gainsay'd, the sense of what is real, the thought if after all it should prove unreal, The doubts of day-time and the doubts of night-time, the curious whether and how, Whether that which appears so is so, or is it all flashes and specks? Men and women crowding fast in the streets, if they are not flashes and specks what are they? The streets themselves and the facades of houses, and goods in the windows, Vehicles, teams, the heavy-plank'd wharves, the huge crossing at the ferries, The village on the highland seen from afar at sunset, the river between. Shadows, aureola and mist, the light falling on roofs and gables of white or brown two miles off, The schooner near by sleepily dropping down the tide, the little boat slack-tow'd astern, The hurrying tumbling waves, quick-broken crests, slapping, The strata of color'd clouds, the long bar of maroon-tint away solitary by itself, the spread of purity it lies motionless in, The horizon's edge, the flying sea-crow, the fragrance of salt marsh and shore mud, These became part of that child who went forth every day, and who now goes, and will always go forth every day. 155 February 1967 "T am part of all that I have met" wrote Tennyson in one of the best of his poems, "Ulysses." Childhood, as Whitman dramatizes it, is the time of absorbing. A child is like a sponge, soaking in everything around him. Children are curious about everything, and everything in their environment combines to make them what they become. Class Discussion (1) How do these poems by Wordsworth and Whitman impress upon us the importance of providing the right environment for children? (2) Is there danger in providing children too little direction? (3) Is there danger in providing too much direction, or too much restriction? (4) What incidents in your own childhood especially influenced your life for good or bad? (5) Explain as fully as you can the meaning of Wordsworth's line 'The child is father of the man." OTHER SELECTIONS ON WISDOM The three poems quoted and discussed above come from the very end of Section Seven in the text. We have chosen them for this Magazine lesson because they explore significant ideas of universal interest to women. The nine other selections in this section of the text are also very important, however, and we urge class leaders and Relief Society sisters to explore them also in home study where they are not discussed in class. The first three selections are little poems by Robert Burns ("Epistle to a Young Friend'), William Butler Yeats ("Prayer for My Daughter'), and Rudyard Kipling ("If") in which an older person gives wise advice to young listeners. Burns' poem has a delightful spontaneity and di- 156 rectness that are very appealing, especially. When read by someone familiar with the Scottish dialect, which he used so skillfully. Also, he has some very wise advice. Note, for example, stanzas 7-9: To catch dame Fortune's_ golden smile, Assiduous wait upon her: And gather gear by ev'ry wile That's justified by honor; Not for to hide it in a hedge, Nor for a train attendant; But for the glorious privilege Of being independent. The fear o' hell's a hangman's whip, To haud the wretch in order; But where ye feel your honor grip, Let that aye be your border; Its slightest touches, instant pause— Debar a' side-pretences; And resolutely keep is laws, Uncaring consequences. The great Creator to revere, Must sure become the creature; But still the preaching cant forbear, And ev'n the rigid feature; Yet ne'er with wits profane to range, Be complaisance extended; An atheist-laugh's a poor exchange For Deity offended! Yeat's poem is equally good, even though a little more difficult, and equally wise, even though a little more subtle—as he prays, among other things, that his daughter may be beautiful, but not too beautiful, and as he comments that he would have her learned in courtesy and that hearts must be earned not had as a gift. Kipling's famous little poem "If" may not be quite so poetic as Burs' and Yeat's, but still contains some very wise advice. Lack of space here necessitates ever briefer comments on the six other selections. Stephen Vincent History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 veer SOC A Gift to be treasured in all seasons Especially appropriate as a remembrance for the Relief Society 125th Anniversary— March 1967. @ The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments. Objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Orders received after December 15, 1966 at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 February 1967 Benet's story '"Too Early Spring" provides excellent insight into a family situation in which parents have an opportunity to handle a problem wisely but instead handle it short-sightedly. Robert Frost's "Home Burial" is a powerful poem again showing a husband and wife who react unwisely when faced with a family problem. In contrast, the next selection, an excerpt from Albert R. Lyman's novel Man to Man (or Voice of the Intangible), shows one of our own Latter-day Saint authors writing about a wise parent whose advice to his son is the kind of advice every parent ought to be wise enough to give. Similarly, Gerald Manley Hopkins' companion poems "The Leaden Echo" and "The Golden Echo" are wise in their message —that as mortals we should set Fanny G. Brunt ' Everything is still, and cold, and bleak, The willows on Snake River's bank are nude, — Not a whispering breeze to break the stil Of this somber, pensive, winter solitud a The river, fringed with ice, creeps sl. A»picnic table, in that murky haze, Qn which a trusting robin meditate And sings of leafy trees, and sunny A 158 eternal goals rather than merely temporal goals. Finally, Anton Chekhov's great Russian story "The Bet" richly explores some special aspects of wisdom and its lack. All of these selections are valuable in touching upon one or another quality of wisdom but will need to be studied in the text because of lack of space here. Class leaders will need to be selective in what they use and not attempt to cover too much material. - This Cultural Refinement Lesson (No. 7, for May 1967 in the Northern Hemisphere, and September 1967 in the Southern Hemisphere) is entitled "Wisdom Teaches Right,"' instead of the title listed in the Preview published in the June 1966 Magazine. The painting "Woman With Plants," by Grant Wood (reproduced on page 688 of the September Magazine) will be used in connection with this lesson. Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES APRIL 11th Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land proYou are vides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. Assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the-finest hotels.. All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. 'MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. NOME 20 eee cece cc ee ee cet cece ee cece eesees eee eeaeeeeeea ceases taps eee seteeeuees MURDOCK Nolo ¢:5 5 ce TRA VEL City. EeeState. EeeZip.....--..... >) aenee eens ec eececcenccesecces ss ees Reb, 7, BEAUTIFUL enn a ls TOUR HANDY NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR DURABLE June 16-24 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR June 25-July 8 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 THREE HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS leaving July 22 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... -90 Zone 3...... Eee -60 Zone 7........-1.05 Zone 4...... Eee 65 Zone &........-.1.20 Zone 5.......... -80 159 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 strociion' of toch tenths, Relief Society, Memes Mountain |Weat's fist and. Finest" bindery: and printing house is prepared to bind your editions Mrs. Mary Hadfield Hendrichsen 'Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Jane Peck Sabey Lehi, Utah 9 Mrs. Caroline Louisa Tempest Anderson: Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Seffa Anderson Davis Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Clara Woodbury Barlow Sylvester Adams Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Mary Jane Clark Angus Banks Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Hegsted Taylor ooper, Mrs. Annie Cecelia Christensen 9? Mrs. Anna Sophia Nelson Gee Larsen Bell, California Marsing, Idaho BUSY FINGERS Catherine B. Bowles Recording fingers mark our way: A wonderful record of our day, Tracing the path where sorrow leads; Intricate patterns of our deeds. Then many bright ones good and true Shine out, in splendor in all we do. He leadeth us where he has trod, Showing the pathway back to God. 160 99 Mrs. Marinda Jesperson Peterson Rexburg. Idaho 9 Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll 94s: Lake City, _ i Mrs. Mary Wilson Meyers 93 American Fork, Utah Mrs. Caroline Engle Steed Ogden, Utah Provo, Utah 9 Mrs. Annie Barker Selman Ogden, Utah 90 = iat ie Parker Stoddard Mrs. Emma Webber Ellis Cheyenne, Wyoming Mrs. Edith Mary Woodford Salt Lake City, Utah ecial CTS. Watch for these special offers! On the back of U and I Sugar Bags. Bonus values for you... These premium offers save up to % on high quality kitchenware and other items. Charm Bracelets BY BALFOUR — Not _ available in any store at any price. Choice of boy or girl charm. ~ = 00 and a U and | Sugar label. Mirro Teflon Layer Cake Pan Set Effortless baking, quick and easy cleaning. SET OF TWO $ 50 Q x a U and! Sugar — ' Label. Note: These are only two of seven outstanding premium offers on the back of U and I Sugar bags. Eae ans nnennestttere FACTORIES AT: WEST JORDAN AND GARLAND, UTAH; MOSES LAKE AND TOPPENISH, WASHINGTON AND IDAHO FALLS, IDAHO. PSSHSOSHOHOOH SEHESTHHSHHSHHSOSHSOHSSHEESHOCESCOSEHOEEHOOES X Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah INSPIRING READING from Deseret Book a THE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY A Book of Selected Readings by Dr. Blaine R. Porter $4.95 Timely articles from many sources selected by the dean of the College of Family Living at Brigham Young University to help Latter-day Saints understand the divine nature of the family unit, and through this understanding successfully meet the challenges of today's culture that would pull apart family unity. THE BOOK OF MORMON STORY by Mary Pratt Parrish Illustrated by Ronald Crosby $6.95 Here are exciting stories and spiritual experiences from this sacred volume of scripture told in the actual language of The Book of Mormon. Lavishly illustrated with full color paintings and fluorographic pencil drawings to make the stories more meaningful to young and old alike. A treasured volume for every —_ home. SS T Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92669 Send me— (] THE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY {] THE BOOK OF MORMON STORY Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 34%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange - store. Or charge my account. Total $............. _S—_ ———==—= Ae > SSG a a" R. S. Feb. 67 OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! . Wit And with the »spring-glad a *, 4- "iy! " é, truant spring!.'» this, ent counting, ©y | ae ridecan. Ittle "bide nore"truancys OS, expe tancy. Juni Hie ) ds att 4 a See A Lf / ' + icien Be = Tn Fu ii ~OIOF DY tom var aul Ser | would like to take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude for our wonderful Magazine, which has been in my home since | was baptized twelve years ago. It is wonderful to know that people living in the farthest part of the world from us think and feel as we do. Margaret J. Jones Swanbourne Western Australia | joined the Church in 1958 and have really enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. The only thing | have never seen in it is a letter from any of the sisters in New Foundland. That was my home, and I would love to know if there are any L. D. S. Sisters from there who have written to the Magazine. Teresa Joan McDaniel Hill Field, Utah We find the Magazine a great help to us in our missionary work. The tone of the stories and articles contributes to the mental health of women of all ages in this world of confusion and big problems. In one instance, in tracting a home, | found The Relief Society Magazine. The woman had been cleaning up an empty house and had found -'an-old copy. She and all her daughters had read it and were wanting more. From this point we were able to tell her about the Church and The Book of Mormon. She was on the top list -of our investigators when we left Uvalde. | would like also to mention the serial "Wheat for the Wise" (by Margery S. Stewart, concluded in July). It is such a timely subject, beautifully written, and it is deeply moving. Lucy H. Adams Mercedes, Texas | have been very happy since The Relief Society Magazine has been printed in Spanish. There is an article in the very first issue (June 1966) that has helped me greatly—'"Our Special Garden,'' by Helen M. Peterson. Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala 162 The Relief Society Magazine is like an old friend that stops in once a month and visits, then leaves little bits of friendship, hope, courage, and knowledge to be picked up from time to time. This applies not only to me but to my husband and my son who generally have read it before | see it. We are an Air Force family and have met and learned to love the saints from alli over the world who are briefly together and then scattered to the four winds. Many times | have opened the Magazine and found a letter or a picture of someone | have known. | enjoy the stories written by Frances Yost, as | remember her as a new bride coming to Bancroft, Idaho. Marjorie Clark Updegrove Ellsworth, South Dakota | am so grateful for the Magazine and feel that it is a source of inspiration in our home. With five busy children to care for, my husband in the bishopric, and | as Primary president, | just don't have time for all the reading I would like to do, but I can pick up the Magazine, and in a short time find much _ satisfaction and inspiration in the podetry, stories and articles. It is a joy to see the Magazine arrive in the mail each month. Catherine Anne Jensen Fremont, California | was thrilled to see in the September Magazine the picture of the mosaic at the Church College of Hawaii, which represents the original flag-raising ceremony that President McKay witnessed at an elemeritary school in Laie in 1921. | am even more thrilled to tell you that | had charge of the original ceremony on that morning. | was teaching the fifth and sixth grades at Laie, my mission assignment. Mrs. Elizabeth Hyde Geary Ogden, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 March 1967 Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 164 Personal Development Through Relief Society Gordon B. Hinckley 170 Setting Our Homes in Order Mary R. Young 185 What Is the Red Cross? Emil E. Henderson 188 New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green Wealtha S. Mendenhall 201 Reverie in a Chapel Jeannie Williams Fiction 172 To Warm the Heart Third Prize Story Hazel M. Thomson 212 A Rainy Day Violet Nimmo 214 Laura's Perfect Day Quin Cole 218 The Golden Chain—Chapter 2 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 162 From Near and Far 181 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 182 Editorial: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow Belle S. Spafford 184 General Sunday School Superintendency Reorganized 226 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 180 Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose A. Openshaw 186 A Piece of Grandma _ Helen Hinckley Jones 200 Work Day and Social, Melbourne Stake, Australia 200 '"'Cake. Walk'' Display Table at Ninth Ward Bazaar, East Mill Creek Stake 202 Decorate Your Own Picture Frames Joy N. Hulme 204 Teneriffe Embroidery for Pillowcases Ethel Chadwick 206 Three-Branched Candelabrum Myrene T. Alvord 208 A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Florence G. Williams 217 + Handicraft Is a Wide World Lesson Department 233 Homemaking—Summer Months Sewing Course Eleanor Jorgensen x Poetry 161 Come, Truant Spring Linnie Fisher Robinson It's Spring, Sally Talker 169; Foothills in Spring, Ethel Jacobson 180; My Beautiful, Grace Barker Wilson 203; Another Spring, Linda L. Clarke 210; The Waxwings, Lael W. Hill 211; Encountering Soon, Iris W. Schow 236; Walk Lonely, Walk Still, Margery S. Stewart, 237; River Marsh, Eva Willes Wangsgaard 239. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 163 Personal Development Through Relief Society Elder Gordon B. Hinckley of The Council of the Twelve {Address Delivered at the Stake Board Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] wI have just come from the temple, where we have had a wonderful five-hour meeting with President McKay in preparation for the conference. Brother Lee is not out of the meeting yet I guess. I hope the Lord will inspire me with the continuation of the marvelous spirit which we have felt in his holy house this morning. Sister Spafford has asked me to speak to the subject: "The 164 Development of Women Through the Relief Society." I think she was led to honor me with this_ opportunity because of the things she saw recently in the Far East —in Hong Kong, the Philippines, Taiwan, Okinawa, Japan, and Korea. I know that her heart was touched as she met with the good saints of that strange and distant part of the earth where she had seen so many women for whom life is so desperate a struggle, whose lives are one bleak round of childbirth, of fighting hopelessly to get enough food to satisfy the hunger of their children, of toiling at degrading work day in and day out without the benefit of a Sabbath, of a status that gives little dignity to the position of wife, of crowded homes in which there are few, if any, of the conveniences we know, and beyond this, little, if any, opportunity for personal growth or development. The circumstances of some are better than I have indicated, but the circumstances of many are dark or worse than I have painted them. And then to see, by contrast, the marvelous miracles that occur to those women when the light of the gospel touches their lives and the blessings of Relief Personal Development Through Relief Society Society bring new knowledge, new ambition, new hope, and new accomplishment. Their economic circumstances may not improve substantially, but their entire outlook is altered. Life becomes more than survival; it becomes purposeful. One cannot witness these things without knowing that the day of miracles is not past; rather, that the day of miracles is here, and that a day of greater miracles will follow as the Relief Society makes its influence more widely felt over the earth. I read again the other evening those portentous words spoken by the Prophet Joseph to the women of the Church in Nauvoo in 1842: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and _ intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth." I want to bear my witness that I have seen a fulfillment of those prophetic words. I have seen it in the land of the Orient as I have observed mothers step out of drudgery and hopelessness and blossom with a renewal of life as visions of new interests were opened to them. I have seen it in Europe, where women with no apparent understanding of the purpose of life, have been awakened to a new sense of what they could accomplish while working together under the program of this inspired organization. I have seen it in our own land among women who have grown in social graces as they have mingled with choice companions, whose natures have been refined as they have studied together, and whose knowledge of the things of God has expanded as they have read and pondered the word of the Lord. I recognize that I cannot add to your knowledge of the blessings that come of active membership, but I would hope that I might, in some small measure, increase your appreciation for the development that will come to any woman who will take advantage of the challenges and responsibilities of Relief Society activity. And so I should like to discuss briefly four great fields of opportunity afforded you and your associates throughout the world under this remarkable program. They are: 1. Strengthening the home 2. Enriching the mind 3. Subduing self 4, Feeding the spirit Strengthening the Home It is trite to say that foundations are crumbling under the home-life of the people. This is evident not only in America. The bitter fruits of delinquency, hooliganism, and lawlessness are the subject of discussion and concern in England, in various parts of Kurope, in Russia, in China, and in Japan. People generally, all the world over, are the products of the homes from which they come. It is here that thinking is largely shaped and character is molded. If there is sobriety in the homes of the people, there will be sobriety in the land. If there is rebellion in the homes of the people, there will be lawlessness in the nation. It goes without saying that the most significant factor in shaping the quality of the home is the mother. The 165 March 1967 structure may be simple or elaborate. This is relatively unimportant. It is the spirit within that, structure that is most significant, and that spirit generally is a reflection of the woman who stands as wife and mother. What a blessing to that woman, and to her husband and children, whose life is touched by the weekly fellowship of good associates who are taught to improve their skills in management of their homes and families. Over the years the facilities of this great organization have been used to improve the skills of tens of thousands of women in cooking, preservation of food, the making and care of clothing, laundering,. Nursing, sanitation, and other domestic arts. I have seen the fruits of this sensible program in the manufacture of soap, in backward areas of this country, by women who could not afford, and who previously had used but little of this precious product; in the fashioning of superbly beautiful quilts by those who not only, thereby, provided for the comfort for their families, but who also revived and cultivated a dying art that had been perfected by generations of their Hawaiian forebears; in the weaving of artistic and useful mats to enhance the beauty of their surroundings and _ increase their comfort by sisters of the South Pacific Islands; in the creation of a great variety of beautiful things by gifted Chinese, Japanese, and Korean Relief Society women. All of these—and scores of other skills—have done so much to influence the comfort and beauty of the homes managed by eZ 166 these fortunate women. But there is a more subtle and a more important factor in strengthening the homes of our people. It is an intangible quality, the cultivation of an attitude that lifts from a woman the characteristics of a shrew and replaces them with touches of the higher virtues— sacrifice, understanding, sympathy, encouragement, and integrity. These, in turn, become reflected in the lives of her children. I am convinced that it is the diminishing presence of these virtues in the homes of the world that accounts, in large measure, for the deterioration of law and order among the youth of many nations. Thank the Lord for this great organization which is training the women of the Church—wherever they take advantage of its program—not only to beautify their homes, but, more importantly, to strengthen the spirit and improve the influence of those homes. On April 28, 1842, Joseph Smith, speaking to that first Relief Society group, admonished: "When you go home, never give. Across... Word... But let kindness, charity, and love crown your works henceforth...." To the women of the Church, the mothers and guardians of our families, I commend these words of counsel. I come now to the second great field of opportunity for your personal development through this Society. Enriching the Mind English literature was my major field of undergraduate study, so that at one time I had Personal Development Through Relief Society a small understanding of the subject. For some years now my wife has been our stake Relief Society literature leader, and I have had opportunity to see, at close range, the breadth and depth of your courses of study in this field. I think she has worked harder to prepare each monthly lesson than I did to prepare for a comprehensive examination, and I am confident that her associates in this field throughout the Church have done likewise. I think it is nothing short of marvelous that women over the world should be lifted from the monotony of cooking, cleaning, and washing to intensive and extensive courses on the thoughts of the great writers of the ages. A housewife's life, no matter the land in which she lives, is prone to become narrow and bound down to the demanding and unrelenting tasks of getting meals and washing dishes, of making clothes and laundering them, and a thousand menial chores beyond which most women never lift their sights. What a tremendous thing it is that such women should be given opportunity and incentive to taste of the breadth and beauty of Shakespeare's writings, to wrestle with the deep meanings in the essays and poetry of Emerson, to glimpse the thoughts and dreams of a score of fascinating authors whose names many of these women had never heard before. Someone has said: "Women have brains. The trouble is they don't use them." What a blessing it is that the women of the Church are given so interesting an opportunity to enrich their minds. They and their husbands and their children become the beneficiaries of this significant effort. Sister Hinckley and I walked one day into a classroom in the old building the Church formerly rented in Taipei, in the Republic of China. The room was cold, the furnishings were meager. A group of Relief Society sisters were studying a lesson. We could not fathom the Mandarin Chinese in which they spoke, but we could understand from the appearance of their intelligent faces what was going on. They were thinking, and they were growing, these mature, wonderful Chinese women whose minds were being opened on a new window of great thoughts and great ideas and great experiences. Here is one of the singular virtues of your Society—this opportunity for enriching the mind. Well did the Prophet, in 1842, declare: "... And this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time...." I turn now to number three of my thesis. Subduing Self Appropriately has the Relief Society chosen as its motto Paul's cogent declaration, "'Charity never faileth..." (I Corinthians 13:8). Selfishness is the curse of the world. It is the root of personal, family, national, and international evils. Its best antidote is the gospel of Jesus Christ, lived and practiced. The formula that would cure most of our ills is set forth so 167 March 1967 simply and profoundly in the words of the Lord:... Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.... (Matthew 7:12). Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and witl all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Matthew 22:37-39). For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it (Mark 8:35). While women, by nature, are more prone to kindness, to understanding and sympathy, one need not look far to recognize that those virtues become easily buried, and may not find expression without the kind of motivation that comes through the Relief Society. This is the organization in the Church whose objective is compassionate service, and the never-failing result is that as women forget themselves in service, they inevitably develop those great virtues which crown their lives with saintliness. I know a little woman in a land of East Asia, the widow of a man in whose life the gospel had wrought a miracle. She had walked in his shadow, very much in the background, in accord with oriental custom. When he died, she was faced with crushing burdens. She might have given up in desperation. And then there was added to her many responsibilities an assignment to work in the branch Relief Society presidency. When she went about on errands of mercy, she discovered that others had problems as well. As she assisted them with their difficulties, her own became less 168 oppressive. A new inspiration came into her life. She cooked and laundered for others, including the missionaries. She comforted those in sorrow and encouraged those ready to give up. She nursed the sick. And out of the insights gained through activity in the Church, she dreamed of opportunities for her children. Somehow, under her encouragement, two of them have gone through great universities, and one of them today serves faithfully and effectively as a missionary of the Church. She who had appeared so timid and bereft in the hour of her tragedy, has become a great strength through the challenges of responsibility in this Society. It will be so with all who, under the program of this organization, will labor in compassionate service to others. Selfishness will be subdued, and with it will come a blossoming of virtue that will bless the homes and the families and the communities of those who serve. Now, finally, Feeding the Spirit I am always interested in a statement in one of Paul's great letters to Timothy. He wrote: "When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also" (II Timothy 1:5). Here is the story of a woman of faith, whose daughter became a woman of faith, whose son became a great teacher of righteousness. I suppose there was no organized Relief Society in the Personal Development Through Relief Society days of Timothy's grandmother Lois, but I know that this same sequence of an inheritance of faith has been repeated thousands of times in this dispensation. Only this past Sunday we installed a new man in the stake presidency. In his talk before the people, with tears in his voice, he bore quiet but eloquent tribute to his mother who struggled with her family on an Idaho homestead, and, while doing so, served in this Society wherein her own faith was nurtured. She had passed that faith on to her son. I met, at the close of the meeting, the son's married daughter, and found another generation growing in faith through activity in Relief Society. No woman could for long mingle with a group of Relief Society sisters, serve with them, pray with them, hear their testimonies, and study with them the word of the Lord, without growing in faith. I met a woman not long ago in another stake conference. She is an active and _ enthusiastic member of the Church and a capable business woman. She * IT'S SPRING t Sally Talker bears a strong testimony. Unofficially she is a missionary interesting others in the Church. Not long ago she was a chain smoker, hard in nature, blasé, dissatisfied and disillusioned with life. She credits two major factors in the miraculous change that has come over her—reading The Book of Mormon and activity in the Relief Society—The Book of Mormon which gave birth to her faith, and the Relief Society which nurtured it. This, then, is the organization, better than any other for women, where they may enjoy those associations and engage in those activities which will lead to strengthening the home, enriching the mind, subduing self, and feeding the spirit. The Lord bless you in the great opportunities that are yours as stake leaders to encourage your sisters throughout the Church to take advantage of the program of this Society which came under the inspiration of the Prophet for the blessing of women throughout the earth, I humbly pray, as I leave with you my witness of the divinity of this work, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Navajo girl, age sixteen, 'Glendale, Arizona Someone has touched The green comes glowing*from' t Oh, it's the mira fF spri F; The birds beg their. Sbea Snow becomes 5 The trees adorn ' My heart g: " Of the Master's han Yes! It's spring y pe hill ' darkened earth. 169 Setting Our Homes In Order Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] ws A prophet of old when speaking to his people, giving them advice and counsel just before his death said: "... Choose you this day whom ye will serve... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24: 15). These were the words of the prophet Joshua spoken many generations ago. They are just as timely and applicable today. Our prophet, President David O. McKay, has admonished us to serve the Lord in sincerity and truth. He said: '"'Man's success or failure, happiness or misery, depends upon what he seeks and what he chooses" (Gospel Ideals, page 491). We make these important decisions. The power of choice is within each one of us, to choose the right or choose the wrong, walk in darkness or walk in light. Our Heavenly Father has given us the light and shown us the 170 way; given us commandments to follow. No doubt the conditions of turmoil and confusion in the world today are a direct result of disobedience to his laws and commandments. Freedom of choice, the right to direct one's life, is God's greatest gift to man, save life itself. With free agency, however, there comes responsibility for our deeds and actions, responsibility for our children and families. If every Latter-day Saint woman, every member of the Relief Society organization would choose to serve the Lord, accept the challenge and say: "as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord," then sincerely be determined to carry it out, what a great influence for good we could be in our homes, communities, and in the nation! The strength of a nation can only be as great as the strength of the family units. Someone said: "Let each man sweep his doorway clean, then the whole world would be clean." In other words, we begin with ourselves and set our own homes in order. To accomplish this we might keep in mind three things: (1) Teach the gospel in our homes, following the counsel and instruction of those in authority. (2) Live the gospel. (3) Service in the work of the Lord. Our homes and our society will be set in order when, by precept and example, parents teach their children to live the principles of the gospel, and when we follow the admonition of King Benjamin who said: "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God"? (Mosiah 2:17). Do we teach and impress our children and grandchildren with the thought that we can best show our love for our Heavenly Father by serving him and keeping his commandments? Recently a five-year-old child asked his grandmother if she would like to go up in a rocket into outer space. She answered "No," and the usual question followed, "Why?" After explaining, she then asked him if he would like to have that experience when he got older. He thought a minute, then said: "I wouldn't be afraid. I would go if * they really wanted me to." This question is very typical of children today, but the words that impressed me were, if they really wanted me to. This young child had caught the spirit of this achievement, that if it was necessary for progress, if they really wanted him to—he wouldn't be afraid to go out into space. If Setting Our Homes in Order we could just inspire these children, help them catch the spirit and feeling of how much greater our Heavenly Father's concern is for each of his children—that he really wants us to do his will, keep his commandments, and if we follow his divine laws we will progress, we will be able to achieve the greatest goal, that of eternal life. Brother Sterling Sill said: "Certainly the greatest wonders of the future will not be in the improvement of our television or airplanes; they will be primarily in ourselves. The greater the understanding of our own future, the more effectively we will be able to prepare for it" (Improvement Era, December 1965, page 1127). This means we have to put forth effort to improve ourselves; we have to work at it, live for it, set our homes in order. Relief Society gives us the opportunity to improve, to grow and develop mentally and spiritually. We believe the Lord expects us to serve him not only with our physical things, but also with our minds, and that, therefore, we should develop our minds so that we may more effectively teach others to join with us in building the kingdom. My dear sisters, we love you for your faithful devotion and dedication to this work, for being so kind and gracious to us when we visit you in your stakes. We do love you for the service you are rendering. I humbly pray that each one of us will have a greater desire to set our homes in order and be able to say as Joshua of old, "... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 171 THIRD PRIZE STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest To Warm the Heart Hazel M. Thomson w Catherine York's years as an indentured servant to Judge Andrews of Boston, for his payment of her passage from England, had, for the most part, passed very pleasantly. Even though her days had been filled with cleaning and washing and cooking, the work had not been disagreeable to Catherine. And this was largely because of the stove. Se had had no liking for it in the beginning. It had appeared so big and black and unfriendly in her youthful eyes. At times, when she had been particularly unsuccessful is preparing a meal, burning not only the meat but the vegetables as well, only the Judge's good humor kept her from crying. "You must be thinking you're back home, cooking dinner over a smoky peat fireplace, lass,' he would say, his eyes twinkling. His daughters, Lily, about Catherine's own age of nineteen, and Hilma, a year younger, did not take her failures in such good grace. "Really, Father!" Lily had wrinkled up her pretty 172 e. Sa little nose as she looked at the food before her, placing her fork back on her plate. "Can't we hire another cook? I don't see how you can expect us to eat this kind of a dinner." "T can't and I won't!" Hilma stamped her little foot as she stood beside her chair, preparing to leave the table, but her father motioned for her to take her place again at his side. "Now, daughters, give her time. Catherine had never seen a stove before she came here, but she will learn." And Catherine had learned. Even then, as she looked at the glowing fire in the grate, she wondered whether the stove was really laughing at her failure, or was it simply trying to be friendly? In time it came to be the best friend she had, and an invitation to sit at Judge Andrews' table was a favor not to be overlooked. Catherine learned to use the daniper to regulate the fire so that it would burn fast or slow. She found that there were strategic spots where she could place the cooking pots for quick cookEE ing or merely to keep the food warm. She learned to use the two small warming ovens and the huge baking oven, which brought her the reputation of being the best cook in Boston. The reservoir on the end of the stove opposite the grate, if she filled it each time, yielded enough hot water to make dishwashing almost pleasant. The metal box into which the ashes fell seemed to Catherine to be the most wonderful of inventions. How convenient it was to take the box out and empty it without scraping and shoveling as one had to to clean a fireplace. It became almost a labor of love to keep the black surface and lids bright and shiny, and Catherine began to feel that she could understand the stove; that on certain days the fire was sluggish and scarcely wanted to move; that on other days, when a brisk wind was blowing, the fire fairly raced on its way up the chimney, just as she, herself, at times, was able to race through the housework of the big mansion, and on other days every small task seemed to drag. To Warm the Heart It was the stove that she thought of leaving, first, when her years of servitude came to an end, almost simultaneously with her conversion and baptism. Her acceptance of the new religion was wholehearted and she began planning to join a group of other con- »verts in their journey to some-. Where far to the west called '"The ' Valley of the Great Salt Lake." The night before she left, Judge Andrews had given a ball, and, for the first time, Catherine was not expected to spend the evening in the kitchen. Also, for the first time, she had danced with Granville Bott. He had even taken her to the punch bow! For a drink of the delicious fruit mix that Catherine herself had made. That was when she heard the girls laughing. "T mean, really!" Catherine stood very still. Without turning, she knew the voice — Lily Andrews. "Trust Granville. He's determined to have a lady friend while crossing those horrid old plains, even if it has to be Cath!" "¥ do wish Papa would go. It doesn't matter to me _ what religion we are. Why, there']l scarcely be anyone left in Boston after tomorrow." That had been Hilma's voice, the younger of the two sisters, and the one everybody, including Cath, had thought Granville preferred. "T mean, really." It was Lily again. ''Let's don't encourage Papa to do that. There have been times when I was afraid he was becoming a bit interested in all this Mormon talk. But I have no desire to start out on a long wagon trip behind two old cows. I 173 March 1967 am perfectly content to stay right here in Boston where living is quite civilized." It occurred to Cath that she had been eavesdropping, but she stood rooted to the spot, unable to move. She heard the girls' laughter as they moved away. Cath learned that it wasn't cows at all that pulled the Miller wagon, in which she traveled, but two lovely big oxen named Red and Barney. To arise each morning and feel that your life was your own, to help Sister Miller because she wanted to, not because she felt a crushing obligation, gave Cath a feeling of freedom she could not remember having known before. She was invited, yes, indeed expected, to be in attendance at the meetings which were held and, almost to her amazement, she found that her opinion was accepted and valued in testimony meetings, just as was that of the leader of the wagon train. It seemed so foreign to her, to be included, to be treated as an equal. Tren there were the evenings; after the heat and dust of the day, the wonderful, glorious coolness of evening. The animals could be heard, contentedly munching grass nearby. As the fiddle music filled the night air, it fairly set her feet to tapping. No longer did she need to stay in the kitchen, taking care of the refreshments, watching and wishing. She had partners just waiting their turns to dance with her. And most persistent of all was Granville Bott. He insisted on the first dance and the last dance and one or two in between. "IT want the last dance," he 174 said. "It gives me a chance to ask for the first one tomorrow night before these other Romeos move in. I want it and I intend to have it." Her heart pounded at his words, remembering how she had watched him dance with the most beautiful girls in Boston, having neither the opportunity nor the dress to join the dancing herself. Woman-like, Catherine wondered what Hilma Andrews would say if she had heard. She wondered, too, about the tall, red-haired young man who played the violin, night after night, for the dancing. Benjamin Shepherd. She had learned his name, but that was about all she had learned, except that Bishop Miller said he was so tall he made all the other men seem as if they were standing in a hole. She found Herself wondering whether all the attention she had received was making her vain. Ben Shepherd was the only unmarried man in camp who had not asked her for a dance. Oh, he could use his violin playing as an excuse for not dancing, still she had seen him lay it aside, letting the banjo and mandolin carry the melody while he whirled through a dance with his sister, before returning to his playing. Yet, on occasion, she knew he was watching her and she was puzzled. She was tempted a time or two to ask him when they announced ladies' choice, but she never did. It seemed a little too forward on her part, since he had not once danced with her. Besides, Granville was always near to meet her halfway on the ladies' dances. The last night on the plains, before the wagon train entered the mountains, a special celebration was held. "We'll find it harder going in the mountains," Granville said, "without much room for dancing, so let's get going tonight!" It was during their second square dance together that Cath made a wrong turn and mixed up the entire set. Her embarrassment deepened as she returned to meet Granville. "What's the matter, Cath?" he asked. "You'd do better if you get your eyes off that red-headed fiddle player and pay attention." Her cheeks burned and she was grateful for the darkness. She had been more obvious than she realized, unaware that Granville had noticed. She knew now that Ben did not intend to ask her for a dance. This, the very last one, and there he sat, holding that violin as if it meant more to him than all the girls in camp, and it probably did. Crossing the plains was one thing, but traveling through the mountains was quite another. Catherine could not remember ever having been so tired, not after cleaning Judge Andrews' entire house, cooking and serving the dinner and cleaning up after everyone else had gone to sleep. She crawled into her blankets under the Miller wagon so exhausted that she could scarcely © distinguish one tune from another as Ben Shepherd's violin sang far into the night. It was only after they entered the Valley that Catherine did get that long-awaited dance. There was a regular orchestra to play, and for once Ben had left his violin at home. She sat between Brother and To Warm the Heart Sister Miller, and watched the couples on the floor, her toe keeping time to the music. Granville had not come. In fact, she had seen very little of him since their arrival. "They're not going to give me just any old spot of land that suits their fancy," he had said. "T'll find the piece I want and Pll have it. I didn't come all this way to end up with nothing. It may take a bit of managing, but I can do it." "That's probably where he is right now," reflected Catherine, "out managing." And then she saw Ben approaching. "May I have the honor of this dance, Miss York?" She placed her hand in his and almost gravely they joined the dancers on the floor. Cath wondered whether she only imagined a special something in his touch as he took her hand in the grand right and left. As they whirled he held her, not tight—just sort of, well, something like the way he held his violin. "How many times I've wanted te dance with you," he whispered, his lips quite against her ear. "How many times!" "But, why...?" Catherine stopped. The pattern of the dance carried her away from him, to another partner, and another, and she was glad. Perhaps what 175 March 1967 she had been about to say would have been unladylike. But she had said enough. When the music stopped, Ben continued the conversation just as though there had been no interruption. "You always seemed to be hav: ing such a good time with Bott that I felt I had no right to intervene. But he isn't here tonight and I'm staking a claim."'. She raised her brown eyes to his and was almost startled with the clear blue intensity of them. She felt the seriousness of his mood, and from that moment she was sure that one day he would ask her to marry him. It was then that a thought which had been nagging at her from the back of her mind began to push itself forward. It was a thought of which she could not be particularly proud, still it persisted. Sometimes her nobler self would have pushed it aside, but her more practical nature insisted on bringing it back. Granville Bott had a stove. Cath had never actually seen it, knowing from the camp talk that it was there, in his wagon. Granville had traveled alone. Once when there had been some sickness in camp, Cath had heard the Captain of Ten ask him whether he could take a passenger in his wagon. His answer had been short and to the point. "There's no room, Captain. You can see for yourself. I'm full up." Later that afternoon, Bishop Miller left a fine bureau standing on the plains, which left room for elderly Sister Abbott to lie down near the back of the wagon as they continued the journey. 176 The thought was there, and unwelcome as it was to her more noble self, it kept recurring. The girl who married Granville Bott would never have to contend with troublesome fireplace cooking. That winter proved to be the most enjoyable in all of Catherine York's young life. There were parties and dances and plays. There was either Granville or Ben, and sometimes both, eager to escort her. Neither spoke of marriage, but to each it seemed a time of waiting, not disregarding the thought. When each man began to build a house, Catherine was quite aware of it, just as she was aware of the differences in the houses. She walked past Granville's once or twice since it was close to town, east on Brigham Street. He was hiring most of the labor done and she felt it unlikely that she would meet him. It would be a beautiful house, two-story with gingerbread trim, one of which anyone in Boston could have been proud. Ben's was farther out to the south on his piece of farm land that he had received in the drawing. Catherine had seen it only once, when the first logs had been put in place. It would be a cabin; two rooms, but, still, it was a cabin. As springtime came she saw less and less of Ben. He was busy clearing his land and plowing and planting. "T'm working long _ hours, Cath," he had said. 'After getting the land cleared, I'll be late in planting as it is, and I must have a harvest. When it comes I'll be in a position to speak." Her heart pounded and she fairly seemed to melt under the piercing blue of his eyes. He had stooped and kissed her then, once and hard. "Till harvest time," he said softly. It happened so quickly that Cath wondered afterward whether it had really happened at all. Granville wondered, too. "I can't understand what's happened to Shepherd," he said upon more than one occasion. "There was a time when he was in my way every time I turned around. I haven't laid eyes on him for weeks." The memory of their parting was brought vividly to her mind and Cath had not answered. Somehow she felt a little annoyed with Ben. If he really loved her, why had he not asked her to stop seeing Granville? He hadn't mentioned it, leaving the decision entirely to her, and at present her decision was to keep going with Granville. He was good company and she enjoyed especially the plays they saw together. He had seen most of them at other times and places with different actors and actresses. His comparisons were both enlightening and interesting to her meager background in the theater... During the plays she had seen with Ben, his comments had been of a different nature. "Actors?" he had said. "I don't know one from the other. To me they are real people, and all this is really happening to them, and while the play lasts, I live it with them." Yes, the two men were different; as different as the houses To Warm the Heart they were building, and again Cath remembered the huge, imposing house on Brigham Street that would have a cookstove in the kitchen. Then, on an afternoon late in July, Ben did put in an appearance. Lean and bronzed from long hours in the sun, he was more handsome than Cath remembered. She was preparing to leave for a drive behind Granville's high-stepping ponies when Ben rode up. "Rather an outsize riding pony you have there, Shepherd," said Granville, picking up the lines of his spirited team. "TI have no riding horse,' Ben answered evenly, 'Only my team. I've been working them pretty hard and thought there was no need of bringing both of them." "TI was able to trade my work horses for these ponies," said Granville. "They are almost as fast as the team I had in Boston." Cath kept her eyes on Ben's face, but he kept his own eyes averted. He certainly wasn't acting much like he came to see her. He answered her question as though she had spoken. "President Young sent me, Granville. Seems as though there is a company of saints approaching the mountains that has just about exhausted its store of provisions. We have five outfits now, ready to leave right away with supplies for them. We need one more team and wagon and President Young suggested you might be willing to go." "Well, now," said Granville, "you just might explain to the President that I traded my work horses for these ponies. Besides I have to be here, to see that the 177 March 1967 work goes forward on my house." As he spoke, Granville reached out one hand and placed it casually and yet possessively on Catherine's shoulder. "As you say," Ben answered. He nodded slightly to Granville and lifted his hat to Cath in farewell, as he turned the work horse and headed back in the direction of his own place. Dorinc the following weeks Cath remembered Ben's eyes, watching, as Granville held her shoulder, knowing that she had given the impression of agreeing with his action. She wished she had drawn away; she wished she had spoken up and said—something—anything to indicate that she did not belong to Granville; she wished.... She was not sure just what she did wish, particularly at those times when she rode with him past the big house on Brigham Street. Then, one afternoon in early September, he drew the team to a halt and together they entered the door, Catherine York and Granville Bott. Inside, the house was more beautiful than Cath had ever imagined. The floors and woodwork were beautiful, surpassing even Judge Andrews' home in Boston. And in the kitchen, there it was! That marvelous, wonderful, scarce item, the kitchen range. "How will you like it here, Cath, having this whole big house to ourselves, after being cooped up with the Millers?" Catherine was imagining herself taking golden-crusted pies from the bake oven as she heard his question. The vision disap- 178 peared abruptly. Why, he had not even bothered to propose, simply assuming that neither she nor any girl could think of refusing him. Suddenly her indecision of the past was gone. She faced him squarely, positive now that the warmth of a home does not come from the fire in a kitchen range. "I am not moving into this house, Granville. I like living at the Miller's. No, you needn't come with me. I'm going to enjoy every step of the walk back." Cath turned and left the kitchen without even glancing at the stove, closing the door quickly behind her. The following afternoon Sister Miller prepared a big basket of lunch and asked Catherine to accompany her in taking it to the bishop. Not until they had ridden almost out of the city did Catherine learn that they were headed for the Shepherd farm. "Ben was gone so long, taking those provisions to the newcomers that his quorum members began to fear his grain would thresh out on the ground. George says he never saw such grain. The men have been harvesting it all this week, and he thought they would finish this afternoon. Ben didn't get home until yesterday." Sister Miller slapped the line against the side of the brown horse to make him step up with the gray. As the horse jumped a bit forward, Cath felt her heart give a resounding thump. Ben was home! In a short few minutes she would see him. She reached a hand to her hair, smoothing it under the brim of her sunbonnet. Ben was there, standing in front of his cabin. He greeted both women, then tied the team to the hitching post before helping them down. Sister Miller alighted first, carrying the lunch basket to where the men were seated in the shade of the willows near the spring. After a moment, Cath realized Ben was still holding her hand. She drew it away, slowly. "I—I'm_ glad you're back, Ben." "Are you, Cath? Are you really? The bishop tells me you've been seeing an awful lot of Granville. Are you—promised now, Cath?" "No, Ben. Not now, nor ever to Granville. I couldn't make him a promise when I loved someone else." Her meaning was plain from her manner, her eyes, the tone of her voice. Ben caught it at once, as he caught her to him. To a man, the harvesters stopped their eating for the moment and watched. As the kiss ended they looked at each other and grinned, turning their attention again to the lunch at hand. Ben saw. He took her hand and almost ran with her toward the cabin, out of sight of the others. "It isn't a house like Granville To Warm the Heart could give you, Cath. But come and see." "A person can't fall in love with a house, nor what's in it either, Ben. I know, for I've been trying to now for quite sometime. The only thing that really matters is who is in the house." It was a lovely cabin. Inside, the air was pungent with the smell of pine from the freshly sawed wood. Ben closed the door behind them, again taking her gently in his arms. As he bent his head toward her lips, suddenly she straightened and stared. Through the cabin window she could see the wagon Ben had taken. It was piled high with furniture and plows and, yes! There at the front, just behind the seat was a — she could scarcely believe her eyes — but there it was, a kitchen range. "Here!" Ben turned her face to his. "They are just some of the things the gold seekers had thrown away in their hurry to get to California. President Young said to load our wagons as well as we could for the trip back. But they can wait. This can't," and he bent his head until his lips touched hers. Hazel Marchant Thomson was born in Peoa, Summit County, Utah, and graduated from South Summit High School. She received a B. S. Degree from Brigham Young University and a M. S. Degree from the University of Utah. She taught school in South Summit District, and, at present, is a teacher in first grade at Tolman Elementary School, Bountiful, Utah. She is married to Grant A. Thomson, a teacher at Bountiful High School, and has two adopted sons, Drew in the United States Navy, and Terry in the United States Marines. Her Church work has included all the auxiliaries of the Church, and, at present, she teaches the Gospe! Doctrine Class, Tenth Ward, Bountiful North Stake. Her writings have been published in The Improvement Era, the Instructor, Grade Teacher, Instructor for Elementary Teachers, Venture, and Onward. She has had stories accepted recently by Jack and Jill and Highlights for Children. She spends some time in temple and genealogy work. Several of Mrs. Thomson's writings have been published in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as two serials ''Because of the Word'' (1961), and "Your Heart to Understanding" (1964). 179 Oh, Remember! Remember! Rose A. Openshaw It is nice to have talents, to be inventive, to win trophies and scholarships, I tell those dear to me, but I would have them remember that all the talents in the world—all the inventiveness one can acquire, can never take the place of dependability. Lacking in that, these things will get one nowhere. To be dependable is far more to be desired than all the treasures of the orient, for without it we are nothing, and we will be so regarded as soon as it is discovered. People will want to sever all connections with us, and we will be cast adrift without friends or followers. No one will fellowship us, and why? Because if people cannot depend on us or our word or promise, they will regard us as a bag of sand that pours out in all directions—having no firmness, no stamina or backbone—nothing to cling to—nothing to rely on whatever! If we agree to do something, we must do it at all costs, no matter what effort or sacrifice or price is involved. If something should occur to render it absolutely impossible to make our word good on a particular occasion, we must get in touch with those with whom the agreement was made, immediately, explaining the situation, and assuring them it will be attended to at the earliest possible moment. Then nothing must keep us from fulfilling that promise. Otherwise, we have forfeited our good name, and with it, the admiration and respect of friends. And to live a full and happy life, it is absolutely essential that we have the respect and approval of both God and man! Oh, remember! Remember! —_ a Ny. Ms, " ¥ ie ~.. ¥ FOOTHILLS IN SPRING 7 ¥ pe yee Ethel Jacobson Ved am see What can: I-call you, hills,: But. _jocund—where lark song spills "; And feathery branches fan ie 'Against this cloudless span ee a Of. 'hyacinth blue? Yas, 'What. Hise. 'where jonquil laughter rings " Anda hidden waterfall sings? - Doves coo, « aaa Rabbits kick up their heels, |= =: And. A sweet thunder steals. Eel ~_ From root to sunlit crown till each out-reaching bough ane. Is transfigured now Ss - -" = es a thousand lilting petals. ° i *" on a ey" z ~ A jaunty robi ' settles | te ' On ane, limb. - ' Noisily,, in "the pond,. Young raccoons splash 'and swim. Wh a ere And. "everywhere is the "green excitement of grasses ma = _ - Up every. Slope and cranny, while.. From - -wide- -arching — = — ie Oaks come squirrel talk and-tree- -frog - -trills. Tm >. What.. Can, these hills. Be. 'but joyful— _ al. \ sO ee and ee innocent, as when tk the toe A > Aaghy SEB cre SS san ANS On Fae Sages SOC is — ~ = i 4 am * ¢ ade 1 a «- Re SE, Ss a ye, 3" HS Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Imelda Marcos, the beautiful and graceful First Lady of the Philippines, made an excellent impression on her recent visit to the United States with President Fernando Marcos, and also as hostess at the Manila summit conference of six allied anti-Communist Asian nations and the United States. With her lovely soprano voice, she sang old Philippine music at the party which followed the conference. Geraldine Page gave a sensitive and sympathetic interpretation of Xantippe, the supposedly ever-nagging wife of Greek philosopher Socrates, in the beautifullly written and produced Hallmark television drama, Barefoot in "Athens. Clementine Paddleford, much-admired columnist and food specialist for magazines and newspapers, in offering her annual advice to homemakers, emphasizes the commonsense and good judgment which women should remember to exercise in such matters as budgeting the food dollar, thinking of cooking as a creative art, taking pride in accomplishments as a cook, varying the menu, trying new recipes, becoming acquainted with the possibilities of herbs. She advises the homemaker to try to use more varieties of vegetables instead of only a few, and to be imaginative and resourceful in making use of less expensive foods. "There is no better place than home to enjoy those we love best,"' she says. "With friends, food, and candlelight, what more is there to ask?" Mrs. Izzy Horrowitz of Shreveport, Louisiana, is president of the Toy Manufacturers of the United States, Inc., the first woman to be president of the association. She has had much personal experience with toys and children. "! L am a wife and mother first," she says, ''then a businesswoman. | believe a woman can have a special entree and esprit with mothers.'' She holds the opinion that toys will continue to become more scientific and more realistic, and that there will be a greater development of games and other items for family participation. JoAnn Zimmerman, a former student at Bryn Mawr College, now twentyseven years old, is president of a large contracting firm in Ohio, a_ position which came to her following the death of her father. She is rapidly learning many phases of engineering and business management. Vera Dugdale, Woodland, Utah (a small village on the western slope of the Uintah Mountains) is author of ''Album of North American Wild Animals' (Rand McNally publishers) which has become ''a fantastic best seller'' and is now in its second printing. It is a handsome volume, containing many full-color animal portraits by the artist Clark Bronson. Mrs. Dugdale, who is well-acquainted with remote and primitive mountain regions, is a part-time employee of the United States Forest Service. ''Woodland, in winter, is wonderful for a writer,"' she says, ''absolute quiet.'' 181 Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow EDITORIAL Volume 54 March 1967 Number 3 MM Belle S. Spafford, President Wi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor WE Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor WM Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B, Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 182 Hazel S. Love. Fawn H, Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Elien N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling m= From the vantage point of one and one quarter centuries of time, we view our beloved Relief Society, divine in origin, steadfast in purpose, magnificent in accomplishment. Today, 300,000 women, choice and privileged women of many nations and from varied walks of life, attest the inspiration that guides its destiny, and they gratefully acknowledge the blessings that come to them as individuals through their membership in the Society. Today, Relief Society stands firm and strong, joyfully contributing of its strength to the work of the Church as called upon by the Priesthood. It is touching the hearts of countless of our Father's children, lifting them to better ways of thinking and doing; it is steadily spreading its influence in ever-widening circles. So rich is its heritage, so great and glorious is its present strength and accomplishment that we are led to wonder what will be its future! Can it increase in size and usefulness; can it further extend its influence for good; can it become a greater power for righteousness among womankind? Has it reached its peak of growth and accomplishment, or is it destined to grow still larger in size, more expansive in service, and more powerful in influence? To us, Relief Society is only on the threshold of its divine mission. Its present size is but a token of what the future portends. Is it unreasonable to believe that whereas today we have close to onethird million members, tomorrow the Society will claim its millions? Surely the strength of today will serve as a foundation upon which the women of tomorrow will build, and the achievements of yesterday and today will be steppingstones upon which they will walk into an even more glorious future. Is it immoderate to envision tomorrow's leaders as women of intelligence and vigor, trained in the ways of leadership accomplishment, and possessing a high degree of Relief Society and Church scholarship? Is it irrational to say that tomorrow's members will impressively exemplify true Latter-day Saint womanhood, their lives reflecting in words and actions the training, the tempering, the refining influence of Relief Society? Can we not expect them to stand out as ensamples to all the world of the influence, the beauty, the joy of righteous living? Is it inconsistent to say that where today's ministrations bless tens of thousands, tomorrow's will bless hundreds of thousands? The Lord has promised that his gospel will never again be taken from the earth, and that it is to be ''proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers'' (D&C 1:23). The sisters of tomorrow must and will do their part in the fulfillment of this promise, and they will do so, in largest measure, through the organized Relief Societies. Relief Society will stand increasingly firm and strong, a beacon light and guiding star for women of all nations. It will continue to rise until it becomes a mighty bulwark against the forces of evil that would engulf women and threaten their homes and loved ones. It will bring peace to the soul and love into the hearts and lives of endless numbers of our Father's daughters. The blessings and the benediction of the Lord will rest upon its leaders, and its offerings will be accepted of the Lord even as were those of the women of Nauvoo. Yes, March 17, 1842 long will be remembered in the history of the Church—for then came the women—and they were organized through inspiration of the Lord given to his chosen Prophet, to save souls and to aid in the building of his kingdom. May the women of today and tomorrow cherish Relief Society, advance its work, and love one another, is our constant prayer. —B. S. S. History of Relief Society (1842-1966) 183 GENERAL SUNDAY SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENCY REORGANIZED A new General Sunday School Superintendency was announced December 10, 1966, by the First Presidency of the Church. David Lawrence McKay, First Assistant Superintendent since 1952, was named as the new general superintendent, succeeding Superintendent George R. Hill. Lynn S. Richards, who was formerly Second Assistant, was named as the new first assistant, and Royden G. Derrick was named second assistant. David Lawrence McKay has been a member of the Sunday School General Board since 1944. In 1949, he was appointed second assistant superintendent, and in 1952, first assistant superintendent. He was Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Sunday School superintendent at the time of this call to the general board. Superintendent McKay received his early education in Ogden, Utah, and attended Weber College, the University of Utah, George Washington University, and Harvard University. He served as a missionary in the French part of the Swiss-German Mission, and for six months labored in the British Mission as editor of The Millenial Star. In his new appointment Superintendent McKay succeeds to a position which his father, President David O. McKay held from 1918 to 1934. His wife, Mildred Calderwood McKay, was a member of the Primary General Board. They are parents of four daughters: Midene (Mrs. Howard B. Anderson), Teddy Lyn (Mrs. Richard T. Parmley), Catherine (Mrs. Gerald B. Iba), Joyce (Mrs. Robert S. Bennett). First Assistant Superintendent Lynn S. Richards was appointed second assistant superintendent in 1952, at the time he was serving as bishop of the Federal Heights Ward in University Stake. Previously, he had been bishop of the University Ward. He had been a member of the general board of the Sunday School from 1934 to 1946. He is a graduate of Brigham Young University and Stanford University and is an attorney in Salt Lake City. In 1955, he was named president of the Brigham Young University Alumni Association. He is a son of the late President Stephen L Richards and Irene Merrill Richards. He filled a mission in the Eastern States and was a seminary principal for two years in Preston, Idaho. His wife is Lucille Covey Richards, and they have six children: Lynn S. Jr., Joseph Covey, James Mack, Rosalie Lucille (Mrs. Clarence J. Frost), Victoria Jeanette (Mrs. Stanley A. Taylor), Joyce Louise (Mrs. Verl D. Shell). Second Assistant Superintendent Royden G. Derrick has held many positions of leadership in the Church, including second counselor and first counselor in the Monument Park Stake presidency. He was graduated from West High School, Salt. Lake City, and studied engineering at the University of Utah. He received the University's College of Business Outstanding Achievement Award in 1963, and an honorary degree in 1965. Appointed to the University of Utah Board of Regents in 1957, he was elected chairman of the board in 1959, serving until 1965, when his term expired. A businessman and civic 184 General Sunday School Superintendency Reorganized leader, he was sent to, India in 1959 on a trade mission, and to Bolivia, in 1964, as a representative of the United States Government. His wife is Allie Olsen, and they are parents of four children: Linda (Mrs. J. Roger Wood), James, David, and Bruce. The members of Relief Society, throughout the world-wide sisterhood, extend greetings and best wishes to the newly appointed Sunday School superintendency. May the blessings of the Heavenly Father attend them in their positions of leadership, and may the Sunday Schools of the Church throughout the world be inspired by their counsel and direction. WHAT IS THE RED CROSS? Emil E. Henderson @ The Red Cross is many things to many people. It is the first aid knowledge when seconds count, the blood available for rush surgery, the volunteer companionship for a sick or lonely moment, the binding of a disaster wound, the emergency message flashing to Viet Nam. Like a fireman answering an alarm, the Red Cross responds immediately when it is called upon. Immediate help for disaster victims and increased services to the armed forces are of primary concern to the Red Cross. What needs to be done, Red Cross will do—just as a family extends all its resources to a critically ill child. Trained Red Cross field staff are assigned with military units in the field to help resolve emergent personal and family problems. Other Red Cross workers in U. S. Military hospitals in this country and overseas offer a two-fold program of recreation and social welfare, while still others conduct a recreation center and mobile recreation service for American servicement at all major U. S. Commands in Viet Nam. At all times, and now in particular, the Red Cross provides a network of immediate assistance for the armed forces and their families. Every year almost 2,000,000 Americans give their volunteer services to the Red Cross in their communities. If measured in dollars, the value of volunteer participation would reach astronomical proportions. Although the Red Cross is charged by Congress with specific duties, it is not a tax-supported agency. Its support comes from voluntary contributions from the American people. The financial needs of the Red Cross are met in some communities through United Fund campaigns in the fall, and in other communities by separate Red Cross campaigns in March. To maintain its capacity for quick action, the Red Cross needs your contributions of money and volunteer service. Help keep Red Cross ready to help. 185 A Piece of Grandma Helen Hinckley Jones w I scarcely step from the car in front of my daughter's house before I hear the shout "Grandma!" and two tiny boys come running with arms outstretched. I catch them, the little one first, as they leap from the porch, and with the greatest of joy I accept their kisses, flavored with ketchup, or chocolate, or just plain little boy. "I'm glad you came, Grandma," Craig, who uses language very well, says; and Sean, who has learned to understand English with his almost-new puppy, commands, "Grandma, sit." It is only a moment before two little hands open my handbag to explore for lifesavers; two more search my pockets for a chance cookie or an all-day-sucker. "What did you bring us, Grandma?" Craig inquires, and Sean asks hopefully, "Candy?" Their mother is embarrassed by this routine. It isn't her fault or the fault of the little boys. It's Grandma's. I like to shop for children's books and for little-boy clothing. I love to see a shine in big brown eyes; to hear exclamations of delight. It tickles me when Craig takes a crumbly cookie and haunches down over a waste basket so that he won't get crumbs on the floor. Still it sobers me that I might not be so joyously received if I came without gifts. I remember back—way back when I was five or six—the happy 186 A Piece of Grandma times when my paternal grandmother came for a visit. I think she never brought a "store-bought" present. How could she, with a half a hundred grandchildren instead of two? But she did bring other gifts. Very soon after she arrived for one of her "stays," her four steel needles began to click and one of the gray wristlets she knitted for her sons and grandsons began to elongate. "Grandma," I begged, "teach me." "Certainly I'll teach you, dear," she agreed, and from her bag came four more needles and a ball of black yarn. "Which of your dollies needs stockings?" "Sally Squawkin' Bush," I decided. My Uncle Frank had named this child, and I did all I could to make up to her for her horrible name. Soon I was knitting around and around and around without ever dropping or splitting a stitch. Another time, she came with blocks for a "nine square" in her bag. On that visit she started me setting infinitesimal stitches on my very own quilt. And while we knitted or crocheted or backstitched she talked, and I alternately prodded and listened. She was a girl in Michigan; what a change it was to leave the green woods and blue lakes for the semi-deserts of the West. Her daughters, Minerva and Adele (Nervy and Della in Grandma's stories), were truly "little women" in the olden days when there was so much to be done and so few hands to do it. She talked of faith, and how it "did very well'? When a doctor wasn't available, even when there was a bone to be set or a serious illness to combat. And, best of all, she told me of when my own papa was a little boy, a big boy doing a man's work, a football player, an elder in the Church. I'm not at all domestic; my amazed friends would kowtow to me twice if I ever turned out a razzle-dazzle salad without leaving half of it sticking to the mold or melting on the plate. But I can knit in the dark, crochet at top speed any pattern I see, and sew a fine seam any time or place a fine seam is required. These skills were part of Grandma's gift to me. The other part was much more important. I absorbed an appreciation of the past, a pride in my heritage, and I began to make plans to be a credit to my name. As I "find" the packages of orange and raspberry sours hidden in a compartment of my handbag and slip a package in each little boy's pocket, I wish that I were more sure that I knew how to give them the intangible things that Grandma knew instinctively how to give. I resolve to read to them more often, to play object identification, alphabet and number games, to sing with them the finger plays and action songs that my children enjoyed. When they are a little older they may be interested in the "olden times" when their mama was a little girl. For what are a hundred packages of candy, a gross of cookies, a few new shirts, trunks, or blanket-sleepers, when compared with a piece of Grandma's own self? 187 New Zealand A Silhouette in Green Wealtha S. Mendenhall Former Member, General Board of Relief Society Sr Auckland ISLAND a To you, I extend an invitation Pan liberal amounts of sunshine to relax in your most comfortable chair and dream with me of a paradise anchored deep in the vast South Pacific — beautiful New Zealand. This most picturesque and lush paradise consists of two principal islands sprawling lengthwise from the north to the south, covering an area of approximately 103,736 square miles. These islands rise forth out of the deep, glistening, white-capped waters and truly remind me of two delicately shaded, highly polished pieces of greenstone. A semi-precious, very hard stone located, to a great extent, at Arahura on the west coast of New Zealand's South Island. This great temperate-zoned Dominion, which lies about equal distance between the equator and the South Pole, is nestled between latitudes 34 degrees and 48 degrees south and is blessed with a very enjoyable climate. The beautiful rainstorms, water from the snowcapped peaks, and more 188 help to provide a fertile area— making a land of diversity and magnificent wonderment. To the 180,000 Maori people, New Zealand's native race, this is Aotearoa, the land of the Long White Cloud. This is home, although many of our dear bronzeskinned, dark-haired friends continually speak in lovely, softtoned voices of their genealogies, repeating them from memory, and of their ancestral homeland in far distant Hawaiki. From a Maori legend we read: We came from Hawaiki—the Great From Hawaiki—the Long—from Hawaiki—the Distant Hawaiki is the largest island in the leeward group of the Society Islands at the hub of the Polynesian Triangle. The Polynesian people within this triangle are kinsmen of the Maori, and thus they bear resemblance and speak the same basic language, but as my husband and I have traveled from island to island, such as from Tonga to Samoa or Tahiti to New Zealand or Fiji—and as we have lived among these children of God, whom we love and admire, we have been immediately aware of the fact that there is in each group a little different pronunciation for the same word. A dear old Maori gentleman explained to us that this was'brought about by dropping different letters from the dialect and by adding others. For example the '"'k" and "ng" have been omitted by the Polynesians living in the Society Islands, and thus the word Hawaiki is pronounced Havaii. In New Zealand the '"w" replaces the "v" and the "k" is restored, thus the land of the Maori forebears is pronounced Hawaiki. In the Cook Islands, the "h" is omitted, and thus the word Hawaiki is pronounced Avaiki. So we see a similarity of names and people. Yes, it was from this Hawaiki that, centuries ago, navigators, explorers, and great sea-faring Maori people, many with their wives, families, food, seeds, water plants, and their cultures, dispersed in handmade canoes, with a star and sufficient faith to guide their deliberate venture into the unknown. Uncharted waters of the Pacific. The first European to discover New Zealand was Abel Janszoon Tasman, a Dutchman. It was in 1642 that he attempted to land, but he met strong resistance from the Maori and his landing was foiled. Captain James Cook was successful in his endeavor to go ashore in 1769—127 years later. Captain Cook then became the claimant of New Zealand for New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green Great Britain; thus the twilight of freedom, to the extent it had been known by its settlers, the Maori, had arrived. A_ treaty known as the Treaty of Waitangi was signed, in 1840, by Maori chiefs, submitting the supreme power to British sovereignty, and, in return, their rights pertaining to land were guaranteed by law. By 1840, European settlement was well underway, and today, Europeans number approximately two and a fourth million. Many of the Maori and Pakiha (Maori name for the Europeans) have formed true _ friendships. They are not only neighbors but are neighborly. They sit side by side at Church meetings. Some work closely together in Parliament, and many in community, business, and church activities. The children attend the same schools and are uniformed alike. They are playmates. All are loyal to the British flag and are working together for the prosperity of their young country and the happiness of all within its great boundaries. Wellington, the capital city of New Zealand, covers an area of only twenty-eight square miles, but has a population of approximately 232,000 residents. In 1865, the seat of the government was transferred to Wellington from Auckland. Here the Parliament Building is located near Lambton Harbour. New Zealand is governed by its own parliament of eighty elected members, four of whom are Maori. The Governor General is appointed by and represents Queen Elizabeth IT. Wellington City overlooks the mighty Cook Strait which flows between North and South Islands 189 March 1967 and is practically enclosed by water and by broken hills, heavily populated. It is New Zealand's central seaport and one of its important nerve centers, and is also a very busy metropolis. Trams, cable cars, taxis, buses, bicycles, private cars, and pedestrians practically choke the highways and byways during the morning, noon, and evening rush hours. The principal business and commercial center of New Zealand is Auckland, which has a population of 520,000 people, the largest in the country. On North Island, Auckland and Wellington are the main urban areas and have the finest harbors. On South Island, Dunedin (which has a great religious history) and Christchurch are the principal cities. The country has a wonderful educational system for its people. They have classes for children in kindergarten, primary, and postprimary schools. Every child must be enrolled at age seven in a public or private school. For higher education, New Zealand has a university college at Auckland which specializes in architecture, commerce, and engineering; the Victoria University at Wellington specializes in law, the Canterbury, in engineering and music; and Otago, at Dunedin, in medicine, dentistry, engineering, and mining. They have two agricultural schools, Massey Agricultural College, and the Lincoln Agricultural College. Last, but not least, is the Latterday Saint Church College of New Zealand. It is open to all students, Latter-day Saints and nonLatter-day Saints of approximate 190 ages from thirteen to nineteen years, whose past conduct would render them worthy to be enrolled. It is co-educational and accommodates both boarding and day students. Now for diversity, let us dream of Wairakei and Rotorua on the North Island. Here one stands in awe while viewing and listening to one of the thermal wonders of the world. Here geysers spout skyward, grayish brown mud pools boil rapidly, with uncanny force, through winding cracks and crevasses in the earth, white billows of steam curl in clouds, and _ pressures shake the ground on which one stands. I can readily understand why a friend of ours from America said, "Oh, let's get out of here." The constant trembling of the earth reminds me of a continual earth tremor. Hot pools of water provided the Maori women of earlier days with laundry privileges and a place to cook their food. Today, engineers have drilled through earth's hot crust deep down into the ground, many times over 3,000 feet, and have tapped this underground hot. Water system, harnessing its forces for electric power and for heating purposes. For contrast, my husband and I have enjoyed motoring to New Zealand's largest lake — Lake Taupo. Here in our small boat we drift along out into the bluish green waters with utter peace roundabout. We look toward the south, and there on a bright sunny day we see Mount Tongariro, with its cap of snow, and not too far distant, Mount Ngauruhoe, an ac- tive volcano, with its billowing vapor circling in the blue sky. The lush verdancy which surrounds us is breathtaking. The luxuriant New Zealand fern, bushland, and wild flowers with their coats of many colors are indeed something to behold. On South Island, we find New Zealand's highest mountain, Mount Cook. It towers above the long chain of the Southern Alps, its peaks reaching upward toward the azure sky as high as 12,349 feet. Surrounding them is Mount Cook National Park which covers an area of 173,000 acres. Approximately one-third of this great park is covered with permanent snow and_ glaciers. We have watched these glaciers spilling downward from great heights, with cracks and crevasses opening and closing. They slowly move forward at times as much as two feet a day. Let's wave our magic wand now and view something entirely different in nature. The Hastings area is often referred to as the "Orchard Garden Center" of New Zealand. When we visit in the homes in this city, fresh fruit is served with all meals and at tea time (mid-morning and mid-afternoon). The apples, pears, raspberries, and potatoes are most delicious, and our dear Maori friends supply our needs wherever we are in New Zealand. The fruit yield from this area is approximately two and a quarter million bushels of first grade fruit per season and more is being produced annually. A never-to-be-forgotten sight is to witness the fruit orchards in full bloom. This is indeed a glimpse of quiet beauty and a New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green perfume not yet perfected in bottles. The flower arrangements in hotels and in the homes are beyond description, pleasing to the eye. We were motoring through New Zealand not long ago with some of our American friends interested in re-forestration. We were certainly in the right place, for the largest manmade forest in the world is found in this small country. It covers 284,000 acres. Our friends were also interested in farming, livestock, freezing works, and wool production. We drove through the countryside, along the river edge, low hills and higher slopes, feasting our eyes on the green paddocks enclosed with hedgerows where sheep and cattle were peacefully grazing. We saw wild flowers in full bloom, the pohutukawa (New Zealand's Christmas tree) dressed in its profusion of red flowers, white mountain lilies, pines, and bushlands. We discussed the fact that New Zealand produces over one-tenth of all the wool in the world, that fifty per cent of the mutton and beef produced is exported, as well as ninety-three per cent of the lamb, so one can see that it is plentiful. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been mindful of New Zealand and its people for many, many years, for it was in 1854 that the first missionaries were sent out from Church headquarters to that faraway land. In 1880, or twenty-six years later, the elders were assigned to go out into the villages and there organize and conduct classes in schools that the children might receive an education. This assignment was carried out until the 191 March 1967 government public schools were available. The first school of consequence to be erected by our Church in New Zealand was the Maori Agriculture College near Hastings in Hawkes Bay. This was dedicated in 1913, and classes were in session in those buildings for eighteen years until they were destroyed by the Napier earthquake. In 1952, twenty-one years later, construction began on the new Church College of New Zealand on Tuhikaramea Road, near Frankton. It is now known as Templeview. This school was erected under the Church building labor missionary program. Our own Elder Matthew Cowley at the very young age of seventeen years was called to fill a mission in New Zealand. In a short time he had won the hearts of the Maori. I have heard him say, "It took me five years to fill a three-year mission." He did remain for five years in order to complete an assignment given him by the President of the Church to translate the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price into the Maori language, also to revise and edit the previous translation of The Book of Mormon. In 1938, Elder Cowley responded to a call to serve as the President of the New Zealand Mission. He now was not returning to a strange land, people, and customs, but to familiar places and friends—to a people he loved and who loved him. It was during this period that Brother Cowley saw the need of and felt a desire for a co-educational college in which the hearts and souls of Latter-day Saint 192 youth of New Zealand, as they gained an education, might radiate a greater spiritual development through an_ increased knowledge of the guiding principles of the gospel. On January 24, 1955, President David O. McKay and Sister McKay were to arrive in New Zealand on Church business and to visit the saints. This was the first time a President of the Church had visited their Maoriland, and only a few had ever seen a President before. Hundreds gathered at Whenuapai Airport. Hearts were beating rapidly and eyes were searching the skies for a view of the large airliner. As President and Sister McKay stepped from the plane, hundreds of voices blended in beautiful harmony, and many songs were sung by those with tearstained cheeks, red eyes and noses, but with hearts full of gratitude. A royal welcome was given at the college site, after which President McKay said, "With all my heart I say, God bless you that you may ever treasure in your hearts that which has brought us together here tonight, without which we never would have met, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Church to which we belong. May we treasure the ideals of it, remain true to it, and thus cement for time and all eternity the friendship, the love, that dwells in our hearts tonight." He also said, "This school is already opened if young people are learning not only the trades but to beautify their homes. This is worth the entire trip." It was President McKay's (Continued on page 197) HAWAIIAN IS. ° o Equator N MARQUESAS IS.: ~ 2» _" FIJI lS. & sous eT - was.! LS..% wa BEL | NUE Sod he te es - '. 'TAH. J *. #ronca ts. 'es aul y/ q COOK IS. Tropic of Capricorn wonton eeeBen repre nn ee ow en eee ne fn a Semen ete meee owen EASTER IS. «? KERMADEC lS. NEW ZEALAND _, i: LS? Sota: The Polynesian Triangle ay bd The majority within this triangle are Polynesian people, kinsmen of the Maori. I. Maori Girl TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR Tongan Girl 193 Fijian Girl = +, SAMOA Samoan Girl; ~ ie Wairakei geothermal! Plant (North Island) the largest in the world. New Zealand ferns, typical of both islands, but more plentiful in Rotorua Thermal Region (North Island). A ae, SE 7 > +1 =e: » A view of the Botanical Gardens at New Plymouth (North: Island) one of the most outstanding gardens in New Zealand. Mount Egmont (North Island) 8200 feet elevation, snow-capped the 'year around. A St <> Mount Cook, the highest peak in the Southern Alps (South Island), 12,349 feet high, completely iced and snow-capped the year around. Dunedin City (South Island) founded about 1840, principally by Scottish Christians. onee oe ory we. BES) {peat iceadls Te New Zealand Temple, at Temple View, near Hamilton, (North Island). Decision, while in New Zealand, to construct a temple to serve the Church in the Pacific. This was to be erected under the Church building missionary program. The ground-breaking ceremony was in December 1955, and a little more than two years later, on April 20, 1958, the temple dedication program commenced, with two sessions a day for four con- _ secutive days, and the temple was - dedicated. The Church College of New Zealand was dedicated April 24, 1958. Both dedications were by our Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President, David O. McKay. Following the dedication of the temple and the opening of the school, the Auckland Stake was organized in May of 1958. Following this organization, the Mission was divided. Since this time, the Hamilton, Hawkes Bay, and Wellington Stakes have been formed and have been provided with stake and ward meetinghouses. Thus, all the facilities for the growth of the Church have been provided 'for the complete program of Church activity in stakes and. Missions. What a glowing testimony to the membership of the Church that through united effort, and by following the inspired leadership and guidance of our prophet, all things are possible. New Zealand is a silhouette in green—a heaven on earth, and its inhabitants are an industrious people, a religious people. 197 ERIC M. SANFORD "The Time of the Singing of Birds"' Bird Amid the Azaleas pine, Sng <ed y ROBERT F. CAMPBELL "A Host of Golden Daffodils'' Now in the Garden Workday and Social Melbourne Stake, Melbourne, Australia—October 19, 1966 Stake officers standing in front of Art Display table, framed by colorful arrangement of artificial flowers made by Relief Society women of the stake. Left to right: Lola Smibert, Second Counselor; Mavis E. Cutts, President; Helen S. Opie, First Counselor; Coral Sampson, Secretary-Treasurer. "Cakewalk" Display Table Ninth Ward Bazaar East Millcreek Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah—October 14, 1966 The display booths and the cultural hall were decorated in a western theme, with checkered tablecloths, wagon wheels, sagebrush, and other western trimmings. Left to right: Lucille Peterson and Donna Fullmer Quata Howells is President, East Millcreek Stake Relief Society Submitted by Alice Swensen | | | ii. Reverie in a Chapel Jeanne Williams Each summer as I first step into the little log chapel at Valdez, Alaska, a feeling of unpretentious freedom sweeps over me. The mellow sun filtering through the windows illuminates. The simplicity and openness of the room, creating a wispy airiness. The rustic furnishings flash back a picture of the fourteen Church members gathered together to hold services in the back room of a cafe, while a jukebox's rhythmical beat pounds through the walls from bars on either side. Then the opportunity came to purchase an old, vacant log building, its walls daubed with calking and punctured with chinks that let through sunlight and wind. With happy eagerness, each member worked to fill the emptiness inside. Now, when I enter the church, I notice first the benches. They are handsome benches, a glowing yellow spattered with deep brown knots, made of planed spruce cut at my father's mill and built by tanned, sensitive hands. Every back and seat consists of two boards spaced, alas, at uncomfortable intervals. In the midst of three rows of these benches at the center of the room, is a sturdy pole which reaches up to support a heavy beam running the length of the building. The ceiling sags heavily in the middle and the beam droops threateningly, so that, unartistic as it may be, I am always thankful the pole is there. The pulpit, made of dark plywood, contrasted by light spruce corners, is unornamented, yet graceful with slender lines and soft hues. It is centered (Continued on page 211) 201 LOG CHAPEL AT VALDEZ. ALASKA JEANNE WILLIAMS DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Decorate Your Own Picture Frames Joy N. Hulme Attractive framing puts the finishing touch on a portrait, mirror, or painting. Here are suggestions for inexpensive ways to have beautiful frames. Restoring Old Frames Many handsome frames have been tucked away because they are slightly damaged or have a dingy finish. Anyone fortunate enough to possess such a frame can restore it to elegant beauty. First, it should be cleaned and repaired. All loose paint can be removed with gentle use of a wire brush. Large cracks or chipped places can be filled in. Minor irregularities should (Continued on page 210) 202 MODEL — MARGARET LLOYD TRANSPARENCY BY DOROTHY J, ROBERTS My Beautiful Grace Barker Wilson She walks abroad, my beautiful, The sunlight in her glance Makes all the world a brighter place, And all the sunbeams dance. She walks abroad, my beautiful, My grandchild, small and sweet, With star dust shining in her eyes, And flowers at her feet. TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Teneriffe Embroidery for Pillowcases = Ethel Chadwick Materials Percale pillowcases Six-strand embroidery floss (use 3 strands only) Hoops Embroidery needles (not too small) Scissors Instructions Tracing Pattern (See Figure 1) — Trace pattern onto card and cut out along dots. Leave dots showing. Mark pattern on pillowcases, using dots only. Begin pattern at center of pillowcase and mark patterns entirely across toward the sides. Making the Web (See Figure 2) — With three strands of floss, and with thread long enough for completion (about 5 or 6 ft.), put in the long stitches of the web. The points of the web are stitched onto the percale. Be sure all threads cross exactly in the center of the pattern. Fasten down center by bringing your needle from the wrong side and make a cross stitch on top of the threads. This makes the center of the motif. Weaving the Motif (Figure 3) — Weave individual petals separately. To weave, pull thread under one and over the other. Do not pull the threads too tight, keep the long threads exactly in place. Follow the pattern, complete the motif, and fasten thread. (Always start and fasten threads on under side of material.) Start another motif, be sure thread is long enough to finish the web. The complete 9 patterns in the teneriffe set are available at the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, 21 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for 35¢. 204 17-20 4 23 Ln 2. 2. Figure 2 (Making the Web) i) East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Creative Handicraft by Myrene T. Alvord Lois S. Tanner, President Phoenix Stake Relief Society Three-branched Candelabrum Myrene T. Alvord Material Needed (for one three-branched candelabrum - see color illustration of two identical candelabra) 1 tall, long-necked, wide-based bottle, decanter or flask Colored water for filling bottle Two white pliable wire coat hangers for making "'arms" to hold candles Three candle cups (to be purchased at craft or variety stores) Florist wire for use in binding the two coat hangers together and for aiding in the making and attachment of the decorative bands that enclose the candle cups Small-mesh net wire (chicken wire) cut into about 3" widths and long enough to make enclosures for the candle cups Crystals for hanging from the bottoms of the two lower enclosures of the candle cups Various beads, jewels, crystals, small leaves, or metal flowers, as may be available or can be secured for decorating the bottle and the candle cups. Glue for making the attachments. 3 Procedure (See diagram and color illustration.) Having selected an appropriate bottle, begin to make the "arms" for the candle cups by binding together with florist wire two pliable white coat hangers. With wire clips cut out the top curved hooks of the hangers and about 3 inches off the wires on each side. Then, with pliers, twist the ends of the double hangers into a rounded circle to fit the candle cups, and bend so that the wire enclosures on both sides are in a horizontal position to hold the cups. _ Cut the straight piece of wire that makes the bottom of the coat hanger three inches from the corner on each side. After the cutting of the coat hanger wire has been done, remove the florist wire which has held the two coat hangers together. Now the top of the coat hanger (with the twisted ends which form the enclosures for the candle cups) will be the bottom of the wire foundation (Continued on page 209) (Fig. 3) 206 HAL RUMEL A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Florence G. Williams Springtime brings the flowers—and floral table settings—to be combined with appropriate recipes for a springtime luncheon. Use your "daisy dishes" on place mats of contrasting color (blue, in any deep, rich shade, is effective) and arrange a bouquet of daisies for the centerpiece. If your dishes are some other pattern in yellow, other flowers can be attractive for a similar table setting. Use daffodils, hyacinths, tulips, marigolds or zinnias (if you have some early ones). Or, if your dishes have a pink motif, use pink flowers. However, the following recipes are planned for a yellow table setting. Orange Rolls 1 c. Warm water 14 c. Sugar 4 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Shortening (butter or 3 eggs.. Substitute) 3 oranges 2 yeast cakes Dissolve yeast in warm water. Mix together all ingredients. After mixture rises a couple times, roll out thin on a board. Grate three orange skins and spread over. Sprinkle sugar over the top. Roll, cut, and put into muffin tins, liberally greased with butter. Allow to rise and bake at about 300-350 degrees until brown. 208 A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Ege Ring 10 or 12 hard-boiled eggs 1 c. Mayonnaise 1 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin Put eggs through ricer. Dissolve gelatin in water (about 14 c.). Mix together with mayonaise and set in a ring. Fill the ring with chicken salad. Chicken Salad 2 chickens boiled 1 onion saltito taste celery, about 4 pieces (stalks) 2 for cooking with chicken and 2 uncooked for salad mayonnaise, as desired for constituency and flavor Put chicken, onion, sait, and celery in enough water barely to cover. Let boil until chicken is tender. Let stand in soup over night. Chop chicken, add one or two stalks of uncooked celery, cut in pieces. Add mayonnaise and cover with fresh lemon juice. Put inside egg ring. Dessert Cut oranges in half. Squeeze out the juice. Use pinking shears to cut edges of oranges. Fill with orange sherbet. Place in freezer. Serve with any kind of cookie. THREE-BRANCHED CANDELABRUM (Continued from page 206) with an arm on each side, and the two ends will be bent up to be attached to the sides of the bottle top. The lacy effect of the "arms" is accomplished by cutting a square of net wire in size appropriate to be intertwined with the coat hanger wire which forms the central part of the arm. Roll up the square of wire into a cylinder and lace the length of the coat hanger wire through the net wire cyclinder, bending the lower end of the laced wires around the top of the candle cup and the other end around the bottle top, as needed for security and strength. Using a three-inch wide piece of chicken net wire long enough to go around the wire enclosure for the candle holders (on each side), fold the width of the net wire in half and turn up about one-fourth inch around the enclosure for the candle cup. Twist and bend the edges together and lace with fine florist wire to the bottom of the coat hanger wire enclosure. The top of the candle cup (on the fold of the mesh wire) will be without cut edges. However, the florist wire which has been laced through the cup at the bottom can be continued in a lacing (as desired) through and around the net wire to the top of the cup and thus make the cup stronger and add to the intricacy of the design. Proceed to make the two circles around the bottle in the same way as for the two side candle cups, except to vary the width of the circles as desiged. The bead edgings of the candle cups can be attached with glue, or if the beads are already strung, they can be attached with lacings of florist wire. The decorative covering for the top part of the bottle (between the top candle cup and the ornate casing around the bottle) is made of the net wire cut to fit the length and size of the upper part of the bottle used. After this piece of wire had been fitted to the bottle, it is carefully removed and taken outdoors for spraying with gold paint. Then the upper part of the bottle (later to be covered by the gold wire casing) is encrusted with jewels or colored gems as desired, using a good quality glue for making the attachments. The gold sprayed wire covering, when dry, is then carefully wrapped around the jewel-encrusted area. The candle cups and "arms" can be gold-sprayed before attaching to the bottle. The crystal "dreps'" come with hooks attached to them. 209 March 1967 DECORATE YOUR OWN PICTURE FRAMES (Continued from page 202) not cause concern. Nowadays, wood is purposely "distressed" to give it an antique look. Where part of the carving is broken away it is possible to restore as follows: Select a clean dry section of the frame that corresponds in pattern to the missing spot. Make a mold by painting with several coats of liquid rubber, drying well between coats. Remove carefully and mend any breaks or thin' spots with the rubber. The dry mold can be filled with plaster or a plastic filler. Let this dry, remove mold, and glue to frame. When dry use antique finish. Egg Carton and ''Gesso'"' Frames Carving can be simulated to make very attractive frames by using egg cartons and gesso (base for oil painting—available in art stores). Leaves, flowers, acorns, and other motifs are cut from the flat lid of an egg carton. These are bent carefully with the fingers until they show the desired curve and glued to a plain frame. This is painted with three or four coats of gesso, drying and sanding between coats. Different textural effects can be created with the gesso while it is wet, if desired. When dry use antique finish. Embroidery Variations For unique and ornate variations, embroidery or lace can be glued to the frame and coated with antique finish. Antique Finish A good antique finish is put on in four steps, as follows: 1. Undercoat: use flat white paint. Dry. Sand. 2. Base coat: May be off-white or tinted to harmonize with room or picture. Use semi-gloss paint or a combination of half semi-gloss and half flat paint. Dry. Sand. 3. Glaze coat: This is available in a neutral color to be tinted as desired or used as it comes in already mixed shades. Paint on, let stand a few moments, and wipe off in the high spots, leaving in recesses. Dry. 4. Highlighting: This is done with one of the creamy metallic finishes, and is applied lightly to the high spots with a finger tip or soft rag. Let dry a few moments and burnish with a dry cloth. If a splotchy effect results from lack of practice, a bit of paint thinner will soften or remove it. CS. ANOTHER SPRING Linda L. Clarke The pines are mine, the dogwood bower, What could be more fair to see The stars, the moon, and every hour; Than lilacs blooming on a tree? Trails that only deer have known What could be more fair to hear Are here for me to make my own. Than song-birds cradled in the air? | taste sea spray upon my lips Then why is it when all is mine While sand runs through -my fingertips That | become aware of time? And then | stand on desert land This one thought evades my reason, With sprigs of sagebrush in my hand. Have | gained or lost a season? 210 on a square platform at the front of the room. Golden drapes, made from dyed sheets, extend halfway down on either side to the edge of the platform. On the right-hand side of the stand is an old, upright piano, discarded from one of the bars and donated to the church. Although chipped and worse for wear, it stands dignified, embellished with ornate wild roses and cutout fleur-de-lis. Its appearance leaves one totally unprepared for the discordant, sour notes that fracture the peaceful air and threaten the existence of a melody. But always the songs get sung. There are times, however, when the old piano seems to come alive and to give forth tones that are full and round, all richly harmonizing. It is like that, especially at testimony meeting, when the spirit of the Lord is like a soft cloak gently dropped around the little congregation's shoulders drawing them together and giving glowing warmth. Then the old, scarred piano vibrates with the spirit, and the proud strains fill the room, praising God. On the other side of the platform is the sacrament table, with shining white cloth draped to the floor. Around the room, unbleached muslin curtains, carefully stitched by the women of the branch, hang in gentle folds at the windows. Sitting in the honest simplicity of this little chapel, the outside world drops away. I feel fresh and alive, like the bouquet of wild daisies nodding on the piano. From over the pulpit, the peaceful eyes of the Christ smile down from a picture. THE WAXWINGS Lael W. Hill Their flight is concerto (Opus: Winter ending) They are crested notes Fluttered over a staff of sky. (Motif: Springtime is coming spring is our secret to tell to tell— will you listen?) With soft wind obbligato through field and garden Whimsy in melody of motion Pearl gray arpeggios From treble birch into the dark bass of pear tree— Little half-rests Measured on telephore wires. (Three movements: their sudden appearance out from the warm southern somewhere, their exquisite dominance here spiral as air, blue north calling them on to herald the sun-given days.) Remember the final cadenza of wings To invisible distance With shadows repeating repeating diminuendo. 211 REVERIE IN A CHAPEL (Continued from page 201) Ps be iy TaD | fededrge? Ox) if A Rainy Day Violet Nimmo mw I was awakened very early by soft voices coming from the den. I looked at the clock on the night stand. It was only six-fifteen and it was Saturday. I knew it must have been a very serious problem to bring my three children to a meeting at this quiet hour. "She doesn't like it when we spend money for her," I heard Heidi say. Heidi is eleven. She is our eldest child. "TI know it,'' nine-year-old Jill answered. '"What shall we do?" "Tt's O. K. If it's raining,' Timmy, who is six, assured them. "Tf it's raining!" came from both girls in unison. "What does rain have to do with buying Mother a birthday gift?' Heidi asked. "'Well—she always says we should save our money for a rainy day." The girls shrieked wildly with laughter, momentarily forgetting the hour. Then I heard a shshsh.... "Saving for a rainy day doesn't mean it has to be raining, silly," Jill informed her brother. "Girls talk silly,' Timmy grumbled. "I'm tired and cold, and, if you can't talk better than that, I'm going back to my room." There were giggles over the sound of little bare feet. "We could make something, Jill." "Yes, she likes the things we make for her, but I thought we were saving for a picture of us." "We couldn't very well make the picture, but we could make the frame." "Oh! She would like that, wouldn't she, Heidi?" As I tried unsuccessfully to go back to sleep, I felt a little ashamed for making it such a problem for the children to please me. I remembered the many times J had told them, just as my father 212 A Rainy Day and my grandfather had told me, "Save your money, save it for a rainy day." There was the time I saved my pennies for months to buy a new magnifying glass with a handle on it for Grandfather, so he could see to read his Bible. Many nights I would ask God in my prayers please not let the wind blow the next day, especially if it was Saturday or a school vacation day. When the wind didn't blow for at least three days, the cattle. Tanks would be empty because the windmills didn't turn to pump the water. Then I could pump the tank full for five cents for our closest neighbor. Of course, five cents was much money in those days. And even though I saved every penny of it, it took several months to save a dollar for the magnifying glass. I recalled Grandfather saying, as he stirred the hot embers and placed fresh logs on the fire, "Save your money, save it for a rainy day." When I presented Grandfather with the magnifying glass on his birthday, I was frightened as I said, "Happy birthday, Grandfather. We miss your reading to us when we read from the Bible after dinner." He answered, "You should save your money, girl, for something you might want later." "This is what I really and truly want, Grandfather. This I want more than anything in the whole wide world. Please, Grandfather, take it," I cried. Then I ran to get the Bible and showed him how it made the letters big and black. I could feel his pleasure and him softening. My heart was filled with gladness and my eyes were full of happy tears. As I was preparing the breakfast for my children that morning, I resolved to show more appreciation for anything my children would do for me. The next day as the children stood all dressed for church, I looked at them for a moment and remarked, "My, you all do look sweet together. I wish I had a picture of you just the way you look this moment to keep and cherish after you all have grown and left for homes of your own." I saw the girls exchange pleased glances. Timmy opened his eyes big and bright and said in all innocence, "Maybe it will rain tomorrow so we can...." Jill called loudly, "Timmy! You didn't do a very good job of combing your hair. Let's go into the bathroom and try to fix it." I heard Timmy's last two words as Jill got him into the bathroom, "picher tooken." The following week was one of secrecy, closed doors, and whispers. When they shouted "Happy birthday, Mother," and presented me with the picture, it was just that—the happiest of birthdays. When I look at the picture now, I remember how I learned to be more appreciative, not only with my children, but also with my husband, my friends, and to the Lord for all my blessings. 213 Laura's Perfect Day a While gentle snowflakes fell at random from a crisp, January sky, Laura Carson worked meticulously with last-minute household tasks. Her Swedish kitchen gleamed with polished copper and loving care. Time seemed to stand still as she prepared for her very special New Year's Day guests, but the ticking of the oldfashioned chime clock reminded her, 'It's almost time, it's almost time, Mary Carole is coming home!" Her heartbeat quickened at the sound of each passing vehicle. How wonderful it would be to see her only daughter, her sonin-law, and their new baby boy. The Air Force was transferring them from a base in Oklahoma to Idaho, after two long years, and they were to arrive by noon. Laura checked the golden brown turkey in the oven and felt anxious to share it with her 214 Quin Cole little family. Hurrying back to the living room to have a better view of the street, she kept busy by re-doing some of her work. While she shined the family photograph of Mary Carole, her deceased husband, and _ herself, Laura felt very close to her dear ones. Their Swedish ancestry and blond hair brought out a close resemblance among the three. "Oh, Howard, if only you could be here and feel this joy," she whispered, "but I'm sure that your joy is even greater on the other side." After this reassuring thought, she felt comforted. With deep anxiety, Laura peeked through the frilly, white window curtains one more time before relaxing in the soft easy chair. She reached for a special letter which was kept in the top desk drawer. I must read Mary Carole's last letter again—per- haps I have time, she thought excitedly. Her small, white hands carefully unfolded the cherished pages, then she began to read: "Precious Mother, I feel that I should bare my heart to you this Christmas Day to thank you for teaching and exemplifying the gospel to me. Many times in the past, I'm quite sure that you felt I was quite unconcerned about the more serious things in life. In my girlhood, you were forever patient with me and never forced issues. "Last week, when Don brought me home from the hospital with Baby Donald, my heart had wings and reached far beyond the realms of life. I realized more than ever that God's greatest gift in this life is love. "Tf. Remember the day we arrived in Oklahoma... The Saturday before Easter, two years ago. We felt so alone and almost afraid. Neither of us had been any further from home than the University. I was so accustomed to feeling secure in your home, so this new venture brought out a trait that I hardly knew I possessed. We rented a small, brick house and started unpacking the car and trailer. After about six hours of steady work, we had our new home in fairly good order. "Don said something like, 'Tomorrow is Easter Sunday, honey, we should find out where the nearest Latter-day Saint chapel is located.' Our telephone wasn't yet connected, so we drove to a nearby booth. 'Huh,' Don exclaimed, 'only two chapels are listed in this great big city!' He copied the address of the nearest one, and we returned home for dinner. Laura's Perfect Day "A beautiful, golden sunrise greeted us the next morning. The flat plains could not conceal the eastern horizon as our Rocky Mountains do. How glorious the sun! We had never seen it look so near, and the beauty of that Easter morn was enhanced by the unbrella-shaped mimosa trees bursting forth with red and white plumes. As we drove to church, we enjoyed the many colorful shrubs and flowers and soon forgot our homesickness. "Our destination proved to be a school building, and we thought that we had gone to the wrong place. We saw some children in front of the building and asked them where the church was located. They informed us that the school was the regular meeting place. Well, Mother, Don and I didn't find a lovely, well-decorated chapel like the one in Kingston, but we did find that same sweet spirit among the small group of saints. An Air Force officer provided music on a compact, portable organ, and unpadded folding chairs provided seating. "Branch President Barker, a Cherokee, was so very friendly and made us feel right at home. Total membership was _ only thirty in number, but President Barker was just as proud and confident of his little flock as our bishop in Kingston. It didn't take long for us to get acquainted with everyone in the branch. Such strong brotherhood and sisterhood the bonds of the gospel had created there! "Within a month, Don and I had been called to fill four positions, each in various auxiliaries and missionary work. Mother, 215 March 1967 you know better than anyone how I shirked responsibility in the Kingston Ward... Sometimes letting the other person carry the heavy burdens. With these new callings, I was scared stiff, at first. Imagine me doing the Lord's work with practically no experience! I found myself trying to remember all of the practical and spiritual things you had attempted to teach me in my girlhood. Don was in full sympathy with my lack of experience, because he suffered some of the same symptoms. We decided together that we would fulfill our obligations to the best of our ability, not only because we felt needed, but at the same time, it was a golden opportunity to develop our potentials. Mother, you probably can't imagine the experiences we've had here in the mission field, so I'll tell you more of the details when we see you New Year's Day. "Don has a week's leave before we report for duty at Tracy Field in Idaho, and we are looking forward to seeing you and showing off the new boy. These have been the busiest, happiest years of our lives. We are so thankful that Don was sent here to receive his pilot's training, so that we could help this branch of the Church grow to over two hundred members. Construction of a fine new chapel has just begun, so the Lord's work is progressing here among the Lamanites. Your loving Daughter, Mary Carole." Laura arose and hurried to the front window again. By now, the ground was nearly white with new-fallen snow, and she wondered about the safety of her children. When Don's car turned into the driveway, she could hardly contain her joy. Beaming with motherly pride, she watched them walk toward the front door. How manly and confident her dark-haired flier looked as he helped his young family along the sidewalk! His tanned face and bright blue eyes held a deep expression of determination. Mary Carole, still slim and lovely, no longer walked with a careless, aimless manner. She carried her tiny baby close to her and looked up as Laura rushed out the front door calling to them. "Hi, Mom," were the most beautiful words she had heard in a long time. As she embraced the three of them, Laura knew that this would be her perfect day. - SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORY ISSUE The April 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story issue, with the following outstanding short stories being featured: @ ''And It Shall Be Given You,'' by Sylvia Probst Young @ 'The Outsider,"' by Iris W. Schow @ ''Be Happy, But Remember,"' by Alice P. Willardson @ 'The Forgotten Necessity,'"' by Luana Shumway Watch for these stories in April and enjoy a journey into four very different fields of fiction. 216 Handicraft Is a Wide World Anna Evert Terry, Idaho Falls, Idaho, has explored the wide world of handicraft and has adapted her findings to the beautification of her own home and the homes of her relatives, friends, and neighbors. Versatility describes her accomplishments in domestic art, art needlework, dressmaking, original designing, many handicrafts, and the teaching of these skills to others. Machine sewing, Roman cutwork, Mexican drawnwork, teneriffe (wheel motifs), shadow embroidery, carrmacross lace, Limerick lace (patterned on net, with a pointed needle, or hooked with a tambour needle); Armenian lace, and cluny lace; hedebo (Danish openwork embroidery), eyelet embroidery, Irish and filet crocheting, knitting, weaving of many kinds; knitted and crocheted doilies, smocking, netting, tatting, quiltmaking; hooked and crocheted rugs, pom-pom rugs; embroidered pictures in pictorial art; art in oils, watercolors, pastels, and crayons. Sister Terry is interested in learning new skills, whether they be simple or intricate. Her interest in designing and needlework began at an early age, and she received special training in handicraft at Brigham Young University and the University of Chicago. She has been a teacher in domestic art at Brigham Young University and Ricks Academy, and a professional demonstrator for several large department stores. She laughingly expresses a family tradition by saying that perhaps all her granddaughters and future great-granddaughters will be pliers of needles and wielders of crochet hooks. Sister Terry is mother to four children, and grandmother to twenty-one. 217 'Chapter 2 » Lal Nora _ Blake, having no family ties, after the death of her mother, secures a schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, and takes a Synopsis: train into the western mountain country, which seems magnificent to her, but strange and frightening as well. W The conductor led the way out of the train into the swirling snow. ''There's a small station house here, Miss," he said. "They keep the fire banked, and you'll be all right until morning. I'll leave the sack of mail with you. When the boy comes to pick it up in the morning, you can ride into town with him." He unlatched the door and lit the lantern that stood on a small table. Then he stirred the fire and put on another large log. The lantern and fireplace combined to fill the little room with frightening shadows. Nora, who had known much of loneliness, had never felt so completely alone. The man turned to go. "Do you have a place to stay in Banner?" he asked. 218 The Golden Chain Py h Hazel M. Thomson HE ff 4A) GEES oF | he mies Me, "With Mr. And Mrs. Shepherd,'"' Nora answered, giving the name of the couple with whom the teaching agency had made living arrangements for her. "Oh, the bishop." "Bishop?" repeated Nora. "Yes. Bishop in the Mormon Church." He opened the door. "Goodnight, Miss," he said. "You'll be comfortable here until someone comes for you." Nora heard the train as it moved away into the distance. She lay down on the bench before the fire and after a time she slept, to be awakened by a boy of perhaps thirteen or fourteen years, his cheeks red from the morning air, stamping the snow from his boots. "Good morning, Ma'am," he said. "I always come for the mail and for anything else that's here." In spite of herself, Nora smiled. "Well," she said, "I guess I'm the 'anything else' this morn- ° " ° ing The boy picked up the mail sack and took it outside. Nora buttoned her coat and picked up her bags as he returned. "Here," he said, "just leave them, and soon as I bank the fire, Tl carry them out for you." Nora watched him place more wood on the coals, then cover them carefully with small shovelfuls of cool ashes from the outer edges of the fireplace. "There," he said, as he hung the shovel back in place. "Never know when someone else will come along. Always good to have the fire banked this time of year. Say, wasn't that some snowstorm? If it keeps-up, there ought to be three feet by Christmas."' Outside, Nora blinked against the brightness of the sun. Its rays touched the snow, turning it into sparkling diamonds. The willows along the roadside were bent low under their heavy burden, but they, too, glistened in the sun. And the prairie was white, white as far as she could see. Nora caught her breath with the beauty of the morning. She stood for a moment, enjoying the loveliness of the scene. The air was clear now, and frosty, and so cold it stung her nostrils as she breathed. "Isn't it lovely?" she said. "I've never seen anything so lovely." In the process of lifting the suitcase over the side of the sleigh, the boy stopped with it in mid air and looked at her. "Lovely? Snow? You gotta have it for sleighing, and it makes irrigation water for next summer, but lovely? Well, I dunno. I just never thought of it that way, Ma'am."' Nora looked at the snow beThe Golden Chain tween her and the sleigh. It was well over a foot deep. She lifted her skirt slightly, but still hesitated. "Don't know how to get you over here unless you' walk, Ma'am," said the boy. Still Nora hesitated. Then, lifting her skirt just a bit more, and stepping carefully in the larger tracks the boy had made, she made her way carefully to the side of the sleigh. The boy went back and closed the station door, fastening it on the outside. Then he returned to the sled, touched one of the horses lightly with one hand, as he stepped on the wagon tongue and up over the front of the sleigh. From the seat he looked down at her. "T can't do that!" said Nora. "What if the horse should kick me?" The boy laughed. "That horse won't kick. Anyway, all she'd hit is the singletree, if she tried. Sure you can. Come on." Acrre a moment more of hesitation, Nora did as she had seen the boy do. As she placed her hand on the horse, she felt the horse's skin move. Quickly she jerked her hand away, almost falling as she did so. The boy grabbed for her, catching the folds of her coat, half lifting, half dragging her over the end of the sleigh box. He picked up the lines and spoke to his team. ''Giddap!" The team, one brown and the other a gray, moved forward. Nora had never ridden in a horsedrawn sleigh before. It moved with an unbelievable smoothness 219 March 1967 through a country gilded by the sun like fairyland. They rode in silence for a time, as the boy urged the horses into a trot, their feet kicking up the snow and sending up little sprays behind them. The sleigh bells tinkled out on the frosty air. Surely, she must be dreaming, thought Nora. Of course. She had fallen asleep in the little station, and this was some wonderful, unreal country into which her dream had taken her. Then the boy spoke. "T didn't ask you who you are. Going to visit," he said. '"Are you related to someone in the ward?" "Ward?" asked Nora. She didn't understand the word ward. A hospital ward, or perhaps a political ward. Yes, it was more likely something similar. '""What is a ward?" "You don't know what a ward is?" The boy peered at her closely. "Say! I'll bet you're not a Mormon. Everybody is around here. That is, everybody except Old Free. Most folks think he's a bit queer. He never comes out to anything except funerals." Nora looked at the boy somewhat amused. "No," she answered. 'I'm not a Mormon. And I'm not related to anyone in your ward as you call it, and I'm really not visiting. You see, I've come to teach school." Again the boy looked closely at her. "You have?" he asked. "Gee! I wonder if you're big enough. You should see some of the boys. There's Ed Johnson and Joe Pine, both taller than you are. Sometimes I wonder why they come. They never seem much interested in getting their lessons." 220 Again the boy was quiet for a time. Nora waited. "About not being related to anyone in the ward," he said, "don't worry about it. You see, I'm not either, not really. But Jed is just the same as a brother. Say, I don't even know your name." "Blake," she answered. "Nora Blake. And I don't know yours, either." "T'm Ben Wade," answered the boy, "live here in Banner with Jed Oliver. He's kept me ever since my parents died. I was only nine then. Pa and Jed were best friends. Funny. You wouldn't think Jed would want a boy like me around. But he does. Especially he likes me to read...." The boy broke the sentence off suddenly. "That's good," said Nora, "that's the best way there is to improve your own reading, to read to someone." "We've got a good farm," said Ben, and Nora could feel his intention of changing the subject. "Jed says it's not big enough for both of us when we each get a wife. He says we'll have to have more land then. Of course, I'm not old enough for that, but Jed is." Tuey were entering the village now, passing small neat homes placed at what seemed to Nora to be a considerable distance apart. Each home seemed to have its own little group of narrow, pointed poplars, with some shorter, branching shade trees. Occasionally, bits of snow from the heavy burdens the trees were carrying fell softly to the ground below. "You haven't asked me where I'm staying," said Nora. "No need to," replied the boy, pulling his team to a stop in front of one of the larger homes. "This is it. Schoolteachers always board at the bishop's."' A pleasant looking woman, probably in her thirties answered Ben's knock., "Morning, Sister Shepherd," said Ben. "Brought you the new schoolteacher. This is Miss Blake. Vd best be getting along to the post office with the mail. Goodbye, Miss Blake. See you in school." "Goodbye, Ben,' Nora answered, 'and thank you for all your help." The boy nodded and was gone. Nora saw that the table was spread for breakfast in the pleasant farmhouse kitchen, and the appetizing smell of bacon frying met her nose. "My," said Mrs. Shepherd, looking at Nora, "you are a pretty thing. A mite skinny, but my cooking will take care of that. Here, let me take your coat, and Ill get you some water to wash up. Soon as the younger children are ready and Josh and Sam come in from chores, we'll be ready to sit right down to breakfast." "Trudy's gone to help milk, too, Ma," said the tall, dark-eyed girl tending the bacon frying on the big range. "We'll have to wait for her. We always do." "Oh, maybe she'll surprise us and make it back to the house when your father and brother do," said Mrs. Shepherd, smiling. "This is Ellen, Miss Blake," she went on, motioning toward her daughter. "And in the high The Golden Chain chair, this is Robbie. He's the only one of the children you won't be teaching. And this is Mark. He's just six,' said Mrs. Shepherd, as the boy came into the kitchen with his shoes in his hand. "Let's get those shoes on, Mark," said his mother. '"There're Sam and your father back from milking now." Nora found Josh Shepherd to be a giant of a man with dark hair and beard. Sam, at ten, was a small replica of the father, without the beard, of course. ""We've been expecting you, Miss Blake," he said, offering his hand. Nora's own hand seemed to disappear in his grip. ""We hope you'll like living with our family." "T expect she's starved," said Mrs. Shepherd. "'Where is Trudy, Josh? Why does she keep us waiting on her?" "When Sam and I left the barn she was still petting one of the new calves," answered her husband. "As to why, I can't say, except that if it eats and breathes, Trudy loves it, be it calf, pig, or chicken." He smiled as he stepped to the door to call the girl. Mrs. Shepherd indicated a chair for Nora between Ellen and Mr. Shepherd. "I think you'll be safe there, Miss Blake," she said. 'Mark doesn't always succeed in getting through the meal without tipping something over. And _ Robbie, even in his high chair, can be a little dangerous." Nora moved to the place Ellen had set for her, as Mr. Shepherd returned with Trudy. Nora felt herself being given the frankest 221 March 1967 appraisal she had perhaps ever had, by the child's eyes. Trudy, too, was dark like her father and Ellen. She had two long braids that reached far down her back. "You don't look like Miss Amy," she said, going to the washstand. "No," said Nora. "I'm not Miss Amy. I'm Miss Blake." "Trudy was Miss Amy's pet," said Sam, "and she says she'll never like another teacher." "Sam!" said his mother. "Well, that's what she said. She's said it over and over." There was a bit of awkward silence, as Trudy finished washing and took her place at the table. Nora stood by her chair, noting that everyone else, except Robbie, was standing also. "We hope you'll join us in prayers, Miss Blake," said the bishop. "We always have family prayer before breakfast." Nora stood uncertainly as the family members knelt by their chairs. After the slightest hesitation she joined them. The prayer was lengthy, but Nora listened intently. Finally, 222 the bishop was asking a blessing for her. "Bless this new member of our household, Lord, who has come into our midst, that her stay may be a pleasant one. Bless her in her efforts as a teacher, with wisdom and understanding. We are grateful for her presence here, and we thank thee that she has come to us to impart knowledge unto our children." Nora was amazed at the words, and felt a deepening sense of responsibility in the work which she was about to begin. The meal seemed a big one. Large steaming bowls of oatmeal, strips of bacon, golden crisp, eggs, strawberry jam, and hot muffins. To drink, there were tall glasses of cold milk. This was indeed different, but she did justice to the food, finding her appetite unusually hearty. "IT can see what you mean about your cooking taking care of my weight," said Nora, smiling at Mrs. Shepherd. "If I eat like this every morning, I'm afraid it will take care of it only too well." "Now don't start worrying about that yet," said Mrs. Shepherd. "Wait until I've had a chance to put a few pounds on you first. You could stand a bit more weight, don't you think so, Josh?" Her husband finished feeding Robbie the last of his mush. "Now, Bertha," he said, 'we must give Miss Blake a chance to know us, and we hope, like us as we are, and we must do the same with her, without trying to change things she is used to." He turned to Nora. "Bertha is never quite as happy as when she is cooking for someone who en- joys her food. You must feel free to eat as you have been used to doing." "T usually have just coffee and a slice of toast,"' said Nora. HERE was a long silence. Nora noticed the family members glancing at each other. Then Joshua Shepherd cleared his throat. "You haven't heard much about Mormons, Miss Blake?' "No," said Nora, remembering Mrs. Rennold. "I... That is.... Well, only a little." Mrs. Rennold had really been liberal with information. The bishop laughed. "I know," he nodded. ''You've heard some strange stories, no doubt." "We don't drink coffee," announced Trudy. "Mark, maybe could drink it. He's only six. And Robbie. But not me. I'm eight, and I'm baptized and I'm accountable for my sins. So I can't drink it, nor any of the rest of us. Nor you either, Miss Blake. Heavenly Father doesn't want you to drink coffee." "Trudy!" Bertha Shepherd, failing in her efforts to stop the child, spoke sharply. But Trudy hadn't quite finished. "It's true," she said. "'Pa told me when he baptized me that I was to keep the Word of Wisdom, and that was way last summer, and I haven't had any coffee or smoked tobacco yet!" Bertha Shepherd looked helplessly at her husband. He patted Trudy's shoulder. "Trudy's done a. Pretty good job of explaining our belief on the subject, Miss Blake. You might find it a bit hard at first, but, if you're willing, I promise you it The Golden Chain won't be long before you find that you prefer milk for breakfast."; Nora found herself somewhat bewildered, but there was that in Mr. Shepherd's eyes, in his voice, that gave ample evidence of his sincerity. The bishop pushed his chair back from the table. "Now, Miss Blake, I suppose you'll want to see the school before Monday morning. Whenever you're ready, I can hitch up the horses and drive you over. It's a good mile, and this snow is pretty deep for walking." "Oh, thank you," Nora said. "I do need to go to see what books and supplies there are, and get my plans in order." "Perhaps Trudy could go along and be of some help to you," said her mother. "Why that would be fine," said Nora. "I'd like very much to have her go." "Can't" said Trudy, "I have to go catch old Fly and take the cows to the upper field." "But Sam can..." began her mother. Then she looked at Trudy's face and stopped, turning to her older daughter. ''Ellen, get your things on. Perhaps you can be of more help than Trudy, after all." "Oh, I can,' said Ellen. "I know right where to find the roll book. Sometimes Miss Amy let me mark it." "You see, Miss Blake," said Joshua Shepherd, "a few of our families moved up into the Big Horn country to homestead. Jim Jensen stayed behind after his folks went, to sell their place. It wasn't long before he had a good offer on it, so he and Miss Amy 223 March 1967 decided to get married right away instead of waiting until spring, as they had planned. Then they left for Wyoming, too. Of course," he added, "'we would have had to let her go, even if they had stayed here. The school board would never permit a married woman to teach school." "Miss Amy liked Jed Oliver the best," said Trudy. "Trudy!" exclaimed her mother, in shocked surprise. "It's true," said the child, pulling on her coat. "Everybody at school said it was true. I did so want to help Miss Amy, so once I asked Jed if he liked her." "Trudy! You didn't!" There was both dismay and disbelief in her mother's voice. "Yes, I did,' answered the child calmly. "Whatever did he say?' her mother asked. '"'He said he liked her as well as he liked any schoolteacher, but that he didn't like any teacher very much." "Trudy," said her mother, "take off that coat and _ start stacking the dishes. If Ellen goes with Miss Blake, you'll have to help with the dishes." "But, Ma." The little face was a mask of golden freckles and distaste at this new idea. She began, reluctantly, to take her coat back off again. "T've already milked two cows and fed the chickens and the calf. I don't see why I have to do the dishes." "Trudy," said her mother firmly, "you simply can't choose to do the outside chores so you'll never have to help in the house. One thing a girl must learn, Trudy, is how to do dishes, and the sooner 224 you get at them, the easier they will be to do." Nora smiled inwardly at the grief-stricken expression on the girl's face, as she began slowly gathering the plates. "TI wish I was a boy!" she said, stacking the plates with such vigor that Nora expected momentarily to see them flying into pieces. "I just wish I was a boy! Sam only milked two cows, same as me, and he didn't even feed any calves or chickens, and he doesn't have to wash dishes!" Mrs. Shepherd opened her mouth as if to answer, then, apparently, thought better of it. Instead, she picked up one of Nora's bags and started up the stairs. Nora picked up the other one and followed. The room was rather small, but the bed was large and comfortable looking. A small rocker, padded with crazy-patch cushions, a table near the window, which would serve very well as a desk, and another straight-backed chair completed the furnishings. At the window were crisp white curtains, tied back to give a lovely view of the valley and its mantle of snow. Everything was wonderfully clean. "Now," said Mrs. Shepherd, opening the door to a_ small closet, 'I hope you'll find room enough in here to take care of your clothes." "Oh, I'm. Sure.. L.. Will,". Said Nora. "Well, you just go ahead and unpack. I'll tell Josh that you'll be ready soon. I'd better get back to the kitchen and see how Trudy is coming with the dishes." Nora was relieved to get out of: the suit she had worn for travel- ing. She chose a simple woolen dress to wear to the school, one that was warm and comfortable. In the sleigh, the bishop put his hand in his pocket and handed Nora a large key. "As president of the school board," he said, "I always get the key back when the _ teacher leaves. Seems as though I've had it-more than the teacher the past year or two. Hope you can stay on with us, Miss Blake. The children need a teacher that can stay with them for awhile." Tr sun had warmed the air and the snow dropped in great blobs from the fences and willows by the roadside. With the sleigh bells jingling in her ears, it seemed but a short ride to Nora until the horses slowed to a walk as they climbed a small hill, and the school building came in sight. It was small and square, with white clapboards on the sides and a bell tower on the top. At the hitching post, Mr. Shepherd jumped down and tied his team, before turning to help Nora. "T'll go ahead," he said, "and break trail.' She tried to lengthen her steps to match his, but found it quite impossible. He stamped the snow from his boots on the porch and turned aside, giving Nora a chance to try the key. Nora inserted it in the lock and tried it each way, slowly, persistently. The key turned under her hand and the lock opened. "Good for you, Miss Blake," cried Ellen. "I think you're the first teacher who unlocked the door alone the first time since Daddy has had the key. They The Golden Chain always try and then come and get him to open the door." The door opened into a long hall, lined with hooks. The bishop opened the second door leading from the hallway into the classroom, which was larger than Nora had thought it would be from the outside appearance of the building. It had a high ceiling and long narrow windows in the east and south wall. In the north- | east corner stood a great round black stove with the longest stovepipe Nora had ever seen, reaching almost to the ceiling before it turned and went into the north wall. A large green chalkboard covered a good part of the area on the north and west walls of the room. The desks varied in size, the smaller ones near the door, and the larger ones toward the east side of the room, all facing north. Her own desk was in front, nearer to the stove than she would want it, Nora decided. By the door stood a small table with a bucket on it. A dipper hung on a nail nearby. "T'll leave you with Ellen, now," said the bishop. "She knows more about the boys and girls than I do. Maybe she can tell you some things about your students that will help. When will you be ready to go back?" "T really can't tell how long it will take me,' Nora answered. "And, anyway, I'd like to walk. I want to see how much farther it is when I walk than when I ride." After he had gone, Nora sat down at the desk and looked at the rows of empty seats. On Monday morning there would be a separate challenge facing her from each one of them. (To be continued) 225 Relief Society Activities a CT A roy 2 Northern States Mission Relief Society Conducts Mission-Wide Conference August 19-21, 1966 North Wisconsin District sisters who presented the theme "Pattern for Living," left to right: Kathleen Hoffman, First Counselor; Lucille Maas; Carol Hoffman, President, Lyndhurst Branch Relief Society; Muriel Cerveny, President, North Wisconsin District Relief Society; Eleanor Paiser, SecretaryTreasurer. Arte H. Henderson, Supervisor, Northern States Mission Relief Society, sends the report of Sister Ira Mae Palmer, President, Nerthern States Mission Relief Society: 'From the distant points of the Northern States Mission, approximately 240 Relief Society officers and class leaders met for the annual mission-wide conference. The 'Pattern for Living,' theme was climaxed with a dinner and style show, the models having selected patterns and made their own lovely creations. There was an evening of talent presentations, a skit, and inspirational addresses. A day was spent in instruction for officers and class leaders. A bazaar, with attractive displays by the districts and branches of the mission, was outstanding. Music was furnished by each district, with special numbers by the combined Singing Mothers. "The closing session of the conference was held Sunday morning. Among the speakers were Mission President Warren W. Henderson, his Counselors, and Sister Henderson. The climax of the conference was a masterful presentation of 'God So Loved the World,' by Luacine Clark Fox. The event was not only a time of instruction for the coming year, but proved to be one of sweet fellowship and spiritual uplift." 226 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Boise Stakes (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Tri-Stake Concert April 15, 1966 Seated, center, front: Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society; LaRue Campbell, chorister, seated at the left of Sister Madsen. Margaret Badger, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "In 1953, there was just one stake in Boise. Elnora Loveland was president, and among her board members was LaRue Campbell, chorister, who dreamed of having a Singing Mothers chorus so large and wonderful that Sister Florence J. Madsen would come from her home in Provo, Utah, to be guest conductor. "The stake was divided in 1954, and Sister Campbell found herself in the new stake as chorister. Her Singing Mothers had the quality, but not the number, to fulfill her dream. Late in 1965, the third stake was formed, and Sister Campbell decided the time was then. In January, plans were made to have a tri-stake Singing Mothers Concert. Through the efforts of President Afton Ellison, Lavon Hadley, and Margaret Badger; and choristers LaRue Campbell, Jean Petersen, and Julia Atkinson; organists Shirley Dahl, Jackie Christensen, and Collette Howard; and 180 Singing Mothers, the concert was held April 15, 1966. Sister Madsen blessed us with her presence, directing four of her own compositions and arrangements. Red roses were presented to her, and she was deeply moved when, as a final number and tribute, the Singing Mothers sang her own composition 'The Lord Bless You and Keep You.' The outstanding performance thrilled the capacity crowd and surpassed even Sister Campbell's dream." 227 March 1967 Blaine Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Hazel Perron, President, Blaine Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 29, the Singing Mothers of the Blaine Stake Relief Society presented a concert of sacred, secular, and patriotic songs. The theme for the concert was "The Sound of Music." The director was Vernetta Woodbury, chorister (standing in the front row at the right), with the accompaniment by stake organist Thelma Johnson (seated at the piano). The narration was written by Lula Thatcher (fifth from the right on the second row). "Other stake officers in the chorus were: Elva Bluemer, Secretary-Treasurer (third from the right in the second row); Marilyn Harris, First Counselor (sixth from the left on the back row); Vera Clifford, Magazine representative, (seventh from the left on the back row). Sister Perron sang with the group, but was absent when the picture was taken. Each ward presented a special number, which included piano and organ solos, a trio, a vocal solo, and a sextette. There were about fifty Singing Mothers in the group." Burley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Entertains Ward Presidents at Luncheon, September 16, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Annie Beck, organist; Ruth Budge, chorister; Loanda Manning, cultural refinement class leader; Helen Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Middle row, left to right: Merna Marchant, social relations class leader; Mary Bateman, Second Counselor. Back row, left to right: LaVerne Darrington, President; Effie Mills, First Counselor; Ruth Lyons, Magazine representative; Norma Sorensen, spiritual living class leader. Sister Darrington reports: '""The theme 'Managing Our Resources' was emphasized by a skit in the form of a classroom, called 'A School of Understanding' in four different areas of responsibility. The subject matter covered the problems of Relief Society, and suggested better planning, improving the quality, and putting to use the resources available. "Our tables were attractively decorated with gold-colored daisies in blue covered bottles, and we used colorful place mats made from wallpaper. "The fifty sisters who attended felt the ideas contributed would be helpful in their Ward Relief Societies, and in their homes." Mesa South Stake (Arizona) Visiting Teacher Convention October 9, 1966 Marie W. Kocherhans, President, Mesa South Stake Relief Society, reports: "Well over 200 sisters were in attendance, with forty-nine of them being honored for having served for twenty-five years or more. Thirty-five were present for the picture. Of this special group, nineteen had taught for over forty years. Sister Mary Brown of the Ninth Ward (seated front row, center, holding a plaque), has served for sixty-five years, and is still an active visiting teacher at the age of eighty-five. She was given special mention and a lovely Relief Society pin. The other forty-eight sisters were presented with a small book as special recognition, and in gratitude for many years of excellent service. "A special song concerning visiting teaching was sung and dramatized. The beautiful film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. Delicious refreshments were served. The inspiration of the Lord and the blessings of visiting teaching were felt by all." 228 VISI ol Tie TEACHING PS HES EX PRDLECE WEY AM LA VISITING TEACHER? ~ March 1967 French Polynesian Mission Relief Society Executive Officers August 1966 Left to right: Marie Wong, Secretary-Treasurer; Naumi Maro, Second Counselor; Eliza Sam You, President; Tetua Tehani, First Counselor; Diane S. Stone, former Supervisor, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society. Sister Stone reports: "We hold a mission-wide Relief Society bazaar in the capital city of Papeete each year. This year's bazaar was the most successful of all, in that the Tahitian handicrafts and homemade articles (hand-woven hats, purses, quilts, toys, aprons, articles of clothing, and other items) were more beautiful than ever. Everything was sold within two hours of the opening of the bazaar, which was officially presided over by Madame Jean Sicurani, wife of the French Governor of French Polynesia. The net profits totaled over $5,000. Eighteen branch Relief Societies had booths, and the entire affair was completely organized by the presidency mentioned above, assisted by Sister Jeannette Taerea." Sister Elsie L. Richards has since succeeded Sister Stone as Supervisor. J vy Cumorah Stake (New York) Visual Aids For Family Home Evening Displayed at Leadership Meeting, September 17, 1966 Nathane Anderson, President, Cumorah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of Cumorah Stake, directed by Counselor Caroline Heskyns, introduced a project to the homemaking personnel at stake leadership meeting. Each sister made a flannel board and received a package of outline figures. Instructions were given for mounting and coloring these drawings, which included Biblical characters, a pioneer family, a modern family (adaptable to suit need), portraits of the Prophet Joseph Smith and President McKay, the Savior, and four books of scripture. It is hoped that the families of the stake will work together to complete the sets, and that the Family Home Evening lessons will be enriched by the use of the visual aids. The project was enthusiastically received and will be carried to the individual Relief Sogieties through the meetings." Orem West Stake (Utah) Conducts Visiting Teacher Convention August 9, 1966 Front row, left to right: Luella Olsen; Mary Morrill; Nora Kofford; Maren Jensen; Lillian Salisbury; Adelaide Shaw; Pearl Talbot. Second row, left to right: Viola Hyde; Martha Pyne; Lenora Lamereaux; Ethel Dickey; Iva Dean Newell; Mary Rappeleye; Ella Newell; Myra Adams; Belva Loveridge. Back row, left to right: Catherine S. Meldrum, Secretary-Treasurer; Madge J. Thorn, President; Golda Mangum; Nora Goode; Cinderella Stewart; Florence Wilkinson; Sarah Ellen Muzzell; Zola Robbins; Lucille H. Trane, First Counselor; Janet J. Wellington, Second Counselor. Sister Thorn reports: "The visiting teachers of Orem West Stake were instructed and inspired at a convention, August 9, 1966. Bishop Grant Thorn, a former mission president in England, gave an inspiring address. Catherine Terris, stake visiting teacher message leader, gave important instructions. Musical selections were rendered by the 4th Ward Singing Mothers. Tribute was paid to Sister Maren Jensen, age ninety, still serving as a visiting teacher; and to Valerie Prestwich, age nineteen, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. The sisters pictured above were honored and presented with carnation corsages for serving thirty-five years or more." 230 Murray South Stake (Utah) Opening Social Presents Theme ''An Open Door" August 26, 1966 Thelma T. Carpenter, President, Murray South Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme for this year is 'Behold, I have set before thee an open door.' The table decorations carried out this theme. The following objectives of Relief Society were emphasized in the program and printed on a beautifully designed booklet which was presented to each sister: "Spiritual Growth—Relief Society's principles are to practice holiness. The all-encompassing reason for its existence is to save souls. "Happier Living—Happiness comes to those who make others happy. HapPiness is family togetherness. "Companionship—How joyous and lasting are the companionships we make and keep in Relief Society. "Service—The cherishing, tender care which marked the work of Jesus is emulated by Relief Society sisters. "Knowledge—The Lord has admonished his children to gain knowledge of all things by study and also by faith. ' "Perfect Womanhood—lIn Relief Society, we find great women who provide patterns of virtues to be emulated, virtues of modesty and beautiful womanliness. "The display in the picture represents the open door of the Family Home Evening. The Singing Mothers of Murray South Stake presented music for the opening social, with Darlene H. Anderson as chorister and Coralie B. Richardson as organist." 232 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Summer Months Sewing Course Discussion | Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1967 Southern Hemisphere: November 1967 Objective: To learn the sewing skills involved in making a jumper, INTRODUCTION Home sewing is being used more and more as a means of creative expression and can be a very rewarding and exciting experience. We develop a sense of self-confidence when we have been successful in seeing a garment take complete form under our own hands, especially if the garment has been skillfully made. Such items of apparel have prestige value which gives the wearer a feeling of distinction. Our reasons for sewing are varied. For example, young mothers may sew to help stretch the family budget; career girls may sew in order to achieve more individuality and exclusiveness in their clothes; grandmothers undoubtedly sew for love of their grandchildren; and the mature overblouse or jerkin. Woman may find it necessary to make her clothes because alterations for a difficult-to-fit figure may prove costly in ready-towear. Regardless of the reason for sewing, a woman must continually use her imagination and artistic talents as she develops her skill in constructing garments.. The primary objective for the four discussions to be given during the homemaking meetings is to help the homemaker to develop sewing skills, so that she will become more competent in making clothes for herself and her family. A sleeveless overblouse (wor over a dress with sleeves) is a fairly simple and easy garment to make for the inexperienced seamstress. The same techniques 233 March 1967 learned on this garment may be used in making popover dresses for the small child, as well as jumpers, jerkins, and _ shiftdresses for the teenager or young adult. The interesting learning experience gained in making this garment comes from applying the facing to the neckline and armholes. Since there are few pattern pieces involved, the garment can be made quickly. If the pattern does not include the neckline and armhole facing cut in one, it can be cut very easily from the garment pattern, making certain that the combined neckline and armhole facings are cut exactly on grain the same as the garment is cut. Front Unit 1. Stay-stitch the neckline, shoulder, and armhole edges. Stay-stitching is a regular machine stitch made with matching thread, and is done through a single thickness of fabric just outside the seamline or about 14" from the cut edge. The purpose for staystitching is to keep the fabric from stretching and to hold the grainline in position. Therefore, it is essential that it be done according to the right direction. The arrows in Figure 1 indicate the correct direction, while the numbers show the sequence to follow in stay-stitching in order to minimize handling the fabric. If the neckline is V-shaped, the stay-stitching is done opposite to a rounded neckline. In other words, stitching begins at the center and goes toward the shoulder. 2. Bustline darts are sewed by folding the fabric on the pick-up line and stitching from the wide end of the dart to the point. To secure the end, the thread may be __lock-stitched, which is done by releasing the pressure foot slightly and sewing several stitches in the same spot. This eliminates having to tie threads. 3. The front facing is stay-stitched along the neck, shoulder, and armhole edges the same direction as the front 234 bodice. In addition, a stay-stitch is placed 14" from the lower edge of the facing. This edge is finished by turning it under (toward the inside) on the stay-stitched line and _ stitching close to the folded edge. (Figure 2) 4. The bodice and facing are joined by placing right sides together, garment side up, and stitching along the 54" seam allowance. Grade the seams to Y%4" and 3%", then clip. (Figure 3) In grading a seam, cut each layer of material 144" narrower than the other to eliminate bulk. 5. Understitch close to the neck edge, beginning and ending 1" from the shoulder. Understitching is a row of stitching which holds the trimmed seams to the facing, thus helping to keep the facing flat and in place. The neck edge may be pressed, if desired, by holding it in place and pressing from the facing side. (Figure 3) 6. Stitch the armhole seam (facing and garment sides together), starting 2" to 3" down from the shoulder. Grade the seam and clip. Understitch the lower part of the armhole, beginning 1" from the side seam. Repeat this procedure for the opposite armhole. (Figure 3) Back Unit The back blouse is done exactly like the front unit, omitting step 2. Joining Front and Back Units 7. The front and back shoulder seams are stitched together, with the blouse and facings being joined in one continuous operation, right sides together. (Figure 4) 8. The remaining portion of the armhole is sewed by inserting the hand between the facing and the blouse and pulling the unstitched seam inside out, then stitching it. Grade seams and clip. Understitch armhole as far as possible, beginning 1" from underarm seam. (Figure 5) 9. Sew side seams together by starting at the top of the facing and continuing down to the hem See blouse. Press the seam open. Anchor the facing in place by machine stitching through the crack of the seamline, garment side up. 10. Hem lower edge of blouse. A more professional appearance March 1967 may be achieved if interfacing is used in a lowered neckline, since it helps to give body and shape, as well as helping to eliminate stretching. A few suitable interfacing fabrics for cottons, such as broadcloth, percale, or poplin, are batiste, organdy, lawn, voile, and unbleached muslin. The interfacing is cut to follow the same shape as the front and back bodice neckline and is approximately 3" wide. The armhole is not interfaced. If the garment is to be interfaced, it is placed on the wrong side of the front and back bodice necklines and is stitched into position at the time when the staystitching is done. The two layers of fabric (blouse and interfacing) are treated as one layer during the staystitching. Instead of using the neckline and armhole facing cut as one, the garment may be completely lined with a contrasting fabric of equal weight and quality. This method would give more body, thus helping the garment retain its shape throughout its wearing. The lining is cut exactly like the rest of the garment, and the procedure for constructing it is the same in preparing the front and back units. Two methods may be used in finishing the hem or lower edge. Method A—Follow steps 1 through 9. After sewing the underarm seam, a 5" seam allowance is turned up on both the lining and the garment, and then the two edges are slipstitched by hand, making sure the stitches are made at least 4%" apart and not visible from either side. Method B—Follow steps 1 through 6, omitting the last part of step 3, which refers to the finish along the lower edge of the facing. The lower edge of the front garment is stitched by turning the two layers right sides together and sewing along the seamline. The back unit is finished the same way. To connect the front and back units together: 1. Turn the backs wrong side out. 2. Connect fronts and backs together at the side seam by matching the front lining to the back lining, and the front garment to the back garment. Stitch a continuous line, using a 54" seam allowance and sewing around the garment in a complete circle. 3. Turn right side out, press, and repeat the procedure for the opposite side. A small opening should be left in the lining sections to allow for turning the garment right side out. This opening is then slipstitched together by hand. 4. Follow step 7 to connect the shoulder seams. 5. The remaining portion of the armhole which has not been stitched is slipstitched together by hand. Many wonderful design effects may be achieved in making the _ basic sleeveless overblouse or popover dress by using a little imagination and creativity, along with the application of good design principles. Bias tubing, or flat bias may be artistically arranged at the neckline. Rickrack, appliqués using press on tapes can also be used to create an interesting design—to name a few. CAUTION: If you desire an expensive, professional look, be sure to match plaids, stripes, or checks, as you cut and seam garments. ENCOUNTERING SOON lris W. Schow We are waiting at the crossroads Where spring and winter meet; Each hopes to rule the elements With dominance complete. But soon the sky will sparkle, The brooks will wake and sing, When winter, worsted, abdicates To promise-laden spring. 236 COOK ELECT RIC ED Pots and pans stay "'white glove'"' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Walk Lonely... Walk Still Margery S. Stewart Beneath three trees In a snow-filled wood, Is the deep scar A kneeling man makes. A little way back circle Tire tracks of his car. He came, making shuffling But long strides back, Write purpose and a tall man. Questions in the snow, Jew? Christian? Moslem? | lack The sure details... | only know That a man knelt here, A little while ago. HAWAIIAN TOUR April 27 PAGEANT TOURS including Canada's World's Fair July 17 July 22 ALASKA TOUR August ASK ABOUT OUR EUROPEAN TOUR Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 Contact Oneita Austin 1130 Jackson Idaho Falls, Idaho 522-2581 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Renee Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 237 g < ie) 5 x: y 2) le) lat E History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 A Gift to be treasured in all seasons Especially appropriate as a remembrance for the Relief Society 125th Anniversary— March 1967. Whe illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs wi 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid x Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main « Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 i | I SEE THE WITH Cleon Skousen APRIL 11th DEPARTURE NAME MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR HOLYLAND TOUR... ADDRESS MURDOCK TRAVEL CITY: RIVER MARSH Eva Willes Wangsgaard No life is here, No mallard phalanx, no call of loon, No splash of carp along the edge Of the still lagoon. Only old nests of sedge Stiffened and sere, Cupping hard eggs of snow Where frozen rushes swerve Over the sterile fruits, Snuggled against the roots Off reed and sedge and rush Above the windless hush Where wintry waters curve In slow, unrippled flow. Yet, well | know Some miracle will loose A rocket burst of sound To tinkle round on round Across the sky And meet the killdee's cry When blackbird heralds bring An April truce, Shrill, red-winged chorusing The green surprise of spring. _ STATE R, S. MAR, 67 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 3.......05. -60 Zone 4.........- 65 Zone 5...........80 239 — Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie | Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Catherine Walker Stewart Heggie Griffiths Clarkston, Utah Mrs. Marie Sorensen Jensen Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Mary Margaret Clarkson Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Mary Berg Beckstead Nibley, Utah 95 Mrs. Elizabeth Adelaid Wakefield Wortley Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah 94 Mrs. Alta Spence Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Hulda Garff Mickelsen Salisbury Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ruth Rutherford Woods St. George, Utah Mrs. Addie Nelson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah 93 Mrs. Marian Wilson Husbands Salt Lake City, Utah 240 Mrs. Mary Lewis Markham Provo, Utah Mrs. Esther Openshaw Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Naomi Taylor Coon Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Ellen Park Tooele, Utah Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Grimm Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Acklin Ferguson Concord, California Mrs. Ada Amanda Crisman Byers Shreve Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lucy Malinda Turner Morgan, Utah Mrs. Agnes Ford Latter St. Peters, South Australia Mrs. Louise Ernestine Lannier Paris, France Mrs. Marie Goddaus Ballstaedt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Johnston Franks Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Annie Lillie Clark Walker Wellsville, Utah - CT Diarra, RINAL ( COMMENTARY ON T} RL 0} GREAT PRICE emple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84119 77 South Main, Orange, California 92669 i) DOCTRINAL COMMENT; RANE cago GREAT PRICE RY ON THE PEARL OF I enclose a Q STRANGERS ON EARTH check/money Order for total Caton slg Utah residents Ordering from Salt Lake Must add 316%, Sales tay California Tesidents Ordering from Orange must add 4% sales tax. Or, bill my establisheg account C] a ADDREsgBee _ ic ZIP. A OPEN 4 CHARGE ACCOUNT Now! Send for Information ie Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah It's NEW... Beneficial's Lifetime Security A unique "once-in-a-lifetime" plan that provides these benefits: throughout lifetime of policyowner, with additional coverage at peak need periods when family is growing. ¢ Paid up for life at age 65, with no additional cost. ¢ "Lifetime Security" can be extended to become an all-in-one family policy at small extra cost. ¢ Premium stays at same low level throughout life of the policy. ¢ Protection increases without regard to Here's how it works: ILLUSTRATION OF A 5-UNIT POLICY: $37,500 $30,000 Ke ve ve.: OTT O PREMIUM Age Age Age Age Age Age Age Age PAYMENTS 6 mos. 16 25 33 50 55 60 65 For details, consult your Beneficial Life Man. Susan Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah ¢ Protection adjusts to changing needs $50,000 pa 2 He'll meet you any time, any place. Health or occupation. 1 $50,000 NO FURTHER fe "| BENEFICIAL LIFE % -. Uae tonto Riera ot Relief Society Maa > Ld ae ' i. Iu. Ys, * t INVIOLATE Lael W. Hill Who once has loved, shall be with love forever. Here is no sulking bird that will depart Leaving the sky unsounded, or the river Unvisited at dusk. Love in the heart Will murmur quiet comfort to the lover So long as time shall flow, or heaven wait, Telling in small sure echoes, over and over, Who once has loved shall live inviolate. Whom love has lifted to a while of soaring, However brief, is now no more alone; Companioned by what was, and softly hearing The words love made, of wind, or rain and stone, Who once has loved, whom love has held enchanted, Henceforth goes always beautifully haunted. The Cover: Blossoms at Calumet Farm, Lexington, Kentucky Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Photograph by Don Knight Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: p Mary Scopes 241 Frontispiece: Early Blossoms, Santa Clara Valley, California Great is the joy | feel in writing to you. | have been led to do so by reading so many letters from our sisters in different parts of the world. The Magazine has been a great help to me in fulfilling my responsibilities, and it has brought consolation to my heart when | have been discouraged. Once when | was discouraged about something to present in work meeting, | picked up the Spanish Relief Society Magazine (June 1966) and my eyes were attracted to the page displaying the little girl with her doll—both very beautiful, the little girl's dress and the doll's dress matching. It was just what | needed. | realized that it was an answer to my prayer. Susana Donoso de Villalobos Santiago, Chile For more than a quarter of a century | have enjoyed the contents of the Magazine. The past few months | have appreciated it even more because we have a fine contributor from our home town—Alda L. Brown. The Richmond 'Ward is so proud of her. Her poem "August" (August 1966) and "Tree House' (October 1966) with the accompanying picture by Dorothy J. Roberts, were exceptionally good. | have never read a publication that has so many choice articles as our Magazine. Leona H. Carlson Richmond, Utah For many years the women of Argentina have been waiting for the Magazine in Spanish, and now that we have it, we feel closer to Relief Society. When we receive it, we can see the change in the spirit of our sisters. To show you how thankful we are, we will try hard to do our best in using the material we receive through the Magazine. Maria de Abrea Buenos Aires, Argentina 2A2 We are on a mission for the Church in Switzerland and enjoy it very much. Our daughter Elizabeth ordered the Magazine for us, and we enjoy getting it. When | was the representative for the Magazine many years ago in the ThirtyThird Ward, Salt Lake City, | always told the sisters ''Find time to read it, because every article in it is very choice." Being a cook, | especially like the recipe section. Anna Fassman Burgdorf, Switzerland May | express my gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine. It has been such a blessing to us, especially here in the mission field. These dear Philippine sisters express to us their thanks for the help the Magazine gives them. They enjoy the special features and love to recount the inspirational remarks that President Belle S. Spafford gave to us at our June 5th, 1966 conference, when she and Sister Florence Jacobsen were here., "Hazel C. Huntington Makati, Rizal Philippines Mother and | were pleased to discover Dorothy J. Roberts' fine article (in December) on Danish cookery. Those recipes, which have been so important to the many among our people who have a heritage from Denmark, should surely be preserved and used. Lris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah It was a great pleasure to us to see our "'Tin-Can Tree' displayed in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. My daughter and I thank you very much. We have received letters from friends and relatives saying they had seen the pictures and description. Gertrude P. Terry San Francisco, California The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 April 1967 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 244 Correlation Brings Blessings Thomas S. Monson 248 Leanor J. Brown Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 249 Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 256 How to Promote and Use the Magazine G. Robert Ruff 268 We All Work Together Alice H. Ballard 272 Cancer's Warning Signals V. J. Skutt 286 Lake Country, England Mabel Jones Gabbott Fiction 250 The Forgotten Necessity Luana Shumway 263 Be Happy—But Remember Alice P. Willardson 273 The Outsider Iris Schow 281 "And It Shall Be Given You'' Sylvia Probst Young 299 The Golden Chain—Chapter 3. Hazel M. Thomson General Features 242 From Near and Far 269 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 270 _ Editorial: ''He Is Risen'' Louise W. Madsen 307 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 320 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 280 Inner Struggles Arlene Larsen Bascom 289 ''Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall' Amy Giles Bond 290 Morning Melody Wilma Boyle Bunker 291 On Baking Bread Mildred Cook Solury 292 ''Good Old House' Verna S. Carter 294 The Patient Soul Rose A. Openshaw 295 Sense of Wonder Nancy M. Armstrong 296 Recipes With a Different Flavor Anna Molenaar 298 Flowers Inside and Out Lesson Department 314 Summer Months Sewing Course Eleanor Jorgensen Poetry 241 Inviolate Lael W. Hill Beyond the Farthest Rift, Gladys Hesser Burnham 247; Unsaid Words, Zara Sabin 254; Hills Against the Sky, Dorothy J. Roberts 261; Spring, Christie Lund Coles 262; Full Circle, Caro! Lynn Wright 279; Across the Water, Peggy Tangren 280; The Mighty Oak and I, Laura M. Gowing 287; Wind Lullabye, Beulah Huish Sadleir 288; My Hands, Sadie J. Stevens 291; A Visit Home, Alda L. Brown 293, Pattern of Blossoms, Aleine M. Young 294; Child's World, Ethel Jacobson 295; To My Danish Grandmother, Julene J. Cushing 297; Going—Unaware, Pearle M. Olsen 306; Reflections, Alverna Allender 316; Guide Me, Catherine B. Bowles 317; And We Go Walking There, Linnie Fisher Robinson 318; ' Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Saciety General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] @ When the Savior walked the dusty pathways of towns and villages which we now reverently call the Holy Land and taught his disciples by beautiful Galilee, he often spoke in parables, in language the people best understood. Frequently he referred to home building in relationship to the lives of those who listened. He declared: "... Every... House divided against itself shall not stand" (Matt. 12:25). And then, in this dispensation, he cautioned: "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). At Kirtland he said, "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God" (D&C 88:119). Today the blueprint for building such a house is the Correlation Program of the Church. 244 In every quarterly conference during 1966, the executive leadership of each stake heard President McKay describe the very aim and purpose of correlation as he quoted the words of the apostle Paul: "And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers; For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ" (Eph. 4:11- 13). To assist the women of the Church to attain this very goal, members of the Adult Committee of the Correlation Program, men and women of faith, of experience, of wisdom, and called of God by inspiration, have, with the members of the General Relief Society Presidency and members of your General Board, met together, fasted together, prayed together, studied together, planned together, and diligently worked together in the preparation of your courses of study and the development of every aspect of your excellent program. Knowing the strength of President Spafford and her co-workers, we expected full and _ wholehearted cooperation. Our expectations were more than fully realized. Indeed, the successful pattern for such cooperative effort has provided the guide for other auxiliary organizations to similarly proceed. We look backward with pride. We look forward with confidence. We know the results of such teamwork will be blessings in abundance for the women in the kingdom of God. May I enumerate but a few of the blessings correlation brings: BLESSING NUMBER ONE— The Blessing of Purpose: Correlation brings more fully to proper perspective the overriding objective for each of us to strive to become the sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father. We learn to do the right things for the right reasons and to "walk uprightly before the Lord." To achieve this end, the curricula in which women of the Church are involved present the principles of the gospel in such a way as to bring personal meaning to the individual, that she might be motivated to apply these gospel principles in her own life. This blessing of proper purpose is as a beacon light to guide our footsteps along the pathway to eternal life. Correlation Brings Blessings BLESSING NUMBER TWO— The Blessing of the Priesthood: Correlation teaches that the Priesthood is the central power in the Church and the authority through which the Church is administered. It is the means by which members of the Church can participate in saving ordinances. These truths form the thread from which the fabric of your curricula is woven. With our programs being Priesthood centered, and your courses of study correlated with those of the Priesthood and Family Home Evening Program, we eliminate the weakness of a woman or a man standing alone, and substitute, therefor, the strength of husband and wife walking hand in hand together. BLESSING NUMBER THREE— The Blessing of Home Emphasis: The First Presidency has often declared, "The home is the basis for the righteous life, and no other institution can take its place nor fulfill its essential functions." This inspired declaration is held uppermost in the minds and hearts of all who have a part in the preparation of your program. The curricula prepared for adult women open a new vision of the possibilities of a woman as homemaker. It has been said of mothers, "The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world." In reality such hands do much more; for mother's hands, mother's heart, and mother's influence guide sons and daughters and assist their father and her husband to gain the cherished goal of exaltation in the kingdom of our Father, to live with him who not only ac- 245 April 1967 tually rules the world, but who created it in the first place. Family prayer, Family Home Evenings, coupled with the aid of effective home teaching from inspired and prepared home teachers, can bring the blessings of heaven to our homes here on earth. Such correlated activities teach family members to think of others first and self last. Indeed, we practice in our lives the principles taught by Robert Woodruff, an American business tycoon, and labeled by him as "A Capsule Course in Human Relations." He said: The five most important words in the English language are these: I AM PROUD OF YOU. The four most important words in the English language are these: WHAT IS YOUR OPINION? The three most important words in the language are: IF YOU PLEASE. The two most important words are: THANK YOU. The least important word is: I. BLESSING NUMBER FOUR— The Blessing of Balance: Correlation seeks to eliminate overlap and duplication of effort. All the curricula of the Church are so correlated that we are working together as members of a single team. The personal exaltation of the individual is paramount. Meetings become not an end in themselves, but the means to the desired end. Literature, art, and music are brought together in a way which permits them to complement the teaching of the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And through it all 246 your noble field of compassionate service is not submerged. Rather, it is exalted. In the spirit of the Master you continue to—... Gladden the lonely, the dreary; Comfort the weeping, the weary; Scatter kind deeds on your way; Make the world brighter today! BLESSING NUMBER FIVE— The Blessing of Unity: Closely allied with the blessing of balance is the blessing of unity. Occasionally, destructive competition characterizes the work of our various organizations. Correlation transforms competition to cooperation. We are brought to the realization of the truth, "... If ye are not one ye are not mine" (D&C 38:27). Though our objectives may at times appear unattainable, though the resources of that evil one loom overpowering, and though discouragement threatens, and weaknesses handicap, yet that blessing brought by correlation—even united effort— will bring us the victory we so much seek. We can take strength from the example of Gideon. You will remember how Gideon and his army faced the overwhelming strength of forces vastly superior in equipment and in number. The Holy Bible records that this united enemy, the Midianites and Amalekites, "lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude." Fear must have penetrated each heart among Gideon's followers. But their leader went to Almighty God for his strength. To his surprise, Gideon was advised by the Lord that his forces were too many in number for the Lord to deliver the enemy into their hands, lest they say: "Mine own hand hath saved me" (Judges 7:2). Gideon was instructed to proclaim to his people, '""Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand" (Judges 7:3). But the Lord said, "The people are yet too many..." (Judges 7:4). Through the test of drinking of the water, but three hundred men were selected to remain and fight the enemy. After again praying, Gideon said, "Arise; for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian. And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers. And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do. When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side... And say, The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon" (Judges 15-18). When Gideon and his hundred men did blow on the trumpets and break the pitchers, Correlation Brings Blessings so did all, and together they shouted, 'The sword of the Lord, and of Gideon." The outcome of that mighty battle is recorded in one short sentence: "And they stood every man in his place..." (Judges 7:21), and the victory was won. Today, we are encamped against the greatest array of sin, vice, and evil ever assembled before our eyes. Such formidable enemies may cause lesser hearts to shrink or shun the fight. But the battle plan whereby we fight to save the souls of men is not our own. It was provided to our leader, even President David O. McKay, by the inspiration and revelation of the Lord. Yes, I speak of that plan which will bring us victory, even the Correlation Program of the Church. And as we do battle against him who would thwart the purposes of God and degrade and destroy mankind, I pray that each of us will stand in his or her appointed place, that the battle for the souls of men will indeed be won; that when life's race has been run, we may hear the commendation of the Lord, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord" (Matt. 25:21). In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. The strength of the mountain surrounds me— BEYOND THE Its majesty, towering, grand, Entices me ever to conquer FARTHEST RIFT Gladys Hesser Burnham The rocks of that craggy land— Ah! Only in spirit I'm reaching, Searching for thoughts to uplift EY loftier beckoning vistas Beyond the farthest rift. 247 Leanor J. Brown Appointed to the General Board @ Leanor Jesperson Brown, Mexico City, Mexico, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of James A. Jesperson and Flora May Williams Jesperson, she is a great-great-granddaughter of. Frederick Granger Williams, a Counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was married to Harold Brown in the Mesa Temple, and they are the parents of two sons: David Calvin and James Christopher. Her Church service began in girlhood. She is a Golden Gleaner and has worked in the auxiliaries of the Church. In Relief Society, she has had a varied experience as a class leader and executive officer, including services as social science and theology class leader in Provo, Utah, Boston, Massachusetts, and Mexico City. She has been first counselor, stake Relief Society president, and acting stake Relief Society president in Mexico City Stake, where her husband is currently serving as stake president. Sister Brown has been a short-term missionary in the Mexican Mission, and she and her husband served as assistants to the president of the Mexican Mission. While Brother Brown was president of the Argentine Mission, Sister Brown directed the women's auxiliaries. She is presently teaching seminary to the English-speaking 248 school members of the high Church in Mexico City. Her brother James Avril Jesperson is president of the Andes Mission. Her many years of residence in Mexico and in other Spanishspeaking countries have given her an understanding and a love for the Relief Society sisters and the members of the Church who are building the missions and the stakes and wards and branches in Latin America. Sister Brown is a natural leader, an accomplished speaker, and is well versed in Relief Society organizational procedures. A gracious homemaker, she excels in cooking, handicraft, and hospitality. Her appointment to the General Board of Relief Society will bring to it additional strength and ability, and her understanding of the Spanish-speaking sisters, as well as of other Relief Society sisters will add to the unity of the world-wide sisterhood. Reba O. Carling Appointed to the General Board w Reba Olsen Carling, a devoted Relief Society worker and experienced leader in all of the women's auxiliaries of the Church, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, February 1, 1967. A daughter of Oluf H. And Jemina Sorenson Olsen, she was born in Monroe, Utah, and was graduated from South Sevier High School. Her education was continued at the Latter-day Saints Business College in Salt Lake City, and at the University of Utah. In Church work, Sister Carling served as president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in Rupert, Idaho, and she worked with her husband in the New England Mission, where he was district president; she was a teacher in Primary and in Relief Society in Sunset Ward, San Francisco Stake, and in the Relief Society in Fillmore, Utah. In the Indian Hills Ward, Salt Lake City, she was a member of the MIA presidency, and in the Monument Park Ninth Ward she was theology class leader. In Monument Park Stake she served as Relief Society president, and was an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple at the time of her call to the Relief Society General Board. Sister Carling's business training has been an asset to her in several executive positions, particularly in her recent work as executive secretary and personnel manager of a chain of retail stores in the Salt Lake City area. She is the mother of two sons and a daughter: Richard J. Carling, presently a member of the Utah State Legislature; Michael G. Carling, serving in the British Mission; and DeeAnn (Mrs. J. Clark Robinson). Sister Carling's husband, Junius J. Carling, was killed in an airplane accident in 1962, and she has loyally continued their plans for the education and Church service of their children. The members of Relief Society, wherever they will be privileged to meet and associate with Sister Carling, will be blessed through her faith and enthusiasm and her buoyant personality. She comes to her new appointment with the love and admiration of many friends and a host of fellow workers in Relief Society, and in the Church. 249 Forgotten Necessity from her hands, washed them at the sink, and dried them on the towel tucked into her apron as she walked to the phone. "Hello.... Yes, Frank?... No, not too busy. Just fixing dinner.... Now? Why now?... Yes, I'll be here, but can't you tell me on the phone?... Frank, is it good to leave work early? _.. You don't want to take advan- = Lately, Martha had found the mixing of meat loaf oppressive. From memory she measured the ingredients. Her listless eyes barely noted the slow, deliberate motion of her hands spooning leaden spices into the bowl and stirring together the clay-like mixture. Thirty years ago she had eagerly accepted the challenge of ground beef. Now, she grudged it as one more evidence that it was she who balanced the family budget. Just as she began prodding the stubborn meat with her fingers, the phone rang. Systematically, Martha used her thumb and forefinger to wipe the meat 250 tage just because you are near > retirement.... Well, all right, if you've talked to him.... All right, you can prune those low apricot branches while I finish dinner.... I know that. If you y waited until you felt like.... Well, someone has to. If I didn't, nothing would ever be done.... All right. Bye." Through her years of marriage Martha had grown increasingly responsible. When her children were young, she had imagined herself an accordion, lyrically expanding to bring within herself the added meaning of those who depended upon her. Gradually, she had felt her expansion reach its capacity, her music become thin, her responsibilities grow burdensome. She had_ become the family timekeeper, the buttonfinder, the hole-mender, and even the conscience. That which in her early years had so musically flowed into her had remained to settle upon her, heavy, tiring, unmoving. She had expected that, as the children left for school, missions, and marriage, she would be released to fold again into her smaller, lighter person. But nothing had changed. She retained the responsibility for home, yard, children, even for her husband— especially her husband, the one who should have been responsible for her, the one she should have leaned on. She plunged into the meat loaf again. She had just patted it into the pan when she heard Frank at the gate. She frowned, glanced at the clock, and noted that it had only been five minutes since he called. Martha gathered bits of evidence into conclusions as deftly as she gathered crumbs from the breakfast table into her napkin. Obviously, Frank had not called from his office. He had called from this side of town, the hobby shop. He had bought something, probably for their wild flower collection, possibly the new plastic album he had taken her to admire several nights earlier. And he had come home immediately to show her. Maerua heard her husband come into the kitchen. Before she turned to greet him, she was determined to finish her chore. She could easily imagine him there, grinning, with one hand resting casually on the table and the other, with more effort, casually. Behind his back. In two years he would retire from a full life of work, but he was still the impulsive schoolboy, pride spilling all over his face, eager to show the teacher his clever, new purchase, but anxious that she might not share his enthusiasm. Martha did share his enthusiasm in her own way. On flowerhunting trips with her husband, she forgot her burden of responsibility. The unending blue of the sky, the rolling on and on of the hills, the constant promise of another, more intriguing mountain flower lifted her from her labors. But, faced with the white bowl The Forgotten Necessity blotched with shreds of left-behind meat loaf, she could wait to see his album. She placed the loaf pan into the oven. "Martha," Frank sounded hesitant. "Will you drive me to the airport?" *'Airport?" was sufficient answer. Methodically, as a cat licks its paws and face leaving no spot uncleansed, she began in one corner to wipe the shelf. "T have to go to Los Angeles." He offered no more explanation. Martha had always had to extract information from him. "Los Angeles? Why go there? Your work is here in the north." Noiselessly, she piled the dishes in the sink. "It's not for work. I am going to the company hospital." For the first time, Martha turned around. "Hospital? I did not know you were sick." "I'm not sick. It's that sore on my cheek. I saw Doc Fletcher today. He thinks I should have it checked." He spoke very simply. "But didn't he check it?' she asked, remembering that she had told him to see the doctor three times last week. "He wants a more thorough check made, X-rays and a biopsy.". She tried to grasp what he was saying. She reached for a chair, and pulling it nearer her, sat down. "Biopsy? On your cheek? You mean it's cancer?" "He says there is only a small chance that it is malignant. He just wants me checked. The hospital is the best place to do it." Martha tried to remember the beginning of the conversation. The words, the thoughts were 251 April 1967 moving too rapidly, too unexpectedly. "Yes, I'll take you." Then, as an afterthought—'It only costs half as much to take the bus."" She was automatically checking his extravagance. "The doctor ordered the plane. He phoned for reservations while I was still in his office. He even phoned the hospital to ask them to meet me. They will have a room waiting when I arrive." The implication of his words began to filter into her reasoning. She was silent a moment. And then spoke softly, ""A room in the hospital? You'll be staying there? Three hundred miles away?" Without answering, Frank went into the bedroom. Martha followed. Finally, he said, 'You'll be alone here for a few days. Be sure to let the neighbors know. I shouldn't be gone more than a couple of days, not long enough to make the trip worthwhile for you." He brought his small suitcase from his closet and opened it on the bed. Martha felt terribly alone and out of touch with him. He was speaking almost casually, as if he were going to the corner for a newspaper. He avoided frowning or looking directly at her for more than a few seconds at a time. Yet the muscles around his eyes were tense; the line of his mouth was firm, perhaps from too much control. "It is serious, isn't it?" she asked. She went to his drawer and pulled out three changes of underwear. She laid them on the bed near his suitcase. He answered her, "I won't know that until I get there. I don't need all those clothes. I'll 252 be in bed in a hospital." He ignored the underwear, packing instead a shirt, two books, and some stationery. Martha moved in front of the suitcase. "Take them anyway. It won't hurt you to have more than enough. Will you let me know as soon as you find out?" She removed the shirt, books, and paper, and began rearranging them in the suitcase. "Yes, I will. I'll call if it is possible." He had collected his shaving equipment, his toothbrush, and his hair cream. Martha fitted each one in carefully. When she had finished, he closed the suitcase and said only, "Let's go." Martha wanted to open the suitcase and check it again. She wanted to be assured that he had everything, that he would lack nothing, that he was being sent well-kept to his destination. Instead, she only felt turmoil, but she had to follow him to the car. An hour later Martha returned to her bedroom, hung up her coat, and changed her shoes. As she looked at the bed, at the place where the suitcase had been, she knew that there was something which she had neglected to send with Frank. It was something he would need—something he would arrive without and later miss. And he would need it. Martha closed her eyes and recounted every item she had packed, but she could not discover the forgotten necessity. As she fixed herself a simple meal of meat loaf, bread, and milk, Martha tried to imagine each activity in Frank's hospital day. In that way she hoped to discover the missing item. Again, she could find nothing. After folding a napkin, removing her apron, and moving her chair to the table, she sat down and automatically bowed her head to offer a blessing on her meal. A gush of realization swept through her body as she remembered what she had overlooked. She had forgotten to ask that they have prayer. Prayer—for years she had taken the lead in assembling the family for prayer, at mealtime, in the mornings, before outings and important events. Now, when Frank's life might even be in danger, she had forgotten prayer. She was so filled with self-incrimination that she could not decide for several minutes what should be done. Suddenly, quite clearly, she knew that she must pray alone. She was puzzled that she had not thought of it sooner. Frightened now, and hoping not to lose more of the apportioned minutes, she hurried to the bedroom, to the place where the suitcase had been on the bed, and knelt. She began, "Father in heaven.."' She forced her breath out and out and out, expecting that words would float out on the air stream. She knelt tightly in-place, trying to force the thoughts that would release the words. She seemed to think of nothing, and she could say nothing. | Then, with all the details of remembering, she saw Frank again as he walked evenly away from her and toward the plane. His expressionless back, with the rounded shoulders, bobbed in the center of her vision. She began again, "Father in heaven...." Why could she not find the words? Why could she not read The Forgotten Necessity her thoughts? She wanted to gain help, to ask something, but what? What blessing or what relief should she ask for Frank? And what for herself? To be without any words for prayer bewildered her. Confused thoughts mixed and _ separated and mixed again in her mind. Early in the afternoon, she had grumbled under the burden of her responsibility. Now she was alone to enjoy her own direction of time and energy, to be responsible only for herself. Now she could fold inward. Yet she was haunted, knowing that she had sent Frank away without a prayer and he remained without a prayer. Still, to try again would be useless. She decided to return to pray at bedtime. Si returned to her meal. The food looked foreign to the plate —another meat loaf cooked at another time by other hands. She didn't want to take the first bite. When they ate together, she delayed her eating until Frank had tasted the food. Then she asked, "How is it?" Frank always smiled and answered, ''Best there is," or a substitute phrase that showed his delight in her abilities as his keeper. Without that foolish, habitual beginning, without him there to appreciate her efforts, Martha could not enjoy her food. She stored the meat loaf, unsampled, in the refrigerator. In the living room, she found the newspaper where she had placed it, on the small Jamp table between their reading chairs. The headline on the city council squabble led her into the first paragraph. She was ready to ask, "Frank, what do you think of 253 April 1967 Milton Harrington's statement?" She looked into the emptiness of the opposite chair and lost all interest in the article. When her thoughts returned to the newspaper, she forsook the impersonal objectiveness of headlines and looked inside for something small, inconsequential, human in which she could involve herself. "Have you read this letter to the editor?' The unanswering blankness of the chair caught her and held her until she finally put the newspaper down. How pleasant it was to read when Frank was there to explain the split in the city council or to chuckle over some unique incident or to scorn the problems of those who wrote for advice! How important it was to read the paper, looking for the interesting bits of information which Frank might miss! How impossible it was for her to find the motivation within herself to read or to eat or to do anything with her hands or feet or head! Her last hope for tolerating the evening was their flower collection. She went to that corner of the bedroom where a special table stood loyally holding the books, the albums, the paste, the paint, the ink, the tape, the typewriter, the systematically arranged papers, and the pressed flowers. Years ago it would all have been brushed off to the floor and carefully put back in piles, slots, drawers, and boxes. She had offered to do it many times. She had threatened to do it three times. She had finally learned that this table was not her responsibility, that the mess itself was a partial expression of the creator who sat there in the whisper-quiet evenings, reading about the flowers, shaping them, grouping them, preserving them. It was around this cluttered table, where they had so often forgotten themselves to absorb this part of nature, that they had been nearest to each other. Martha didn't touch one paper, didn't clear one small area. For a moment, she understood the contribution which Frank had made to their lives, the responsibility he had taken. It didn't come as a revelation or as a clear, afterwards-quotable statement, but with a draw of her breath, a fulness of her heart. She knew what had always fulfilled her life and what she needed to retain this sense of fulfillment. She knew how to spend the strength of her faith. She returned to her bedroom to pray. A Unsaid Words Zara Sabin There is no song that larks can sing, No perfume roses shed, That takes the place within our lives Of loving words, unsaid. » 254 (Address delivered at the. Magazine Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966) m Sister Sharp, this is a very awesome audience for a lone mere male to face, but I am delighted to be with you this morning. I understand that you have had four main topics treated this morning. You have been told how to inspire and instruct with the Magazine and how to promote and utilize it. I would like to concentrate on a few practical suggestions in the latter two categories: how to promote and' use this great Magazine. Last year in this meeting, Brother Wendell Ashton, a highly respected colleague of mine, gave a marvelous, moving, and spiritual talk in which he characterized The Relief Society Magazine as a link between heaven and home. This reminded me of my first serious encounter with the Magazine back in World War II. I had very few links with the Church during my first few months overseas in England, in North Africa, and in Italy. I had been traveling somewhat too fast from base to base for the Latterday Saint Servicemen's Program to catch up with me. No copies of any of the Church magazines had reached me, and even the Latterday Saints Servicemen's Program have forgotten me. Then one day in one of the officers clubs I ran across a battered, tattered, but strangely familiar sight. It was, 'oddly enough, an old copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and I couldn't tell you now how it got there—perhaps one of our Latterday Saint Red Cross girls or one of our WAC officers might have brought it in, but I picked up that Magazine and I read it avidly from cover to cover, and it did indeed seem to be a link with home and with heaven in a way that I needed very badly at that particular time. Now, your calling is to help put that link in the proper place in every Latter-day Saint home. Let's examine for just a moment three very specific ways in which you might do it. The first way I am going to suggest is that you convince your- *Member, Sunday School General Board and Vice-Chairman, The Instructor Magazine Committee 255 April 1967 self, if you are not already convinced, that your calling is important, that you are performing a real service to the Relief Society, to your stake, or to the wards or branches you serve, and to the work of our Heavenly Father. Corollary to that, I suggest you convince yourself that this Magazine is all that it purports to be. We have seen some of the things that it can do in a clever little skit a few minutes ago, but beyond that, I hope you read the Magazine every month and know its contents, and that your Magazine Representatives in the wards and branches do the same. This will build your enthusiasm better than anything else. The second step is to convey that enthusiasm to others. It really is contagious. The ward representatives will catch it from you, and the potential Magazine subscribers will catch it from them. And step three (and I almost think this is the most important of all because it is, perhaps, the most often violated): sell this Magazine on its own merits. To illustrate the need for this philosophy, envision this situation: a Magazine representative goes to the door and makes this approach: "Sister Jones, your subscription to The Relief Society Magazine expires this month. We have to have our money in by next Thursday, and we need four more subscriptions to reach our quota...." You can imagine the rest of the presentation and the ensuing response. You will note that there is no attempt here to explain the merits of the Magazine or the 256 benefits the potential subscriber will receive from reading it. A subscription acquired in this way will get the Magazine into that home, but it will seldom get the contents of the Magazine into the minds and hearts of those who subscribe—and I would presume that's a primary objective in publishing this Magazine. Now, in contrast, when Jesus preached his gospel, he presented it so clearly, so dramatically, and enticingly that his audience simply couldn't resist what he had - to offer. In presenting The Relief Society Magazine, you can well follow his example as a Master Teacher. The Relief Society Magazine has a great message to offer. It can be a great influence for good in the home, as you very well know, but we must find a way to get more women not merely to subscribe to it, but to read it and to heed it. Now here are a few more specific thoughts. I am sure many of these have already occurred to you, but perhaps they will suggest some fresh or appealing way of presenting the case for The Relief Society Magazine. Idea No. 1: Why not encourage your ward Relief Societies to serve foods made from some of those taste-tempting recipes that I read in the Magazine, especially those that come to us from many different lands? I would hope that your Relief Society officers would credit the Magazine as the source. I know one ward Relief Society where this was done recently, and I am told the women could hardly wait to go home and try the recipes on their families, because it was food they had actually tested and tasted for themselves, How to Promote and Use the Magazine and they wanted to see what reaction they would get from their own families. Idea No. 2: Try leaving a copy. I am sure many of you here have had a call from a certain brush company representative at sometime in the past few months. That company has an effective little technique. They present the housewife with a clever little magazine that has good illustrations, beautiful color, and some interesting reading in it, along with pictures and information about their products. One very successful representative, who is a district supervisor for this company, told me that his sales people now spend far less time in each home than formerly, because the customers are already presold. They leave a copy of the magazine, and then when they call back a few days later, they spend only a few minutes in each home taking orders. You can use a similar technique with women who are not yet familiar with this Magazine. Leave a copy and a reminder that you are going to call back later. In so doing you also leave a feeling of obligation on their part to at least glance through the Magazine, because they won't want to be embarrassed by not knowing anything about the publication when you come back and say, "What did you think of this? Did you like such and such an article or such and such a story?" They will feel they have to be familiar with it, and in so doing they will sell themselves on the wonderful offerings of this Magazine. Quotas are often used as sales incentives to make people go out and work for a cause, but they won't necessarily accomplish the objective that you want to accomplish, which goes far beyond merely selling a Magazine subscription. My good friend and former Sunday School Board member, Reed Bradford, used to tell us frequently that we are prone to do the right things for the wrong reasons. When we get people to subscribe to the Magazine because they are helping us reach a quota, they are doing the right thing but for the wrong reason, and it won't get readers into the Magazine. Another suggestion: learn to anticipate objections and answer them. An insurance agent friend of mine tells me that this is one of the greatest secrets of successful selling. But are there any real objections to subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine? If so, what are they? A well-reputed psychologist, James Harvey Robinson, maintained that there are two kinds of reasons we have for doing or not doing a certain thing. There is the good reason—the valid, the acceptable, the legitimate reason —and these are the ones we usually tell other people. And then there are the real reasons, the deep-seated reasons, and these are the ones we often keep to ourselves, A few seasons ago for The Instructor magazine, we did some readership studies, and we tried to get at both the good reasons and the real reasons why a few people, and I emphasize few, fail to resubscribe for The Instructor after they have been subscribers for some time. I don't like to ad- 257 April 1967 mit this, but there were a very few who said they just didn't like the Magazine—and I still can't understand that one! Then there were a few more who said they were no longer working in the Sunday School and so _ didn't really need it. I understood their reasons, but I had some good answers by pointing out how Primary, and Relief Society, and Priesthood teachers also found the Magazine useful and kept on subscribing year after year. But by far the greatest number of people gave us two other answers: The first was, "I can't afford it." I wonder if this is a valid reason. We'll examine it in a minute or two, but this is one of those good reasons that Robinson talks about, isn't it? And close behind it was, of course, "I don't have time to read it." I wonder how often you have called at a home where the family was watching a TV soap opera in the daytime or a spy thriller in the evening, yet someone would boldly tell you, "We don't have any time to read, so we really don't need it, thank you." Again, this is one of those good reasons. I suspect that if we in this room were honest with ourselves, we would have to admit that we are all woefully short of both time and money to do and to buy all the things we would like for our families. But, within limits, of course, somehow we seem to budget both the time and money to do and buy what we really need. Elder Paul Dunn has a favorite saying that there are things that are nice to know and things that: we need to know. I suggest we paraphrase Brother Dunn and 258 say that there are things that are nice to have and do, and there are things we need to have and we need to do. Somehow, we must get into the minds of our potential subscribers The Relief Society Magazine is one of the things we all need to find time for in our busy schedules. We need to budget time in order to read this wonderful Magazine, and we need to find the little money it takes to subscribe. Perhaps we'll have to give up some little luxury or some impulse purchase. But the sacrifice isn't great, and it's only a few pennies a month. Now I know there are a few people who can't afford those few pennies. But in our society today there are relatively few who can't afford the small subscription price of The Relief Society Magazine. So it is really up to you to provide the feeling of need—to help your potential subscribers want this more than some of the other wants. I would like to give just a few convincing arguments that will help you achieve that small extra measure of success that makes so much difference between a champion and an also ran. Maybe you have watched our Mormon golfer, Billy Casper, play in tournaments of champions. Casper often wins just by a hairbreadth. You could almost call him Hairbreadth Casper sometimes, because he evidences the almost infinitesimal difference between a really great golfer and a nearly great golfer. Why, then, does he so often win? I'm convinced it's the extra measure of practice and effort and devotion to his sport that accounts for his superb skill and ability to come through a winner when How to Promote and Use the Magazine competition is toughest. Now, how can we, with that little extra effort on our parts, convince some of our hard-toconvince potential subscribers that this Magazine is worth giving up some impulse purchase they don't really need, and an evening with the late-late show once a month? How can we accomplish this worthy objective? You have many things going for you on this Magazine. The size of the Magazine is conducive to reading in many convenient moments and places. The Reader's Digest uses a similar format for similar reasons. The Relief Society Magazine is almost the same width and just a little longer than the Digest. It fits easily into pocket or purse or on the bedside table, and weighs little when you hold it to read it. That can be important if you compare it with some of the oversize magazines published these days. Complete articles, as opposed to the "continued-on-page-so-andso" style, also encourage reading. You also have many appealing "graphics" or illustrations and page make-up. I especially noticed the array of scenic covers that were depicted in the little skit. The pictures are wholesome and beautiful. You wouldn't be afraid to leave them around the home—unlike several recent covers of our so-called "family magazines."' Good reading has many rewards that far outweigh the time and money we spend on it. The famous essayist Joseph Addison tells us that ''reading is to the mind what exercise is to the body." Reading stretches our mental muscles and expands our horizons. It takes us out of our mundane worlds and lets us travel as far as our imaginations and the picture-painting words of the authors can carry us. Reading keeps us vibrant, it keeps us alive and makes us far more interesting to our marriage mates and our families. It also is a form of insurance against mental aging. We are only as old as we think we are. Some people say that one way to keep alive is to keep interested in many things, and the way to keep interested is to read widely. A few minutes spent in reading each day can be the most profitable, rewarding investment that we make of our time. So it really isn't a question of being able to afford the time. The question is, can we afford not to invest it in good reading? It is one of your jobs to sell that idea. Now, one more final suggestion that I suspect is a little redundant because the little skit you had earlier is one example of what I am about to propose. For a number of years on our Sunday School General Board, we have had monthly reviews of The Instructor Magazine. We rotate this assignment among the Board members, and each _ individual gives this his own subjective approach, which adds "spice" and variety to the presentations. We recommend that the stakes do the same thing in their monthly preparation meetings, and the wards in their ward faculty meetings. Now, this need take only ten or fifteen minutes, if you do not try to give a predigested version of what is in the Magazine. What you want to do is to intrigue your audience to the point where they can hard- 259 April 1967 ly wait to get to the Magazine and read it. I am sure some of you have had classes from a great teacher, especially a great teacher of literature, who makes you want to get a certain book as quickly as possible and read what he has been talking about. I suspect that some of you may have encountered this in some of your lessons in Relief Society. You want more; you are hungry for more. This is what this kind of review should make you want to do. I haven't time this morning for a full-scale sample review of your October issue, but I just wanted to point out a few things that appealed especially to me. I managed to borrow a copy briefly from my wife who guards these Magazines rather jealously. Here is a typical sample of poetry that especially moved me: The firelight is warm and golden As I sit here alone; But each room is empty, silent Until you come. Then when I hear your whistle, And your footstep at the door, This place becomes alive, Happy, and secure. For by your very presence At evening when you come, The empty quiet of each room Becomes the peace of home. Enid F. Woolley Appropriately, it is entitled "Homecoming," and it has an element of universality about it that is one of the touchstones of great poetry. The emotion that is 'expressed can be felt as much in Salt Lake City as in far-off Tasmania, where this little poem originated. There is an intriguing article in this issue [October 1966] entitled "Our Children Earn Their Own 260 Allowances." After I had read this, I could hardly wait to try the system on our five allowance-hungry youngsters. I'll let you know how it works out. Recipes: I defy you to read through this section without getting hungry. I look at some of these recipes from far-off lands and have even clipped a few for my own file. I don't suppose I will ever get around to trying them, but maybe I can talk my wife into doing it. In the homemaking hints and recipe section, and in many other parts of the Magazine in recent months, I have noticed that The Relief Society Magazine has led the way in something that I think is of vital importance to Church magazines right now. That is a recognition that all of the Latterday Saints do not live along the Wasatch Front, or in Utah, or even in the United States. This is a universal Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with members scattered throughout the free world, and even beyond, and I find reflections of this throughout the recent issues of The Relief Society Magazine. This brings me to the ""Woman's Sphere" feature, with its intriguing woman-over-the-world symbol. As one other well-known woman's magazine once put in a slogan, "never underestimate the power of a woman," the power and influence of Latter-day Saint and other women throughout the world are documented in the pages of your Relief Society Magazine, and, notably, in this particular section. I noticed in the October Magazine examples from London, from Ohio, from North Wales, among others. How to Promote and Use the Magazine In the same October issue Elder Thomas. S. Monson of the Council of the Twelve, teaches us strength through obedience as only Elder Monson can teach it. And then there is the unusual, rich offering of so-called "fiction." I say "so-called" because the truths in some fiction are more precise and more meaningful than some of the things we treat as fact. And they are told in the rich idiom of the well-told story. Now the lesson departments must surely be among the bestread features in the Magazine, and I only saved them until last because I feel that the reading of the Magazine should not stop with these lessons, and I know in many instances that it does. I suspect that many women just read the lessons, and they read nothing else in the Magazine. I was especially impressed with Elder Robert K. Thomas' cultural refinement lessons. This term was a new one to me, but seemed most appropriate. Here he cites what some of our greatest English authors have had to say about the strength of humility. But this is really absurd of me. Why should I tell you about your Magazine? I am sure everyone of you here has read it from cover to cover. I won't embarrass you by asking for a show of hands. Now each of you here today, and your counterparts in all the wards and branches of the Church, are much more than Relief Society Magazine representatives. As Elder Ashton said last year, in essence, you carry to the world the only periodical on earth which delivers the restored gospel of the Master in a form especially written and edited for women. You are emissaries in the great cause, and a worthy work, and I pray that each of you here today may recognize the importance of this work and find your place in it and the best way in which to carry it forward. This is my prayer, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. S\ la HILLS AGAINST THE SKY Dorothy J. Roberts Hills seem impediment against the sky, Refusing prairie peace and desert flower, Denying distance to the searching eye, Detaining dawn behind their massive bower. But bridge the chasm, climb the coral crest; In shade and hymn above the vista's blue, A flaming sunfall gathers in the west: Plain and sahara both belong to you. 261 SPRING Christie Lund Coles How eager the grass is to grow green: How soon the blades arise Like children rising up, Lifting their heads, so young, so clean. *s, How eager the grass is to grow green... R How soon the sky transforms to azure 'blue: The heavy clouds soon-passed >, eal. Ui Are quieted as leaves upon a stream, any WC al Curving; their counterparts are new. Sap How soon the sky transforms to azure blue. "- -_ - How quick the birds are now to choir-sing. ~ _ After the folded: wing, the docile head, * — The questioning peep of doubt;. A Their song pours forth as. Soft, ° intimate bells A} That move in 'wind, -and, moving, ring. G SK Be Happy, But Remember Alice P. Willardson w That morning I was really on top of the world. I breathed deeply of the cool fall air. It wasn't hard to imagine that I was walking to music. The sky was so much more blue, the sun so much brighter, the breeze so much softer. The lights had come on again "all over the world." Yes, the war was over! The fighting was through. All the first wild, hilarious celebration was over. Our boys would soon be coming home again. That was what the morning breeze was whispering as it caressed my cheeks, "Peace, peace." A world of peace and beauty again! Just to be able to say to yourself, "God's in his heaven: all's right with the world." I fairly floated down the street, answering all the happy '"Goodmornings" from the neighbors and greetings from the businessmen as I walked through Main Street. "Well, we'll soon be through with you now, Mrs. O. P. A." they called. Working in the Office of Price Administration had been a war-time obligation. "That's right, we'll soon be folding our tents 'like the Arabs, and as silently steal away.' " "Guess you'll kind of miss it, won't you?" "Oh, it will be so good not to need that sort of thing. Maybe Ill have to pay you all a visit each morning for awhile just to keep from getting lonesome." "You're not through yet, are you?" "No, not quite, we still have to ration sugar for awhile longer. And, of course, the price control will have to continue for some time. But I imagine a county 263 April 1967 board will take over and all our little local boards will be through. We can't get rid of it all in a day, but it will be good to get back to normal again." "You can say that again!" At the Post Office door, Bishop Kendell stood with his hand extended. "Looks like you are walking on air this morning, my dear. Your smile is absolutely radiant." Tue pressure of his hand was firm, and I wondered how eyes so grave could still twinkle. These last years had not been kind to Bishop Kendell. Of course he wasn't our bishop now, but he would always be that to me. He lived out in what we, as children, called ''Lover's Lane," and had been our bishop for years when we lived on the farm. Many of the problems of my young womanhood had been solved by his kindly voice. He had blessed and baptized our children. Yes, the fine veins in his face were too blue, and his skin was almost transparent. Yet, there was such strength there it was almost as if his soul was shining through. "You don't look so bad yourself, bishop. You found the key to happiness a long time ago, didn't you? That's one thing you can give away and still have plenty for yourself, or you would not have any left, would you?" I asked lovingly. "Yes, happiness is sort of contagious," he said, and the old twinkle was in his eyes again. "That's right. Give my love to Sister Kendell, will you?" I waved gaily as I went down the street. A small group of men stood on the City Hall lawn as I ran up 264 the steps. The board chairman was there. "You're soon going to be out of a job now, young lady," he called. "Won't it be fun? You, too. You'll never get your wages doubled now." "That's right, but since two times nothing is still nothing, I guess it won't matter." This was an old joke among these men who had given freely of so much time and worry through all the war years. "Yes, but think of all the nice names you have been called these last three years. You're going to miss all the applause when you retire to private life." A burst of laughter greeted our sally. It was good to hear people laugh again. Even our dingy little office, with its files and typewriters, looked brighter this morning. Maybe it was the sun reflecting on the white-washed walls which faced our only windows. How often in the past two years had that wall typified to me the saying, "Beating your head against a blank wall." Mildred greeted me with her usual smile, only this time it was not the smile we painted on each morning and wore to cover every emotion while we quoted regulations and doled out ration stamps. Her eyes were shining and I knew her heart was singing the same tune that mine was. The boys would be coming home! When? How soon would the boys be coming home? "T had a letter from Bob this morning. He said they sure put on a celebration in Alaska when they got the word of V. J. Day," she said. "You look like you had good news, too. A letter from Keith?" "Yes, he says he won't be getting home for awhile yet, as the Air Corps still needs weather men, at least enough to man the airfields. Three years is a long time for him to be out of school, and he is anxious to get home, but we can wait now that the war is over. I imagine some of the boys will be coming home right away. Won't it seem good to have young men to help on the farms again! It will put the red blood of youth back into this town. One didn't dare to think how gray and dreary our world was with the youth gone out of it." le door was standing open, and the city mayor had walked in and joined in the conversation. "Yes, they will soon put some color and life back into this old town. They have already brought the color back into the cheeks of a few girls I could mention. Funny isn't it, that in spite of all the boys have been through, they are the ones who have all the hope and optimism. I guess just to be home again is heaven to them." Others strolled into the office and sat with the old chairs tilted back at a rakish angle. Even the chairs seemed giddy with the new happiness. Conversation and jokes were tossed lightly about. Must have been a new sensation for the old office. "How about a sheet of those sugar stamps for my scrapbook?" "Oh, these are still precious. You'll have to use your A Book for a souvenir. Here, you can Be Happy, But Remember have a T gasoline application, too." "What! Only the application blank? How about some T stamps now you don't need them any more?" "They all had to be accounted for and the remainder burned with great ceremony. You will never know what we were thinking as all those stamps went up in smoke." Just then the city marshall entered and sat down in the remaining chair rather heavily. We all looked at him, and the smiles faded. "IT guess we are not quite through yet. The widow woman Josh Ames married just got word that her son is dead. Died in a hospital overseas." That old dread 'silence fell on the group once more. One by one, the men faded from the room. Their mumbled words of grief and sympathy mingled strangely with the blurred figures in the room and the confusion that whirled in my head. They were all gone, so was the day, and time turned backward. In the chair in front of my desk sat a forlorn little figure. Her shoulders drooped and her gray eyes were desolate. '"I—I missed the bus."' She was breathless with the choke in her throat. The clock ticked loudly. Why didn't we muzzle that thing? "I'm so sorry. Were you going some place special?" "Oh, yes. I was going to Salt Lake to see my son. He is going overseas, and I could only see him for a few minutes as the train stops in Salt Lake City. But I— I wanted to see him so badly." Tick-tock, tick-tock.... 265 April 1967 Her head sank and her voice wasn't much more than a whisper. "He wired me to be sure and be there. He has been sick, and he is just a kid!" Yes, he was just a kid. A kid with freckles on his nose. And such a cute grin. I remembered the day he had been in the office for his "entering service gasoline." Thex-rocx: tick-tock.. The time was passing. I could see that train pulling into the Salt Lake station. I could see the boy's thin, eager face, see the light fade from his eyes, and then hear the chug-chugging of the train as it pulled out, and the whistle, the whistle, and the smoke growing thin in the distance. I knew she was hearing it, too, and that her heart was going with the boy as we sat in the stillness of that office. Tick-tock—tick.... Tock. "Somehow, I know I'll never see him again...." Again the lump in my throat was choking me, and my eyes stung with the unshed tears just as they had that day. I felt as if I was smothering. "Mildred, Mildred, do you remember the morning she was in here? The morning she missed the bus?" "Yes, yes, of course, I remember. Don't go over all that again. You know there was nothing we could do about it." "IT know. She didn't even ask for anything. Maybe their old car wouldn't have made it to Salt Lake if we could have let them have the gasoline." The walls were closing down on me, stifling me. "Oh, Mildred, 266 do you care? I've got to get out of here." "Of course, I'll stay till you get back." Gone was the brightness of the day. The glare of the pavement hurt my eyes. The shadows were so intense that they hit me in the face. No, not shadows—it was willows along the creek. Instinctively I had sought the shade of "Lover's Lane." How ironic! "'Lover's Lane'' to cry your heart out for a mother who had lost too much, and for a soldier who died overseas, but who was only a boy who had been sick and needed his mother! And somehow they both had known that they would never see each other again. And I had stood in the way! I wouldn't let her go to him. No it wasn't I. It was the regulations. Other boys needed that gas to fly their planes. The country was full of mothers who could not say goodbye to their sons. Why did I take exception to this one? But this mother! Life had taken so much from her that she had not even expected anything. She had not even asked. Her heart was so heavy that her brain was paralyzed. All she could see was a little boy who had to be a man. She had known and he had known that this was their last chance on this earth. And now it had happened, just a boy alone and so far away. I could still see her holding that yellow slip of paper, and her eyes as far away and desolate as they had been that day. Dear God! If I felt like I did, what did she feel like? At last the flood broke and the tears came. I lay prone upon the grass and sobbed _ increasingly. Somehow I was crying for all the mothers in the world who would never throw their arms around that loved form and welcome him home. The grief was too much to bear. SeroNE was patting me on the shoulder, and a voice, kind and gentle, was saying, "Whatever is the matter, Nelly?" It was Bishop Kendell. "Oh, I just can't stand it. I can't stand to think of it." And I told him the whole story. The telegram that had arrived today and all that was behind it. All the other telegrams all over the world! "T know, I know, Nelly. And it is little enough one can do at a time like this, and somehow crying helps the least of it. Why don't you go to the little mother? She has few friends here in this strange town. She needs you." "T will, I will go to her later. 'But what if she hates me?" "She won't hate you. She understood. You know, my dear, you cannot take upon yourself the grief of the whole world. Each must bear his own. Remember in Gethsemane, even our Savior sweat blood at every pore, when he took upon himself the sins and sorrows of the world." "Oh, I know. It isn't that. It's just that I was so happy this morning. Why can't we forget all this grief and heartache, all this tragedy? I want to be happy! Why can't we forget!" "You are not the only one who wants to forget. The whole world is drunk with trying to forget. Forgetting is only a drag for the mind. I can't believe that it is the answer. These boys died that Be Happy, But Remember we might still have our right to the pursuit of happiness. Our Lord and Savior died on the cross that we might have eternal life. But he did not want us to forget. He even instituted the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper that we might always remember, that he did not die in vain. Somehow we have to learn to be happy but remember." As he spoke, the storm within me gradually grew more calm, but, walking back to the office, I felt dull and heavy. How could anyone ever be happy, remembering all the sacrifice and suffering? The work at the office dragged, and it was late before I had finished. I locked the door and walked through the semi-darkness of the outer halls. As I came down the steps and out on to the street there burst upon me one of the most glorious sunsets I have ever known. My tired eyes blinked at the bDrilliance, and it seemed to mock my heavy heart. Slowly the splendor of orange and gold faded and the sky was a clear blue and each fluff of a cloud the most delicate pink, like bows on a baby blanket, I thought absently. The sun had gone to rest, not to be seen again till the dawn of another day. But as each fleecy cloud across the heavens picked up the light and reflected it back with increasing glory, those in the west deepened in color to mauve anc lavender. Slowly, the colors in one part of the sky faded only to linger somewhere else as only an autumn twilight can do. And amid all this beauty of a dying day, my soul groped for an answer. "Be happy, but always remember." 267 We All Work Together Alice H. Ballard m My small ward has a membership of only ninety-eight. I have always felt blessed to live in a small ward which has given me many opportunities to serve. A short time ago my bishop came and asked me to be president of our Relief Society. I tried to say "No," for several reasons. The former presidents had been outstanding, and I felt my inability to carry on as they had done. I had no confidence in my ability to lead. I had served as theology class leader on the stake board for a year, and I felt there might be a conflict. The bishop brushed all my excuses aside. I chose my counselors and we were sustained. My feelings changed. I still felt humble and weak in accepting this responsibility, but deemed it an honor to be counted worthy to receive such a call. I had a feeling of determination to do everything in my power to make a success of this work. Our meeting place is a beautiful rock schoolhouse which is no longer used for that purpose. When our schools were consolidated, our children were sent elsewhere. The school board gave permission for our Relief Society to use the building. The sisters have done an outstanding job furnishing and making it a place of beauty, where we meet. In one corner of our classroom stands a statue of the Prophet Joseph Smith, sculptured by Avard Fairbanks. What could be more appropriate and beautiful than to have this statue of our Prophet? He it was who was inspired to organize Relief Society. I was anxious to have everything in order, before we held our first October meeting. One morning I left home at daylight with the intention of doing a little work, both inside and out. I had been there about ten minutes when another sister came. She had discovered that my car was gone and had guessed my whereabouts, so she came to help. The air was cool and invigorating. An hour soon slipped by and, with a feeling of happiness, we returned home to resume our household duties. Two hours later my phone rang. Our former president asked if she could cut the lawns the rest of the year. I took the keys down to the building so she might have access to electricity. Within a short time, two other sisters came, wanting to help. A kind brother came, bringing his tall ladder. He took our curtains down so that we might clean them. Later he came again and put them up. What a warm, happy feeling it gave me to see their spirit of helpfulness, their interest, love, and devotion for the work. ' I am truly thankful that I belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It gives us all a chance to serve. Through -service, we grow and develop. It matters not what we are called to do. If we put our hearts into. The work and ask for our Heavenly Father's help, we will be successful and happy. 268 ys a Womans Mrs. Lucy Farley, Tooele, Utah, a Navajo woman who was reared in Teec Nos Bass, a small Indian community near Shiprock, New Mexico, is a skilled weaver of rugs which are in great demand. She works at a loom in her home. Her latest rug, which took more than a month to weave, is done in the colorful and intricate ''Yeibichei'' pattern. Lili Kraus, world-famed pianist, born in Budapest, is particularly devoted to the music of Mozart, and plays with "unrivalled artistry" all twenty-five of his piano -concertos, which she describes as having ''a divine serenity... Purity and chastity... Seductive grace and incredible sweetness.'' A renowned soloist in Europe for more than thirty years, her nine concerts in the United States recently were acclaimed as "impeccable Mozart, clean refinement, and intense drama." Catherine Drinker Bowen is the author of a valuable and much-praised study of the framing of the Constitution of the United States. In 'Miracle at Philadelphia'' (May to September 1787), she traces the problems and remarkable achievements of those ''great and dedicated men'' who explored' the "basic problems and _ principles of government" and arrived at understanding and a measure of solution to many great political complexities. ''My aim,'' says Miss Bowen, '"'is to call back the voices, the commonsense, the extraordinary performance." Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Julia Child, who conducts a_ wellknown television cooking school, grew up in Pasadena, California. Through a series of '"'accidental happenings,'' she has become an authority on French cooking and an expert in preparing French cuisine. She studied in Paris under the master chef Max Bugnard and attended a "little cooking theater'' manned by some of the top Parisian patissiers, and cooperated with two women, Simone Beck and _ Louisette Bertholle, in composing a cookbook for Americans. The three women established a cooking school called L'Ecole des Trois Gourmandes, and Julia became an expert translator of the French language. Currently, she _ is rated as one of the most influential cooking teachers in the United States. Dr. Virginia P. Apgar is director of congenital malformations research for the National Foundations March of Dimes for the United States. She is a noted specialist in problems of newborn infants, and is creator of the 'Apgar Score," a fast clinical evaluation to determine a baby's overall condition by checking heart rate, respiration, muscle tone, reflexes, and color. Ellen L. Eggleston is a freight agent for the Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad. She directs and controls shipments in and out of Sugar House station in Salt Lake City, Utah. An important part of her job is_ notifying businesses when their shipments have arrived. She also traces lost car lots and estimates payments on damaged goods. 269 EDITORIAL Volume 54 April 1967 Number 4 W@ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor WB Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Trene C. Lloyd 270 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zetma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling '""He Ils Risen' w ''He is not here: for he is risen, as he said' (Matt. 28:6). This joyous and momentous announcement was made by the angel to Mary Magdalene and other women who had followed the Lord from Galilee, stayed by during the terrible ordeal of the crucifixion, and had come early that first morning of the week to render a loving service. They had waited for the first light of dawn to do a more thorough anointing and embalming of the body with precious oils and spices. Some of them had been present at the burial and had known the haste with which it was necessary for Joseph and Nicodemus to entomb the body of the Lord before the beginning of the Sabbath. Even with the angel's assurance ''Fear not ye," the women ''departed quickly with fear and great joy' and failed to comprehend at that moment the glorious meaning of the words '"'he is risen." Mary Magdalene, following the angel's instruction, hastened to tell the brethren, Simon Peter and "that other disciple, whom Jesus loved,'' who, doubtless, was John, that the body of the Lord was gone from the sepulchre, ''and we know not where they have laid him'' (John 20:2). Peter and John ran to the tomb and, seeing it empty, turned and went away sorrowfully because, as John frankly a states, ''For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead'' (John 20:9). Mary stayed by the tomb and, looking in, perceived two personages in white, sitting at the head and at the feet of where the body had lain. And then Mary turned away and, through her tears, she beheld another Personage who inquired of her, '"'Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?'"' (John 20:15). It was Jesus, her beloved Lord, yet she dod not know him until he spoke her name—''Mary.'' Recognition flooded her being and she, in her ecstatic joy, uttered the worshipful word '"'Rabboni,'' meaning ''Master.'' As she in her reverent love was about to touch him, he said ''Touch me not; for | am not yet ascended to my Father' (John 20:17), and he told her to go and tell the brethren of his resurrection. '"'To a woman, to Mary of Magdala, was given the honor of being the first among mortals to behold a resurrected Soul, and that Soul, the Lord Jesus. To other favored women did the risen Lord next manifest himself, including Mary the mother of Joses, Joanna, and Salome the mother of the apostles James and John'' (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, 13th edition, page 681). To them the angels at the tomb explained the meaning of Christ's teaching concerning his resurrection, and as they hurried toward the city, "Jesus met them, saying, All hail' (Matt. 28:9). They fell down before him and ''held him by the feet and worshipped him." Mary Magdalene and the other women told the story of their experiences to the disciples, but the brethren would not yet believe. Not until they saw the resurrected Lord could they grasp the significance of the literal resurrection. Through these women who were first to hear the glorious words ''He is risen,' and through her, who was first to see the resurrected Christ, are all women blessed. Through them are all women given the example of courage, devotion, unwavering faith, and dedication to the work of the Lord. In no greater way has God bespoken his love for his daughters than in permitting them to witness the atoning sacrifice and the resurrection which opened the way for all to return to his presence. The great light of comprehension that dawned in the minds of those women as they saw the reality of the resurrection is the light that may come to us as we seek to know and do his work. L. W. M. 271 Cancer's Warning Signals Act as Radar for the Body V. J. Skutt — 1967 Crusade Chairman ws If every American knew and acted promptly on Cancer's Warning Signals, thousands of lives could be saved and untold suffering prevented each year from cancer. Years of experience have developed evidence that these Warning Signals are part of the body's early warning system—a radar that signals the presence of disease. If any signal appears, and persists for more than two weeks, it should be brought to the attention of a doctor, even if there is no pain. He can determine what it means. Chances are it is not cancer. Or, it may be a precancerous conditicn which can be easily removed and cancer prevented. However, if the signal should be a symptom of cancer, the patient has a much better chance of survival and cure if he heeds the Warning Signal than if he ignores it. This is based on the fact that cancer is among the most curable of the major killing diseases—if it is found early, and treated promptly and properly. However, the patient's responsibility for his own health does not end with the warning signals. Cancer is often a "silent disease' and does not always give an early warning of its presence. Thus, a patient has a better chance of avoiding the disease by not only knowing the warning signals, but by having an annual physical checkup. Thus, the best insurance against cancer is—see your doctor regularly, and learn Cancer's Warning Signals. Unusual bleeding or discharge A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere A sore that does not heal Change in bowel or bladder habits Hoarseness or cough Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing Change in a wart or mole TIS Sum oo These signals do not usually mean cancer, but they are warnings; if one lasts more than two weeks, it is important to go to your doctor. 272 @ The other night we were discussing a story someone wrote about the man who was the only Mister in a town where all the other adults were called Brother or Sister. It took me back to the Verona of my childhood, where there were no Misters at all, only Brothers. And I recalled that there had been one Mrs. In Verona — Mrs. Maysprite, the outsider. I can see Decoration Day in Verona yet. The afternoon before, my chum Lettie and I would take her little brother and sister and my little brother down the creek, across the lane, and into the big field of meadow daisies. We never did traverse the apparently unending extent of that field, nor find out who was its owner., Before my big brother Ren was old enough to help Grandpa with the hard work on the farm, he used to go with us. At the creek, we would get water in the pails we carried. We would cram them full of the yellow-centered white daisies, delicate in appearance but actually very enduring, and return home triumphantly with our important contribution to the success of Decoration Day. The next morning, we used to start off early in Grandpa's surrey, so Grandma, who couldn't walk far, could decorate her father's grave and think about her mother's and sister's graves on the plains. Grandma would tell me, 'Jane, you may decorate my baby girl's grave," and Ren would decorate for Great-uncle Pete. Mother decorated Daddy's grave and helped Grandpa fix his mother's grave with the dainty bleeding hearts and the one white rose he had raised in the house for that purpose. As we finished, we would all help with Grandpa's father's grave. When everything was done, we would go together from one grave to another and admire each other's handiwork. Most of the other people would have come early, too, in their whitetop buggies or surreys, and be well started decorating and chatting. And then here would come Mrs. Maysprite, breezing 273 " April 1967 along in her automobile. She would emerge from the poplar lane, whirl in at the gate, circle practically halfway around the cemetery, and stop over where the bluff looked down the canyon. Her hair would be done high in shining black coils, and she would be wearing something of misty green or lavender. She would get out and, with smoothly coordinated movements, unload her baskets of fresh flowers. And she would begin decorating Mr. Maysprite's grave—for there had been a Mr. Maysprite who died before I could remember—lavishly, with a blanket of lavender lilacs, artistically dotted with designs made of white iris. Her flowers were at the height of their beauty on Decoration Day, because spring came so late in the mountains at Verona. Mosr of us didn't have lilacs, unless one of the luckier sisters who had a bush shared with us. Still, a very few of them made a pretty harmony, dotted among the yellow and white meadow daisies. But we couldn't help occasional envious glances at the profusion of lilacs Mrs. Maysprite had all to herself. And as we glanced slyly at Mrs. Maysprite, we would begin talking a little in low tones about her, and about Mr. Maysprite's odd grave. People would talk about how Mrs. Maysprite thought she was "quite a few," because she could sleep late and then get to the cemetery so fast in her automobile. And about how, when she lived that close to the cemetery, you'd think she'd walk. They would talk about how Mr. Maysprite's headstone was at the east 274 end of his grave instead of properly at the west end, and his head in the grave was, too, and the grave didn't point absolutely in any one of the four directions, anyway, but off toward the canyon. At home, Grandpa told Ren and me that it didn't seem right to criticize a man because of his appreciation for beauty, which had made Mr. Maysprite want to rise up on resurrection morning and look down the canyon he loved, instead of standing up to face the rising sun with the rest of us. Grandpa said Mr. Maysprite used to sit up in bed in that glassed-in porch they had built for him. And he'd watch while the springtime crept slowly up the canyon and he fought his losing battle against the tuberculosis, which had brought him to Verona in the first place, hoping to cure it in our dry climate. Ren, who remembered seeing Mr. Maysprite standing in a doorway once, said he was tall and thin, and looked quite a bit like a blue heron. Grandpa said Mrs. Maysprite did live close enough to the cemetery to walk, but she needed her automobile, if she intended to use all those flowers for just that one grave. He said if she hadn't had an automobile, he would have gone back for her in the surrey after delivering us at the cemetery. But, as it was, she kept to herself and knew how to take care of herself, and she probably thought an automobile was nicer than a surrey, anyway. Long after Ren had quit helping us gather meadow daisies because Grandpa needed his work on the farm, he and his plump pal Spud kept on going Halloweening with us kids. One Halloween those two had made the best ticktacks we had ever heard. The rest of us had cut our jack-o'-lanterns from the little pumpkins Grandpa always brought us from his brother's place in the lower valley. We had already been up to "the north end," and back home to try to scare the folks. When we were starting for ''the south end," we saw a crowd of really big boys coming. We didn't want to meet them, because we knew we'd get our candles blown out and our caps pulled down over our eyes, so we cut across Lettie's folks' back lot into. The lucerne stubble of Grandpa's seventeen-acre field, which joined right onto the end of the cemetery. At Spud's suggestion, we blew out our candles. The moon was bright, anyway, and it would be fun to light them again later. Eerie with shadows in the moonlight, the cemetery loomed ahead beyond the barbed wire fence, interrupting our flight. Looking back, we sensed that most of our precautions were needless; the big boys had evidently headed for "the north end," without even glancing our way. Spud had another suggestion. We could go up and ticktack that Mrs. Maysprite's window. Coming from the direction of the cemetery, out of a clear sky, it would give her a real surprise. We could follow the fence to the poplar lane, follow the lane until we were straight for her house, get up the hill by cutting across West's big strawberry patch, and there we'd be. The Outsider Ren had a still better plan. We could get through the barbed wire fence, cut across the cemetery to the gate, and come out just below the strawberry patch, ready to climb up to Mrs. Maysprite's. Tom, Marj, and Wes, the little kids, were afraid to cross the cemetery in the night, but Ren said, ""Who's afraid with the moonlight clear as day? You can even see West's brick house is red. Besides, there's Spud and me here. And Jane and Lettie are pretty big girls. You told your mothers you were big enough to go with me and Spud. Now come on." In the end they did, insisting on lighting their jack-o'-lanterns first, to supplement the rays of the full moon. We didn't have to pass anywhere near Mr. Maysprite's odd grave, and that was reassuring. But we felt creepy in the cemetery, especially when we came to Brother Tyreed's new headstone. His name had been beautifully cut in the stone in an enlargement of his own fine handwriting: 'Noah Abraham Tyreed." This froze Lettie and me in our tracks, for we had never seen it before, and even Ren admitted thinking it was "kind of gruesome." "I like it," said Spud. "It's sort of personal, like signing your name to the story of your life. I'd like my signature on my headstone." "That's because you're real good in penmanship," said Lettie admiringly. Seeming pleased, Spud walked along beside her, murmuring away about his ideas concerning signatures. He held her jack-o'- 275 April 1967 lantern while she climbed over the locked cemetery gate. Was it really that easy to begin flirting with a boy? I wondered, setting my lantern on the ground and reaching it through the bars after I was over the gate. "You'd better blow out your candles," Ren advised, as we emerged from the poplars into the berry patch. But Tom and Wes thought it was still too spooky, and they might need their lights in a hurry, if we had to run. "Well, hold the jack-o'-lanterns' faces against your stomachs, then," said Ren with annoyance. "And don't one of you come inside Mrs. Maysprite's yard!" We huddled in the field lane beside Mrs. Maysprite's fence, partly hidden from her house by her lilac bushes, while Ren and Spud propped the one half of her back gate open. Looking down the hill we had just climbed, I could see the cemetery and the canyon painted with the soft silver of the moonlight. I thought it really might be the most beautiful view in the world, as Mr. Maysprite had said it was. "There they go for the house," hissed Lettie, clutching my arm. They climbed onto something, probably a big wooden coal chute top, and simultaneously let the kitchen window have the ticktacks. Then they dashed around the corner of the glassed-in porch and hid. The kitchen window blind went up, and Mrs. Maysprite stood gazing out. She was wearing pale blue, and her fingers kept the place in the book in her hand. From between parted curtains, she looked all around, but she didn't seem to spot anyone. 276 She pulled the blind back down. When we saw Spud and Ren going back to the window, Lettie, suddenly bold, dashed into Mrs. Maysprite's yard, and we all followed. This time, at the first clatter of the ticktacks, the kitchen door flew open. Mrs Maysprite stepped out. All of us hit the back gate at once. That is, all but plump Spud and little Marj. Somehow Spud had fallen over Marj in his urgent retreat. He clambered up and fled, while the rest of us halted in consternation, at the bottleneck of the gate. Ren and Mrs. Maysprite converged from opposite directions, running to aid the bewildered, wailing Marj. A we Ren crisply, brushing off Marj's coat and straightening her knit cap. Mrs. Maysprite began picking up the scattered fragments of Marj's_ jack-o'-lantern. "Come back, children," she entreated. "Come back and have some oatmeal cookies." "T'll_ take care of her," said! "We don't care for any," I said in a stilted tone. "Who ever heard of oatmeal cookies?" Lettie said haughtily. "Everybody knows oats is for mush!" "Oats is for horses, too," Mrs. Maysprite remarked mildly. 'But that doesn't make it unsuitable for breakfast cer.... Mush." "Excuse these kids' rude, impolite manners, Mrs. Maysprite," said Ren. "They just don't know any better." Well, I liked that! We'd both be thirteen within the next two months, and Ren had not been fourteen so very long, himself. We had retreated to what we thought was a safe distance down the lane. Accepting a few cookies, Ren joined us. "Say, oatmeal is pretty good in cookies," conceded Spud, as Ren broke off samples for us. "T wonder how she knew that," Lettie remarked, while little Marj said, "It's the raisins makes them taste nice." "Let's put her old gates someplace funny, like up in a lilac bush, or on top of her pump," suggested Spud, when Lettie pointed out that we'd left half of the gate propped open, and someone might bump into it and get hurt. Bur Ren would not have the gates taken down. "We promised the folks we wouldn't do anything that's really mean," he stated. 'And that would be mean, because Mrs. Maysprite doesn't have anyone to help her put them back." Instead, he sent Wes and Tom back to shut the gate. They went most reluctantly, to the amusement of us all. The Outsider Someone else would _ take people's gates down, though, for next morning the news was all over school that Mrs. Maysprite's double gate was hanging over the side door of West's barn, with ropes and pulleys, so it could go up and down just like a portcullis. When we told the folks about that, Grandpa said it was nice the fellows remembered something from their studies in history. He started off with Ren and me along to help take the gate down and return it. But we met two of those big boys carrying it back, so I guessed their folks had the same idea as Grandpa had. It was only the second summer after that Halloween, when the pipe line for the power plant broke in the night, and the washout caused a slide that completely blocked off the road, about two thirds of the way down the canyon. Ren was doing more and more of the farm work, now. The afternoon following the washout, Ren was finishing mowing the seventeen-acre field, and Grandpa, Wes, and I had walked out there to see if the hay had dried enough that Wes could start raking it. The mowing was just finished, when something startled the horses, and somehow Ren, who had mowed for years, got in the way and had practically all of his left foot cut off. Grandpa stopped the horses and hurried to Ren. By then the berry pickers and Brother West were rushing over there. Everyone was trying to think of a way to get Ren to Dr. Browne, with the road all blocked up. Brother West sent someone to his house to phone for Dr. Browne to come right up to the landslide, pre- 277 April 1967 pared to climb over it. Others went to hitch up West's whitetop buggy and take the back seat out. That would be better than the surrey to take Ren in, they decided, and quicker to get, too. Grandpa and Sister West were trying to control the bleeding. And then, we never knew just how, Mrs. Maysprite got the word, but here she came whizzing along the lane in her automobile. She jerked to a stop, threw the little door open, and was under the barbed wire fence and running through the stubble and hay, calling, '""Let me help you! Oh, let me help!" In seconds, Ren was in the back of that automobile with Grandpa and Sister West, and they were leaving to meet the doctor. Wes and I rode the team someone had unhitched, racing for home to hitch up the surrey and take Mother and Grandma to Ren. Ren said afterward that they urged him to lie still and shut his eyes, and let the others take care of him. But every time he opened his eyes he would notice, ever so foolishly, that there was a corner-shaped tear near the shoulder of Mrs. Maysprite's pink gingham housedress. And that her hair, which was partly coiled on top of her head, and partly hanging down her back, had quite a bit of gray in it now. Well, everybody did the very best they could, including Dr. Browne, who clambered over the rocks and mud with his bag. Ren's life and leg were saved. He soon became an expert with his crutches, as we all knew he would, and, eventually, when 278 medical skills were better, he had an artificial foot. From that day on, a mildly warm feeling existed between Mrs. Maysprite and nearly everyone in Verona. At last the children began to let her treat them with her pans of goodies, like the ones she must have been preparing for them on Halloween for years, to no avail. The sisters exchanged recipes and embroidery ideas with her sometimes. Occasionally, one or two accepted a lift in her automobile on the way to the store with eggs to sell. She even helped the Daughters of the Pioneers with the flower arrangements at members' funerals, a couple of times. And the brethren sometimes sent their big boys to clean her irrigation ditch. I should like to be able to say that Mrs. Maysprite was taught the gospel in Verona, and that, eventually, she was baptized. But the fact is that when she grew too old to live alone, her nephew or cousin and his wife came and moved her away somewhere to share their home. I was at college then and had lost track of affairs in Verona, somewhat. I guess none of us ever thought of saying anything to Mrs. Maysprite about religion, for in those days we did not ask the outsider any golden questions. So many years have passed that she has surely been called home by now, but she has never been brought back to Verona to share Mr. Maysprite's burial lot and the direction of his grave. So, when the time comes, Mr. Maysprite will have to rise up and look down the canyon all alone, rejoicing in the confirmation of his firmly abiding belief in the resurrection. But Ren's little wife Marj and I are partners in searching to find out where Mrs. Maysprite went, and all the other necessary facts concerning her and Mr. Maysprite. For their love for each other was true love. And when The Outsider Brother Maysprite has risen and viewed his beloved canyon in its dear reality, and turned to greet the rising sun with the rest of us, he will speed away over the hills to wherever she was buried, and there, in joy, we hope he will claim Sister Maysprite's hand for all eternity. FULL CIRCLE Caro! Lynn Wright | shall close the circle, Grandmother, Whose first half brought You to these mountains. On eight-year-steady legs you walked Beside the wagon, brushing the dust From your mouth with hands that In the night reached out for The dolls you left in Nottingham. Your wide eyes watched the wooden Coffin close over your sister Lucy, A mother's tear frozen on her still face. Fourteen hundred miles of strange night noises And the hurt of a hungry stomach And feet that cried for rest. "But where are we going, Mother?" "To Zion, dear. Hold the blanket tight." "Mother, what is Zion?" "Zion is the pure in heart. Sleep." Did you know, Grandmother, As you laid your daughter in a cradle That she would lay a daughter in a cradle Who would close the circle? This bit of lace you brought from Over the sea will be in my pocket. And | will pray that you are there Among the hosts that go before, Keeping the pillar of fire. |! May have a child who cries out in the night For his own bed in the valley of the Wasatch. He won't understand why there are no trains To travel the fourteen hundred miles. He may turn to me as we lie on the prairie floor. "But where are we going, Mother?" "To build the New Jerusalem. Hold the blanket tight." "But why are we going, Mother?" "Because Christ is there.' Our circle, Grandmother, And Adam's larger circle, too: Eden of Old, Jerusalem anew. Arlene Larsen Bascom Each of us has her own inner. Struggles and personal battles to wage. As we learn that no one is'exempt from problems, and gain some insight into this fact, it seems easier to bear one's own demanding troubles. What comfort comes in knowing that our friends also share the problems of overcoming self, of making the money stretch, of living above physical and health limitations, and of putting first things first. It isn't that we wish difficulties for others, but the comfort comes from knowing that we are not alone in our struggles. In Relief Society testimony meeting as a sister unburdens her feelings, and at the same time expresses gratitude for great blessings, every other sister present is strengthened. Shared burdens become lighter, and spoken gratitude becomes more meaningful. We learn from each other that the best way to overcome any problem is to face it realistically, pray diligently, and work untiringly to change what can be changed, but accepting with a cheerful heart any circumstance which cannot be altered by our own effort or by new attitudes. Many times thoughts exchanged in testimonies or in conversations with friends, will suggest the proper course for us to take, and prayers are answered silently and naturally. It is through our inner struggles that we become stronger—if we recognize that into each life some rain must fall, but also have the assurance that, as the popular song suggests ''though April showers may come your way, they bring the flowers that bloom in May." ACROSS THE WATER Peggy Tangren | knelt in meadow rue Where sunlight, broken by willow leaves, Fell as amber beads on water Earth-sweet and cloud-clean. Cupping my hands into a chalice Around its purity, | lifted it up. Velvet antlered, wet lipped, A deer raised his head. Looking into each other's eyes! N mute communicatioin, ancient as life, We offered water In a primeval sharing. Together we drank Where he was parting the willow And | was kneeling in meadow rue. 280 "And It Shall Be Given You"' s Grandma Watson rocked slowly back and forth, and her fingers plucked nervously at the blue and white rickrack on the hem of her apron, while her eyes seemed to be centered upon a ray of afternoon sunlight that was coming through the open window. From across the room Maurine observed her grandmother's preoccupation. She hasn't heard a word I've said she thought, something is on her mind. "All right, Grandma," Maurine voiced her thoughts, ''what's troubling you?" Grandma sighed deeply, and her eyes still looked away. Sylvia Probst Young "Maurine," she spoke haltingly, "I—I saw Sandy today." Her words seemed to have electrified the room. Maurine's face blanched. "Where?" she asked finally, through tense lips. "She came up to see me this morning," Grandma answered, "and I couldn't believe my eyes. You wouldn't know her, Maurine, she's a ghost of her former self. She's suffered much. It's written all over her face." "IT guess she should have suffered." Resentment, like a deluge, swept over Maurine. ""What did she ever really want from life, Grandma?" she asked hotly. "You know as well as I—the glamor, the glitter—all the things that money could buy, and she was willing to give up everything for it, even her own child." "She made a mistake—a big mistake." Grandma's eyes were turned to Maurine now, and they were filled with gentle compassion. ''But since I've seen her I know that she has paid for it and paid dearly." For a long moment Maurine didn't answer, she was too shaken with emotion, reliving everything all over again. Perhaps it had been the mother in her—the fierce protectiveness of a mother for her own, that had embittered her so much against Sandy. Sandy had come into their lives when Dave was a sophomore in college. A honey-colored blond, with flawless skin, wide, dark eyes, and a perfect figure, Sandy was a beautiful girl by anybody's standards, and it was obvious 281 April 1967 that Dave was in love with her from the start. Maurine had hoped that they wouldn't marry until he was in law school at least, but, by the end of the school year, they were engaged, and during the summer they married. LL seemed to Maurine that two people couldn't have been less alike, but perhaps that had been the thing that had attracted them to each other. Dave, shy and serious-minded, had delighted in Sandy's vivaciousness and her happy-go-lucky ways. Financially, they had had much difficulty. Sandy wanted pretty clothes and the best of everything. She didn't know how to economize. Her job as a stenographer paid well, but Dave held down an eight-hour job, besides going to school, to help meet expenses. Lisa's birth had complicated things. Staying home and caring for the baby was not to Sandy's liking. "1'm not the domestic type," she had told Maurine on several occasions. "T'll be glad when I can go back to work, and besides, we need the money." When Lisa was six weeks old, Sandy found a reliable woman to care for her, and she had gone back to her old job. But trying to keep a home and a job and being a wife and mother were too confining for gay, nineteen-yearold Sandy, and Sandy had grown morbid and rebellious. "I'm sick of sitting home every night," she complained. "It seems as if Dave could get away from his books or from work once in awhile, so we could go someplace." 282 Maurine knew that Sandy was right about that. They needed to go dancing or to a movie once in awhile. They needed to be together more than they were, and she offered to tend the baby whenever they wanted to go. But Dave, who had never been very socially-minded, was always bogged down with studies or with work. It became an issue that often caused harsh words, until, finally, Sandy started going without him. She would leave the baby with Maurine and have an evening out with a friend. No one questioned her going, but then came a day when Sandy didn't come home from work. Maurine could never forget how stricken Dave had looked when he came to her house that night. Admittedly things hadn't been going well with them, but he hadn't dreamed, then, that Sandy would walk out. She had left a letter for him. She couldn't go on sacrificing all of her life. She was tired of working and scrimping and having no fun. She wanted more than that, and so she was going away. He could have the baby she said—he could have everything. Dave's whole world crumpled down around him then. He and the baby moved back with Maurine, and he worked doubly hard, taking extra classes and putting in extra hours on the job. He was quiet and withdrawn. Even Lisa, in whom he had taken so much joy, received little attention from him. They never talked about Sandy, but Maurine knew how deeply Dave had been hurt. He seemed to have lost interest in everything— even living. — Then, in January, he had contracted a bad cold and refused to stay home to doctor it. Quite suddenly it turned to pneumonia, and Dave, low in resistance and will, was not a match for the quick onslaught of the disease. The results were fatal. Involuntarily, Maurine blamed Dave's death on Sandy, and her bitterness toward the girl grew like a nurtured plant. Little Lisa became her whole life, then, and she tried to forget that Sandy existed. But now—Sandy was back. It was unbelievable. "Why?" Maurine heard herself asking, "why did she come back, Grandma? She chose to give up everything." "Yes," Grandma Watson agreed, "she gave up everything because she was too young and immature to cope with the problems her marriage brought. The glamor, the flattery, the attention, that's all Sandy could see and she thrived on it. Running away wasn't the answer, but she didn't realize that until it was too late. "Sandy's been lonely for quite awhile. I guess she's longed to see Lisa, but she had pride, too, and she couldn't come running back, much as she wanted to. But now her grandfather is very ill, so, of course, she came. He's all the family she has, you know." Maurine knew how much Sandy's grandfather had meant to her. He had been to her home with Sandy on several occasions, and she had admired him for his youthful vigor and his outgoing personality. In many ways Sandy and he were much alike. "And Sandy—what did she say "And It Shall Be Given You" about Lisa, Grandma? Does she expect to take her back?" Grandma didn't reply readily. Maurine was so full of bitterness ——her words were like barbs. "She only asked to see her," she said finally. "She is Lisa's mother, in spite of everything." "Yes," Maurine conceded, "she gave her birth—beyond that, what?" The older woman gave no answer, but she rose from her chair instead. "I'd better go," she said slowly. Grandma!" the hardness was suddenly gone from Maurine's voice, as she noticed the droop of Grandma's shoulders and_ the tired look in her eyes. Her grandmother Watson had been mother, counselor, friend, always there when Maurine needed her. She had been a pillar of strength to Maurine when Matt died, when Sandy left, when she lost Dave. "Sit down a minute, Grandma. You can get in touch with Sandy if you want to. She can see Lisa, of course, but that doesn't mean that I have to see her. You can take Lisa over to your place when Sandy comes." "All right, Maurine, if that's the way you want it,' Grandma spoke with resignation, "but it won't bring you peace." Maurine had wanted to ask Grandma what she meant, but just then a little hand pushed open the bedroom door and Lisa came into the room. Her blue eyes were still dreamy from sleep, and her silky blond locks were tousled. She was small for her four years, but quick and alert to everything around her. 283 ™~. "Hi," she said, "I slept for a long time, didn't I?" Maurine smiled warmly. "Yes you did, honey, ever since lunch, and it's three-thirty, now." "Can I put on my shoes and go over to Stacey's?" "TI guess so, for a little while, but don't you want something to eat, first?' "Have we got some cookies left?" "Yes, dear, we have some cookies,' Maurine' exclaimed. "Come in the kitchen and we'll get some milk, too.... Grandma, will you have some cookies and milk?" "T'll bring you some, Grandma," Lisa offered. "'No—no dear, I have to be going now. I'll get in touch with you, Maurine." "T like Grandma Watson, don't you, Dana?" Dana was the way Lisa had first said Grandma, and Dana was the name Maurine was still called. She had never claimed the title of mother. Lisa had been told that her daddy had gone to heaven and her mother was away for awhile. These answers had satisfied the child for the time, although she had wanted to know if her mother was coming back. Now Sandy was back. Maurine sat alone and pondered over it. What did it all mean? Grandma had said that she wouldn't have 284 peace unless she saw Sandy. But why should she? Life had already hurt her too much, and Lisa was all that she had left. Well, there was no need worrying about it, she might as well get her mind on something else. On the sewing machine was a playsuit of Lisa's that needed mending. Maurine picked it up and went out to the patio. A soft wind whispered through the birch tree, and the phlox, tall and graceful beside the back fence, nodded their crimson heads. The loveliness of summer was everywhere. Maurine's eyes followed a wisp of cirrus cloud across the blue sky. Her thoughts turned back to a golden day of long ago. S uppenty, her reverie was interrupted by a cheery "Hello," and her eyes met the smiling eyes of a plump, graying, middle-aged woman. "'Why hello, Jennie," she exclaimed, rising to greet her visitor. '"This is a pleasant surprise. I'm just relaxing out here. Do come and sit down." "Tt is nice and cool out here," the other agreed, "'and you have such a lovely view of the mountains. I brought your Sunday School book back. I was on my way to town, so I thought I'd just drop in and leave it." "Well, Jennie, I planned to come over and pick it up, but I do appreciate your bringing it, so we can visit here." "The world is much too busy," Jennie sighed. "I always mean to do so many things. But I do hope you are feeling better, Maurine." "Oh, I'm fine, now," Maurine assured her. "I just had a touch of asthma, but I did appreciate having you substitute in my class." "And I enjoyed it very much. I wonder if you know how much those young people think of you, Maurine. Teenagers aren't usually too impressed with us oldsters, but you should have heard them talk about you, they're frank, you know. Carrie Sherman voiced the opinion, 'It's not so much what she says, it's the way she lives,' and they all agreed with her. 'Sister Clayson has had a great deal of sorrow in her life, but she has so much courage, and she really lives the gospel just as she teaches it. I don't think she'd ever let anyone down.' How's that for putting you on a pedestal?" "It's far more than I deserve," Maurine answered. "I guess I have them fooled." "Oh, no, you don't fool young people easily. They're quite analytical. But a teacher has a real responsibility." Long after Jennie had gone, Maurine thought about their conversation and long after Lisa was in bed for the night, the words kept coming back to her—"She really lives the gospel—I don't think she'd ever let anyone down —You can't fool young people." But Sandy? What about Sandy? Does one live the gospel with an unforgiving heart? In the gathering darkness, Maurine was alone with her troubled thoughts. On the table beside her lay the Sunday School book, The Life of Christ. She taught the lessons and the class received them. They didn't know, however, that Sandy was home, and that Maurine had refused to see her. They had said she wouldn't let anyone down. "And It Shall Be Given You" They didn't know that she was letting them all down. "You can't fool young people," Jennie had said. Sooner or later, they would find out that their image of her was not true. What good would all of her teaching do then? She picked up the Sunday School book, and her fingers thumbed through its pages. Suddenly, the words from a passage of scripture seemed to gleam out of the darkness. "Ask and it shall be given you...." Grandma Watson had said she wouldn't know peace if she didn't see Sandy, and now she knew that Grandma was right. She needed to ask for strength to have compassion and a truly forgiving heart—strength to be the Latterday Saint that her Sunday School students believed she was. How long she knelt in prayer she didn't know, but when she lay down to rest sleep came gently, and troubled thoughts were gone. Sunlight was coming softly into the room when she awakened. Going to the window, she stopped a moment to drink in the beauty of the sky and the eastern mountains in the morning glow. Peace was living comfortably with oneself. She went to the kitchen and telephoned Grandma Watson. "I'll see Sandy,'' she said. As she turned from the phone, a little girl with golden hair stood in the doorway, her eyes turned to the window. "Look," she said softly, "the light has come back." "Yes, dear,'"' Maurine answered humbly, 'the light has come back." 285 Derwentwater, looking north. On the right is the mountain Skiddaw (3054 feet) with Keswick at its foot, whilst in the distance is seen Bassenthwait Lake. Mabel Jones Gabbott 286 w If you were to ask me where I would like to go some April, I would answer quickly—to the Lake District in England... To walk where William Wordsworth and his sister Dorothy walked; where Coleridge and his son Hartley visited; where Christopher North and Southey wrote and talked of writing. Oh, to be in England there.. The Lake District is a circle, with a radius of fifteen miles from Lake Country, England the central point, largely within the county of Cumberland. It is sometimes called the Lake County, the Lakes, or Lakeland, and includes some of Westmorland and Lancashire Counties. These few hundred square miles contain most of the principal lakes of England. Some lakes have picturesque island groups; some have soft wooded banks; some show an open expanse with steep rockbound shores. Within the circle, beside Windermere, the largest lake, is the highest point in England, Scafell Pike. The mountains are no less beautiful than the lakes, with bold sweeping lines, unbroken by vegetation, often ending in sheer cliffs or crags. At the foot of the mountains are green valley floors and, in the lower parts, lovely woods. Not only in England, but far outside the confines of Great Britain, this Lake Country is known for its remarkable beauty. And here in the midst of the beauty of nature, William Wordsworth founded the Lake School of Poets, and laid down his theories of poetry, which he said had grown out of the soil and substance of the lakes and mountains, and out of the homely lives of the people of Cumberland and Westmorland. When Robert Browning whote, "O to be in England/Now that April's there," I wonder if he was remembering the beautiful Lake District in England. THE MIGHTY OAK AND | Laura M. Gowing Lowestoft, Suffolk, England You are tall and great and strong; You have been here ages, Long before this town began.! Shelter beneath your branches, Lean against your gnarled old frame: And though 1 am nearly three score years and ten, | feel but a child again As | measure Your years, against mine. You, too, must feel the same, When measured against his eternity: For he was, before the world began. 287 288 Tulip Blossoms Don Knight WIND LULLABY Beulah Huish Sadleir Sing to me, spring, With your sun in the sky, A smooth April sonnet Or wind lullaby. Sing of the tulips, Some bowing their heads, Blossoms air-branching And dainty flowered beds. Sing to me, April, While | keep a. Tryst With lavender lilacs In gentle rain mist. Sing of the nesting birds, Make love your theme, Now all is awakened From winter's long dream. | "into 'Every Life Some Rain Must F Fall' | | Hi} Hi} Ian ji Bond NA IA ea | @ It was mid-July when we took a drive through one of Utah's beautiful canyons. As we emerged from the canyon, there before us was a beautiful pastoral scene. It looked peaceful, with cattle and horses idly grazing in green pastures or standing in the shade of the clumps of trees along the banks of the quiet river. As we sped along the new and modern highway, it was such a contrast that I couldn't help thinking, why can't life be like the quiet, peaceful scene we are passing through? But, even as I thought it, I also remembered the words "Into every life some rain must fall." Without the rain and the turbulent rapids of the river somewhere upstream, the lovely, peaceful quiet of this valley, far from the hurry of the city, would not be there to enjoy. So it is with life. Like the land, there are times when things are peaceful and quiet, and we can move slowly along with the stream of things, but not for always. Life isn't designed to be that way. In mortality we are going through the '"'refiner's fire,"' to be tried to see how well we are able to stand up under the trials and pressures of life. Before the river reached the peaceful valley, the land above had to stand up under the wild twisting and turning of the rushing river. In some places the land was like rock and was able to, shall we say, turn the tide. In others, the land was weak, and it was easier just to let the river cut through. We must learn that we must stand firm and learn to withstand the rushing waters of life, never letting our faith falter, even though the trial and heartbreak we may pass through seem more than we can bear. "This, too, shall pass,"' and then we have some of the peace found in the lovely, green valley. Even in the apparently peaceful valley, had we been able to take a closer look, we would have found some undesirable elements. Someone once said "Everyone has a cross to bear, and maybe no one knows of it except the person concerned, nevertheless, it is theirs to bear." More rain seems to fall in the lives of some people. The main thing, however, is to be strong enough in our faith to withstand the floods of despair, disappointment, and hurt that come to us. May we all be able to pass through the trials of life with a stronger faith in God and his goodness to us, because '"'Into every life some rain must fall" to help us appreciate the fact that God is in his heaven and all is well. 289 [| Wilma Boyle Bunker w At the breakfast table one morning, our teenage son brought me up short with the remark, "What's the matter today, has everyone taken grouch pills?" "What do you mean by that?" I asked, with a hint of annoyance in my voice. "Well, I don't know what's happened," he answered, "but it sure is like a morgue around here." "Grouch pills'—'like a morgue'"—these words were quite an indictment for any home. Could it be that I was responsible for this atmosphere? I think I do as well as most of my friends, I rationalized to myself after everyone had left for work or school. I try to be a good mother, keep the house clean, the clothes washed and ironed, cook nutritious meals. Where am I falling short? Am I failing to create for my family a cheerful atmosphere that will radiate beyond the walls of our home? It was then that I decided to try a little secret experiment, a little disguised campaign to improve the situation, and, being a musician, I turned to music as my tool. My strategy was simple. Each morning as I prepared breakfast, put up the lunches, and got my family ready for the day's work, I would deliberately hum a little tune, or quietly sing a song. I was well aware that there would be some days when I just wouldn't feel like any kind of a song, but I was determined to give my experiment a try. Nothing happened for some time, and just as I had about decided that maybe my idea wasn't such a good one after all, the payoff came. When my son left the breakfast table one morning, he said enthusiastically, "Gee, Mom, that was a good breakfast. What's for dinner tonight?" and he went out of the door whistling the melody I had had such a struggle to sing that morning. Then my husband remarked, as he picked up the car keys and prepared to leave, "I don't know what's happened, honey, but things seem to be going a lot smoother lately," and he left the house humming the same tune. Maybe my little experiment does work, I said to myself, hardly daring to believe what I had just heard. I quickly cleared the table and washed up the dishes, and then, all of a sudden, grinned sheepishly as I realized that I, too, was unconsciously humming the tune I had sung earlier. "What do you know?" I said aloud this time. "It works both ways. I guess I'm a victim of my own experiment." 290 On Baking Bread Mildred Cook Solury Bread is the symbol of hope, the growth of man, and the hospitality of the home. Today, as always, the art of bread-baking is rewarding, Handling yeast dough is a delight and pure childlike fun. You are dealing with something responsive and warmly alive. As you knead demand it makes on your time. Only a small part of your reward is the bread itself—the most important is the gift of the bread to your family. Place. When the warm loaves of bread come out of the oven, the cycle is complete. As your family enters your kitchen radiantly filled with old-fashioned bread-baking aroma, only then will you realize the deep satisfaction of fulfillment and pleasure. Memories of childhood flash into reality; they recall home—the first shelter, and dreams of hope. MY HANDS Sadie J. Stevens I've just been thinking, and without a doubt, My hands are something to brag about. Not that they're Pretty, but where would | be Without these two hands here in front of me? There's so much they can do, and seldom complain; | can use them and wash and use them again. They never wear out and don't ask much care, And if | ever need them, they're always there. Bless these two hands. Sometimes | need four, But, if!'m willing, they're able— And who could ask more? 291 '''Good Old House"' Verna S. Carter i G ood old house," my mother would say. I can remember as a young girl coming home with my mother from a trip to the store or a visit to a friend, or just from anywhere, my mother would open the door, and as she walked inside she would stop, pat the walls two-or three times and say "good old house." Just that and nothing more, and I would follow her inside, pondering in my young mind why she would do such a strange thing. Our house was not what the neighbors would call a "fancy house," but as Uncle Jim said, it was a comfortable, adjustable house, and one, he would add, that could stretch its seams to accommodate a multitude. I suspect my uncle was referring to the Sunday dinners of mother's specialty, chicken with noodles, and homemade ice cream. 292 Good Old House When father announced "There is always room for one more," I knew my brothers and I would be shifted from the big table to the small one in the corner of the dining room. We didn't mind, as mother always gave us special attention there. As I grew older, my eyes could not detect any great physical changes in our house, but, as I watched my mother continue to pat lovingly the "good old house," I would ask myself, "What made it so?" Was it the getting into fresh, clean-smelling sheets for a peaceful night's rest? The wallpaper that always looked so happy on the kitchen walls? Was it Father? Mother? The comfort of knowing they were there with understanding and love? Was it the family all kneeling together in prayer? (I can hear my father say, "Your turn to say the prayer this morning, Jane.'') Heavenly Father, as I turn the key in thé lock of my own home this day, give me the understanding of my dear mother, that I, too, may build within these walls that goodness of a "good house," and in the minds and hearts of my family the understanding and conviction of my mother, that they, too, may enter and leave their home with a loving pat of "good old house." 4g ) A VISIT HOME Alda L. Brown Go, my pig-tailed darlings, And gather sunbeams from the morn... Go find the country meadows That wait your sandaled feet! Did you know we have baby chicks And kittens in the barn? Things here are all so different From your crowded city street.... Go ride your Grandpa's pony! Climb the trees your Mommy climbed! Send a ship far sailing Way down the meadow stream....! Will show you sky-blue robin's eggs In nests all feather-lined.... And broad warm rocks beside the brook Where you can lie and dream.... Your Mom and! Will chat awhile— And get the day's work done.. 293 mI 'he Patient Soul Rose A. Openshaw w The patient, unhurried soul is the approachable one, the inspired and inspiring. '"Always," someone philosophizes, "the highest culture springs from the patient heart!" Calmness and composure carry the hallmarks of exalted beauty, ever they are idealized, looked up to, admired. But what returm does one ever derive from impatience? Many can attest to the weight it breeds in the heart, the heaviness and sorrow, the unending despair. Due to it, loved ones often become separated for life—too often, too, for eternity. Sharp and evil its barbs are. Under the baleful influence of impatience, individuals stumble and fall. Impatience paves the way for despondency and is the forerunner of tragedy. Comeliness of face, with love and hope, melt away before its presence, bankrupting security. It is far too expensive for any mortal to invest in. Wherever it exists, whether in old or young, it is proof that that individual has not yet attained to a full maturity. Impatience darkens the vision, narrows the horizon, and always is branded with the weakling stamp of the novice. As opposed to this, patience wears the decoration of myriad graces. Forbearance and kindness, with cheerfulness, charity, and the cherishing of ideals shine there; always present is wisdom. Finding a patient individual is like finding hyacinths in the desert, where only thorns flourish. Bequeathing patience through example is infinitely more to be desired than bequeathing gold and rubies. Patience will endure, passing itself down through time's corridor unto the latest and last generation; whereas wealth, too often, is squandered, lost, or may become a source of evil and regret. He who controls his tongue, declares James (James 3), in effect, can control the whole being, even as the body of a horse is controlled by so simple a device as a bit in its mouth. And how beautiful the personality that controls it! Patience is a golden, glistening halo that beautifies, ennobles, endears. Would that we all might wear it! { PATTERN OF BLOSSOMS \ | Aleine M. Young Yesterday the apple blossoms Made my lawn all white. Today, it's falling snowflakes, And it's really quite a sight To see the crimson tulips And the blossoms on the trees Snuggled down in snowy crystals— Spring is really quite a tease. "Z 294 CHILD'S WORLD Ethel Jacobson She sits on her little haunches like a chipmunk, Studying the ground Where she has found— A leaf? A ladybird? A caterpillar, furred? A beetle spotted like a domino? A globe of dandelion fluff to blow? A pearl-pale Horned snail? A polished violet pebble—treasures |, Unnoticing, pass by? She flings herself down wherever she may be— On her straight small back In a haystack, In a daisy field, on A dew-sprigged lawn, A sandy ledge, A stream's reedy edge— Watching a playful young breeze puff Clouds like dandelion fluff Across a blue immensity That |, preoccupied, seldom see. It helps to be under seven To be closer to earth, God's earth, and to his heaven. Sense of Wonder Nancy M. Armstrong Children are always curious about the world they live in. Because of this curiosity, a child's world is fresh, new, beautiful, full of wonder and exhilaration. Why, as we grow older, do we allow ourselves to become so matter-of-fact, so take-it-for-granted, so unimaginative, so lacking in enthusiasm, when, to keep the world exciting, we need only to retain or recapture our sense of wonder? Lack of wonder diminishes life, and we come to believe we could find excitement and beauty in some distant or different place only to discover that what we bring we find. The wonder and beauty must come from within. A sense of wonder gives us a lasting love affair with life by enlarging it. It teaches us to reach for adventure by keeping us curious about life. It is a splendid antidote against boredom for it brings novélty to commonplace experiences and glamor to our immediate surroundings. Wonder contains elements of beauty, astonishment, and appreciation. We can live in a world of radiant freshness, filled with surprises and have our hearts full of gratitude to God for his creation by keeping alive our childlike sense of wonder. 295 } > 5 onl | AAIMAA hs TTAKANRT f LAURE aa Anna Molenaar N Napier, New Zealand BANANA STEAMED PUDDING 3 oz. Butter 14 tsp. Baking soda 3 oz. Sugar 1 tbsp. Boiling milk 1 egg 4 oz. Flour 1 banana, mashed 14 tsp. Baking powder Lemon Sauce Juice 1 lemon 1 c. Water 1 tbsp. Honey 1 dessert spoon cornflour 34, Cc. Sugar (cornstarch) Cream butter and sugar, add egg, mashed banana, the soda dissolved in boiling milk, lastly add flour and baking powder. Put into greased bowl. Cover, steam 114 hours. Sauce Heat lemon juice, sugar, honey, and water. Thicken with cornflour (cornstarch). Delicious. Serves 6. APRICOT CAKE 1 c. Dried apricots, cut in thin slices 3 eggs 1 c. Boiling water 8 oz. Flour 6 oz. Butter 34 tsp. Baking powder 6 oz. Sugar Pour boiling water over the apricots and let stand while mixing cake. Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Add eggs, beating well after each individual addition. Drain apricots and reserve fluid. Mix the fruit into creamed mixture, then fold in sifted flour. Measure the liquid from apricots and take 14 cup of it and dissolve the soda in this liquid. Blend thoroughly into the batter. Pour into well-greased and papered tin 8" square. Bake at 350° for 55 minutes. When cold, ice with orange icing: 1 cup icing mix (powdered sugar) mixed with orange juice to desired consistency. Decorate with grated orange rind. MEAT LOAF 1 Ib. Minced beef (hamburger) 1 onion, finely chopped 14 |b. Bacon 1 tsp. Salt 21% inch slices of bread 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1% c. Milk 1 tbsp. Tomato sauce 2. Eggs Finely cut bacon and mix with beef. Soak bread in milk and add seasonings. Then stir in soaked bread and beat until the mixture is even in consistency. Grease ring tin. Pack in meat mixture, bake in 350° oven for one hour. Turn onto plate 5 to 10 minutes later. Add vegetables in center. Sauce: 1 tin mushroom soup, 14 pint water, Worcestershire sauce, tomato sauce. Heat together. 296 TO MY DANISH GRANDMOTHER Julene J. Cushing This has always puzzled me— Just how much is a '"'pinch''? These recipes of dear Grandma's Surely are no cinch. A "snip" of this, a 'dab' of that, A "tump'' of something else, Then "beat it for a little while,'' Or, ''stir until it melts." | have to be a wizard to Decipher what she meant By all these strange proportions In her cookbook, worn and bent. "How much nutmeg in the doughnuts?" Grandma wouldn't flinch As she said, with twinkling eyes, "Oh; just about a pinch." There must have been in her wise head A measuring device That told her just how much to use Of sugar, salt, and spice. HURRY Wilma Boyle Bunker Too many of us are hurrying our days away. Involved in many activities, we dash breathlessly from one appointment to another, from one task to the next, constantly trying to beat a deadline. Our only aim, it seems, is to get the present commitment out of the way so that we can begin another. We find ourselves saying, "If I can just get through this week"; but next week comes and we are still going at top speed. Life is too precious to shorten it with hurry. To overload our days with more than we can handle is a poor substitute for contentment. To be smothered with unfinished work is frustrating and exhausting. And the strange part about all this is that we don't have to do it. We are master of at least some of our own time; we fashion many of the procedures of our own way of living. We can either burn up the hours with rush and flurried haste, or be wise enough to enjoy days that are busy and challenging, yet serene. Calm, and far more satisfying. 297 FLOWERS INSIDE AND OUT Sarah E. Allsworth Peterson, Sebastopol, California, is an artistic and experienced gardener. Her yard is a delight to friends and neighbors, with whom she willingly shares her plants and her extensive knowledge of growing things. Roses, fuchsias, chrysanthemums, violets, and many other flowers are a profusion of beauty and vigor in her garden, but there is not a spot for a single weed. Her patio is banked with flowers, where neighbors often gather, and where friends come to be uplifted spiritually and emotionally. Sister Peterson's home is an example of neatness and order. A guest never leaves without a jar of jam or jelly, a plant, a vegetable for dinner, and always with a lighter heart. She has worked in the Church all her life in various capacities, having been twice a ward Relief Society president. Now, in her eightieth year, she is still an effective and much-loved visiting teacher, after fifty-eight years in this calling. Last year, at the ward Relief Society bazaar, space was given to Sister Peterson for a plant bar. She made beautiful flower arrangements and unique plantings which added greatly to the interest and financial success of the bazaar. 298 Chapter 3 Synopsis: Nora Blake, having no family ties after the death of her mother, secures a_ schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latterday Saint family. Ws Nora sat at the desk and tried to recall what she had learned at Normal College in regard to the first day of school, but her thoughts were in a turmoil. At the moment, she could not remember much of anything that had taken place in any of her classes. She hoped this was not going to be a permanent situation, and that as she actually got into teaching, her memory would furnish her with the things she would need. "Here is the roll book in the top drawer, Miss Blake," said Ellen. "We have seven children in the first grade, four in the third, and six in the fourth; five in each of the fifth and sixth, and three Hazel M. Thomson in the eighth grade. We don't have any second graders or any in the seventh this year. That's good, isn't it?" Yes, certainly, thought Nora. Six grades would be better than eight. But six grades! It was overwhelming. The textbook supply was much better than she had expected. Each of the older students had a reader, an arithmetic book, and a speller. History and geography books were scarce, only one copy of each on the teacher's desk. Her own books would come in handy when they arrived. She worked for a time on a tentative schedule, realizing that it would require a great deal of changing as she became acquainted with her students, their abilities, and achievements. She would have to feel her way into the classwork and discover which of the grades might be able to work together in some subjects. 299 April 1967 She gathered copies of the textbooks and began to make lesson plans. It was late in the afternoon before she put down her pencil, sat back, and looked at the room. The high,' narrow windows were somewhat unattractive. Flowers would help. Mrs. Shepherd might be able to spare some slips from her geraniums. In the meantime, Nora wondered whether she might find some decorative weeds which might be fashioned into a winter bouquet. She slipped on her boots and coat. There didn't seem to be much of anything growing in the schoolyard, but behind the building she could see some plants sticking out of the snow just beyond the fence a little way. She left Ellen busily cleaning blackboards. The weed was strange to her, but it had a lovely seed pod on it, and a little farther on was a bush with some orange-colored berries on it. She must have some of those. The branches were prickly, but she managed to break off several nice ones. She was about halfway back to the fence before she heard something coming up fast behind her. As she glimpsed it over her shoulder, she started to run. It was the biggest beast she had ever had so near to her. As she ran she saw, on the schoolhouse side of the fence, someone coming. He vaulted the fence and ran toward her, grabbing her hand, and almost dragging her to keep up with his long strides. He pulled her over the fence and down on the other side, just inches ahead of two very long, sharp horns. 300 "What's the matter with you?" cried the man, and Nora became aware of a pair of very blue eyes. He picked up his hat now, from where it had fallen as he jumped the fence, and placed it on his dark red hair. Suddenly Nora felt very weak. The man grabbed her shoulders, and she wasn't certain whether he meant to keep her from falling or whether he had half a notion to shake her. From his tone, it was most likely the latter. "Didn't anyone warn you not to go over that fence?" he asked. "No," said Nora faintly. "It was so near! That cow came so "Cow!" The man threw back his head and roared with laughter. ""Now Pete Johnson wouldn't like that. He wouldn't like that at all, him going to all the trouble and expense of making a trip to Sanpete County to get that prize bull." He stopped laughing as suddenly as he had begun. "By the way," he said, "I'm Jed Oliver—Ben's brother. Well, not really his brother, but just the same as." Nora looked at the tall, hand- some man before her, thinking it no wonder that Ben idolized him. "I don't know how to thank you" she said. "I guess you know that you saved my life." "TI wish I had come by sooner and stopped you before you crossed the fence, but you were already in the field before I rode past and, saw you. I wasn't right certain this horse would wait for me, when I didn't take time to tie him, but I knew I had to get to you as fast as I could." Nora noted a look of real concern in the blue eyes. It gave her an unusual tingling kind of feeling. Then, in a very brief moment, the expression had left his face, and Jed Oliver had become very matter-of-fact. "Yl be getting along, now. I had bishopric meeting last night and left Ben the chores. I don't want to leave all the milking to him again tonight." "Ben spoke of you during our drive from the station," Nora said. "He thinks you're rather wonderful." Jed seemed pleased at her statement, but at a loss for an answer. Nora continued, "I should meet all the students' parents as soon as I can. I suppose meeting you is the same as meeting Ben's father." "No," answered Jed slowly, "it's not the same. Not the same at all. Ben's father was the wisest, kindest, smartest—well, just the finest man I have ever known, and the best friend anyone could hope to have." "He'd probably be saying the same things about you," said Nora, "if the situation were reversed." The Golden Chain Jed Oliver shook his head. "No," he answered. "He couldn't and be honest, and he would never have been anything else. It seemed as though he knew everything, while I... I just...." He stopped, and Nora felt that he had already said more than he had intended. She did not pursue the subject. "YT truly want to thank you," she said, looking down at the little bundle of branches and weeds she still clutched in her hand, that had been the cause of her narrow escape. But Jed Oliver didn't answer. He seemed to have retreated to somewhere far within himself. Nora felt a curiously cold change in his manner. With scarcely a nod he left her and walked toward his horse. The animal had not moved, and stood patiently at the hitching post, perhaps thinking he was tied. Jed picked up the rein he had dropped in such haste a short time before, put a foot in the stirrup, and swung lightly to the horse's back. "TI suppose the bishop will be coming for you?" he asked, as he turned his horse to the south. "No. Oh, he offered to, but I wanted to walk back. I must get used to walking. I can't bother anyone to drive me to school every day. I want to find out how far it really is when I walk it." "Far enough, you'll find in this snow," said Jed. "You can be sure of that." His horse tossed its head, anxious to be going, but still held in check by the reins in Jed's hand. "Here," he said, moving as if to dismount. "I'd better walk and you can ride as far as the Shepherd's on Old Duke." 301 April 1967 Nora stopped him with a movement of her hand. "I couldn't think of it," she said. "You've done quite enough already, and besides, I'm not finished with the work I must get done before Monday morning. Besides, I have Ellen working inside. We will go together." Jed did not argue and, as he rode away, Nora turned and entered the schoolhouse. From inside she watched him take off on a slow lope. She noticed how his body moved with the movements of the horse as if the two were of one piece. The horse's hooves kicked up great swirls of snow, as both horse and rider disappeared from. Sight. Tu first day of school went well for Nora. And so did the second and the third. The days passed and _ lengthened into weeks, and she had never been happier and more contented in her life. True, she was tired by Friday, and glad for the two day respite, but by Saturday afternoon her head was buzzing with ideas and she was eager to get back to the classroom to try them out. Not that there weren't problems. There were plenty of them. Two of the most difficult ones being two of her three eighth graders. Ben was a delight to teach. Joe Pine and Ed Johnson were something else again, both in ability and attitude. Nora won- 'dered, on occasion, why either of them bothered to come. "Why do they keep on coming to school, Ben?" she asked one night, as Ben cleaned the boards before leaving for home. "I'm not sure, Miss Blake," he 302 had answered. Know." "Maybe it's to get out of working at home," said Nora. "They come here and don't choose to work here, either, so I assume that work is a thing that neither of them likes very much." Then, there was Trudy. Her problem was somewhat different from that of the two boys. No, there was nothing lazy about Trudy. She had energy enough and to spare, and did all that was required of her in classwork and always a little more. Nora found that the child had a wonderful talent in her art work, yet never did Trudy neglect her other subjects for her beloved drawing. But toward Nora, Trudy remained cool and, at times, almost hostile. When listening to a child read alone to her, Nora often found herself with an arm around the child's shoulders. Most of the younger children would move close to her and seem more relaxed as the reading continued. Not so with Trudy. If she so much as put her arm across the back of Trudy's chair, the child would wriggle and twist uncomfortably until Nora would remember and move the offending arm. Nora wracked her brain for ways to build a bond of friendship with Trudy, but her efforts seemed to all be doomed to failure. Then an opportunity came. Nora had attended meetings with the Shepherd family regularly since her arrival. On the Sunday before Thanksgiving, she dressed carefully in a blue velvet dress she had made just before coming West. It was a beautiful light color and perhaps the very loveliest dress she had, and "IT really don't Trudy's sense of the artistic did not fail to appreciate it. On this particular Sunday, the child was sitting between Nora and Mrs. Shepherd. During one of the lengthy sermons, Nora felt Trudy's hand sliding back and forth, back and forth, on the dress material, where it spread out on the bench between them. Nora kept her eyes determinedly on the speaker. Then, wishing that she hadn't, even as she did so, Nora allowed her eyes to glance over at Trudy. Quickly Trudy drew her hand away. Instantly Nora regretted having let Trudy know that she was aware of her feeling the dress material. It was one of the very few contacts between the two of them that Trudy had initiated, and again Nora felt that she had failed. I was at the supper table that evening that Bertha Shepherd mentioned the fact that she had been unable to get material enough to make both of her girls a new dress for the holidays. "There'll be enough for Ellen, and, after all, Trudy, she is the older. Ill get. A piece of goods for you just as soon as Brother Long gets some more yard goods in at his store over in Mountain View." Nora watched Trudy and saw the small chin quiver just a trifle. "T don't care!" Trudy declared. "T don't care! I just wish I was a boy!" And she jumped from her chair and ran from the room. Immediately, Nora knew what she must do. It meant sitting up late at nights after the children were in bed and treading Mrs. Shepherd's sewing machine until The Golden Chain a late hour. By Thanksgiving day, Nora had another blue dress, just as lovely as the other one had been, but in a somewhat smaller size. That morning, with delicious aromas following them all the way upstairs, Nora asked Trudy to come with her to her room. Nora took the dress from the closet and spread it out on the bed. Trudy moved close and stared. Then she reached out one hand and touched the dress as she had done in church. "T really brought too many dresses," said Nora. "If you'll move this one into your closet, mine won't be quite so crowded." Nora picked the dress up and placed it in Trudy's arms. "A girl needs a new dress with Thanksgiving and Christmas so near together. After all, you can't help it, that you're not a boy." Trudy stood there holding the dress, her dark eyes shining. "And you can't help it that you're not Miss Amy," she said. Snow had come early in November the day Nora arrived but it was not until the Monday following Thanksgiving that the big blizzard came. The snow swirled in from the northeast and beat against the schoolhouse windows until they were completely covered over. Nora felt a sudden chill in the room. Ben noticed it, too, and got up to put in a lump of coal, together with a stick or two of oak to hurry the slow burning coal along. The next few moments seemed a nightmare. At the time, Nora had no idea what caused it. Ben had filled the water pan on the back of the stove at noon, the 303 April 1967 one Mr. Shepherd had warned her several times about keeping full. There was a huge lid on top of the stovepipe where it curved to enter the north wall. Nora had watched it with some apprehension since the bishop first warned her that, under certain conditions, it could blow off. This was one of those occasions. The lid flew up and hit the ceiling and fell, banging onto the top of the stove and down onto the floor. Soot was blown into every corner of the room. Nora's desk, her dress, her hair, and her face were covered. Tae younger children began to whimper. That is, all except Trudy Shepherd. It would take more than a covering of soot to frighten Trudy. "Look, teacher!" she cried. "We're all black in the face!" Ben, as usual, was her comfort and support. He was at her side in a moment. "Tt's all right, now," he said. "Don't worry about it. 've seen this happen before." "What made it explode, Ben?" she asked. "That's just what I'm wondering," he said. He walked over and picked up the lid and looked at it a long moment. Nora followed him and saw that he was staring at a place on the edge of the lid that looked new and shiny as though the lid had been pried loose. She knew that both she and Ben were thinking of the two boys who were conspicuously absent on this particular day. Outside, the wind was rising, telling of an increase in the fury of the storm. "T'll drive the others home," 304 Ben said. "The storm is getting worse. Then I'll be back as soon as I can to help you clean up." "T'll manage, Ben," she said. "Take the children, but don't worry about coming back. You have your chores to do." There was a mad scramble for coats, mittens, scarves, and boots, while Ben went to hitch up his team. Nora stood at the door and watched the sleigh leave, the children sitting on the hay, tucked under blankets to keep off most of the falling, swirling snow. Nora shut the door against the chilly blast and turned to her desk to survey the damage. Her disappointment was keen. She had tried so hard to win the confidence of both Joe and Ed, and this practical joke was their answer. She dropped down in the chair at her desk, overwhelmed by the task before her. Jed Oliver's words from his sermon of a recent Sunday came to her mind. "What kind of pioneers would we have been?" he had asked. "Most of us here moved in after some houses were already built. We found farms already cleared, and water in the ditches, just waiting to be turned onto the land. I wonder about it, sometimes. Why, I rode in here and had a roof over my head that very first night. I didn't have to rough it, like those who came first. Yes, I wonder. What kind of pioneer I would have made." Suddenly, Nora began to laugh. She laughed until two big tears found their way down her cheeks through the soot. She wiped them away with a smear of her hand as she arose and took the broom from her closet. She had brushed off the desks and had the floor almost swept, when she heard sleigh bells. She thought to herself that Ben had made a quick trip. Now the two of them could finish up the scrubbing. She filled a pail with water from the reservoir on the back of the stove. She stood with her back toward the door as she wrung out a cloth in the soapy water. "You needn't have come back, Ben," she said. '"You have your chores to do." "That's right, Miss Blake," said a deep voice. "Ben has both his chores, and some other things to do. He said he'd be awhile before he could come. But he was so worried about things here at the school that I promised I'd come and see what I could do to help out." Nora's heart skipped a beat as she recognized the voice. As she turned, she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror above the — — eas Cee ee ectertaneremn ste ot IN EP alta ce Ostet cs m Ml The Golden Chain washstand. For the moment, she had forgotten what a sight she was, her face streaked with soot and tears, and her clothes covered. - He better not laugh, she told herself. He just better not! If he does, he'll get this whole bucket, right down on that handsome red head. Doesn't like schoolteachers! Well, here's one he may wish he'd never even seen. He couldn't have known her thoughts, but he came quickly and took the bucket in his own hand. "Let me take that," he said. "T'll wash off the desks while you get some water in the wash basin and do your face. You'll feel better, I'm certain. Then I'll scrub the floor." "Scrub the floor?' Nora did not attempt to conceal her amazement. Even Bishop Shepherd, who could change the baby, wash the dishes, and hang out the wash, had not, to her knowledge, ever scrubbed the floor. "Of course, scrub the floor," repeated Jed, bringing the big mop from the closet. "Who do you think scrubs our floor, mine and Ben's? You think he does everything?" Nora made herself as presentable as she could and helped finish wiping off the desks and seats. Then she helped clean the floor. They were almost finished before Ben returned. Ed Johnson and Joe Pine were with him. "Jed!" exclaimed Ben. "Gosh, I'm glad you made it. It took me longer than I planned. I saw Ed and Joe and we—they—well, we talked, and they decided to come along and help, too." "How thoughtful of you," said 305 April 1967 Nora to the boys, standing just inside the door and looking uncertainly at her. "Here, Ed, you are the tallest. You start on the top windows and Ben and Joe can work on the bottom ones. We'll have things fixed up in no time." Things did seem to be getting fixed up, more things than just the schoolroom. With a little good-natured joking going back and forth, Jed soon seemed to have the two boys actually enjoying their work. Under cover of their bit of fun, Nora motioned to Ben, and in the supply closet she whispered to him. "TY know you didn't find them volunteering to come and help clean up this mess. I know as well as you do who caused it. I wonder whether you ought to try and cover for them." Ben thought a moment. '"'Are you going to tell Bishop Shepherd?" he asked. ''He'd be the one, I guess, 'being President' of the Board,. If you think they have to know." "T'm not sure," answered Nora. "T don't think I will. At least not right away. Let's see how things work out." When the job was done, Nora thanked the boys and the three of them left together, in high spirits. Jed was ready soon after to follow them. As he passed Nora's desk, he paused and ran a big hand over. The row of books she kept on top. "Seems as if the school has more books than it used to have," he said. "These are my own," Nora replied. "And I have some others still in the boxes that Ben brought with the mail last week that I haven't had time to unpack yet. They're right here in the closet. I imagine you have a lot of time in the winter evenings to read. Would you like to borrow some of them?" "No! No! I... Just... That is... No!" He left hurriedly, and Nora, puzzled by his sudden strange behavior, remembered too late that she hadn't even thanked him for scrubbing the schoolroom floor. (To be continued)? GOING — UNAWARE Pearle M. Olsen Too often they go on ahead, alone, Without knowing. Our tardy thoughtfulness. They leave us smarting under pricks, unknown When we let good intention flower From the budding thought; when we profess Affection while they are sensitive To knowledge that someone they love will care When waning strength severs a tie to here And they go on alone, somewhere! Postponing of a timely word and visit Makes weightier the going——unaware! Yy 306 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities ~~, R Bil ts #44 San Leandro Stake (California) Relief Society Board Presents Special Program at Leadership Meeting September 16, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Virginia Basinger, homemaking leader; Louise Palmer, Counselor; Melba Larsen, President; Neva Griggs, Counselor; Ann Sybrowsky, spiritual living class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Woolley, social relations class leader; Elfonda Barker, Magazine representative; Inez Sutton, visiting teacher message leader; Dorisse Coats, chorister; Donna Carter, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Larsen reports: "The theme 'Relief Society, the Key to Happiness,' was introduced by a ladies' trio, singing music especially written for the occasion by President Larsen. Each leader then accepted a golden key and spoke briefly on its use to open the door to a spiritual and cultural life. New courses of study and plans for the year's work were combined with sincere testimonies of the stake Relief Society leaders. We were inspired and challenged to greater service." 307 April 1967 Sunderland Stake (England), Sunderland Ward Bazaar November 26, 1966 Left to right: Mary A. Akenhead, Counselor; Gladys Oates, President; Melba F. May, President, Sunderland Stake Relief Society; Constance Hill, Counselor, Sunderland Ward. Sister May reports: "On November 26th I attended a very fine bazaar held by the Sunderland Ward Relief Society in the Sunderland Stake cultural hall. They had nine stalls carrying out the theme 'Life Is Right.' Each stall displayed a different variety of articles, such as aprons, knit goods, toys, useful gadgets for the home, bakery goods and other foods, needlework, and a special stall for children. "Relief Society is going forward in this part of England. The sisters are looking forward to the Regional British Relief Society Conference in the spring." Nevada Stake, McGill Ward Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Closing Social Program, May 20, 1966 Seated, left to right: Cleo Tidwell, chorister; Eva Holman, accompanist; Gae Christensen, President; Ona Earl, First Counselor; Betty Tidball, Second Counselor. Second row, seated, left to right: Bessie Giles; Ora Blackham; Betty Brunson; Eddis Cottrell; Alma Parry. Third row, standing, left to right: Lula Harris; Linda Bohn; June Sexton; Itha Ahlstrom; Jeanine Abbott. Fourth row, left to right: Vaughnetta Roberts; Belle Timmerman; Evelyn Johnson; Lydia Harris. Margery Tate, President, Nevada Stake Relief Society, reports: "An evening of song, poetry, and colored slides portraying love of nature, home, and country was enjoyed by the Relief Society membership and their husbands at a closing social, and a final function before the division of the ward. The program began with the song 'Thanks Be to God,' and acknowledged the hand of God in all things, and ended with the song "This Land Is Your Land,' as a picture of the flag flying in the sky was shown on the screen." Northern Mexican Mission, Ciudad Acuna Branch (Coahuila, Mexico) Relief Society Bazaar, November 1966 Left to right: Bruna P. De. Lopez; Guadalupe Lopez; Ceilia R. De Diaz, Second Counselor, in charge of homemaking; Antonia E. De Ninez, SecretaryTreasurer; Manuela D. De Leon, President; Virginia S. De Lugo; Dolores de Leon; Maricela Diaz. Pauline M. Green, Supervisor, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Though these sisters are far from the Northern Mexican Mission headquarters and do not receive visits from the mission board, and, probably, do not have more than one visit a year from the district officers, due to the fact they they are about 225 kilometers (approximately 140 miles) distance from the nearest branch (and that over a dirt road), they remain extremely active and enthusiastic, as can be-seen by the quilts and other articles exhibited at their bazaar." Note also the interesting stuffed toys, the floral arrangements on the table, and the lovely corsages the sisters are wearing. 308 April 1967 Australian Mission, Queensland District Relief Society Conference October 23, 1966 Relief Society sisters standing back of the homemaking display, left to right: Fay Little, President, Townsville Branch Relief Society; Margarey Farquaharson, Secretary-Treasurer, Queensland District Relief Society; Hilda Bertrand, President, Mackay Branch Relief Society; Laurine Ensign, Supervisor, Australian Mission Relief Society; Dorothy Tolputt, President, Cairns Branch Relief Society; Nelle Earl, missionary serving in Rockhampton Branch; Lois Jeffery, President, Queensland District Relief Society. Os Sister Ensign reports: "The display items came from all the branches, and were exhibited for the purpose of keeping up the interest in the summer meetings. They include toys, art, Christmas ideas, cards, wreaths, and trees; cushion covers, wall plaques, candle motifs, and paper leis." Cedar West Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Conducts Special Leadership Meeting, August 17, 1966 Four women at the left, left to right: Anne A. Judd, social relations class leader; Anne O. Leavitt, cultural refinement class leader; Iris B. Hafen, spiritual living class leader; Bernella G. Jones, organist. At the right, in front, left to right: LaPriel D. Lunt, President, Cedar West Stake Relief Society; Ione W. Bradshaw, homemaking leader; Hazel B. Davies, Magazine representative. Back row, left to right: Lucretia P. Ashcroft, First Counselor; Ann B. Hansen, Second Counselor; Shirley J. Marchant, visiting teacher message leader; Hilda H. Parry, Secretary-Treasurer; Cora A. Condie, chorister. Sister Lunt reports: "This special meeting was held to encourage and instruct class leaders in good teaching methods and motives. Different phases of involvement teaching were discussed, with stake board members leading out in the various discussions. Sister Hafen spoke on 'Spiritual Preparation,' and stressed the importance of recognizing the fact that our callings are divine. Sister Leavitt discussed 'Thirty Days of Preparation,' in which the steps of prayerful preparation were traced. Sister Judd discussed "Tools for Teaching, in which consideration was given to eleven different teaching methods applicable to Relief Society. Sister Jones, in developing her topic 'You, Too, Can Teach,' emphasized the necessity for living the principles taught, and thereby aiding others in achieving their greatest potential." Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska), Lincoln Ward Opening Social September 29, 1966 Left to right: Jane Grether, President; Patricia Robinson, First Counselor; Alice Beutler, Second Counselor; Grace Hummel, Secretary-Treasurer. Blanche Rawlings, President, Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society, reports: "With the beginning of the fall meetings, the sisters of the Lincoln Ward Relief Society reported their prospects looked fine for a successful and rewarding year. Their opening social was very beautiful and inspiring. Each class leader set a table to represent her department. The displays were artistically arranged, representing a store having many treasures. Each sister was given a small shopping bag to fill with samples. At the end of the line of tables, was a treasure chest of golden keys. Each sister received a key to the treasure to be had by becoming an active member of Relief Society." 310 April 1967 Mount Logan Stake (Utah), River Heights Second Ward Opening Social September 26, 1966 In the picture Helen Andersen represents the "'ticket-taker'" for the travel trip "All Aboard for Relief Society." Relda Jorgensen, President, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The River Heights Second Ward carried out, as their opening social theme, 'All Aboard for Relief Society." Trains and miniature suitcases decorated the tables. A ticket booth was at the entrance. The homemaking leader was the train conductor and acted as program chairman. She introduced different train stops, as each teacher gave interesting highlights into the lessons planned for the year." Yuma Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, October 8, 1966 Standing in the front row, left to right, beginning with the sister at the left behind the podium: Louise Rickter, soloist; Ruth M. Moeller, organist; Wylene S. Slade, chorister; Marjorie C. Pingree, member, General Board of Relief Society; Louise S. Westover, President; Elva B. Fife, First Counselor; Eva N. McGovern, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary A. Butler, Second Counselor. Sister Westover reports: "This was our first Relief Society Conference since the dedication of the Yuma Stake center. The Singing Mothers of our stake come from seven wards and three branches, and many travel 260 miles round trip to participate. Since 1958, when the stake was organized, the number of Singing Mothers has increased from fifty to one hundred. Most of our Relief Societies have fine choruses, and we are especially thrilled when we visit Calexico (Spanish sisters), and the Lamanite Relief Societies, and are pleased to hear their choruses. We are very pleased to have devoted music leaders, and we appreciate the interest and efforts of all the sisters." Mexican Mission Annual Relief Society Convention September 24, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Amparo S. De Medina, Second Counselor, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Natividad R. De Cardoso, First Counselor; Bertha M. De Camacho, President, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Augustin Camacho Tapia, First Counselor, Mexican Mission Presidency; Jasper R. McClellan, President, Mexican Mission; Rula R. McClellan, Supervisor, Mexican Mission Relief Society; Carlos Colorado V., Second Counselor, Mexican Mission Presidency. Standing are the sisters who comprise the boards of the seven districts of the Mexican Mission. Rula R. McClellan, Supervisor, Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "The purpose of this convention was to instruct. The officers of the district boards, and to present and discuss plans relating to the organization and work of Relief Society in the districts. "A play entitled 'Success' was presented. It conveyed a spiritual message of activity and work, and it was really a success. We were able to draw this conclusion from the expressions on the faces of the sisters. We were delighted by the Singing Mothers chorus. At the end of the convention, a lunch was served." 312 ERIE Eig sie shes EUR 8 Bias OER Se eee ee eC Em eM Catt aTy £4 te am 7.. I | be J s§: -. A >. Ima Ne ee ey HOMEMAKING. Development Through WY Homemaking Education aa Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion 2—Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1967 Southern Hemisphere: December 1967 Objective: To show several ways in which a waistband may be INTRODUCTION The waistline of a skirt is generally finished with a band of self-fabric, an inside belt, or a built-up top. Since the first two are more commonly used, the latter will be omitted in this lesson. Prior to finishing the waistline, the skirt is fitted and all seams are stitched, pressed, edges finished and zipped placket completed. If a separate lining is to be used, it, too, is finished and basted into place at the waistline seam. Waistband—Method A (For cotton skirts using self-fabric for interfacing) Preparation: 1. Cut on grain a lengthwise strip of fabric 4144" wide and 3" longer than waistline measurement. 2. Make a lengthwise fold (toward wrong side) 114" wide. Press. 3. Machine-stitch raw edge of folded section (Figure 1). Attaching to skirt: 1. Connect right side of band (unfolded edge) to wrong side of skirt, placing pin at center front and allowing band to extend from this point beyond front placket opening 1". 2. Divide waist measurement in half. Measure and mark this amount 314 made and applied to the skirt. On the band starting at center front. 3. Pin measured band to center back of skirt. Pin skirt and band at intervals between these two points, distributing skirt ease evenly. 4, Measure amount of band needed on second half of skirt by folding the loose end of band back to the side seam. Mark this amount on the band, then place marked band on seamline of zipper edge, skirt back. Distribute ease and pin at intervals. 5. Repeat step 4 for band and skirt. 6. Sew band to skirt, band side up. Trim and press seams. 7. Fold right sides of band together and stitch across ends. (Front band is stitched straight up from placket line, whereas back band extends one inch or more and is stitched across the end and lower edge of extension.) 8. Turn band right side out. Pin to right side of skirt, top-stitching lower edge to skirt seamline. 9. Press. Sew on hooks and eyes, or finish with a button and buttonhole (Figure 2). Waistband—Method B (For wool skirts, using another fabric for interfacing, such as grosgrain ribbon, hymo, pellon, or taffeta.) * Preparation: 1. Cut a lengthwise strip of fabric approximately 3" wide, with one edge being the selvage. The length should be 3" longer than the waist measurement. Fold -O —. Raw Edge Seam Edge i (Figure 1) (Figure 2) | beng Inside View Seam Allowance + clip. (Figure 4) Fold DINAMO OTT COD DOT. Selvage -O (Figure 3); oN Hand-stitch | _ (Figure 5) (Figure 6) Inside (Figure 7) Outside Outside 315 (Figure 8) (Figure 9) April 1967 2. Press lengthwise fold so that it will be equal to the width of the grosgrain ribbon (or other interfacing used) plus 4%"-—!4" away from selvage edge. The remaining width (54") will be the seam allowance for attaching band to skirt. 3. On selvage side of band, place grosgrain ribbon to wrong side of fabric against fold. Machine-stitch both edges of interfacing to band (Figure 3). An additional row of stitching may be placed-in center if desired. 4. Mark waist measurement along band. Stitch ends with right sides together. On extension end, continue stitching along waistline to point. Where band will be attached to skirt. Clip seam allowance (Figure 4). Front end of band may be _ stitched straight or pointed (Figure 5). Attaching to Skirt: 1. With right sides together, pin band to skirt, allowing the extension to fall in line with the placket on skirt back. 2. Place skirt side down on machine and stitch band to skirt. 3. Grade seam allowances (skirt 14", band 3%".) Press seams toward band. 4. Hand stitch selvage edge of band to stitched seamline, using inside hemming to conceal stitching. Inside Belt: Materials needed: 1 yd. Grosgrain ribbon—%," or 1" wide—pre-shrunk if used on washable fabric 1 yd. Woven edge seam tape—4" wide Preparation: 1. Cut grosgrain ribbon five inches longer than waistline measurement. 2. On one end and on the inside of grosgrain, turn under one inch twice to form a 114" overlap. Stitch into place. 3. Curve grosgrain ribbon to fit waistline, shape properly by steam pressing, taking small darts, or running a temporary ease stitch on top edge. (Optional) On Skirt: 1. Check position of waist seamline. This is approximately 14%" beyond stay-stitching which has already been made 14" from cut edge. 2. Clip down to seamline on skirt front about 1%" over from zipper placket line. Tuck in seam allowance and slip-stitch edges together (Figure 6). 3. Cut seam tape to fit waist measurement. This is to be used as a stay tape. Finishing Waistline: 1. On wrong side of skirt, lap and stitch edge of seam tape to stay-stitching line, easing in skirt fullness. Turn raw edges under at placket line (Figure 7). 2. On right side of skirt, lap top edge of grosgrain ribbon slightly over line where seam tape was stitched, allowing. On one end a 114" overlap at the back placket line and turning under the other end even with the clipped seam of the front placket line. This places the waistband seam allowance between the seam tape and grosgrain ribbon. 3. Baste and check fit, then machinestitch close to edge of grosgrain ribbon (Figure 8). 4. Trim seam allowance so that it doesn't show beyond lower edge of seam tape. 5. Turn belt to inside, rolling upper edge of grosgrain ribbon 3%" below seamline, which now forms the fold. Press. Fasten belt at darts and seams with a hand-stitch (Figure 9). 6. Sew on hooks and eyes. REFLECTION Alverna Manning Allender When |! Met her, | pictured her dressed in cotton, In a humble cotage, baking cookies for fat, rosy babies. Her smile was sunlight reflected on a running brook; The shine and shimmer spilling over into her eyes, The ripple invading her laughter. 316 GUIDE ME Catherine B: Bowles | thank thee, Father, for thy love; For all blesings from above. Help me see my neighbor's need; Help me the hungry sheep to feed. Give me words of consolation To brighten spots of desolation. Give me power to light the way To guide the footsteps gone astray. Always | need the Father's care That | may help another share Many blessings from above, Directing all of us in ways of love. HOW MUCH DO YOU SPEND PER YEAR ON NYLONS? Surveys show active women spend from $25 to $50 per year. You can cut down significantly on this expense that every woman has. We will send you a year's supply (up to 24 pairs) of beautiful 15 denier seamless nylons for just $7.95. Choose from six lovely shades, including white. Millions of pairs sold Nationally advertised Introductory offer Write FASHION SALES COMPANY Box 47 Provo, Utah 84601 NEW SNO WHITE COTTON IDEAL FOR DISHTOWELS Yardage: Unbleached 37" Wide......27¢ Yd. Bleached 35" Wide..........29¢ Yd: Approx. 120 yd. Bolts Squares: Bleached & Hemmed....29¢ each Size 2834" x 36" Packed 50 to bundle SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Wagner Corporation 703 West Second South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Phone: 328-2577 317 AND WE GO WALKING THERE Linnie Fisher Robinson How shall we count the harvest yet to come From words that we speak now as men sow grain; Where grow no common plants for shallow plow, This is a treasured field for sun and rain. For in this plot there springs the whole of life— Our kingdom, if a kingdom yet shall be, Our counterparts to learn, love, act, or die By all we are and all we help them see. Oh, gardeners, the artifice is known That men be found upon this land of stone; The bursting blooms that shake our hearts today Are bounded by an hour and pass away; More swift the leaving—these our treasure Before our tasks are done by God's measure. GREATEST BARGAIN EVER FOR HAWAIIAN TOUR 10 days — $319.00* 17 days — $449.00* April and May This includes air transportation, hotels, sight seeing, neighboring islands Reservations limited——Book early Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah *Includes air trayel from California HEADQUARTERS FOR GOLD LEAF MATERIALS Complete Stocks Substantial Discounts Free Demonstrations Free Instructions De Haan PAINT and WALL PAPER CO. John E. De Haan Owner 2305 Highland Drive in Sugar House Salt Lake City, Utah 466-8641 318 328-8982 485-2444 pe. 7 Escorted a PLEASE SEND INFORMATION CONCERNING YOUR EUROPEAN HIGHLIGHTS TOUR NAME ADDRESS city STATE MURDOCK TRAVEL MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine jis in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring' the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 5.......... 80 5 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR June 16-24 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR June 25-July 8 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 TWO HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City Phone: 466-8723 319 Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 3.........- -60 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 6......... 90 Zone 7.........-1.05 Zone &..........1.20 101 Mrs. Hattie Rushnell Foster Bellville, Ontario, Canada 100 Mre. Anna Abigail Brandon Cain Fairview, Oklahoma Mrs. Martha Jones Jones Provo, Utah 99 Mrs. Olena Maria Peterson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Georgina Francisco Keele Spanish Fork, Utah y Mrs. Mary Ann Limb Young Manti, Utah 9 Mrs. Margaret Roth Anderegge Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menan, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte E. Nielson Dimmick Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Anna Clara Wakley Bloxham Downey, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Chapman Richey Tucson, Arizona 9 Mrs. Liseana Knight Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Amanda Mathild Garns Meadows American Falls, Idaho 93 Mrs. Emma Brown Springville, Utah Mrs. Delphia Knotts Kitzmiller, Maryland Mrs. Alma Watson McGregor Provo, Utah Mrs. Francis Whitlock Payne Chickasha, Oklahoma 320 92 Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ines Estella Fillmore Elmer Payson, Utah Mrs. Susanna McKnight Roberts Caldwell, Idaho Mrs. Nada Kay Kay Mona, Utah Mrs. Annie Smith Combs Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Taylor Flinders Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lettie Saunders Taylor Ferrin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie Naef Merrill Preston, Idaho Mrs. Janet Green Watt Ventura, California Mrs. Sophie Schneider Cundic Midvale, Utah Mrs. Theresia Huy Klein Redwood City, California Mrs. Janet Watt Ventura, California Mrs. Annie Lillie Clark Walker Wellsville, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Lennberg Jenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Helen Hunsaker Allen Tremonton, Utah Mrs. Alta Salisbury Lewis Peoria, Illinois Mrs. Anna Martena Hansen Jensen Jerome, Idaho Mrs. Katherine Howard-Surrey Montreal, Canada Mrs. Amy Fitzgerald Dansie Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Emma Stoker Greenwell Ogden, Utah 'BIBLE LA Directed by: Truman G. Madsen Lynn A McKinlay Dates: May 17, 1967 through June 8, 1967 Adult, First-Class Tour = h BYU. Zs cal | TRAVEL L Gy invites you to spend a few quiet 5 moments along the shores: of the Sea of Galilee; to remember the story taught to you 'y = as a youngster as you actually - visit the Cave of Elijah; to walk along the streets of Nazareth and visit Joseph's workshop; to recall the miracles in Cana and Capernaum; to travel the King's Highway of Edom from Moses' time; to read the scriptures as you visit the places; where they were written—a ' through Jerusalem to Damascus with experienced, spiritual directors. A eo Soo Oo~ Tox J \ d [ Brigham Young University \ | Please send me a detailed itinerary of your Bible | | Lands Tour. | | IGT eee | |! 7X0 [6] ¢-\ | \ Ot) ee State Zip _ ) \ ~~ — A Department of Travel Study | Provo, Utah 84601 comprehensive tour from Egypt | l =o ne: Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Books tor Relief Society Members Two worthwhile volumes of special interest to Latter-day Saint Women THE ART OF HOMEMAKING $3.95 (Revised and enlarged) by Daryl Hoole Much new material to supplement the wealth of, information found in the first edition. Many beautiful new illustrations and photographs. Sister Hoole has responded to many requests for additional hints and explanations of the varied tasks of a good homemaker. MARY FIELDING SMITH $4.95 Daughter of Britain by Don C. Corbett An invigorating biography of the widow of Hyrum Smith—a talented, determined, faithful woman of tremendous character. Singlehandedly she brought her children across the plains that they might grow up in Zion to be of service to the Lord. An inspiration to every L. D. S. Mother. EecaseeecscencccoceCER C CSCS SOSH EEEOHE EEE OE EE EH OEM EEEeTESEEEEEEEHBEEECHOHESES WRITE NOW DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me: [] MARY FIELDING SMITH (] THE ART OF HOMEMAKING 4 EAST SO. Ins eat iG CORSE ED MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 777 SQ. MAIN ST, ORANGE. CALIFORNIA I enclose a check/money order for total amount of $2... Eee eeeeeeeeeeee Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake must add 3%% sales tax. California residents ordering from Orange must add 4% sales tax. Or, bill my established account [J NAME.....___..----csceccccecsncececenessceenaneconeceaesessecareceaesesassnens1esel=722 fetes pon EnDEEE enone ADDRESS. 200... Ococ cece cece cece ccc e cece cece cetecenceeceneecenssecesenecanssessenenenensuaesenesecsteneeseneenseseenseneotes CY STATE... ZIP.......-----2--+- OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT NOW! Send for information. R. S. April 67 The S w Ke) w % B) 4) A 0 ® () 0 ¢) 9 2. and, Oregon - 9, Tra b othy J. Roberts ~ 5 Li in F or by Deseret News Pres In the Solitudes, impanogos, Utah Photograph by Ha e ", Dick Scopes Mary Scopes ae eee 5 ane ie a: i, es x ) -: ' ¢ f. ¥ - Aa, Out of our little golden book each month have come to me wisdom and strength in guiding our family to adulthood, and I am pleased at the interest displayed by all our seven girls and seven daughters-in-law in Relief Society work, now they have homes and fam-— ilies of their own. Irene T. Fletcher Utah 1966 Mother of the Year Logan, Utah | have received with a great deal of happiness The Relief Society Magazine printed in my native tongue. It is a source of great inspiration to me, because of its messages, lessons, and poetry. It is truly an inspiration to receive the lovely words in my tongue. Angela Lopez Semi, California! Enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. When this inspiring messenger comes to our home, | pick it up immediately and begin reading it. | read nearly all the articles, and | enjoy the lesson material. | have used selections from the Magazine in presentations | have made when | have visited wards as a member of the stake high council. | definitely feel that every home in the Church should have the Magazine in it. |] cannot see how a mother, young or older, can effectively function in the Relief Society program without the Magazine. We love it and appreciate its blessings in our home. Levern M. Hansen Los Angeles, California | treasure each issue of the Magazine, for its beautiful pictures, poems, articles, stories, and recipes. In the October issue, 1 especially enjoyed the story ''The Good Samaritan" by Becky Dawn Wood. Marjorie Schmidt Paso Robles, California 322 | am a missionary in the Canadian Mission. My companion and | have just come home for the night, and for an "end-of-the-day" treat picked up the January 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and have just finished reading '"'For Barbara With Love,"' first prize story by Evelyn Vesterfelt. | wish | could express the feeling | had upon reading this story. | can hardly wait to go tracting tomorrow—perhaps there is another ''Barbara" waiting for us. We love to order the Magazine as a baptismal gift for sisters coming into the Church, and the missionaries find the Magazine a great tool in their work, for it gives the investigators a beautiful insight into the scope of the Church. Linda Marx Ottawa, Ontario Canada The Relief Society Magazine has been such a blessing in our home. | am of Jewish background, and I pray that in the near future to be baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, along with my family. | have a strong and wonderful testimony of the gospel, which grows with every passing day. Mrs. Albert Molling San Jose, California We receive so much vital information and inspiration from our wonderful Magazine. Every page is important. Now we are thrilled and delighted to share with other readers the beautiful work of our ward member Alda L. Brown, who has given so much of her time and talents to our ward Relief Society. We know all who read her poetry will find thoughts of great beauty and value. Lucy H. Spackman, Leah B. Skidmore, and Mary J. Hill Relief Society Presidency Richmond, Utah the Relief Society Magazine _ Volume 54 May 1967 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 324 These Things Endure Alice Colton Smith 329 Literary Contest Announcements 1967 332 A Woman Alone and Home Evening Lila B. Walch 347 Standards of Performance in Visiting Teaching Belle S. Spafford 374 Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 335 Automation Frances C. Yost 341 Until June C. Anderson 365 The Golden Chain—Chapter 4 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 322 From Near and Far 352 Editorial: Timeless Words Vesta P. Crawford 351 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 387 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 400 _ Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 355 Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm Mildred Barthel 358 Sew, Team, Sew' Helen M. Stock 360 We Took an Old Chair Margaret Woods 361 Recipes From Guatemala Maria C. De Illescas 362 Cleaning Up After a Ward Dinner Elaine K. Jones 363 Mincemeat-Oatmeal Drop Cookies Juanita Hebert 364 Handwork Enriches Her Life Lesson Department 394 Homemaking—Summer Months Sewing Course Eleanor Jorgensen Poetry 321 Well of Peace Peggy Tangren The Greatest of These, Carolle Denton 328; In High Country, Ethel Jacobson 331; Mother's Day, Patricia A. Lamb 334; And Now It Is May, Mabel Jones Gabbott 339; First Lullaby, Armora Kent 340; To Be a Sister, Norma Madsen Thomas 350; | Saw Her Face, Christie Lund Coles 354; Desert Home, Enola Chamberlin 357; Winds of Life, Catherine B. Bowles 361; Favorite, Lael W. Hill 373; Sunflowers, Dorothy J. Roberts 386; Bequest, Linnie Fisher Robinson 386; Of the Dark Seed of Joseph, Verna S. Carter 397. These Things Endure Alice Colton Smith Assistant Professor of Soctology, Utah State University. Logan, Utah Membher. General Board of Relief Society ¢ The afternoon sun was mellow hot. Its warmth sent waves of pleasure down my back and bathed the whole world in wellbeing. The horse tossed his head impatiently for a moment and sent the flies buzzing. Then, he returned to cropping the early grass on the ditch bank. I was suspended in a sensation of perfect, low-keyed happiness. There I was on such a perfect, late spring afternoon listening to the two women I loved best, my grandmother and my mother. I wanted time to stand still. My grandmother, her gray hair in a knot on top of her head, 324 sat in her buggy while my mother and I leaned on the garden gate. Although I was not yet eight, I stored in the never-to-be-forgotten area of memory in my brain, those things about which they spoke. 'You are an angel of mercy," my mother said. I looked up. Grandmother's face was wrinkled and her hands were rough from hard work. She an angel? "Oh, pshaw," she said modestly, but at the same time smiled with pleasure. Silently, I had agreed with my mother. I couldn't imagine an angel more beautiful. Enraptured, I followed the story of heroism that my grand- _ mother unfolded. She would not become famous and_ world-renowned because of it, but it lodged unforgettably in onesmall girl's heart. Illness in the middle ~ of the night, a knock at the door in the early morn before the cock crowed, a plea of anguish, a horse and buggy hitched together by lantern light, a ride through the wind and sleet, the soothing voice of hope and rescue, the calming presence—an angel of mercy in a land without hospitals and doctors. There followed tales of babies delivered, of feverish children nursed to health, and of sad times when old friends were laid to rest. This pattern of compassion was etched into my soul that faraway afternoon. Except for that one sentence of commendation, there were no more words of praise given, I think, or expected. The experiences were told as concern for friends and neighbors, what anyone would do under similar circumstances. She loved those people, and they loved her. Was there more to be said? Arm in my life, as my mother often remembered her crippled, nearly bedfast, unmarried friend and always sent her a Christmas dinner; or asked us each fall, as school started, to share our clothes with those less fortunate, the early lesson was reinforced. I do not remember any formal lessons given about the fact that all men are brothers, that each one is his brother's keeper, but I knew about love at an early age, about love and love of one's fellow men. It was a way of life. Then, I married into a family whose mother had taken into her These Things Endure home the homeless, the sick, and the dying, the orphan, thirty-four of them, to nurture, to feed, to clothe, many of them during the depression when bills for food alarmingly mounted, but there _were no complaints from the man and woman who understood what Jesus meant by the brotherhood of man, the relatedness of all human beings to one another. - Unforgettably, indelibly, quietly, and, informally, the women in my life taught me the values and attitudes of the gospel. Men are dying on the battlefield, as I write this, in the agony we call war. There has always been war, or nearly always, if we understand history correctly. Only now more men die than before, more men, women, and children. I have seen tragic poverty in the streets of America, Europe, and in the cities and towns of the Middle East. There has always been poverty, only now astronomical numbers of people are starving and under-privileged. We must cope with problems whose size, enormity, and complexity stagger us. Each day the news reports are full of tales of need, disaster, terror, and horror. Are we becoming deaf to these because we feel helpless; even hopeless, at the size of the world's problems? Did not the Prophet Joseph Smith suggest a reasonable, realistic way to meet these problems of human need when he said, "Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance"? (DHC IV, page 607). What would happen if all the women of the world followed the teachings of the Prophet of God? There would be 325 May 1967 no poor whose needs were unattended, no lonely, confused, or angry strangers, no listressed of whom care was not taken, no widows in want of food or friendship, nor any orphans who wept. When the Prophet gave his advice, did he mean that we should not be concerned for the ills of distant people? I do not believe this. I think he was teaching us a great lesson in concern. It is easy to write a check (hard as it may be to part with our money and send it off so that someone else may exercise care), easier than to take the time out of our busy lives to be thoughtful and concerned for the well-being of those around us. There live in my neighborhood the aged, the sick, widows, the newly orphaned, the distressed, people who are lonely and unhappy, one of whom recently talked of suicide. Strangers also live on my street. Should I not reorganize my life to take care of these first? Everwidening circles of compassionate care could encompass the whole earth. L cannot remember a time when training in music, acquiring outdoor and indoor skills, and learning the joys of reading were not a part of our home. We read as we breathed, naturally, joyfully. To learn was to live. My father read, my mother read, my brother and sisters read, every age was concerned with study and development. Eight or eighty, God had given us a huge program, and part of life was this exciting world of study. It was not until I was past twenty that I realized our home was different in one vital respect. 326 It was our custom to sit at the dinner table an hour or two after dinner 'was finished to talk about the day. Here, Father took the time to tell his young children about what was happening in the Congress of the United States of which he was a member. The politics of the day became vividly real in those sessions, where one could speak his mind freely, asking questions, probing all aspects of life. Here the meanings of the gospel of Jesus Christ were spiritedly discussed and_ their practical applications mulled over. All the world was here for discussion and always related back to our most special concern, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. What a compliment my father and mother paid us as they listened to our opinions as those of valued peers, discussing points of interest with the same passionate concern and courtesy that they did with their most trusted friends. How naturally and informally the gospel was taught to us, as a part of life— not something to be paraded on special occasions and having little relevance to what we did every day. Nearly every night was home night. Consciously or unconsciously, my mother and father were trying to bring up their children "in light and truth" (D&C 93: 40). The role of the mother to teach, to share, to be with, to love her children has always been a part of my mother's life, whether her children were one or fortyone. So, mother flew thousands of miles to visit me and my family when, for one wonderful year, we lived in the land of the Savior. She came so that we might walk together in Gethsemane, glean as Ruth had done in the fields of Boaz, walk the streets of Jerusalem to Calvary, stand on the Mount of Olives, and be together in the land we both learned to love, as she had read the Bible to the family while we sat around the pot-bellied stove on snowy nights when my world was young. One hot, midsummer day as we drove north, the wind from the east dried everything in its path. The brittle weeds rasped against each other. The hills, hazy in the distance, were burned and barren. Our car topped the hill. Below us, harp-shaped and of the deepest blue, lying in its part of the giant cleft that reaches deep into Africa, was the lake about which we had read and dreamed all our lives, Galilee. We were unprepared for the barren world in which it lay, 686 feet below sea level, and for the searing heat. What we were prepared for was the blue, the unbelievable blue of this inland lake called the Sea of Galilee. One of the earliest songs we had sung around our piano was "Galilee, blue Galilee where Jesus loved so much to be." We knew why. Instantly, our hearts and experiences were linked with his in love of this beautiful spot. As we stood, side by side, on the shores of that hallowed sea, my mother and I, I was grateful for the woman who had taught me to love the Lord, who had read to me as a little child the stories of Jesus and his disciples as they fished in these blue waters, of Jesus who walked upon the waves, and of Peter who momentarily faltered, of Jesus feeding the multitudes on one of the These Things Endure hills surrounding Galilee, and of Jesus, after his resurrection, sitting on these very shores so long ago—or was it yesterday?—loving this world and its people, as he told Peter to feed his sheep. Now, together we stood, mother and daughter, teacher and pupil, remembering our Lord, sharing as grown women the miracle of his life, so much of which had been lived by this sea. We live, all of us, in a mobile world. We live in a world of swift change. In the past families sank roots in one part of the world. These roots were an anchor, Now, we move from city to city, from continent to continent. What will bind us together, give us the stability of the past, while helping us to live in the freedom of the present? Can deeply shared experiences, coupled with the love of God and man, help mothers to build into their children a firm testimony and an understanding that will be the deepest root of all? God, as he said in the Doctrine and Covenants that he would, has poured out his spirit on all flesh. One mind can comprehend but a small fraction of what is known. In one brief century, man has escaped his earthbound past. For the first time in history we live only hours from the Sea of Galilee, from India, Argentina, New Zealand. What happens today in Australia affects my world. Tonight, via television, I am with my neighbor's son in Viet Nam. Under the influence of God, suddenly all men are truly neighbors. Moreover, increasingly, we live in cities, away from our kin, where there are not only opportunities for growth, but where 327 May 1967 there are, also, much loneliness and unfriendliness. Family life undergoes great changes. More and more women work. Fathers commute long distances to work, and mothers who stay at home find that they become the primary teachers and disciplinarians of the children. Men and women create new patterns of husband and wife relationships. As man's technology grows, much drudgery of the past vanishes. There is time for creativity and learning as there has never been before. As our world shrinks, our universe expands. We must devise new methods of relating to and loving one another. If we are close to our Father in heaven, new ways of living will emerge, new patterns of family life develop. It will be exciting and satisfying as we find new ways to teach our children the gospel of understanding, love, and compassion. My mother is eighty-eight. The vigorous pace she set in the streets of Jerusalem is no longer possible as she walks with her cane. My grandmother is long dead. Yet amid all that is new, there remains the child at the mother's knee learning the history of God's teaching of man and the enduring values. Mother and grandmother still teach the child the compassion for all men that will some day link us together in love. The mother helps to open the doors for the child that lead to the love of learning. These endure no matter how fast and how great the change. There will always be mothers and grandmothers to help each generation find God. La THE GREATEST OF THESE The depth of thought that we attain, The wisdom of our searching here, The knowledge that we win by faith Are treasures life will hold most dear. The sage who works with questing mind, The brush that paints to please the eye, The poet's meter, word, and rhyme, These are gifts the heart holds high. Yet these are signs along the way That all our gifts are heaven's cost, That learning truth, we learn to love The poor, the lonely, and the lost. To give the hungry more than bread, To ransom captives from their chain, For painter, poet, and the sage These are treasure, gift, and gain. @ Carolle Denton 4 328 Literary Contest Announcements 1966 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually bythe General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest ¢ The Relief Society Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1967. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize...............>$40 Second prize................----..-++--$30 Third prize.....................---------$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem' may be _ submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.). 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. A9 8. A writer who has received the 329 May 1967 first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, considera- ¢ The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1967 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1967. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize.............22.2222222.22------$75 Second prize...................222------$60 Third prize.............0.....2.......---$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1968. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General 330 tion will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15,1967. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Re op Short Story Contest Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each, contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution. And one Relief Society Short Story Contest person who is a recognized writer. In ease of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1967. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Seciety Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 IN HIGH COUNTRY The brisk, rare Crystal air Of timberline is washed and dried, Polished, burnished till it stings Eyes and lungs, so close it brings Shimmering distant cliffs, so near You can see the pines' dark pride— Each cedar spire, each aspen clear. All gleams, lacquered gold, Till sudden thunderheads unfold Awesomely on a granite peak Where all the demons of storm will wreak Their savage furies. Yet as swift, Comes a rift.... Once more the prismed atmosphere, Where all glitters, and far is near, Claims its fortress homeland here Where soaring height Invites the might Of unleashed forces that harry and flail But cannot—in the end—prevail. @ Ethel Jacobson 331 A Woman Alone and Home Evening Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society Sister Anderson was just finishing her spring cleaning. What pleasure she felt as she observed the dust-free walls, freshly waxed floors, shiny furniture, shampooed rugs, and the sparkling windows with their clean curtains. Housecleaning was not the task it had once been when the home was full of little tots with fingers just made to leave spots on windows and furniture, and to draw pictures on walls. Neither was it the same that it had been when these little tots had grown older with their rooms filled with precious collections, making it difficult, at certain ages, even to make your way into their rooms. Jeff was the one who had really made cleaning a problem. She smiled as she stood in the doorway of the room that had once been his and observed its empty orderliness. The room seemed lonely. Perhaps it missed 332 the pictures of Indians, cowboys, and baseball players that had shared space on the walls with pennants from all parts of the country. She remembered airplanes hanging from the ceiling and the dresser drawers stuffed with rock collections, stamp collections, coin collections, and other precious treasures, making it necessary for his clothing to be shoved into the little space that was left. She remembered, too, the times they had tolerated his other interests. The guppies, the turtles, and the goldfish had not been so bad, but she would never forget the year of the white mice! Jeff had not been like the others who outgrew one interest as he grew into another. His just kept multiplying and being added to until his room became a combination of a museum and a zoo. Yes, housecleaning Jeff's room had been a challenge, but one she had always had the courage to face. And with his help and with many compromises, they had usually reached some degree of order. These memories caused Sister Anderson some concern. What had happened to her courage? Why was it she now had one drawer in her immaculate home that was always passed by and left in its happy, cluttered state of confusion? Sister Anderson knew the answer. It was because she was afraid—afraid of memories. For years she had been putting precious things into this huge drawer and murmuring, "Someday I'll go through and organize those things into scrapbooks for the children." Even though her family all had homes of their own, they were still "her children." And she was their mother who had faced the white mice. Surely she could show this same courage now! One morning she took the drawer, emptied its contents onto a big table, and sat down to the task she had been evading. What a day she had! It was not just one of sad memories. True, there were a few tears shed, but, frequently, she could be heard to chuckle as she wiped the tears away. She was amazed at the things she had saved. (Could Jeff have taken after her side of the family?) Most of them reached into the past, but there was one very special memory that also brought thoughts of the present and even the future. It was such a little thing. Just a small piece of notebook paper folded in the center to make it look like a program. On the outside, written in the little-boy A Woman Alone and Home Evening printing of one of the children, it And on the inside PRAYER - By JEFF FAMIty CoUNCIL — DADDY STORIES-GRANDMA Srory - DAO Music -By MIKE PRAVER-BY JOHN EATS - WE HOPE - By MoM How wise her dear husband had been in feeling concern about the training of their children. His work had taken him away from them much of the time, and he felt the need of an anchor to hold his family close to each other and to the Church. He remembered the promise given in 1915 to parents who would be faithful in holding Home Evenings. President Joseph F. Smith had said, "Tf the saints obey this counsel, we promise that great blessings will result. Love at home and obedience to parents will increase. Faith will be developed in the hearts of the youth of Israel, and they will gain power to combat the evil influences and temptations that beset them." Precious experiences had _ fol- - lowed that first Home Evening. She was grateful that her husband had lived long enough to see the promise fulfilled. Surely, love and obedience at home had increased. Faith had developed, and they had been able to combat the evil influences and temptations that had faced them all as they reared their family in a non-Latter-day Saint community. Perhaps the quality of their printed program had improved 333 May 1967 over the years, but nothing could improve the sweet spirit she had felt as they knelt together in their first Home Evening and heard their little son ask the Lord's blessings to be with them that they might "have a happy time together and be good boys." And they had surely been "good boys," with the wisdom to select "good girls" for companions, and they were all rearing "'good children," and being helped through the wonderful Home Evening programs so prayerfully and carefully prepared for all Latter-day Saint families—not just for families with children. Sister Anderson knew: 1. That a woman living alone is a family. 2. That the Home Evening lessons can help her to put God's laws into operation in her everyday living. 3. That all adults in the Church can be helped if they will study the lessons, because none of us is perfect and all should be striving to become better. 4. That the manual suggests that adults concentrate on the assignment each week and see their own spiritual growth. 5. That some adults living alone enjoy studying by themselves. 6. That some find it stimulating to meet in small groups, with others in the neighborhood. 7. That those blessed with children living near may want to meet with them occasionally. 8. That all should follow the counsel of the Church ieaders—be in tune with and a part of the great world-wide program of a weekly Home Evening. 9. That the time to begin is now. 10. That peace and contentment will increase in the lives of those living alone who will follow the counsel of the prophet and set an example for others. Someone has said, ""Don't look back, things are gaining on you." Sister Anderson was glad that she had spent that day looking back, but now it was time to put away her memories and turn her attention to the present, for tonight was her Home Evening. In a flash she recalled the chocolate dessert in the refrigerator she had prepared. She looked over toward her comfortable chair with the Family Home Evening Manual, a sharpened pencil, the scriptures, and a hymn book all at hand, with a scratch pad, all waiting for her opening prayer A and study to begin. MOTHER'S DAY Downy soft, and cuddly, blue as a baby's eyes; She turns the bootee gently and breathes a longing sigh. Under the folds of tissue the other bootee lies, Wetted once by scalding tears—now lovingly tucked away. One withered, faded rosebud, once pink as a baby's toes, Folded into the tissue with the dreams a mother knows. Yesterday is not forgotten, but softened through the years; The wings of love beat steadily and hope replaces tears. She sees him in the sunrise and in the budding rose; She hears him in the lark's song, while in her heart she knows He dwells with prophets, priests, and kings And waits for her to come. @ Patricia A. Lamb Z That while she labors here with common things 0 Grandma Frankum watched the appliance man drive up to her place and park in front of the house. He must be checking the house number, she thought. He's backing up, and into the driveway. Now he's stopping his truck right by the side door. He's coming to the door. Ding! "I haven't ordered anything and don't need anything," Grandma. Frankum murmured, while she hurried to the door. "Does Mrs. Winnifred Frankum live here?" "Yes. I'm Mrs. Frankum." "T have an automatic washer for you, Ma'am." "I didn't order one." "TI forgot." He reached into his vest pocket and withdrew an envelope. "It's a gift." The delivery man smiled and a twinkle came into his eyes. Grandma Frankum could see he oe erate a Frances C. Yost enjoyed his job, being a yeararound Santa Claus. She took the envelope he handed her and withdrew a gift card and silently read the message: Dear Mother, This is the age of automation. The automatic washer is from all of us. It is to lighten your burden, and make life worthwhile. With love from all your children. Grandma Frankum shrugged her shoulders. To the man at the door she said: "Bring it in. You have your job to do, same as anyone else." "Thank you, Ma'am." The delivery man connected the washer with both hot and cold water, as well as the septic tank. He worked rapidly and efficiently. "Tt's all ready for use, Ma'am. Here is a book of directions." Then with a smile, "Your family must love you very much, Mrs. Frankum."' 335 May 1967 "Yes. Yes. I'm sure they do." "Now I can take your conventional washer off your hands, and when I sell it, I'll send you the cash." "No! No! Just let it sit there as it is, thank you. And good day to you, Sir." The delivery man was gone. Grandma Frankum dropped on a stool she had in the utility room. She read the card again. Complete automation will be the downfall of the human race, she thought. And who is carrying a burden? And if you ask me, life's been worth living since the day God placed Adam and Eve in the garden. That is, if a body's a mind to make it so. And who needs an automatic washer? Not I, that's for sure. Granpma Frankum looked from the new automatic washer to her much used conventional type. "As far as I'm concerned, my washer is plenty up-to-date. Anybody who has been around in this old world as long as I, knows how easy it is to wash these days." As she sat on the stool, Grandma Frankum started traveling on memory trails.... "Winnie girl, come help your old Grandma with the clothes baskets. We'll go down to the river and get the washing done." Winnie Kimport had planned to lie on the grass and braid clover blossoms, and just watch the cloud patterns in the blue, blue sky. But her lazy, lovely plans just never worked out. Children were made to fetch and carry, and today was the day to help Grandma Kimport with the washing at the river. "It's only a jump and a step 336 to the river,' Grandma said encouragingly. Winnie, following closely at her heels, counted the steps. There were one thousand nine hundred and three good-sized steps to the river. Winnie's job was largely to fetch and carry. Grandma Kimport took pains with her wash, and her red, bleeding knuckles were proof of it. That they healed from one wash to another was a sheer miracle. When each article was whiter than white, she wrung it out and handed it to Winnie to spread on the rocks by the river bank. A second memory trail led to the many days Winnie helped her mother on washday. It was summer, and the wash could be done outside, which kept the house cool and free from washday steam. The water had to be hauled from the spring, and heated over an open fire in a large caldron. Mother's homemade soap gave forth a lye odor as it bubbled over and through the clothes. Winnie's job was to stir the clothes as they boiled, and, occasionally, raise them high out of the water to inspect the cleanness of the product. Winnie's mother, also, took pride in her wash, and when the clothes were whiter than white, they were dipped out of the boiling water, rinsed in three different cold waters, and hung on the line to dry. One day the clothesline broke. The clothes then had to be gathered from the dusty, dirty ground and redone. It wouldn't have been so bad, but the water from the wash was all poured out. They had had to start hauling water again, and gathering chips for a fire. Summer washdays were' pleasanter than winter even so. In winter, clothes hung on lines from door to door. To walk from room to room was a duck-and-dive process. Then, too, the steam from the drying clothes formed moisture on the windows, which froze solid. A memory trail led Winnifred Frankum to the glorious day in the Kimport family when Papa brought a gas engine home. Its main purpose was to pump the water from the well. But Papa figured out a belt system in which the gas engine could be used to run the washer, both the agitator and the wringer. This device had changed their lives completely. "Mama, Winnie is a big girl now, and I'll leave Burt to help her and they can do the wash for you. That way you can stay in and care for the little ones and get dinner." Papa tumed directly to Winnie, and asked: "Winnie, you do know how to wash, don't you?" "Yes, Papa." Winnie knew how to wash. As long as she could remember she had been helping with the wash. Second-in-command, you might say. Now she was being promoted, commander-in-chief. The gas engine and the belt were a trial, but even so, the Kimports had it lots nicer than most of their neighbors who had to run the agitator and wringer by hand.... "Yes, this is the day of automation,' Grandma Frankum washdays, — Automation said, as she gazed at her new 1967 automatic washer that had just been delivered to her door. __She continued to speak aloud, "T never thought I would live to see the day I had everything I wanted and then some. I don't need this washer anymore than I need a throne to sit on. And if I were of a mind to start using it, I'd be sitting in my living room on a rocking chair throne. I belong out here minding my wash. And what if the automatic doesn't get my clothes whiter than white? Land sakes, my mother and grandmother would turn over in their graves. "The method which I use is to run all the batches through the same water. The automatic method is to run several batches of water through one batch of clothes. It stands to reason a lot more water would be used." Grandma Frankum rubbed her back, as she thought of carrying all that water in buckets from the spring. I calculate the difference in water used in the two methods would do a lot of yard beautification, she thought. An idea popped into Grandma Frankum's head. She must call Seth. Seth was the handyman, the gardener, the caretaker. Seth was handier than a shirt pocket. "Seth, I want you to plant lawn, lots of it, clear down to and through the willow and quaking aspen grove. And while the lawn is growing I want you to build picnic tables and benches. I want them all painted green, my favorite color. A dark forest green, that is. I want enough tables and benches so that my whole family, even down 337 May 1967 to the fourth generation, can sit down and eat together." "Yes, Ma'am!"' No sooner was Seth given a job than he bit his teeth into it. When summer came hot and dry, Grandma Frankum had lawn that was lush and lovely, because she hadn't wasted a mite of water while she was using the automatic washer. She smiled happily as she walked to the grove and saw the fine picnic tables all ready and waiting. The shade was just right, enough to shield a person from the hot rays of the sun, and not dense enough to be chilly. "My family will have a reunion to remember. I can hardly wait for the day." Now the big day Grandma Frankum had looked forward to had arrived—the family reunion. Grandma Frankum's family came from far and near. Sux counted her posterity. There were seven children, four daughters and three sons, and doubling that with marriage made fourteen. There were thirty-one grandchildren, and all but four were married, which made fifty-eight of the third generation. The fourth generation al- _ready numbered twenty-two little folks, and there were good prospects for more.... God had said to multiply and replenish the earth. Grandma Frankum was proud of her posterity. They were all physically well, spiritually sound, and financially progressive. But her granddaughter Karen and her husband John Wilcox had had some setbacks and were 338 struggling to keep their heads above water. Yet they were too independent and proud to accept help of any kind. Now the huge family were gathering at the picnic tables. The family had brought foods of all kinds, and Grandma Frankum had cooked up many surprises. The tables were overburdened with delicious edibles. "You'll have to stay for three days to consume this food," Grandma Frankum laughed hospitably. There was much visiting and songs sung and musical numbers rendered and recitations by the little folks. The day was perfect for everyone. Then Grandma Frankum announced: "It's time for the drawing." "The drawing?" family queried. "Yes, my dears. You sweet generous children gave me a lovely automatic washer. I do appreciate your thoughtfulness. But it is entirely too modern for the entire Grandma." "T beg to differ, Mother. I haven't seen anything you could not operate yet." Jerry Frankum was the youngest of her children. "We agree," they all said. "Why I haven't even cared to try it out. I like my dear conventional washer so much. And when I get too old to operate it, I plan to have laundry service. So don't feel hurt. Now, all in fun, I've put slips of paper in the box, and we'll draw a name for the automatic washer. All right?" "All right!" they all chorused after a doubtful pause. Inwardly, Grandma was happy that they were entering into her game so splendidly. She held up a box and waited for the laughter to subside. "To make this official, we'll" have the littlest tot who is capable, be the one to draw a name from the box. Any volunteers from the little folks?" "Y'm big, Great-grandma."' Grandma Frankum_ unfolded the slip and glanced at the name. "The name on the slip is...." She waited for complete silence. "The name is Karen Wilcox." There followed a round of cheering, and a wave of congratulations to Karen and John. Karen was coming up now. She put her arms around Grandma Frankum, and through tears, said: "Oh, Grandmother, this is the first time in my life that I've been lucky." "Why, Child, you've been lucky since the day you were born. And when I think about it, you were lucky when you lived with the Father in the spirit world, but we won't go into that. I'm glad you got the washer." The young men helped John Automation load the washer into his old station wagon. Then, as the shadows of late afternoon threaded through the willow and aspen trees, the clan started wending their ways homeward. At last Grandma Frankum was alone in the house again. It had been a successful day. Everyone had had a good time. I believe my little gift-giving idea went off real well, she thought. It takes a lot of diplomacy and tact to accept presents... And dispense gifts. And I believe I made a ringer today. Now, there is one little item that I must do before the day closes. I must destroy the names in the drawing box. Grandma Frankum went over to the fireplace. It was too hot for a fire, but a little scrap of paper fire wouldn't heat the house. She turned the box upside down and one by one the folded slips of paper fell into the flame. Grandma Frankum laughed happily, as she saw in her own handwriting, each slip bearing Va Now. AND NOW IT IS MAY... And now it is May, the winter seeds awaken In riotous bloom after the long, long night; Under trees of apricot, the shaken Blossoms spread a carpet, petal-white. The breezes, dewy soft with April's showers, Whisper, ''The growing season has begun,.. Now,'' they whisper, "in these fragrant hours, Bring out your dreams; re-dream them one by one." May is the month of promise, of believing; All that was hoped for can become in May; See how the peonies' red points are cleaving Damp earth and mulch and musty leaves away; May is a month of surety, of knowing Life is an always becoming, and ever-growing. The name Karen Wilcox. @ Mabel Jones Gabbott 339 FIRST LULLABY Lull of the sea and sway of the pine trees, Silence of stars and peace of the sky, Silver of dreams and surge of my heart's love— These shall go into my first lullaby. Lift of the spray and lilt of the songbird, Hush of a prayer and wish of a sigh, Light of my faith in days that are darkest; These shall go into my first lullaby. @ Armoral Kent Willard Luce Gypress and the Ocean near Gualala, Calitornia Until = June C. Anderson ¢ The book said walking was good for her condition, so Evelyn made daily excursions somewhere: to the grocery store for nonfattening specials, downtown for window shopping, over to Connie's for consoling words, or to the park, for herself. Now, five days past the due date, she felt she would be happiest at the park. She had kissed Don goodbye, sending him off to work with the half-hearted promise that she would call him if anything happened. The breakfast dishes had been done, and the house inspected. Convinced that everything was ready for her mother's arrival, Evelyn tied a blue scarf about her hair and reached for the umbrella. When she opened the door, April came filtering through the screen: the patter, the moisture, the peace of spring rain. Evelyn moved cautiously up the stairs of the basement apartment and started down the wet sidewalk. Her senses were alert, as they had always seemed to be during the past nine months. Today, the air was clean with the fragrance of rain and lilacs; a breeze gently moved the lacy green limbs that reached longingly toward the gray sky. When Evelyn turned the corner and began the last two-block stretch 341 May 1967 toward the park, an old woman appeared in the doorway of a small white house and shook a braided rug jerkily. Evelyn could feel the tired eyes upon her, and, suddenly, became conscious of herself as someone else saw her. She smiled toward the house and hurried on. At length, she moved gratefully under the arched gate of the park and into the refuge of the high, trimmed hedges, the flower gardens, and the trees. Little girls were _ sloshing through the puddles that had collected on the sidewalks. Boys, undaunted by the shower, were skipping rocks across the pond. Evelyn looked at the children and thought that soon she would be the mother of one. It would be a boy, of course, because Don said it would. All these months she had looked at little boys, like the blonde tossing the boomerang and jumping back so as not to be hit; or like the one squeaking in his rubber coat down the not-so-slippery slide. A little boy who looks like Don, she thought, a little boy to teach and to love. She paused at the fountain to watch the billowing particles that climbed into the air, and then splashed down onto the lily pads. The wind fanned a mist across her flushed face. ''A boy," she whispered as she looked toward the children. Mornings in the park pass quickly, even on rainy days, and soon the youngsters had gone home for lunch. Evelyn walked slowly to the swings and, finding a dry one, sat down alone. She knew someone would be upset if they saw her sitting there, but it felt good to move back and forward effortlessly, to feel the 342 spring air flowing about her, and to listen to the tall pine trees that made a wall around her and sent a Christmas fragrance into her heart. She felt very much like a child again, with the whole world speaking to her. The rain kept reminding her of something, and, at length, all thoughts began to focus on a childhood day long ago: She was in the sixth grade and wandered down the dripping clean alley behind her parents' home. Houses looked different from the back. Soft green gardens peeked through the fences; raindrops stood on the cherry blossoms; flavor floated in the moist air like steam from a simmering kettle. At the end of the alley, she turned down the hill. Water splashing in the gutter disappeared with twirling, winged maple seeds into the drain on the corner. | took twenty minutes to walk to school, and it was now a quarter to nine, so she started running down Franklin Avenue. Drops pounding against her face reminded her that she had forgotten a scarf. Last year's raincoat and boots were too small, so she didn't worry about them, but her hair bobbed in annoying slick brown curls down her forehead. Occasionally, she didn't jump far enough and puddles sloshed onto her legs. Water running from the terraced lawns trickled down the cement. Trees arching over the street and sidewalk were gypsy arms dancing in the breeze. The sky was gray, and the spring earth wore countless shades of green. The last bell rang when she started up the stone stairs to the playground. Her thin plaid coat flew open, making wings behind her, as she raced across the huge, — deserted schoolyard. Then, suddenly, she was pattering down the hot, dark, disciplined halls and up the stairway. At her classroom door, she took a deep breath and cautiously pushed into the light, trying to sneak into the cloak hall, but Miss Allen had been watching for her. "Evelyn Harris, you're soaked. Take off those shoes and stockings and go comb your hair. I surely hope you're dry before the winner is anounced." She put her shoes on the floor by the radiator, and on the window sill lay the wet, uncomfortable stockings that had slipped down around her ankles. She placed her coat over a vacant desk and went to comb her hair. The purple dress was streaked wet down the front where her coat had flown open. She combed the short wet curls with her fingers and shook the skirt. Why had it rained today? The next hours were days in passing. Evelyn's eyes roamed to the window beside her. Budding leaves pressed against the pane; purple, half-opened iris lined the gray sidewalk below. Rain trickled down the steamed glass. The bell rang and spelling competition began. The clock was continuing quietly from minute to minute, when, at last, the door opened, and the principal's messenger entered. Evelyn blushed and told herself again not to be disappointed. "The second princess," the boy read, "is Beverly Hill. The first princess," he conUntil tinued, '"'is Jeanne Black. And the Queen is Evelyn Anne Harris." Her eyes widened. Smiling, she caught the nearest hand and held tight. The class gathered around; she saw nothing but smiles. Sunshine diffused through the clouds. What a lovely day! Tur lunch bell sounded and children pushed into the corridors. Water from. The steaming windows had collected on the sill and dampened her stockings, so Evelyn pattered down the dry, warm floor barefoot. With her laughing class at the long cafeteria table, she spread out her lunch and was taking the first bite when something dropped on her hair. Reaching up, she picked from the damp locks a piece of orange peel. She looked around. Everyone was eating. A few minutes later something flew against her back and fell to the floor. Grapes. She flung around in time to see children at the nearest table turn innocently back to their meals. Bits of bread came at her and her friends. She put her unfinished sandwich into the sack and slid from her chair. Whispers followed her from the room. "Boy, she sure looks like a queen. A barefoot queen. It must have been the little kids that voted for her. Who else would be that dumb?" In the late afternoon, Evelyn walked home in brittle shoes and dirty stockings. The rain had stopped, but the sky was still gray. She did not run now. Dipping birds glided in silence. Her head was stiff, her lips tight together. The last bit of rain trickled down the gutter; cinders in the alley were almost dry; 343 May 1967 many of the cherry petals had fallen to the new grass. At length, the girl opened the screen door of her home. Without looking up from the ironing, her mother noted the quiet entrance, and asked softly of the girl who leaned by the kitchen door, ""What's the matter, dear, didn't you win?" Evelyn was silent, her head throbbing, and her throat, dry. Before she realized it, she was warm in her mother's arms crying out the words. Soft hands were brushing back her hair. Then all was quiet. She knew her mother would speak, and she listened, safely nestled in the cotton dress. "Sweetheart, there is only one real kind of queen in this world, and that's the queen mother in every good home. No other kind really matters. Someday you will be a real queen. Someday you will hold a little girl in your arms and you will understand what I mean. You'll never know, until then, how much I love you, and how much I'm hurt when you are...." It was strange how clear the recollection was. Every word and feeling was alive, as if Evelyn had actually stepped back into the past and relived her earliest memory of the words that her mother had spoken so often "You'll never know how much I love you, until...."" And Evelyn felt once more the reaction she had each time her mother had said it, "Oh, Mother, I know you love me. I know everything you have done for me. I understand. How can you think I don't, unless you think I'm an_ ungrateful child?" Then once again she could hear her mother's words, 344 "You'll never know how much I love you, until...." The sky was clearing as Evelyn left the park. Blue was beginning to mingle with the parting gray, and sunshine fell in soft beams toward the earth. Birds fluttered from branch to branch singing notes of anticipation to their nests. Some of them soared in the dappled sky, and then floated on unseen breezes between the clouds. Evelyn wasn't the only one noticing the world around her. The children were returning from lunch, and one little boy was running with a huge red kite down the street. A little boy, she thought, as she pondered her mother's words, would be unable to understand the depth of his mother's love. AZA5 [7 had happened so suddenly. Evelyn was waking up in the recovery room after a wonderful deep sleep. It was all over now. She had been exhausted when they wheeled her from the delivery room. They seemed to know, and had let her sleep. She looked at the white ceiling as the thoughts rushed in upon her. How foolish she had been to think it would never be over. Last night she had known, and felt it all begin. She marked each movement, unbelievingly, silently, not knowing whether to wake Don. When she finally did, he took over, rushing around, calling the doctor, trying to hurry her as she moved slowly, wonderingly. And that was all she could clearly remember until the baby's cry. "Is it a boy?" she asked. "No," beamed the doctor, "you have a little girl." "A girl. Oh, a little girl!" she laughed and cried her tears of joy. And still she could see the love and pride in Don's face-as he looked at the little girl who was such a sweet surprise to both of them. "We'll call her Celestia Anne, for our mothers," he whispered. "I realized, while I was waiting, that we hadn't decided on a girl's name. Does it sound all right?" It was perfect, Celestia Anne. The door clicked open. "We're going to move you to your room now," the nurse said pleasantly, "and soon we'll bring your baby to you." Evelyn could feel her old impatience coming on, and tried to think of something to occupy her mind. First her thoughts turned to Don. How was he getting along without her? She was glad her mother would be there tomorrow to look after him—her mother. She could see the brown hair with streaks of silver, and the same sweet face that seemed sweeter with the passing time, and she could hear the words again, "You'll never know how much I love you until...." Evelyn thought she knew now. It must be the beauty of the baby's first cry. How lovely that was. Or maybe it was the happiness she had seen in Don's face. Her parents had shared that many years before, and Evelyn hadn't known. What more could there be except the blessing of 'holding that little girl in her arms, loving her, and caring for her? At last the white ceiling stopped going by, and Evelyn was settled in her room. She tried to fight her impatience, but could -child, not someone else's, Until only watch the ticking minutes until the nurse moved through the door again, and then a little girl was in her arms—her own the first living thing she had ever received. Evelyn knew that she was experiencing something that she could never fully share with anyone. Warmth and love flowed like tears. Toward the helpless infant that lay trustingly in her arms. She fought to clear her thinking —to define for herself, if for no one else—the new feelings that swept over her., Tiny warm fingers were clinging to her own. Fingers, she * > thought, that will grow. What would that tiny hand one day accomplish? Drowsy, dark eyes wandered toward and then away from Evelyn's face. Little eyes that would soon recognize her and Don, and would teach that little body to imitate what they saw. Feet were wiggling. Such small feet that barely reached across Evelyn's palm. Where would those feet carry this little girl? Who was this little one? And then Evelyn realized that Celestia knew nothing now of who she was. She had forgotten. That would be the great task she and 345 May 1967 Don would face. They would have to teach Celestia who she was, and show her how to live so she would remain as pure as possible. Evelyn shuddered as she thought, for the first time, how much it would hurt to see sin, pain, or sorrow touch the little life that slept in her arms, and yet she know it could and must come... All was silent. Evelyn was caught in the rapture of caressing a slumbering child, and as she did, she knew that her little girl could not remember this day and many of the ones to come. She realized that it would be many years before this tiny child would know how much she was cherished and loved. Without being aware that she had ever heard the words before, Evelyn began whispering to the tiny, peaceful face, "You'll never know how much I love you until you have a little one of your own." She caught her breath and wiped her eyes, overcome with a longing to see her mother and tell her how much she hadn't understood, and how much she was beginning to learn. - ® @In the Relief Society sessions of the stake quarterly conferences being conducted during this quarter of the year (1966), emphasis is being placed on the role of Relief Society in exercising watchcare over all Latter-day Saint homes through the visiting teaching program. Particular stress is being placed, also, upon the program as a resource of the bishop in obtaining, through the Relief Society ward president at the ward council meeting, significant information relative to the attitudes, the circumstances, and needs of families as revealed during the visit, particularly where there are inactive or unenrolled Relief Society members. This information becomes of value to the home teachers as they coordinate the efforts of Priesthood quorums and auxSESEsespsesesesesesesesnseeese shay aesese sesh Standard of Performance in Visiting Teaching President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Presidencies Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] rer Crererereremerer cee ce erence} iB iA B e B & B & eB B iliary organizations under the direction of the bishop in activating all family members. As we consider the present intensified effort of the Church in its family-centered gospel program (which is conducted in each ward under the authority of the bishop, with the home teachers as his designated representatives in working with families), the Relief Society visiting teachers, as a reliable source of information obtained through their visits to homes, give to our visiting teaching program a new dimension. From the quarterly conference material I quote: The import of the visiting teacher report imposes upon the visiting teacher the responsibility of exercising extreme care to avoid misjudging the family situation, and to report precisely and factually without bias or exaggeration. It imposes upon the presi- 347 May 1967 dent the responsibility of giving to the report prompt and full consideration, wisely evaluating facts and passing on to the bishop such information as would properly go to him in order that he might have a correct understanding of the family circumstances as a guide for serving it through the Church. This statement suggests that perhaps Relief Society presidents, both ward and stake, might appropriately consider how the standards of visiting teaching might be raised, and whether a more careful evaluation of reports is needed by the visiting teachers and, in turn, by the ward presidents themselves at the ward council meetings. We have given great emphasis to the number of visits made annually to each family. Many wards and many stakes have adopted a "100%" visiting teaching goal. This is creditable and to be encouraged. It now seems that the importance of the visit as an aid in the home teaching program calls for additional attention to be given to the quality of the visit and the precision of the report. In considering sisters to serve as a part of the ward visiting teaching corps, and in aiming toward improved standards of teaching and reporting on the part of the teachers, presidents may find it helpful to examine the qualities that contribute to a good teaching program. The General Board offers a few suggestions as follows: 1. Respect for the office as a Church calling, coupled with a desire to magnify the calling. 2. A firm personal testimony of the gospel. 3. An understanding knowledge of the duties and obligations of the call- 348 ing, together with a willingness to meet these responsibilities. 4. A recognition of the importance of adequate preparation for the visit, both as it relates to the spirit and personal appearance of the teacher, and also as it relates to to her preparation of the visiting teacher message. 5. A strong conviction of the value of Relief Society in the life of a woman gained by the visiting teacher through her regular attendance at Relief Society meetings, and through her participation in Relief Society activities. 6. An appreciation of what it means to go into the home of a sister as an emissary of Relief Society. 7. A sincere interest in the sister visited, and a genuine desire for the well-being of her home. 8. Thoughtful consideration of the most apprcpriate time of the month and day of the week for the visit, as well as conscientious adherence to the recommended length of the visit. 9. The ability to establish rapport with the sister in the home and also to inspire her confidence in her visiting teachers. 10. A recognition of the importance of a listening ear, a seeing eye, and an understanding heart. 11. A recognition of the importance of avoiding any semblance of inquisitiveness or prying. (A realization that the visiting teacher is not called upon to diagnose family circumstances.) 12. A clear understanding that visiting teachers are not authorized to regulate a family, this being a Priesthood function. 18. The power to arrive at sound conclusions as to the attitudes, circumstances, and needs of the family, and the exercise of judgment as to what properly should be reported to the Relief Society president. 14. The ability to refrain from discussing with anyone, other than the Relief Society president, confidential matters revealed during the visit. 15. A cheerful outlook, and the power to create in the sisters an appreciation of the importance and value of being a part of the great Church sisterhood. This is an imposing list of attributes and abilities, but these Standards of Performance in Visiting Teaching are not beyond the reach of those sisters who are properly selected and called to serve as visiting teachers and who will earnestly strive to attain these qualifications. Tens of thousands of Relief Society sisters have demonstrated these virtues and _ abilities. Through the years some of the noblest women of this dispensation have exercised these qualifications as they have visited homes on their assigned districts, month after month. It was such a woman who came to my home as a visiting teacher when I was a very young mother and awakened in me a realization of my need for membership in Relief Society. It was she who opened the doors of my understanding to what Relief Society has to offer to a woman. While there are many sisters with whom most of these qualifications seem almost natural endowments, there are also others who have only the potential, which must be developed. Many of the visiting teachers are capable women with a sincere desire to give high standards of service, but are unaware of the many factors that contribute to effective visiting teaching. The great and important responsibility of creating an awareness of all that is involved in good visiting teaching and of guiding the sisters in the development of their teaching strengths is, in large measure, the responsibility of the ward president. In this responsibility, however, she should receive help from the stake Relief Society president. How may the ward Relief Society president approach these responsibilities? We offer for your consideration a few suggestions along this line—not new, to be sure, but nonetheless basic: 1. Dignify the calling by following the same procedures as are followed in calling any other woman to office in Relief Society: Be prayerful in the selection, and always refer names to the bishop or branch president for approval. 2. In interviewing the sister when she is called, fully explain the duties and obligations of the calling. 3. Know the visiting teachers as individuals. Be mindful of their personalities, special interests, and aptitudes, and what probably will be the general character of their visits. Then acsign them where they are likely to be best received and best able to do good. 4, Give guidance in proper teaching procedures and in making reports of visits, and strengthen the spirit and character of the visit through planned instruction during the time allotted the president in the visiting teacher meeting. 5. Make sure the ward message leader is a well-qualified leader who can help the teachers in an understanding of the message, its purpose, and its effective use in the home. 6. Stand ready to help teachers individually with special situations, troublesome to them, which are encountered in their visits. 7. Allow adequate time for confidential reports. Where a pair of visiting teachers needs guidance with regard to confidential reports, this would be an appropriate time for a president tactfully and skillfully to discuss reporting with them. 8. Keep close to the individual pairs of visiting teachers throughout the year. From time to time, as circumstances dictate, offer them encouragement and guidance in a spirit of love and appreciation for their serivces. 9. Tell them when you hear commendation of their work. Be quick to recognize their successes. For example, a president might say in proposing a sister for membership in Relief Society, '""We are presenting for your vote today the name of Ellen 349 May 1967 Jones as a member of Relief Society. It is through Sisters Martha Brown and Mary White, who are Sister Jones' visiting teachers, that Sister Jones became interested in joining Relief Society." Enthusiasm for the work must be kept up and one's vision of its importance continually broadened just as one's knowledge and skills in relation to performing the duties of the calling must be continually strengthened. The General Board sees valuable help coming from the stake through the presidents department in the leadership meeting as stake presidents keep in mind the needs of ward presidents in this important program. Value is also seen in a stake visiting teacher convention. We think visiting teacher conventions are most successful where the stake people themselves present the program. They know the people within the stake, the general circumstances within the wards, the problems, the needs, and the resources. They are best positioned to be genuinely helpful. Visiting teaching has flourished for almost one and one quarter centuries, because it offers, through the mother organization of the Church, orderly, inspired, needed, Priesthood-guided watchcare and service to our Latterday Saint families. As it takes on new dimensions as an aid in the home teaching program, let us make sure it maintains a reputation for both quality and quantity service. A Fy TO BE A SISTER If clouds of doubt enshroud my heart and! Am sad and blue, my sister turns her smile on me and sends its sunshine through. When earthly ills and troubles become too much to bear, i hear a voice, and raise my eyes— and find my sister there. What does my sister look iike?— Has she golden hair, brown or gray?— Well—yes! And sometimes it is white. And her eyes?——They were blue today. You see, my sister exists in multiple, and every one of her is dear! When | go to Relief Society | find my sister here! My sister is never selfish: She knows | need something to do so sometimes she calls and gives me a chance to be her sister, too! @ Norma Madsen Thomas J 350 "Ys Woman's (i > Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, received a citation from the University of Utah as a '"Distinguished Alumnus" at the Founders Day banquet February 28, 1967, sponsored by the University of Utah Alumni Association. President Spafford was signally honored for her Church and civic service and for her world-wide leadership among women. She was presented a bronze plaque in honor of the distinction awarded to her, the only woman so honored on this occasion. Members of the Cambridge, Massachusetts, Ward Relief Society, under the direction of Laurel Ulrich, have put together a ''thoroughly, wonderfully readable, imaginative, and practical guide to just about everything in and around Boston,'' announced the Boston Globe. The first thousand copies sold out (at $2 apiece) in less than two weeks. Further editions are being printed. Elaine Stevenson Michelsen of Salt Lake City, Utah, by invitation of the Exhibits Committee, displayed nineteen paintings in the marble niches of the art galleries of the new Rockefeller Building in New York City last September and October. The exhibit brochure designates her as an "'artist, lecturer, and teacher of international recognition." She studied at the University of Paris and with German impressionist Oscar Kokoschka, was United States delegate to the International Congress for Education through Art held at the Hague, Holland, in 1957, and collaborated and shared research in the workshop of Habib Gorgi, Chief Inspector of Art of the Egyptian Ministry of Culture. She also painted the nine stunning historical murals of the Del E. Webb Building in Phoenix, Arizona. Irene Geiringer has collaborated with her husband, Karl Geiringer, in writing Johann Sebastian Bach: The Culmination of an Era (New York, Oxford Press). The book presents Bach anew to the twentieth century. Much has been discovered during the last thirteen years regarding the immortal Johann, particularly the dating of his ''church music,'' which lay unpublished until the late nineteenth century, and also regarding his artistic development and even his objectives as a composer. Margaret Sanborn is the author of Robert E. Lee: A Portrait, 1807-1861 (Philadelphia and New York: J. B. Lippincott Company), the first volume of a planned two-volume biography of the great Confederate Civil War general. Mentioned as "of absorbing interest," the book gives more attention to Lee as a human being than to details of his military career following his graduation. From West Point. Mrs. Ivy Baker Priest (Stevens), former Utahn and former Treasurer of the United States for eight years under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, was elected California's state treasurer last November, the first woman to hold constitutional office in the state. She has the responsibility of investing state money at the right time in the right place to make the most interest. Last year about eighteen billion dollars passed through the treasurer's office, earning fifty-seven million dollars. Mrs. Albert D. (Mary) Lasker of New York, a widow, heads the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, widely known and appreciated for its medical research and its medical journalism awards. 351 EDITORIAL Volume 54 May 1967 Number 5 I Belle S. Spafford, President ME Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Trene C. Lloyd 352 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba 0. Carling Timeless Words In every language there are words so broad and beautiful in their meaning that they have become treasured over the generations. They recall an assembly of meanings and an adornment of spiritual magnitude. Over the ages the words repeat an ancient truth to those who live in other eras of the time of man upon the earth. Timeless words, beloved for centuries through the holy Bible, have been repeated in the scripture of the restoration, and in the congregations of the saints, in the teachings of the missionaries, in counsel and direction from the special witnesses. Timeless words have been repeated in humble meetinghouses, in chapels throughout the world. They have been given a sincere radiance by Relief Society sisters in declarations of faith and gratitude for blessings. The word gospel, in its everlasting splendor, has been a treasured word throughout the generations. So it was written in Revelation (14:6) 'And | saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation...." In August 1830, only a few months following the organization of the Church in the latter days, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation (D&C Section 27) regarding the fulness of the everlasting gospel, and the timeless words of that day and place have become scripture for the saints in every land and a message to the nations: 'Stand, therefore... With the preparation of the gospel of peace, which | have sent mine angels to commit unto you; Taking the shield of faith...."' Again, the inspired translation of The Book of Mormon repeats the timeless word—gospel—the glad tidings, and illuminates the message with an even wider splendor, through the words of the Savior, appearing to the Nephites on the American Continent, where "'he did expound all things unto them."' The records, being inscribed with timeless words, applying to all people in every generation, were given to complete the fulness of the gospel '"'for it was wisdom... That they should be given unto future generations.... And if it so be that the church is built upon my gospel then will the Father show forth his own works in it."' Anessential element of the gospel—the building of temples and the carrying out of their exalted purposes, calls to mind another timeless word—temple. ''One thing have | desired... That | seek after... To behold the beauty of the Lord, and to enquire in his temple' (Psalm 27:4). In the time of the kings of Israel and over the centuries into that day when Jesus as a boy stood among the learned ones in the temple at Jerusalem, the word temple has evoked a multitude of sacred contemplations. Early in the time of the restoration of the gospel, the timeless word temple was glorified anew by the saints of the latter days. Through revelation the sacred words for the dedication of the first temple of the last dispensation came to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the year 1836, in Kirtland, Ohio: ''... We ask thee, O Lord, to accept of this house, the workmanship of our hands... Which thou didst command us to build. For thou knowest that we have done this work through great tribulation; and out of our poverty we have given of our substance to build a house to thy name.... And weask... That thy servants may go forth from this house armed with thy power.... And from this place they may bear exceedingly great and glorious tidings...'' (D&C Section 109). Gratitude and rejoicing expressed in words of lasting splendor were spoken in 1888 within the great stone walls of a temple erected upon a commanding hill, against the watchful mountains, in a time of scarcity of material riches, yet in a time of humility-and spiritual grandeur: ''We glorify thy great name, Almighty Father, for these communications of intelligence and power to man in the flesh again.... Thou didst soften the rigor of unfriendly elements, and didst cause the clouds to scatter refreshing showers, the hills to yield their treasures of snow, and springs of living water to come from the dry and parched ground.... The everlasting hills have yielded their treasures.... When thy people shall approach thee... Give them knowledge of the ancestry of their generations.... We dedicate to thee the records which... Shall be kept..."" (Dedication of the Manti Temple). So the timeless words and the timeless records are bound together in the heritage of the saints that they may always remember. V. P. C. 353 nm @ | SAW HER FACE a Through the beaded portieres Of rain, | saw her face: May! With skies more blue Than cornflowers; With fingertips more soft, f > More golden \e a,) Than the bee's first stolen sweet. \ e. Feathered and delicate. | looked upon her face And, beholding her, | loved her. | would have stayed her footstep, But, already she was moving Toward voluptuous summer. "a L 4 | inside and out _— ¥ | saw the pale green of her finery, @ Christie Lund Coles | = - ' Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm Mildred Barthel COOKED OUT I'm tired of eating, And tired of cooking, Tired of planning, And recipe looking. | can't seem to find A wholesome treat My family considers Fit to eat! Here are several recipes that have helped my family when eating seemed dull effort. | hope sharing them with other Relief Society sisters will help when recipe supplies and ideas supply seem exhausted. FRESH VEGETABLE TRAY Along with fresh carrot strips, celery sticks, cauliflower in bite-size flowers, place thinly sliced cucumber sticks on the tray. Use a sour cream dip, with curry added, and watch lagging-sagging appetites perk up. 355 May 1967 Some guests ''couldn't stand' carrots— (At least that's what they'd say)— Until they ate them at our house Cooked in this different way. CARROT CASSEROLE scrape and slice thinly 2 bunches 1% tsp. Salad mustard carrots (about six in each bunch) 2 c. Milk 1%, c. Butter pinch of pepper 1 minced onion 1% |b. Sharp cheese in thin slices 14 c. Flour 3 c. Buttered fresh bread crumbs 1 tsp. Salt Cook carrots until just tender, in boiling salted water in which sweet basil has been sprinkled. When you drain the carrots, some of the sweet basil will adhere to the cooked carrots. (This is one of the flavor secrets.) Cook onion in butter 2-3 minutes. Stir in flour, salt, mustard, then milk. Add pepper. Cook until thick over medium heat. Layer carrots in 2 qt. Casserole alternately with cheese. Pour sauce over the top then add buttered crumbs. Bake at 350° until bubbly and crumbs are browned. If made ahead and refrigerated, the casserole usually takes 35-40 minutes to heat through thoroughly. Variations: Frozen Lima beans or frozen mixed vegetables may be added to the casserole in various amounts and combinations as desired. Rhubarb, rhubarb, Your tart flavor enhanced With custard sauce | discovered by chance! A RHUBARB CREAM PIE 1 Pastry Recipe Filling 114 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Butter 3 tbsp. Flour 2 well-beaten eggs l%, tsp. Nutmeg 3 c. Cut rhubarb Blend sugar, flour, nutmeg. Cut in butter. Add eggs. Beat until smooth. Pour over rhubarb in 9"' pastry lined pie pan. Bake in hot oven (450°) for 10 minutes, then, in moderate oven (350°) for 30 minutes. 356 Cooking in Rhyme and Rhythm Delightful is a custard pudding With a chocolate top Baked—and served While still piping hot! PARTY PUDDING Scald 1 qt. Milk. In top of double boiler put 1 c. Sugar and 6 level tbsp. Cornstarch. Mix well. Add 3 egg yolks, pinch salt, and 2 tsp. Vanilla. Mix very well, then add scalded milk gradually. Place over boiling water and stir constantly. When thick, take top of double boiler and cook pudding for a few minutes over direct heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and put in 2 qt. Baking-serving dish. Melt 2 squares bitter chocolate. Whip 3 egg whites and gradually add 14 c. Sugar. Fold in chocolate. Pour meringue over hot pudding and bake at 350° for 20 minutes. Serve hot or warm. Watercress, plucked with gentle care, Snipped into taste-size bits And served with a dare! WATERCRESS SALAD Snip fresh, rinsed watercress into 1" size bits. Cut 2-3 bananas into bite-size pieces. Cut 1 medium onion into very small pieces. Several spring onions may be used. Toss, and keep cold until serving time. (Remember bananas turn dark, if not used immediately after peeling.) Make dressing of 14 c. Sugar 1% c. Cider vinegar yc. Oil Shake well. Add to salad and serve immediately. A DESERT HOME » The poplar trees we planted now are gone, The house itself is but an empty shell, Its windows broken, one door hanging on; No water pours from our artesian well. The saltbrush, arrowweed, and green mesquite Have taken over our small garden plot, And rabbits scamper where one time our feet, Devoid of shoes, would race when sands were hot. Yes, everything is changed, but still | see My mother standing in the dappled shade Her eyes alight with love. This memory, Unlike material things, can never fade. For she, with her working hands, her velvet singing. Had made the desert home in the beginning. Nn @ Enola Chamberlin Cy 357 r) WY, Team, Sew! Helen M. Stock Oh, weary mothers, when you sew Don't you wish that clothes would grow On a pinafore bush or a school-dress tree? Then how happy little girls would be! Team-sewing isn't exactly like picking clothes off a tree, but it is the next best thing. When two women work together in the spirit of an old-fashioned quilting-bee, little clothes almost seem to roll off the sewing machine and _ ironing board. Two or more dresses can be completed in the same time it takes a lone woman to make one dress. When the team becomes efficient, as many as four little dresses can be finished in a day's time. Women who have tried working together say, "Sewing with someone else makes the day so pleasant, and we get so much more done." It is one answer to the budget-minded woman who wants her children welldressed. How is team sewing done? Two women plan to work together (neighbors, or perhaps a mother and daughter). One team member keeps the sewing machine humming as she moves the fabric under the needle in a continuous process. 358 The second team member clips threads, presses, trims, pins, and stacks the prepared pieces for the first worker to continue sewing. Team-sewing is easiest for children's clothing, because their garments are usually so simple and need little fitting. However, adult clothes could be made by the same method. For speedy work, select a pattern that can be used a number of times, yet be modified to make each dress look freshly different from the others by changing collar shapes, belts, or sleeve lengths. (The pattern companies show 'a number of these dresses, with suggestions for changes. ) Get the materials that have the same background color so that one thread can be used for all the dresses. To simplify cutting, buy fabrics of the same width. Touches of hand decoration on collars and cuffs may be added by even the busiest of mothers, but leave the long, hand-finished seams and the yards of embroidery or smocking for a doting grandmother or favorite aunt to make. Of course, the pattern is altered. To fit the child before cutting. First, take the measurement from the shoulder point to shoulder point, and make this correction. Then, because most children are growing up, not out, correct the waist length. Cutting two or three dresses at one time is a simple timesaver. If the pattern is laid on a center fold, have all the center folds of fabric pinned exactly together and pin the pattern according to the pattern guide. For the sake of accuracy, it is not advisable to cut more than three dresses at one time. Sharp scissors will cut through four or six layers of fabric, but if the scissors are not sharp enough to cut through so much material, cut the top dress first, then the second one, and finish with the last dress. You have saved time by pinning the pattern once. Arrange the sewing equipment in this manner: (1) Pieces cut and stacked in the order of construction. Sewing machine Ironing board Pieces that have been pressed and are ready for the second sewing process. A. Worker at machine B. Worker at ironing board. This arrangement speeds teamsewing, as clothes go from (1) stack to (2) the sewing machine, then (2) (3) (4) 14 Sew! Team. Sew! (3) the ironing board, and back to (4) stack for more machine sewing. Each woman sits as she works. Following the construction guide, _the first worker completes the same step on all garments before going to the next. She sends one piece right after the other under the needle never breaking the thread between. Usually no more than half an inch thread connects the pattern pieces. The second worker clips the pieces apart and prepares them for the next sewing process by pinning and pressing. Women who have tried team-sewing suggest that before sewing, one bobbin should be filled for each dress to be made. They also say that pieces when first stacked in order of sewing, should have an accompanying pattern unpinned and lying atop that piece of fabric. Each worker needs scissors and a pincushion. To avoid early fatigue, they alternate the workers at the machine and ironing board after each hour of work. Reports are that team-sewing is challenging, and that workers may need to change their habits of sewing. They also suggest it is a nice way to work as a family. Girls have spent a full day sewing when, if they worked alone, they would be worn out after an hour or two. In fact, one girl said at the end of a busy day, "TI like it," and turning to her mother added, '"'let's make two more tomorrow." Why don't you enlist the help of a daughter or neighbor, and sew team-fashion for your family? Editorial Note: This team sewing plan could well be adapted for use in the homemaking meeting, for use in filling welfare assignments, and it may be found useful, also, in teaching the summer sewing class. 359 We Took An Old Chair Margaret Woods Walsall, Leicester Stake, England @ We wanted the bedroom to have an atmosphere all its own, but we couldn't find the right bedside tables. Then we took an old chair with one stave at the front and back and two staves at each side and painted it the color we required. We fitted three pieces of hardboard across the lower side staves to make a platform on which to rest favorite bedside books. The upper side staves prevented the books from falling sideways. Then we made a trimmed, rectangular bag to slip over the chair back and added a dainty table mat and lamp. The effect was just right. So then we made another similar ''table-chairbookcase" for the other side of the bed. For a different effect, a mirror could be attached to the back of the chair above the ''table-chair-bookcase." 360 Recipes From Guatemala Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala CHICKEN MOLE* @ Cook a chicken in boiling water with a small amount of salt, until tender, to which one onion and one tomato have been added. Brown in oil or butter 1 oz. Chopped peanuts and 1 oz. Sesame. In another pan, brown 5 large tomatoes, 20 cherry tomatoes, and 1 dried-up pepper. Mix everything in the blender, strain, and fry. Cut chicken in small pieces, put them into the mixture, and add stock. Serve hot. This mole is also very tasty on fried bananas. *Mole is a Mexican chile gravy. STUFFED PEPPERS 12 big green peppers 2 tomatoes 14 pound pork small pieces 1 clove garlic 3 eggs 1 bunch parsley Roast the peppers and peel them, take out the seeds, and let the peppers soak in salt water for 1 hour. Chop the onion, garlic, tomatoes, and parsley and fry them in a small amount of oil. Cook the meat and potatoes and add to fried ingredients with 1 tbsp. Vinegar and bread crumbs. Dry the peppers and stuff them with the meat. Beat 3 egg whites, and when fluffy, add the yolks, a dash of salt, and 1 tbsp. Flour. Roll the peppers in the mixture and fry them. Serve with lettuce and tomato sauce. *This is a typicai Guatemaia dish. I,, WINDS OF LIFE The winds of life blow gently, And sunshine scatters the rain. The bended limbs all straighten When the sunshine comes again. The winds of life may darken — Blinding storm clouds dim the way, But strength comes with the morning And lifts our burdens today. @ Catherine B. Bowles 361 14 pound hamburger 1 onion 3 medium-sized potatoes, cut in 4 oz. (4% cup) bread crumbs Cleaning Up After A Ward Dinner Elaine K. Jones @ The Relief Society organization probably handles and prepares more food than any other organization of the Church. Therefore, we should learn how and teach others to maintain cleanliness, prevent food contamination, and speed up the cleanup after a dinner. There are certain rules we should uphold at all times: 1. Always wash hands before handling food. 2. Wear hairnets in the kitchen—especially those who wear their hair long. Never allow hair to be combed around food. 3. In handling food, wear plastic gloves. They are very inexpensive and well worth having as part of your kitchen equipment. You will find in serving chicken, meat, tossed salad, you can do it much faster if you use your hands. 4. Organize your cleanup. Cleaning up after a ward dinner need not be the thing we used to dread, if we organize our help and follow the suggestions which have been made by sisters who have been working in Relief Society for many years: DISHWASHING A. Cooking Utensils During the banquet, someone should be assigned to wash the bowls, pans, etc. As they are emptied, so that when the dirty dishes are brought in, the pans will be out of the way. B. Silverware Inasmuch as the silverware is taken off the table first, it should be washed first and put away, leaving room for the plates. Separate the silverware when clearing the table. Assign someone to do this —provide the person with containers (such as cardboard boxes) one for knives, one for forks, and one for spoons. Doing this first will prevent any silverware being lost in the garbage. After you have washed the silverware, place it in a bucket which you have prepared beforehand. These buckets may be made from the gallon cans your vegetables came in. Poke holes in the bottom and one on each side at the top, where you can put a wire for a handle. Dip each bucket of clean silverware into boiling water to which 2 tbsp. Of vinegar have been added. After the water has drained from the bucket, empty the silverware onto a table on a clean sheet or on terry-cloth toweling, and let it dry itself. There will be no soap stains and the silverware will dry quickly. Since they are already separated, putting them away can be done quickly. 362 Cleaning Up After a Ward Dinner (The Boy Scouts suggested that we might use a nylon bag which has a drawstring in the top, instead of the bucket, then hang the bag on the limb of a tree to dry.) C. Dishes Assign someone to follow those clearing away the silver to scrape the plates, using a paper napkin to slide the waste into a garbage can or large cardboard box. The scraped dishes should be stacked on a table assigned for them. There is nothing so frustrating to the dishwashers as dishes all over the kitchen with food still on them. Bring the stacks of plates into the kitchen as the dishwashers are ready for them. (A table can be placed in the hall near the kitchen for the dirty dishes——or at some other convenient place.) Pre-rinse the dishes if possible. Wash in good, soapy water, and rinse. There is no need to dry your dishes if they are rinsed in good hot water to which a little vinegar has been added. This softens the water and prevents soap stains. Sanitize. (To sanitize use 1 tbsp. Clorox to each gallon of water.) Drain. Obtain drainers which will fit in your sink—as each drainer fills up with dishes, take it out and let dry. One of our wards bought terry cloth on sale, which is very absorbent. They cut it in lengths to fit the table and cupboard in their kitchen. They also cut Jengths to be used for dish-towels, all you need to do is hem the ends. May your kitchen cleanup be much quicker, more efficient, and fun. MINCEMEAT——OATMEAL DROP COOKIES Juanita Hebert 34, c. Shortening 1 tsp. Vanilla 11% c. Sugar 1 c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Salt 14, c. Water 14 tsp. Soda 2 c. Mincemeat 3 c. Rolled oats, uncooked In mixing bowl, cream together (about 5 minutes) shortening, sugar, egg, water, mincemeat, and vanilla. Sift together flour, salt, and soda. Add to shortening mixture, mixing well. Blend in oats and drop by teaspoon onto greased cookie sheets. Makes 5 dozen cookies. Bake in moderate oven (325°) ten to twelve minutes. 363 HANDWORK ENRICHES HER LIFE Elizabeth R. Scurr, Colorado Springs, Colorado, has fitted well into the pattern of Relief Society, although she has been a member of the Church for only ten years. The emphasis which Relief Society puts upon the development of one's talents, the making of beautiful adornments for the home, are the very accomplishments in which Sister Scurr has excelled ever since her girlhood. Some of her most precious '"'pieces'' are cut work tablecloths—an intricate and highly skilled art. She has crocheted tablecloths, afghans, and bedspreads, has embroidered many pillowcases and quilt tops. Her applique work is colorful and neatly stitched in original designs. She does her quilting with hoops and believes that this method has many advantages. It is a tradition for Sister Scurr to bind all the quilts made by her ward Relief Society. Elizabeth Scurr's husband died when her son was an infant. She managed her husband's real estate business and reared her son and educated him. He is now president of Pike's Peak Stake. Her son and his family give much joy and comfort to Sister Scurr, and she has a crocheted tablecloth and a quilt tucked away for each of her five grandchildren, and has recently completed an exquisite crocheted cloth and presented to her ward for the sacrament table. The cloth represents 1260 hours of labor and 1500 yards of thread. 364 Golden Chain Hazel M. Thomson ' Chapter" 4 Synopsis: Nora Blake, having no family ties after the death of her mother, secures a_ schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latterday Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher and member of the bishopric, and young Ben Wade, an orphan who lives with Jed. ¢ Nora made it a matter of importance to pay a call to the home of each of her pupils. By early December, she had made a visit to all except the Oliver home. She hesitated about going there, yet felt that she had a responsibility to contact Jed concerning Ben's progress, just as she: had the parents of the other students. One afternoon as Ben helped her straighten the room after the other students had left for the day, Nora mentioned her problem to him. "T've_ visited all the other 14 homes, Ben. I wondered what to do about yours." She noted a brief hesitation on Ben's part. ""You mean come out to the house?" he asked, without looking at her. "Well, I don't know," answered Nora. 'Perhaps it would be better to ask Jed to stop in here at school and look over some of your work." Again Ben hesitated. "Do you have to, Miss Blake?" he asked. "Well, no. I don't exactly have to, but I should think you would want Jed to come and talk to me about your progress. It isn't that you're having any trouble. Quite the opposite and I should think | you'd want him to hear about your success." "T don't know what to tell you. I just don't know. You better let me ask Jed. I'll tell you in the morning what he says." It was with mixed feelings of anticipation and apprehension that Nora awaited Ben's arrival the following morning. She told herself that it was the natural timidity of the new, inexperienced teacher to visit with the parents of her students. Still, 365 May 1967 she knew this was not the only reason for her feelings. She forced herself to face one fact. She wanted to see Jed Oliver again. Ben came at once to the room and right to the point. "Jed said he'd come tonight after school, Miss Blake," he said. "But I might as well tell you that he wasn't very happy about it. Especially since this is our night for Shakespeare, and he doesn't like anything, not anything, to interfere. We just finished King Lear, and now we're on Hamlet. Jed got quite cross this morning and told me to put the book away when we were straightening up the kitchen. Said we most likely wouldn't have any time at all tonight, since we'd be so late with. The chores." "You shouldn't be too late," said Nora. "I don't have any particular problems to discuss about you. But your work is so fine I think Jed should know of that, too." Ben stood there, awkwardly. He shifted his feet. "TI told Jed that it didn't matter too much, that I didn't mind if he didn't want to come and talk about my work, and I'd still try hard to do my lessons as well as I could. But he said, no, the other kids all had someone to see what they had been doing, and he would do the same for me. I know he's not happy about coming, though." Nora was puzzled. It was plain that Ben didn't particularly want Jed to come. She could not understand it. Usually, a student who performed as Ben did, was anxious to have a parent see his work. There seemed to be something strange about the situation, 366 but she could not figure out what it was. Jed came all right, just as the last students were leaving for home. He was carrying a large poster. "Mrs. Allen stopped me and asked if I would bring this and have you put it up in the school about the dance on Friday." "Of course," said Nora. "T'll put it on the bulletin board and ask the children to remind their parents." As Nora stuck a tack through the top of the paper she noticed that the dance was to be on Saturday. She said nothing, however, about Jed's error as she returned to her desk. "T asked Ben to have you stop in,' said Nora, "because I particularly wanted to show you some of his writing. This theme is beautifully written. Here, read it and see what you think." Nora held the pages toward. Him. After a moment Jed took them, still standing in front of her desk. "Sit down," said Nora, motioning to a chair. "And read it aloud. I think you'll get the effect of it better that way." Jed seemed to be waiting. He stood there, holding the papers. Then he cleared his throat, but he did not begin to read. Like a flash, the idea struck Nora and she wondered why she had not realized it before. There had been so many indications. He sometimes picked up a book in church and held it in his hand while making some point in a sermon, but she had never seen him open one and read any of it. Ben had wondered on the day Nora first came that Jed would want a boy his age around. Of course! That's how he got his Shakespeare, too. Ben read it to him! Jed Oliver could not read! Nora glanced again at the sign about the dance. It said in big, bold letters that the dance would be Saturday. Nora remembered hearing Mrs. Shepherd say that it had been changed from Friday, as planned originally. Jed had known only that the dance was first planned for Friday, but he knew nothing of the date being changed, even after carrying the poster all the way to the school. Nora looked at Jed standing there so tall and handsome and proud, and she felt that they shared a great loneliness, his from being shut off from the world of books which was so much a part of her own life, and her own loneliness because she was so very much alone in the world. A feeling she didn't quite recognize swept over her, perhaps pity, certainly a great sympathy, she wasn't quite sure. But she knew that she must do what she could to help him. She knew his secret but he had no idea that she knew, and she had no idea how she was going to tell him. Nora quickly got Ben's papers together and held the rest of them out to Jed. "Here," she said. "I know you're in a hurry to get back to your chores. Take these with you, The Golden Chain and tell Ben how very proud of him I am." She could sense Jed's relief as he took the papers and left. Other things began to occur to her. She had thought whenever she heard Jed speak, that he had no need to read from a book because he had the passages so well memorized. How many times Ben must have read some of those scriptures to him! She had been drawn toward this man from her first meeting. Today, she had felt the feeling stronger than before. But she remembered Mrs. Shepherd saying that Jed Oliver, for some reason, didn't like schoolteachers. Here was the reason. He was afraid of them, afraid one of them would learn his carefully guarded secret. A few days later, Nora walked into the Shepherd kitchen to find the bishop and his wife sitting at the table, a map spread cut between them., "Nora! Why don't you take up a forty?" asked the bishop. "Me? A forty? Forty what?" "Acres. Forty acres of land. The Government is opening two whole new sections for homesteading." Nora laughed. "What in the world would I do with forty acres of land?" she asked. "Keep it. Improve it. Then, if or when you move from here, you should be able to sell it and make yourself a good profit." * Nora thought about the idea a great deal that night and gradually it did not seem so funny. By morning, which was Saturday, she told Mr. Shepherd that she would go with him to Mountain » 367 May 1967 View and sign up for the land. She was somewhat surprised to find that there was no big rush to the county courthouse. "Most folks hereabouts have all the land they can take care of," said the bishop. 'But this is virgin land, Nora. It's never so much as even felt the point of a plow. It will make good farms, and you'll not be sorry you own a piece of it." Nora Blake, landowner. It had a nice sound to it. And, somehow, as Nora looked at the little square on the plat before her, it seemed to give her a place of her own here among the Mormons. Although she wasn't a member, from now on she would belong. She, Nora Blake, who had never owned much of anything, now owned a piece of land. There was a record in the courthouse that said so. As they left the courthouse, they met Jed Oliver coming in. He nodded to Nora and shook hands with the bishop and hurried on. The bishop chuckled. "T knew Jed would be along," he said. "He has a hankering for land. You might say he doesn't want all the land in the world— just the part that touches his. I knew he wouldn't pass up a chance like this." On Wednesday, a very angry Jed Oliver appeared in the schoolhouse door as Nora was about to leave. "That piece of land," he said, "what could you possibly want with forty acres of land?" "What could I want with it?" Nora asked, as she fumbled with the papers on her desk. '"That's a strange question for you to ask. What do you want with land? 368 Maybe my interest is the same as yours." "It couldn't be," he said. "I've had my eye on that piece of land for a good long time. Since it joins what I already have, seems to me I'm the logical one to have it." Nora looked at him, holding the day's arithmetic papers in mid-air. "Does it join yours?" she asked. "Yes, it joins mine. And it's exactly the piece of land I thought I was getting. But now I hear that you have signed for it, and mine is the next forty to that. You can't mean you_ didn't know?" "Of course I didn't know." Nora felt her anger rising. He seemed to be implying that her choice had been made because of the nearness to his own property. "How could I know? All I saw was a little square on a map. I did not know it joined yours, and I certainly did not know it was the piece you thought you were getting." He stood there, glaring at her. Nora tried to explain further. "Mr. Shepherd said since I was here, and since the Government happened to open up those sections for homesteading right now, that I might as well get in on it and own a piece of land for myself, and I'm getting to like the idea more and more all the time." "But it can't really matter to you." he cried. "All you're interested in is forty acres of land. How about trading = straight across, your forty for mine?" Nora could not understand her own feelings in the matter, but she shook her head. "T can't trade," Nora said. "You mean you won't!"' "Can't.... Won't.... Let's just say I want the land for which I signed." "That's just like a woman," cried Jed. '"'Here you've never seen either piece, and yet you refuse to trade!" Nora, too, felt a certain unreasonableness in the matter, but, as she watched Jed tur and stride from the room, she made no move to call him back. Then she remembered her resolve to teach Jed Oliver to read. She ran to the door. He was just getting on his horse. She couldn't have him leave in anger. '"Wait!" she cried, "wait!" She looked up at him from beside his horse. "T still don't want to trade the land," she said, "but I'd like to help you another way." "What do you mean?" he asked, his eyes on the bridle reins in his hand. "I think you know what I mean," said Nora. '""How to read. I could teach you, if you are willing to try." He didn't answer, and Nora continued. ''Wouldn't you like to learn?" She could see him struggling within himself, his recent anger pitted against an evidently intense desire. He gave a sigh of relief as if a great weight had been lifted. "Yes, I would," he said. "Yes. I'd give anything to know how. I've always been afraid to...." "Afraid to let anyone know you couldn't?" she asked. "TI never had a chance for school," he said. 'But Ben's growing up. I won't always have him to read for me." The Golden Chain Nora was somewhat surprised at his willingness. She feared she had made him so angry that it would take some talking to get his consent, yet here he was, eager to learn. How she wished she could be sure that he welcomed a chance to work with her as she did to work with him. It meant that she would see him almost every day. Then another thought occurred to her. Tue land! Of course! The land. That was it. His not being able to read had caused him to sign for the wrong piece! His love for land had made him determined not to have such a thing ever happen again and, because of this, he was willing to learn to read. But she might just as well face facts, Jed Oliver had no interest in her. Nora found her task a bit different from that of starting a small child to read, who knew none of the alphabet. Jed knew all the letters, but he had not learned to associate any sounds with them. He was an apt student, spurred on by his great desire to learn. Even with his regular appearances at the school, however, Nora recognized that the situation made any personal relationship between them more impossible than ever. She sensed his feelings of inadequacy, as he took his reader from his saddle bag each day upon his arrival, Nora felt that he was hiding the book there, so as not to be seen riding through town with it. There were times that she would smile inwardly, when she would look up and see his bright, red head bent studiously over the small book, his hands looming 369 May 1967 large on the back of it where, before, she had seen only children's hands; but his seriousness prevented her smile from coming to the surface. She felt she owed him this. He had, probably, saved her life, and, certainly, from some sort of disaster, in her encounter with the bull. By giving of her time and effort to teach him to read, she felt that, in a measure, she was repaying her debt. Ai Christmas time Nora _ directed her students in an operetta. It was held in the ward amusement hall. The children performed very well, and the parents all enjoyed it. Nora found herself searching the audience for a certain head of red hair, but Jed did not come. Even Bishop Shepherd noticed that Jed was staying home from everything he could possibly miss, coming out only to Sunday meetings. It became the reason for a bit of questioning on the part of the bishop, directed at Nora. "We both told Jed, Brother Allen and myself, when Jed was called to the bishopric, that he, really ought to be getting himself a wife. That's been over a year now. He said he'd work on it, and ['ll admit that when you came I thought he might really get into action, but it seems that he's doing less and less about the problem." Aware of her own deep feelings, wondering whether the bishop could possibly be aware of them, too, Nora blushed furiously under his gaze, but he continued as if he had not noticed. "'Jed's always been one to lead out in Church activities, socials, and the like, Now all of a sudden he doesn't 370 even come. Do you have any idea why, Nora?" She shook her head, unable to trust her voice. "I know he's always had a general dislike for all schoolteachers," the bishop went on. "I'm like Trudy. I, too, think Miss Amy had her cap set for Jed until she decided it was no use. As far as I know, he only danced with her once or twice. But he was different after you came. J've heard him speak so highly of you." Nora's heart pounded, but she was determined to hold her feelings within herself—her intense loneliness in her personal life, and her desire to mean something to Jed Oliver. "The only place I ever see him go, other than church, is out the Old Free's cabin. Jed has a strange liking for the old man, and it's a good thing that he goes out there regularly. It's seldom that anyone else in town ever bothers to. Oh, we go out occasionally as a bishopric making a call, but the old fellow could die out there alone, and there'd be no one keeping an eye out for him, if it wasn't for Jed."' Nora had heard a little about Old Free. He had been the subject of more than one lunchtime at school. Joe Pine mentioned the name first, one noon when he was trying to get his little sister Josie to eat her sandwich before her cake. "You better eat it, Josie,' Joe had said, "or I'll have Old Free get you." This had brought a general round of laughter, prompting Nora to ask, '"'Who is 'Old Free?' "' "Oh," said Joe, "he's an old man that lives out north of town a ways, all by himself. He's got a big long beard and long hair, and he's a sight to scare the devil himself." Nora saw that Josie had started on her sandwich and was fairly gulping it down. "See, Miss Blake?" Joe had said, laughing. "Josie doesn't want to have anything to do with him. See her eat her sandwich now!" "Old Free's a hermit," said Trudy Shepherd. "'He lives all by himself, and that makes him a hermit. He could be a miser, only miser's have to have lots of money, and Pa says Old Free doesn't have any gold now. He used to have some, but not anymore." "He's more than a hermit," said Sarah Norton. "My father says he was in the mob that killed Joseph Smith." This information left the group rather quiet. Yet, as she looked at their faces, Nora decided that it was only news to her and rather common knowledge to the boys and girls. Nora felt a sort of kinship with this old man whom she had never seen, knowing as she did that she and the old man were the only two people in the entire community who were not Mormons. The snow grew deep, and the weather became bitterly cold. Bishop Shepherd said it was the worst winter he could remember. The realization came slowly that a sickness was invading the town, and that it was increasing to epidemic proportions. But there came a cold morning when Nora The Golden Chain arrived at school to find only Ben Wade, Sam Shepherd, and Joe Pine present. _"Eiverybody's got the flu, Miss Blake," said Joe. "Josie is real sick this morning." "Jed's down with it, too, said Ben. "I've had all the cows to milk now for three days. He said he was feeling better, though, this morning. He's been pretty sick. Sure hope I don't get it." "I hope you don't, too," said Nora. 'We might just as well all go back home. Mr. Shepherd said not to hold school unless we had at least ten here." Nora rode along beside Ben back to the Shepherd home on the little bay mare the bishop had provided for her. She was thinking that she could be a lot of help now to Mrs. Shepherd. The bishop was down with the sickness, as were all of the Shepherd children, except Sam. Sam galloped on ahead and was already unsaddled and throwing hay down from the loft for the horses, when she and Ben arrived. Ben went on toward his home as Sam came and took Nora's horse to the barn. At the porch steps, Nora stopped and stared. There on the snowy porch lay the bishop. The full coal bucket had evidently tipped over as he fell. She screamed for Sam, and the two of them managed to get the unconscious man inside the house and on the couch in the living room. Bertha Shepherd hadn't looked well that morning, and now Nora wasn't surprised to find that she had taken to her bed just off the living room. She walked unsteadily as she came in, fastening her robe as she came. 371 May 1967 "I thought he had been gone too long," she said, ''and was just about ready to get up and go look for him." "T'll sit by him and keep sponging his face off,' said Nora. "'He seems to be burning up with fever. But you had better get back in bed." Under their careful ministrations, Bishop Shepherd at last became rational, and only then did his wife consent to return to her own bed. The rest of the day was a nightmare for Nora. "TI remember filling the coal bucket," said the bishop. "It seemed awfully heavy, as I carried it back to the house, and... That's all I remembev."' "We found you on the porch," said Nora. "Sam and I. You couldn't have been out there too long, or you'd have been covered with snow. I'm glad we didn't stay at school any longer." "Am I!" he exclaimed. "It was an act of providence that you arrived when you did." By sundown Nora was dead tired. Sam had been good help, trying to keep the fire going in the bedroom upstairs, as well as in in the stoves downstairs. Ellen wasn't really too uncomfortable and was able to care for Robbie beside her in bed. She got Mark in with her on the other side. This left Nora free to devote most of her time to Trudy. And Trudy was a very sick girl. She kept sponging the child off in an effort to lower her temperature, but it was evident that Trudy was not responding to the treatment. Downstairs, she could hear the bishop's voice. 'I feel better than 372 I have in three days. I think I can get up and help with the chores tonight." Nora ran halfway down the stairs. "But you mustn't!" she cried. "If you do, you're sure to be back in bed tomorrow. I've never actually milked a cow, but I've seen you and Sam and Trudy do enough of them until I have the general idea. I'm sure I can do it. I'll bring Trudy downstairs while I'm gone." Nora raced back to the bedroom to find that Trudy, as her father had earlier in the day, had lapsed into a coma. Gently, she lifted the child in her arms and carried her down and placed her beside Mrs. Shepherd. "Trudy, dear,' murmured Mrs. Shepherd. ''My sweet little Trudy! They administered to her last night, but she seems worse." The bishop came in as his wife again arose unsteadily from her bed, and the two of them sat for a long time, watching their little girl, trying to get a drop of water down her throat, trying everything they could think of, and just watching. Once the bishop spoke of Sam. 'He does the work of a man," he said. "If I could only hire someone to help him." "Don't worry about it," said Nora, rising to her feet. "'T'll just put on your old coat and boots and do what Sam tells me." As she neared the barn, she noticed a strange looking figure helping Sam drive the cows in. He was rather a tall man, and thin, with long white hair showing beneath his hat, and a long beard. Old Free! Of course! It couldn't be anyone else. "Hello," said Nora, looking at him in the light cast by the lantern through the open door. "T'm Miss Blake. And _you're Freedom Lang, aren't you? I was coming out to help Sam with the chores." "You go along back," he said. "The bishop's been mighty good to me on occasion. First time I've had a chance to pay him back. Tell him I'll be here in the morning, too, and for as long as he needs me." Nora felt the first bit of relief that she had known since the The Golden Chain beginning of this long, long day. But, at the door of the house, she learned that tragedy which had_ been hovering over the home all day, had struck with full force. Bishop Shepherd sat on the couch, holding Trudy in his arms. Mrs. Shepherd and Ellen stood near, weeping. "She's gone, Nora," said the bishop. 'Trudy has gone, in spite of our faith that she might be made well." (To be continued) A (When lost eleven but you stood THE FAVORITE How young she seemed, to be so old— because all schoolteachers were full of years— or no, were ageless, having always existed. Was a chasm behind twelve, how could twelve-to-twenty ever be bridged?) She was the favorite, being gentle and the most beautiful, with oval-mooned face for eyes dove-gray, and the slight smile 'that seemed to know what you were thinking. Her summerlight brown hair she twisted into a knot less inescapable than a marcel and more—oh, more—enchanting. There was the day she asked you (Breath-stopped moment!) to help her carry books to the teachers' room, and then a hairpin fell, so she must tell you, wait, while she caught up the shining twist again. And how you watched the silken light tumble over her shoulder! —so soft, if you reached out your hand you would feel nothing; and your fingers tingled, wanting the feel of that nothing— quiet, hurting with adoration, while from the mirror she looked back at you and smiled her secret smile. PS @ Lael W. Hilt 373 374 Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 — Counselor Marianne C. Sharp iW @ As Relief Society grows among the daughters of Zion, The Relief Society Magazine spreads its message to ever-increasing numbers. The General Board is gratified by the increase of 11, 625 subscriptions in 1966 making a total of 252,902 subscriptions. The year 1966 is also a notable one in the history of The Relief Society Magazine because a Spanish edition commenced publication in June 1966. As of December 31, there were 5,590 subscribers. Many letters are received at the office of the General Board from Spanish-speaking sisters of South America, Central America, Mexico, and the Philippines expressing their gratitude. More Latter-day Saint sisters speak Spanish than any other language, except English. The grand total of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions, at the conclusion of 1966 is 258,492. The large subscription to the Relief Society Magazine is an important factor in keeping the price of the English subscription down to $2 a year. In the true spirit of sisterhood, those concerned with the Magazine at Relief Society Headquarters, and the presidents and Magazine representatives throughout Relief Society organizations give unstintingly of their time and talents in producing and selling this great and vital means of promoting and binding the world-wide sisterhood. The spirit of Magazine representatives is exemplified by this letter: To Relief Society Magazine Sisters— Dear Sisters: This will be my last order for the Magazine. After twenty years and eight months,! Have to give this privilege to a younger sister as | am so crippled I cannot help myself. | have to depend on the other sisters to take my walker or my wheel chair whenever! Go out. Most of the cars are too small to hold them, and it is too much for the sisters to handle them, so | am not able to get to the stake meetings.! Am grateful for having had this privilege and will do all | can to help the dear sister who will take my place. February 27th | will have my 81st birthday and cannot get around to contact the sisters as | should. It makes me feel very sad to have to give it up.! Am grateful to my Heavenly Father for all the blessings he has given me, and for the many friends | have, both old and young.... Sincerely, Sister Frances Kolarik The calling of a Magazine representative requires dynamic and unselfish service. She is enthusiastic over the worth of the Magazine, keeps abreast with its contents, seeks out the Latter-day Saint women, and is persuasive in selling its value to the sisters. She knows that any woman who reads and studies it will be better prepared to fulfill her great functions as a woman and as a Relief Society worker. Heartfelt appreciation of the General Board goes to all those who have accomplished this outstanding record in 1966. There were 371 stakes on the Honor Roll, and 180 having 100 per cent or more subscriptions. Twenty-four missions were on the Honor Roll, and four missions achieved 100 per cent or more. For the twentieth year, South Los Angeles Stake led the Church, with 198 per cent, and this year the North Central States Mission was highest, with 110 per cent. } The General Board extends to every faithful, devoted Magazine representative, in all the stakes and missions, wards and branches, its heartfelt thanks and appreciation for their united efforts and their outstanding achievement. 375 Honors for Highest Ratings Magazine Representative —- Dona Osborn 198 South Los Angeles..... Dona Osborn ' 159 Huntington Park....... Joy B. Snell 148 Duchesne................... Thelda M. Halstead:. 139 Wichita.._.......2. O.. Marcella Meador 131 Las Vegas...-...000.000. Fannie B. Bloxham 131 Cumorah.......00.20000..... Margaret G. Stoner 129 Inglewood.................. Edith Pew 129 Phoenix West.............. Rae D. Levie Magazine Representative — Margaret Abbott TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN MISSIONS *130 California __...00..2.00000.... Alice L. Oyler = —— i 110 North Central States.. Margaret Abbott Magazine Representative —- Ellen C. Marston #101 California South Sarah E. Samuel 99 Alaskan-Canadian........ Jesse Erma P. Hinckley 99 Central States............ Norma Furnell 98 Canadian.................... Martha Marshall 98 Eastern Atlantic States Helen Hatch Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 STAKE South Los Angeles (California) 198% WARD South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 306% Magazine Representative — Marcella Carruth MISSION North Central States — 110% MISSION DISTRICT Maritime District, New Engiand Mission — 144% MISSION BRANCH Norton Branch — 367% Kansas Central District, Western States Mission Magazine Representative —- Mary Ann Kohfeld TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN STAKES 135 Glendale... Ss Edythe M. Fairbanks 135 Cheyenne................... Hazel Parker \ 108 Western States... Carrell Thorpe 97 Cumorah.................... Mary S. Bankhead 95 Western Canadian...... Rose Ann Jarrett *Limited Representation (One district only) Honors for Highest Ratings 376 TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1502 ~= Glendale 1081 Nampa 1294 East Central States 709 Southern States 1408 South Los Angeles 1080 San Diego 937 Eastern Atlantic States 638 Florida 1278 Mesa 1068 Timpanogos 756 New England 627 Canadian 1136 Huntington Park 1065 ~=—s*Twin Falls 748 Northwestern States 606 Central States 1123 Rigby 1054 East Cache 727 North Central States 604 #Alaskan-Canadian STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER Bannock...................- Clara C. Christensen Inglewood.................. Edith Pew Phoenix..................----Francelle Decker Bear River..............-... Melba J. Capener Juab... Eee Selma Tranter Phoenix North..........-Pearl T. Jacobson Burley........................ Ruth S. Lyons 'Las Vegas.................. Fannie H. Bloxham Phoenix West............. Rae D. Levie Canoga Park.............. Jeanine D. Hansen Las Vegas East......... Ruth Shumway Pocatello.................... Alice Brandt Cassia................ Eee. Emma C. Payne Maricopa..............-.-.- Olive Wallace Riverdale.................... Perneica D. Fiet East Idaho Falls......... Connie Dee Kane Mesa...................------. Julia N. Derby Santa Monica............. Ida Z. Klingman Ensign.............-..2c0000 Barbara H. Crockett Mount Logan...........-. Elaine Passey Shelley...............-...-... Bessie H. Park Fullerton...............-..-. Juanita Barfuss MUPray........2.. Cccccecneees Liesel Barthel South Cottonwood..... Anna V. L. Lindman Glendale................-..- Edythe M. Fairbanks Napa..........-----.-2-22----LaVaun L, Allen South Idaho Falls....... Alice Moss Granite...............20.2... Hazel F. Bate North Tooele.............. Betty S. Johnson South Los Angeles..... Dona Osborn Huntington Park........ Joy B. Snell Oquirrh East.............. Evelyn M. Bridges Springville................. Gwen A. Tippetts Idaho Falls................ Verna Hoopes Palmyra..................... Eleanor D. Olsen Utah... EeeFaye Christensen: a _— ms _ May 1967 377 198 159 148 139 135 135 134 131 129 129 126 126 124 122 122 122 121 121 121 120 South Los Angeles Huntington Park Duchesne Wichita Glendale Cheyenne Las Vegas Cumorah Inglewood Phoenix West Burley Long Beach Las Vegas East Rigby Rexburg Maricopa Philadelphia East Rigby Boise North San Diego 120 119 119 119 119 119 119 118 118 118 117 117 117 117 117 116 116 116 116 115 Honor Roll Stakes by Percentages 1966 San Diego East Minidoka Boston Phoenix Granger Santa Rosa Seattle Cassia Santa Monica Pomona Phoenix North Auckland Wilford Reno North Shelley South Idaho Falls Kansas City Mojave Oquirrh East Oakland-Berkeley 115 115 114 114 114 113 113 113 113 113 112 112 112 112 112 1]1 lil 111 111 111 Lehi Canoga Park Idaho Falls Mesa North Tooele Pocatello Toronto Las Vegas North Murray Ensign Nyssa East Los Angeles San Jose Big Horn San Fernando Oquirrh Whittier Grant North Box Elder South Salt Lake itl "111 111 111 111 lll 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 Los Angeles San Mateo Ashley Boise Utah Monument Park Anaheim Palmyra Concord Modesto Mt. Rubidoux Palomar East Jordan Napa North Seattle American Falls St. Joseph Bannock Chicago Moapa 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 Woodruff Casper Granite Taylor Zion Park Covina \ Lake View Portland Nevada Reno Walnut Creek Washington Fullerton Millcreek Mt. Logan Sharon Ammon Calgary South Bear River Nampa Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 378 Raleigh Panguitch Springville Southern Arizona Corpus Christi Alameda Juab Milwaukee Redwood East Idaho Falls Malad Norwalk Potomac West Boise Seattle East Snowflake Great Falls Kolob North Pocatello East Long Beach Santa Barbara San Joaquin Mt. Ogden Riverdale Star Valley Twin Falls Bear River San Jose West Taber Teton ee Honor Roll — Stakes by Percentages 1966 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 North Idaho Falls North Sacramento Denver Detroit East Phoenix Grand Coulee Oklahoma Riverside Sacramento Blaine Franklin Scottsdale West Covina Beaver Tacoma Butte Florida San Francisco East Sharon St. George Portneuf West Utah St. Johns Granite Park Denver West South Summit Santa Ana Riverton Cedar Olympus South Blackfoot Deseret San Luis Kanab Sydney Alpine Uintah Spanish Fork Norfolk North Carolina Logan Wayne Ogden Rose Park South Davis Adelaide Valley View North Columbia River Virginia Winder Park East Ogden North Sanpete Mt. Jordan Tooele Idaho Billings Pioneer Salt Lake Granger North Memphis Farr West Bountiful Kaysville Cache Edmonton Humboldt New York San Bernardino Gooding Murray South Richland Willamette Winter Quarters Wind River Honolulu Montpelier Palo Alto Mesa South Taylorsville South Carolina West Atlanta Benson Grantsville Bakersfield North Weber Bear Lake Hartford Weiser May 1967 Cincinnati Albuquerque East Garfield Spokane Craig Hillside Rialto Tempe Midvale Hattiesburg Layton North Sevier Gunnison Chicago South Midvale Clearfield Fort Wayne Ben Lomond South Alaska Flagstaff Corvallis IHinois Emery Denver South Houston Lewiston Vancouver Pearl Harbor Davis Salmon River 379 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 - 102 101 101 101 Monument Park West West Sharon Brigham City Provo North Davis Sevier North Rexburg San Diego South South Cottonwood Blackfoot Oneida Roy Wells Union Cedar West East Mesa' El Paso Calgary North Mt. Olympus Monterey Bay Parleys Mt. Graham South Box Elder Bonneville Burbank Sugar House Cedar Rapids Torrance Millard Dallas Timpanogos 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 New Jersey Roosevelt St. George East Weber Heights West Pocatello Gridley Highland Bountiful South Box Elder Klamath Grand Junction Holladay San Leandro Puget Sound Redondo St. Louis Hunter East Cache Lost River Bountiful East Reseda Moroni Santaquin-Tintic Pasadena Young Nebo. Weber Cannon Uvada Emigration East Provo Liberty 92 92 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 90 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 89 Hyrum Cottonwood Garden Grove Tucson Canyon Rim Medford Alberta East Mill Creek Yellowstone Parowan Fresno East North Carbon Temple View Washington Terrace Taylorsville West American Fork Yakima Wasatch Missoula Portland West Lansing Orlando Sandy South Sanpete San Luis Obispo West Jordan San Juan Columbia River Pikes Peak Redding Santa Maria Cascade Carbon Fresno Brisbane Coeur D'Alene Ben Lomond East Pocatello American River Lethbridge Orem West Tampa Smithfield Lyman Rose Park North Lake Mead North Jordan Orem Albuquerque Raft River Summit New Orleans Lorin Farr Butler West Columbus San Antonio Yuma South Sevier Hayward Kearns North Hamilton Huntington Beach Tulsa Salem Greensboro Macon Bountiful North South Ogden Minnesota Shreveport South Carolina Morgan Glasgow University West Leicester London Meibourne Jackson Indianapolis Kearns Manchester Cleveland Beaumont Miami Butler Leeds Sandy East Oahu Wellington Hawks Bay Sunderland Kearns North Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 380 Relief Society Adelaide Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Albuquerque East Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Blaine Boise Boise North Bonneville Boston Bountiful Enrollment 216 508 394 821 381 327 724 407 655 972 600 567 612 369 467 692 371 524 540 547 880 Subscriptions No. 202 339 Pct. 94 106 77 91 84 Stakes on Honor Roll — 1966 Magazine Representative Pamela R. Mamouney Gladys L. Mann Mariam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Vera K. Hamilton Rebecca A. Miller Eloise C. Ferguson Erminnie Johnson Mayme J. Baker Melba D. Pinnegar Zola Y. Ricks Atlas C. Cokes Alice T. Wall Algerene D. Sauls Colleen P. Main Ruby Woolsey Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Melba J. Capener Daisy Gillins S. Elaine Wade Martha S. Dillon Elvera Beckstead LeNore B. Lewis Maud J. DeVore Vina Lee Belnap Vera E. Clifford Genevieve Creswell Anna Scott Grace B. Larsen Shirley J. Blomberg Beula Nelson Relief Society Dallas Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Fort Wayne Franklin Fresno Fresno East Enrollment 676 447 533 614 718 616 403 1087 661 561 747 861 670 704. 830 654 Subscriptions No. 684 450 401 607 685 621 598 1054 700 615 795 966 691 640 778 659 547 670 783 924 471 525 531 1072 Pct. Magazine Representative Veone Hastings Katherina Belmain Virginia L. Potter Rosalie F. Waynes Erma E. Cropper Marba A. Snow Thelda M. Halstead Rachel Blaser Connie Dee Kane Etta M. Whittaker Marian Y. Morgan Alice E. Oertle Mary L. Adams Lola Condie May 1967 Katherine W. Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Olive LaVerne Morley Arlean M. Lewis Norma Rounds Lucile M. Weenig Elise H. Shields Maud T. Bentley Della B. Brasher Reva B. Holt Barbara H. Crockett Nora K. Poulsen Lois Roberts Vera Williams Alice M. Green Edna P. Lemmon Sarah Jean Stokes Shirley Self 381 Bountiful East Bountiful South Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Burley West Butte Cache Calgary Calgary North Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar Rapids Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Cincinnati Clearfield Coeur D'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corpus Christi Cottonwood Corvallis Covina Craig Cumorah 561 801 502 555 269 743 821 434 604 704 354 398 606 492 989 745 383 256 423 471 234 573 410 402 466 507 755 330 658 337 569 130 588 305 651 287 403 543 784 491 58014 231 758 103144 360 604 624 378 409 582 565 902 642 340 278 499 463 238 591 554 438 363 410 585 283 585 279 626 138 539 230 706 231 526 97 98, 98 105 86 102 126 83. 100 89 107 Janice G. Stewart Colleen Poulsen Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest E. E. Orth Virginia Starke Ruth S. Lyons Merna Smith Afton Whitworth Norma J. Thompson Joan Rea Helen Johnson Elsie Dueh! Meier Jeanine D. Hansen Anne L, Halverson Aleen Horrocks Beth M. Paskett Winona M. Tucker Emma C. Payne Lottie T. Bladen Constance D. Bennion Hazel B. Davies Hazel Parker Vilda Page Ruth D. Hodgkins Doles E. Fullerton. Thelma M Haslam Dorothy L. Bennett Ruth M. Gonling Molly H. Mortensen Nadine Smith Lorene Ricker Wilma P. Barr Euzell Preston Colleen C. Boman Lula M. Martensen Margaret G. Stoner Fullerton Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Gunnison Hamilton Hartford Hattiesburg Hayward Hightand Hillside Holladay Honolulu Houston Humboldt Hunter Huntington Beach Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Illinois Inglewood Juab Kanab Kansas City 1106 715 542 ~ 636 » 654 555 563 632 525 375 239 1502 626% 730 500 632 561 731 686 962 524 421 910 346 316 283 210 681 637 889 933 541 413 284 477 308 1136 760 501 727 292% 846 589 53614 735 Juanita Barfuss Ruth W. Hoffman Melba Gates Edythe M. Fairbanks Hazel Gines Marjie Barrus Arda Luster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Hazel F. Bate Lythia Street lreta T. Stevens Mary C. Imlay Wilma |. Miles Vera Allred Amy Thompson Eleanor Ormsby Juliette R. Burns Evelyn Tolbert Patricia Stowell Aulina Peterson Ruby S. Ockey Arline Dean ' Lois G. Weggeland Edna Vucinovich Susanna B. Schumann Norma Scott Pearl C. Watson Joy B. Snell Elsie B. Poppleton Hazel H. Ozburn ' Verna Hoopes Launa M. Doty Edith Pew Selma Tranter June C. Hepworth: Venna T. Witbeck Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 382 Relief Society Kaysville Kearns North Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Layton Lehi Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Malad Maricopa Medford Memphis Mesa Mesa South Midvale Millard Millcreek Milwaukee Minidoka Enroilment 791 607 248 694 Subscriptions No, Pct. Stakes on Honor Roll — 1966 Magazine Representative Irene Olsen Shirley G. Allen Beverly Ellis Helen Harmer Magda Potter lsora Olmstead Janet Wright Fannie H. Bloxham Ruth Shumway Vaun S. Klingonsmith Pauleen S. Tingey Rosa Ashton Beulah B. Manser Effie Felsted Luella L. Birrell Helen F. Bradford Erma Halls Hazel G. James Doris W. Clark Yvonne H. Johnson Vera Hutchinson Maude Y. Jensen Olive Wallace Hortense Orr Rose A. Loyd Julia N. Kerby Rae Lemmon Melva B. Evans Maxine Robins Martha J. H. Matern Carol Ann Jack Lova Taylor Relief Society North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Orem Orem West Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Enrollment 465 490 693 685 514 777 784 395 619 665 Subscriptions No. 3663/, 556 599 725 577 897 735 398 608 688 564 336 726 651 417 807 723 515 509 741 606 361 Pct. 79 Magazine Representative LaVerde S. Gurney Betty S. Johnson Marvel Barrow Lois G. Sandberg Fay S. Munn LaVon B. Johnson Edna H. Roghaar Carol Leonard Dorothy P. Swofford Verneta H. Larson Evelyn Wadsworth Evelyn M. Bridges Florence B. Gray Betty R. Carter Jeanette Kalisciak Eleanor D. Olsen Elaine H. Tuttle Amaretta H. Graves Bobbie G. Barnson Pearl E. Rohde Lucille L. Tayler Nellie H. Bentley Rose N. Simper Pauline Bishop Francelle Decker Pearl T. Jacobson Roe D. Levie Elizabeth S. Ericksen Rura J. Woodall Alice Brandt Nora R. Perdue Alice D. Shepard May 1967 ——————tttttttits 383 Missoula Moapa Modesto Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Olympus Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York Norfolk North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle? 90 Betty Jean Stahl 109 Frances J. Bohler Eva M. Andrew Clarice L. Fitzer Lilly B. Lovejoy 88 Jean C. Keetch Ruth B. Parkinson Florence Carter 97 Betty A. Cook Flora John 93 Ruth B. Andrus Elaine Passey Louise Woodland Dora H. Lerch Mary U. Tiffany Liesel Barthel 88 Lois Madsen Louise S. Tobler LaVaun L. Allen 96 Leona S. Crouch Lu Atkin 98 Peggy B. Sears 83 Darlene Broadees 89 Margaret Bruns 95 Cecelia M. Pratt Lila Y. Rader 91 Katherine L. Bailey 94 Lue Tweddell 93 Sarah M. Williams Helen W. Barber Nellie C. Bate 84 Delores Anderson Sara T. Fisher Reba R. Weddison Mary E. Anglesey 93. Ruby T. Hansen. Lillian Bulman Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Rialto Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Rose Park North Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South 1080 Arlie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Madalynne C. Harding Deseret Bullock Ethel B. Whiting Ona N. Gunnell Daphne Tew Maxine Hansen Rose D. Davis Minnie W. Herrin Martha Hindrix Owenwa G. Aquerrebere Bonnie Parry Mary K. Welker Esther A. Hill Leora T. Belliston Ora Stallings Perneica D. Fiet lona N. Whitehead Blanche B. Densley Leora Zupko Louise Fahey Patsy Pearce Dorothy F. Oleson Irene J. Koplin Sylva Graf Ruby Iverson Ivamarie S. Crosby Ruth Marshall Margaretha Evans Mary B. Wall Frances L. Kooyman Carmen S. Martinez Carol L. Barrett Kay Calder Beverly Barrett Ethel M. Burningham Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 384 OO C—O Relief Society San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Sandy Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina West South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls Enrollment 789 429 441 614 635 779 488 588 207 737 673 692 642 279 821 786. 425 522 621 456 857 614 873 826 882 749 841 463 242 623 812 Subscriptions No, 882 429 465 689 667 694 475 561 185 817 603 682 683 248 968 934 411 524 737 482 892 67614 1017 698 931 800 804 474 Pct. 112 100 Stakes on Honor Roll — 1966 Magazine Representative Noriene W. Kerr Rita M. Heaton Mildred E. White Coleene S. Jurgens JaDeena Atherton Lea Hurst Elfonda Barker Viola Clark Janet B. Gerald Ruby Elwood Louise R. Neff Abigail S. Millett Lenore Johnson Edith G. Swonger Ida Z. Klingman Grace M. Gossling Ella H. Sandstrom Juanita W. Flake Evelyn S. Brown Erma M. Kenyon Manetta P. Hansen Jean K. Reeder Bessie H. Park Ruby J. Thornley Lucilia S. Peterson Meda P. Hupp Agnes D. Cox Dona W. Curtis Vivian Lee Black Anna V. L. Lindman Naomi B. Stanbridge Alice Moss Relief Society Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Tempe Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan Enrollment Subscriptions No. 758 426 323 353 571 590 1068 548 674 686 614 287 1065 502 671 684. 313 735 290 321 552 756 792 425 Pct. 109 87 91 Magazine Representative Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Morgorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Gloria O. Torres Ruby Hogan Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ruth Florence Rennie Ivy R. Higdon Myrna J. Goodman Nona Moffat DeNiece Alexander Stella Richards MarJane Westerfield Faye Christensen Ivy L. Edwards Lorna O. Monsen Edna M. Mitchell Ethel T. Sweet Beverly Tichenor Emily B. Conrad Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Vonda Williams Gonda DeBoer Melva C. Crookston Roma L. Alder Gertrude S. Fullmer lla Mae Fairbourn Dahl Erma E. Inglish Virginia B. Anderson May 1967 eo or 8 South Los Angeles South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Sydney Taber Tacoma Tampa Relief Society Alaskan-Canadian California California South Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Cumorah East Central States Enrollment 456 1587 Eastern Atlantic States 954 Eastern States Florida Great Lakes 8 752 196 Subscriptions No. Pct. 604 99 100 130 287 627 438 606 442 1294 937 7 88 638 156 Dona Osborn Hannah M. Dietrich Lucille K. Allen Betty G. Hansen Martha B. Lambert Virginia B. Hawkins Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippetts Leta Coffman Nellie J. Ehlers Clara C. Copley Violet Innis Betty M. Anderson Margaret A. Avery Louise A. Nolan Magazine Representative Jesse Erma P. Hinckley Alice L. Oyler Sarah E. Samuel Martha Marshall Winnifred S. Ferre Norma Furnell Mary S. Bankhead Nyla H. Morgan Helen Hatch Marjory H. Edredge Lena J. Bruner Maxine Myers West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Relief Society Gulf States New England North Central Sates Northern States Northwestern States South African Southern Australian Southern States Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States Missions on Honor Roll — 1966 308 47114 109 Subseriptions No. Pct. 262 756 727 487 748 196 400 709 453 508 306 469 Zola M. Jacobs Kate A. McKinnon Beth W. Baker Beulah D. Mickel Marcella Meador Mary W. Coons Myrtle Powell Myrl Bray Melba M. Christensen Ruth M. Becker Gladys K. Groll LaRene Hall Leola Beddes Faye J. Flack Effie Nowland Esabel S. DeMille Magazine Representative Beatrice D. Pinkston Alberta S. Baker Margaret Abbott Esther Waite Eva Mertlick A. M. De Wet Karlyn C. Russon Myra Guynegh Evanson Virginia S. Elieson Lois Montayue s Rose Ann Jarrett Carrell Thorpe Magazine Honor Roll for 1966 SUNFLOWERS They lined the road that led to you, Golden hood and umber heart, Friendly flowers on the miles Keeping us so long apart. Flowers were gone the swift road back, Sky was dark and cold as steel, Car edged only by the gray Macadam flying past the wheel.... Now when sunflowers lift their gold Against the misty hills of blue, | see the brown-eyed, golden child That miles and years away was you, And wonder if sunflowers nod To travelers with a goal as glad As ours in the golden child Through the golden years we had. @ Dorothy J. Roberts BEQUEST | have not walked this mortal way alone, The stars strike fire on every hill; The winds of evening lullaby my soul, The happy birds their daily carols trill. | hear the anthems of the rolling sea When | awaken at the break of day; The woods cry out-—the creatures company, The valleys bloom in wonder for my way. No beauty fost, no single melody But lives in me and frames my will; Dying, affluent, | take it all with me, Yet leave it all behind me still. @ Linnie Fisher Robinson feaqecom From THE FIELD _ All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities Provo Stake (Utah), Sunset Manor Branch Relief Society Sisters Make a "Gift Quilt" Christmas 1966 Seated: Jane Call, President, Provo Stake Relief Society. Standing, left to right: June T. Peterson; Vivian Mortensen; Chloe Meldrum; Erma McPhie; Fay Peterson; May Ward; Eva Hutchings, President, Sunset Manor Branch Relief Society. Sister Call reports: "In our stake is a wonderful group of sisters conducting a branch Relief Society at the Sunset Manor rest home. Relief Society has brought new meaning and purpose into the lives of the sisters in the home. At Christmas time, the officers of this organization wanted the sisters to feel that they were doing something for someone else. A beautiful quilt was made, typical of Relief Society, and presented to the stake Relief Society president, to be given to the Eastern States Mission in honor of their Stake Presicent Roy W. Doxey, who is a former mission president of that mission. The presentation of the quilt to Sister Call for this purpose was a beautiful spiritual occasion, with several of the sisters spontaneously expressing their gratitude for Relief Society and the love they feel for one another." 387 May 1967 Idaho State University Stake (Pocatello, Idaho) Relief Society Leadership Meeting, November 1966 Left to right: Joyce Craig work director; Sherry Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader; Jane Nielsen, visiting teacher message leader; Diane Perry, spiritual living class leader; Kay Bacon, homemaking leader; Sandra Pratt, social relations class leader; Elizabeth Godfrey, organist; Carolyn Palmer, Secretary-Treasurer; Bessy Beal, Counselor; Judy Walsh, Counselor; Carol D. Chase, President. Sister Chase reports: "The picture represents part of the displays which were arranged for the homemaking department of the Idaho State University Stake Relief Society leadership meeting in November. The purpose of the displays was to present ideas for use in the ward homemaking meetings. There was also a display for each of the other lesson departments, all of which were beautifully arranged to call attention to the objectives of the various lesson courses. President Robert E. Thompson of the Idaho State University Stake, asked that the displays be set up also for the stake quarterly conference, in order that the stake members might observe and be aware of the opportunities of Relief Society." North Davis Stake (Utah) Makes Magazine Subscription Record January 7, 1967 Back row, standing, left to right: Susan Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society; LaLon Reid, First Counselor; Vera Thurgood, Second Counselor; sixth from the left: Helen Barber, former stake Magazine representative, who has served for twelve years, under three stake Relief Society presidents; at the left, in the front row, Ardell Stoker, new stake Magazine representative. Sister Nelson reports: "The North Davis Stake has been on the Magazine Honor Holl for twelve years, many times reaching a 100 per cent goal. In 1965, with ten wards, we reached 103 per cent, and in 1966, with twelve wards, our record was 105 per cent, with a membership of 881 and 937 subscriptions. This record was accomplished through the diligent work of ward Magazine representatives, supported by stake and ward presidents. On December 11, 1966, North Davis Stake was divided, making the new Sunset Stake." Lehi Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention November 4, 1966 Leah M. Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our visiting teacher convention was held November 4, 1966, in our stake center. It was a very successful and inspirational program, under the direction of Norma Powell, stake visiting teacher message leader, assisted by her ward leaders and members of the stake board. We are grateful for the services of our dear visiting teachers, for the sweet spirit of sisterhood they have, for their love and devotion, and their acts of kindness and charity to the sisters of our stake. The picture represents all the sisters in the stake who have served twenty-five years or more as visiting teachers. Four sisters were absent when the picture was taken: This group of sisters represents 1200 years of service. "Copies of 'Out of the Best Books' (Volume 2) were given to Cedar Valley Ward and to Lehi Sixth Ward for having the highest per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance at the convention. Light refreshments were served to nearly 300 visiting teachers and ward presidencies in attendance." 388 May 1967 Ashley Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference October 16, 1966 Sixth from the left, in the front row (in dark dress): Irene C. Lloyd, member General Board of Relief Society; to her left Gae R. Johnson, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society; Donna Dee Smith, organist; Eloise C. Adams, chorister. Sister Johnson reports: "The Ashley Stake Singing Mothers presented the music for three sessions of stake quarterly conference, and are preparing to render the special music for the dedication of the new stake center. There are 103 sisters in the chorus, the largest in the history of the stake. It was truly an inspiration to see this large group all dressed in their white blouses and black skirts, with red ribbon roses as corsages, made in the homemaking meetings of the various wards. The spirit of the Lord was truly felt as the sisters sang the closing song 'Teach Me, O Lord.' " Guatemala — El Salvador Mission, Guatemala District One Singing Mothers Present Music for Special Relief Society Conference, November 8, 1966 At the right in the second row: Hilda Y. De Molina, chorister. Standing back of the pulpit (back row), left to right: Fawn H. Sharp, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hortensia Torres, President, GuatemalaEl Salvador Mission Relief Society; Glenna M. Hansen, Supervisor; Delfina de Torres, President Guatemala District Relief Society. Sister Hansen reports: "The Singing Mothers of Guatemala District One presented the music for a special Relief Society conference. Sister Fawn H. Sharp of the General Board of Relief Society was the special visitor. This chorus also provided lovely music in three parts for the district conference of Guatemala the previous month. Sister Laura de Echeverria (sixth from the right in the front row, wearing a white sweater) is eighty-four years old, and very active in Guatemala Branch Ten, and in the district. She also made the long trek to the Arizona Temple with the excursion from the Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission in 1965 and 1966. This chorus of Singing Mothers is representative of others in the mission who provide music for special occasions during the year." Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Relief Society Holds First Visiting Teachers Convention October 22, 1966 Left to right: Lois Swapp, First Counselor; Anne Rivers, President; Hilda Behling, Second Counselor; Misayo Kekauoha, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Rivers reports: 'A successful visiting teachers convention was held in the Oahu Stake, October 22, 1966. The theme 'The Work of the Lord Begins in the Home' was well portrayed by several speakers, including President Howard B. Stone of Oahu Stake; by songs rendered by the Singing Mothers; and by the film 'Unto the Least of These.' Sister Alta Barney was honored for forty years of service as a visiting teacher. Each member in attendance was presented with an orchid corsage. After the convention, the stake board served refreshments. "The Oahu Stake Relief Society board is unique in that the president is Samoan; the first counselor is Caucasian; the second counselor is Hawaiian; and the secretary-treasurer is Japanese—which proves that the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is for all peoples, and that they can and do work together in love and harmony." 390 May 1967 Mount Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, August 21, 1966 Front center, left to right: chorister Roka Raymond and organist Marian Rich. Ninth from the left in the long row, in front: Edvenia J. Malan, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society. Sister Malan reports: 'The sisters were diligent in preparing the music for this conference. The working women practiced in the evenings, while the daytime Relief Society sisters practiced in the afternoons. Two lovely numbers were presented: 'Labor of Love,' by Joan Doxey, and 'A New Day Dawned,' by Ivy Huish Jones. Other songs were 'Come Ye Blessed,' and 'Jesus Savior Pilot Me,' with violin accompaniment." Oklahoma Stake, Clinton Branch Bazaar December 3, 1966 Left to right: Counselor Vivian Packer; President Esther Slater; Counselor Lorri Carlsen. Regina S. Brinkerhoff, President, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society, reports: 'We feel that this small branch developed a unique way of creating interest in their bazaar and carrying it to a conclusion. The branch consists of only fourteen members over a widely scattered area, with the meetings held in their new chapel at Clinton, Oklahoma. "The story of the bazaar really began in the fall of 1965, when a dinner was given, to which the husbands were invited. A short program was given, and each sister brought an article which she thought would be appropriate to make in quantities for a bazaar planned for the autumn of 1966. "The articles consisted of aprons, pillowcases, stuffed toys, crocheted articles, tea towels, and handicrafts. Women coming into the branch since then have added their talents in this, as well as in other ways. Some of the women who felt they were more experienced in cooking, furnished baked goods, candies, and jams for the bake sale held along with the bazaar.". Mount Graham Stake (Arizona) Relief Society Board at Leadership Meeting September 16, 1966 Front row, left to right: Hermione Kempton, chorister; Orlena Maloy, visiting teacher message leader; Orilla Carpenter, homemaking leader; Carolyn David, organist; Flora John, Magazine representative. Second row, left to right: Lenora Claridge, cultural refinement class leader;. Ruth Brinkerhoff, social relations class leader; Laurel Ellsworth, Counselor; Millie Kelly, President; Annie Larson, Counselor. Pearl Kempton, spiritual living class leader, and Lenna Jones, SecretaryTreasurer, were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Kelly reports: '"'An all-day leadership meeting was enjoyed by all ward homemaking leaders and presidencies. Each ward had a beautiful display in the 'Homemaker's Paradise' of arts and crafts, quilts, handwork, and sewing. There were fifteen tables, one for each ward, and one from the stake, displaying the talents of the women. Two demonstrations were given. A beautiful feeling of sharing was felt among the sisters. At noon the stake board members were hostesses at a lovely luncheon. "The visual aids shown in the picture were used to point the way to happiness, as each woman travels the Relief Society route by attending and participating in every meeting. "A booklet entitled 'The Happiness Way' was given to each sister as she entered. After the opening exercises, "The Happiness Way,' written by Ruth Brinkerhoff, was presented." 392 THE HAPPINES wo LESSON DEPARTMENT HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion III-—-Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1967 Southern Hemisphere: January 1968 ' Objective: To realize the importance that correct hemming procedures have INTRODUCTION Regardless of what fashion dictates, the exact level of the hemline should be determined by whatever is most becoming to the individual and is reasonably harmonious with current styles. The importance of a _ goodlooking hem cannot be overemphasized. Therefore, a quality, standard-looking hem: 1. Is inconspicuous from the right side. 2. Is uniform in depth, and neat on the wrong side. 3. Is wide enough to provide enough weight so it will hang well. 4. Is an even distance from the floor. 5. Is stitched approximately 1%" apart (except rolled hem), with stitches being uniformly spaced, loose, and inconspicuous. 6. Is smooth and flat. 7. Is free from pleats and tucks in a circular hem, thus having extra ful- 394 in achieving a quality looking garment. Ness controlled by easing and shrinking. 8. Is free from over-pressing, and pressed with correct grain direction. 9. Is hemmed using the appropriate finish for the fabric and garment style. General Procedures in Preparing Hems 1. Mark hem, placing pins or chalk marks about 3" apart on the desired hemline. 2. Turn up hem on marked hemline, and press fold lightly. 3. Measure desired depth from fold. Trim off excess. Fabric. 4. Eliminate bulk at seams by trimming off about 14" from seam allowances between marked hemline and cut edge. 5. Dispose of fullness in gored or circular cut garments. 6. Determine the appropriate hem finish. 7. Pin hem flat (except for roll hem), placing pins at right angles to hem; sew, using either flat hemming where edge of hem is stitched flat to the garment, or invisible hemming where stitches are taken between the hem and the garment. Depth of Hem is determined by the amount of flare in the garment and the weight of the fabric. In most fabric weights, a straight cut skirt should have a 2" to 3" hem, while a gored or circular cut garment has a 14" to 2" hem. A full straight skirt of sheer fabric, however, may have a 3" to 7" hem as part of the design, whereas in a circular cut sheer garment, the hem should be narrow, about 1;,". Handling Fullness. Unless the garment has a straight cut skirt, the lower edge will be fuller than the place where it will be hemmed. Therefore, fullness must be drawn in and distributed evenly so that it lies flat against the skirt. Sew around the hem 14" below raw edge, using a slightly longer machine stitch. Pin hem to garment at seams and at center of each panel, and again between centers and seams, if necessary. Draw up bobbin thread with pin between these points until the raw edge fits the width of the garment. Remove pins and place a piece of heavy paper inside hem, then press or shrink out fullness, always remembering to press in the direction of the lengthwise grain. (Figure 1) Stay-Stitching Plus, another method for eliminating fullness, crowds the threads of the fabric together. Press a pleat into the area where fullness appears. (This is used only asa marking device to show where extka staystitching plus is needed and is not stitched down as a pleat.) Through a single thickness of fabric, make a line of stitching 44"' below the cut edge while pressing the index finger of the right hand against the pressure foot. As sewing is continued, the fabric piles up against the finger and forms gathers. The harder one presses, the tighter the gathers will be. Release the fabric and repeat the process all around the edge until fullness has been held in. Hem Finishes There are many hem finishes and hemming stitches for dress and skirt hems. Since it is impossible to list all types here, only a few of the more commonly used ones will be given. Lesson Department A. Turned and Stitched Hem (For cottons and other light or mediumweight fabrics. 1. Turn under raw edge of hem Y,"; machine stitch close to top fold. ~2.~Ease in fullness on flare cut garments. 3. Pin hem, matching seams. 4. Slant hemming, vertical hemming, or the slip-stitch may be used to fasten hem to garment. For narrower hems, machine-stitching on folded edge can be omitted. A' neater appearance results when the slip-stitch is used, spacing the stitches approximately %" apart. (Figure 2) B. Machine Blind Hem (For children's clothes and dresses made from medium-weight cottons.) It resembles the turned and stitched hem, except that it is done entirely on the machine, using the regular pressure foot. It is a quick and easy method to use on a straight skirt, but can be done equally well on a circular skirt, providing the excess fullness has been eased in first. 1. Press the marked hemline fold; measure hem depth. 2. Turn under raw edge %",, press, pin. (Figure 3) 3. Fold entire hem back against right side of garment, extending hem edge about 1/16" beyond garment fold. 4. Lengthen machine stitch to 10 to 12 stitches per inch. 5. Place hem next to machine and begin stitching on the extended edge. Sew 5 to 7 stitches, then pivot fabric slightly so that one stitch can be taken into folded edge of garment; pivot fabric again and continue stitching along extended edge 5 to 7 more stitches. Repeat until hem is completed. (Figure 4) Unfold hem and press. To insure even stitching, keep garment fold an equal distance (1/16") from extended edge. To prevent a tucked or puckered look at the right side, make sure the one stitch which goes into the garment fold is kept as close to this fold as possible. C. Tailor's Hem (For heavy and medium-weight fabrics) 1. Machine stitch a line 4" from cut edge. For circular or gored skirts, reduce fullness as previously described, 395 May 1967 AU (Figure 3) Pinning Hem (Figure 2) Turned and Stitched Hem; Q (Figure 1) Shrinking Fullness N —— (Figure 4) \4 Machine-Blind Hem <n VP (Figure 6) ANN SS (Figure 5) Tailor's Hem (Figure 7) (Figure 8) (Figure 9) Rolled Hem Hem in Pleat for Hem in Pleat for Light-Weight Fabrics Bulky Fabrics 396 pink raw edge slightly less than 14" from stitching line. 2. Pin at right angles. 3. Do inside hemming by folding hem back so that the pinked edge extends and the fold of the garment is even with the machine-stitching on the hem edge. A slant-stitch, slipstitch, or catch-stitch may be used, taking stitches on hem side through machine stitching and picking up one thread on garment fold. (Figure 5) Keep stitching loose. D. Seam Tape (For medium and heavy-weight fabrics, also fabrics which ravel easily. Not recommended on sheer fabrics) 1. Use rayon seam binding (woven edge, %"' wide) which has been preshrunk. On circular skirts, shape tape to form a slight curve by pressing. 2. Pin seam tape to hem, lapping over cut edge 14". Avoid pulling tape too tight. (Iixcess fullness is removed from circular hems before tape is pinned into place.) 38. Machine stitch close to edge of tape, keeping tape an even width from hemline fold. Press stitched tape, inserting paper between hem and garment. 4. Pin hem at right angles. 5. Hand hem tape to garment, using invisible hemming. Fold garment back over hem so that the tape extends 1/16" above fold. Insert fine needle into garment, picking up a single yarn, then take a very small stitch into tape about 144" away from the first stitch. The next stitch is taken directly below the point where the stitch was made in the tape. Keep stitching loose. From right side of tape, it appears to be a _ running stitch, spaced 144" apart. (Figure 6) Lesson Department E. Rolled Hem (For circular skirts of sheer fabric, silk scarves, etc.) 1. Trim fabric to within ¥4" of marked hemline. _2. Fold raw edge 1%" toward body of garment. 0 3. Insert a fine needle with single thread up under the fold to hide the knot. 4. Pick up thread in the garment just below raw edge and directly below where needle was inserted in fold, then slip needle back through fold, taking up the next stitch, which is spaced 14%" away. 5. Repeat step 4 until several stitches have been taken, then pull the thread tight to form the roll. The stitching at the fold rolls over to meet the stitching at the raw edge, thus concealing the thread inside rolled hem. (Figure 7) F. Hem in Pleat (For skirts having a seam on the inside fold of the pleat) Method A (Medium-weight fabrics) 1. Measure hem depth; clip seam allowance at top of hem. 2. Press seam open from clipped point to lower edge of hem, grading seam from marked hemline to lower edge. 3. Turn up hem on marked line and finish. 4. Stitch through folded pleat. (Figure 8) Method B (Bulky fabrics) 1. Leave seam of pleat open about 8" up from cut edge of skirt. 2. Hem garment, making sure hems match on each side of opened seam. 3. Sew opened seam through the hem. 4. Turn seam at lower edge to form a mitered corner. Stitch edges together. (Figure 9) edge of iz OF THE DARK SEED OF JOSEPH Oh, world, look beneath this skin of bronze and find A spirit gentle as a dove. Look deep into these eyes, soul searching, And find her portion of God's love. He who does truly mark the sparrow's fall, Has given of his glory to us all. > @Verna S. Carter CZ 397 SPECIAL Surplus New Material Pack Consisting of: 72 Sq. Ft. Of White Nylon Net 8 Ft. Of 6' Wide Organdy Ruffle With Gathered Quilted Top 2 Pieces Pink and Blue Taffeta 8" Wide by 40" Long. Made up as bassinet skirts but easily disassembled for other uses. Packaged individually in plastic bags. Enclose $1.25 for sample plus $1.00 each for additional packs—freight prepaid. $10.00 Dozen — At Store Foreign Countries $3.58 Airmail for sample ' J. J. DE BRY COMPANY 2944 South West Temple 84115 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 487-3297 HOW MUCH DO YOU SPEND PER YEAR ON NYLONS? Surveys show active women spend from $25 to $50 per year. You can cut down significantly on this expense that every woman has. We will send you a year's supply (up to 24 pairs) of beautiful 15 denier seamless nylons for just $7.95. Choose from six lovely shades, including white. Millions of pairs sold Nationally advertised Introductory offer Write FASHION SALES COMPANY Box 47 Provo, Utah 84601 COOK ELECT RIC ERD Pots and pans stay "'white glove"' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR June 16-24 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES June 25—July 8 Aug. 20—Sept. 2 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 TWO HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR Aug. 20—Aug. 27 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2—Sept. 4 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 398 ~) = PLEASE SEND INFORMATION CONCERNING YOUR EUROPEAN HIGHLIGHTS TOUR NAME ADDRESS CITY: STATE MURDOCK TRAVEL MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY BEAUTIFUL HANDY PAGEANT TOURS DURABLE including.. I Canada's World Fair A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society MagaJuly 17 zine is in a handsomely bound cover. The July 22 Mountain West's first and finest bindery and Y printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to ALASKA TOUR the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. August 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 NORTHWESTERN TOUR Yearly Index. Ncluded June 25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed EUROPE TOUR below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Leaves August done $00 RR RB'| Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South © Salt Lake City, Utah DESERET Ews PRESS 328-8982 485-2444 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 399 9 Mrs. Olena M. Peterson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella G. Sanborn Keele Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Christina Otteson Evans Hayward, California 98 Mrs. Albertha Fransiska Nielson Hatch Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Stewart Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Sarah A. Collins Frost Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver 9] San Diego, California 95 Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah 94 Mrs. Sarah Amelia Wilson Johnson Santa Monica, California Mrs. Elizabeth Spackman Robinson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Linda Neilson Wilkerson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie E. Bedell Banta Sacramento, California Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell 3 St. George, Utah Mrs. Fannie Carter Solana St. Augustine Beach, Florida 'Mrs. Annie Surilda Landon Poulter Ogden, Utah Mrs. Harriet Hands Dixon San Luis Obispo, California Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Tacoma, Washington Mrs. Phebe A. Reeves Davies Kanarraville, Utah 9 Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Borman Clardy Los Angeles, California 400 J2 'Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Etta Lee Cox St. George, Utah Mrs. Clara Gentry Reid Donelson Price, Utah Mrs. Cynthia Ann Keele Larsen Arcadia, Utah Mrs. Edith D. Cummins McBride Claremont, California Mrs. Dora Maude White Whitehead Santa Monica, California Mrs. Amorett Allen Fifield Rockland, Itdaho Mrs. Sarah Centenny Wilson Turley Mesa, Arizona Miss Minnie Broomhead Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Orpha Ann Davis Whitney Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Mrs. Marian Chausse Petter Billings, Montana Mrs. Sarah Jensen Fenton Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Jorgensen Christensen Provo, Utah Mrs. Jean Coleman Alder Midway, Utah Mrs. Katherine Howard-Surrey Montreal, Quebec, Canada Mrs. Maggie Loader Perry Mrs. Olive Parkinson Smart Monson Logan, Utah Mrs. Laura Horrocks Solomon Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Webster Robinson Rocklin, California Mrs. Margaret Ann English Browning Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Francis Rebecca Tempest Bodell Sandy, Utah Mrs. Emma Tovey Page Nielson Woods Cross, Utah OTT Ta ain a ee | | Two outstanding books of interest to LDS women. By James J. Unopulos, Jr. $4.95. Happiness is based on accepting and living available: truth, through understanding, which is based on gaincare Be ing the power of good reasoning and properly following m A) revelation from God. Here is a valuable book to help you,;: the reader, effectively solve the problems of life through reasoning and revelation. By Sara and Irene Black $4.95 Here is an exciting and heart-warming novel of a colorful and troubled period in Church history — the settlement of the Mormon colonies in Mexico. The story tells of the suffering and hardships which were surmounted by a hardy people with boundless faith in the Restored Gospel. Strangers on Earth is also a tender love story that will touch a responsive cord in every woman's heart. Ee ae ae Oe ae a ae ee ee ee — ae oo tow ome ome be me SD — oe oe oe a eee WRITE NOW DESERET BOOK COMPANY, eseret B ook 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 44 EAST SO. Recent ate a FeNwooo MALL SALT LAKE CITY Please send me: 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA _ (J REASONING, REVELATION — AND YOU! == CUSTRANGERS ON EARTH. I enclose a check/money order for total amount $... An Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake must add 34%% sales tax: California eidents ordering from Giince must add 4% sales tax. Or, bill my established account [_ ] OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT NOW! Send for information. R. S. May 67 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Its NEW... Beneficial's Lifetime Security A unique "once-in-a-lifetime" plan that provides these benefits: throughout lifetime of policyowner, with additional coverage at peak need periods when family is growing. E Paid up for life at age 65, with no additional cost. E "Lifetime Security" can be extended to become an all-in-one family policy at small extra cost. E Premium stays at same low level throughout life of the policy. ¢ Protection increases without regard to Here's how it works: BOS {LLUSTRATION OF A 5-UNIT POLICY: $37,500 $25,000 See er atanarenaraumemnie call For Life NO FURTHER PREMIUM Age Age Age Age Age Age Age Age PAYMENTS 6 mos. 16 25 Sa) 50 55 60 65 Srsurance Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah For details, consult your Beneficial Life Man. He'll meet you any time, any place. Me BENEFICIAL LIFE ¢ Protection adjusts to changing needs $50,000 health or occupation. ——p, $50,000 The Relief Society Magazine JUNE 1967 ae any ea Seerconncrock came a re yi > EASTWARD FROM ISLANDS — Bind me with your winter wheat Fields under the austere cliffs. Hold me by all chains Of remembrance and duty, Lest 1, seduced by beauty, Live as the hibiscus for one day. Remind me of eternity, Pierce my eyes with splendor Of all precepts and ail holiness, So, wounded and broken, | return, Nor among thorn hedge burn In the glowing ashes gray. Lash me with bitter winds, Scar me with grinding hours, So | live to see morning Rise like a shout among cloud rifts, Sun melting ice drifts And the dark chains away. Break me with Burden and bond. Dissolve me not With summer and sound. The Cover: §| Mount Hood, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: || Farm Scene in Colorado Photograph by Arizona Photographic Associates Art Layout: | Dick Scopes Illustrations: [|] Mary Scopes 401 How thrilled | was to see a picture of my mother and her co-workers in the Note From the Field from Sydney Stake (Australia) in the February Magazine. It has been eight years since 1 left my home, but some of the faces were still familiar. 1 would like to thank my mother for sending me a gift subscription to the Magazine. Nita Ehmann Olsen Ogden, Utah | have now received my fourth issue of The Relief Society Magazine, which has been a great source of strength to me, and adds much happiness and wonderful ideas to a newly married couple. Julie Tall Marshall Orem, Utah | wish to express my appreciation for all the work that goes into our Magazine. My mother gave me a year's subscription when | married, and | have very happily renewed it twice since. As we presently live thirty miles from the nearest church, | am unable to attend Relief Society, and miss both the lessons and the fellowship of the sisters. Last year | was homemaking leader and organist. Now | find that the Magazine helps to fill the gap that exists in my week, and | am glad to be able to study the appropriate lessons. | was thrilled to read the address by Elder Harold B. Lee in the January issue, and | took his counsel to my heart. Jeanette Miller Verona, Tasmania, Australia We thought my picture was so nice (hobby feature, October 1966) that my husband rushed out and got a nice little frame for it. | have received many letters, even from people not of our faith, saying how pleased they were to see it. Hestella Kuttler Pocatello, Idaho 402 A friend sends me The Relief Society Magazine. This has gone on for years. What a gift it is! | am not of your faith, but | enjoy this publication. It is so refreshing to read stories, editorials, and poems that stand for what is basically good and beautiful. | especially like Dorothy Clapp Robinson's stories. Mrs. Wm. A. Hopper Boise, Idaho | have just finished reading the wonderful story ''Tell Me of Love'' (serial, concluded in February 1967), by Rosa Lee Lloyd, and must tell you how it has inspired me. The Ridgehaven family was such a credit to their Church and to their country, that the story has actually helped me to face my own life and its problems with new courage. Seldom have | read a story with so much verve and suspense. | am sure everyone is looking forward to Mfrs. Lloyd's next appearance in the Magazine. Marva Cain Memphis, Tennessee When the hustle and restlessness of modern living patterns are broken down to a minimum, | take joy and pleasure in reading The Relief Society Magazine. Here in the mission field, one doesn't have much time for literature concerning life and the sublime incidents which occur therein, and so | always take pride in the Magazine, for it lends me renewed spirits and disposition. Elder Markus Zimmer Berlin, Germany The Relief Society Magazine certainly has added much to our home. There are many, many wonderful suggestions for keeping an orderly home, with the love, understanding, and beauty of the gospel. Darla J.! Berl Typens, Pennsylvania The ReIlicf SOCICTY Magazine Volume 54 June 1967 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Emma Rae McKay Ashton 418 For Successful Family Home Evenings Belva B. Ashton 450 Annual Report for 1966 MHulda P. Young 432 The Holy Family (Andrea del Sarto) Floyd Breinholt Fiction 427 The Golden Chain—Chapter 5 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 402 From Near and Far 424 Editorial: The 137th Annual General Church Conference 426 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 480 _ Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 434 Mary Ila's Wedding Cake Mary Ila Flinders 436 East Long Beach (California) Stake Fine Arts Show 438 Embroidered Motifs Decorate Crocheted Afghan Florence G. Williams 439 A Sweater That Blossoms With Flowers Florence G. Williams 440 Spinner of New Zealand Wool 441 Flower Show in Lost River Stake (Idaho) 441 Helen Four Eagle Boy and Roseline Long Knife Make Patchwork Quilt 442 Variations of the Tortilla Leanor J. Brown 444 Mix-and-Match Wardrobes Ethelynn Keiser 449 Medallions of Artistry Mark Her Years Lesson Department 464 Summer Months Sewing Course Discussion IV Eleanor Jorgensen 467 Spiritual Living—-Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Messages—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alice Colton Smith 471 Homemaking Meeting-—-Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Celestia J. Taylor 472 Social Relations—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alberta H. Christensen 474 Cultural Refinement—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Bruce B. Clark Poetry 401 Eastward From Islands Margery S. Stewart Three-Year-Old, Christie Lund Coles 435; Wren Time, Ethel Jacobson 461; Life's Journey, Judith Leigh-Kendall 461; Now the Other World Is Gone, Dorothy J. Roberts 478; Directions, Dixie Randall Oveson 478. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Photograph by Lignell-Gill Emma Ray Riggs McKay as a young wife and mother MOTHER LOVE Emma Ray Riggs McKay When you were a girl in the long, long ago, With no cares except lessons, or maybe a beau, Were you asked by a neighbor,_a-very dear friend, To be with her babe and your services lend? With your arms about baby in tender embrace, Examining each line of its dear little face, As it dropped off to sleep under your rhythmic line, Did you ever say lightly, ''l wish it were mine''? And when you were married to that handsome beau, Who courted you gallantly years, years ago, And God blessed you with babies with eyes brown and blue, With features of yours and your husband's, too, Did your soul burst with happiness, satisfaction, and joy As you gazed with fond love on the face of your boy? As you sang to it, crooned to it, thought it divine, Did your heart throb the murmur, ''I'm thankful it's mine''? And, then, as the years hurried happily on, And the mates of the children in time came along, When you held your first grandchild pressed close to your heart, Did you wish for one like him—to make a new start? No! Woman's life is divided in three in life's test— Maidenhood, motherhood, then self-culture and rest. As you look on the forms of the grandchildren nine, You're content to say glowingly, ''! Love them as mine." One Fay Figg MoS ay Birthday Congratulations, June 23, 1967 PART | EARLY HOME LIFE, MARRIAGE, AND CHILDREN Emma Rae McKay Ashton » Emma Louise Riggs, the happy mother, was startled from her reverie by a banging door and the sound of running in the hall. The two boys are up, she thought. When the boys reached her room, nine-year-old Ned exclaimed, "'Where's the new baby? May we see her?" "Can she play with us? What does she look like?' echoed Lester, who was five. 405 June 1967 99 "Come in and see for yourselves."' The lively youngsters pushed open the door and rushed to their mother's bedside, their father close behind joining them. Emma, raising herself on one elbow, tenderly lifted her tiny treasure from the covers for the trio to see more clearly. At first they laughed. She was so small and pink. As they examined each tiny feature, they were delighted, and with happy exclamations, welcomed into the family circle their new baby sister. "She is like a ray of sunshine," beamed the happy father. "Her name shall be Ray—Emma Ray Riggs." | t was June 23, 1877. Emma Louise had awakened early. As she gazed lovingly at the wee miracle nestled in her arms, she could hardly contain her happiness. A little girl had arrived in their home. As she expressed her gratitude in silent supplication for this sweet spirit, at the same time she prayed that her little one might be spared. The Riggs family had lost two of their sons. Walter, two years younger than Ned, died at six months, and Lester's twin, Harold, had lived only a month and a half. Though the mortality rate for infants was high in those days, and many mothers experienced this tragedy, this failed to lessen the sorrow felt by these loving parents. With her cheerful smile and sunny disposition, Ray's presence through the years brought much love and lightened the hearts of all in the household. Two years later, when baby Lawrence was born, the family's joy was complete. Two months following Emma Ray's birth, President Brigham Young died, a sorrow to their community and to the Church as a whole. Many tales were told of President Young's personal interest in his people. This family story Ray often heard related in her childhood. One day, her mother, whose handsome hair had grown too long and too thick to manage properly, stopped at the barber shop. Inside she met President Young, who inquired, "Emma Louise Riggs, what are you doing here?" "T've come to have my hair cut, President Young." "Your beautiful hair is your crowning glory. You go right home. I forbid you to let the barber touch it!"" She obeyed, turmmed around, and walked out. But later, she returned to have it cut. Ray grew up in happy surroundings. Her father, Obadiah H. Riggs had built their home at 56 North 2d West Street in Salt Lake City. In her childhood she played ball and marbles sometimes with her brothers, but most of her activity was shared with her two cousins, 406 Photograph by C. R. Savage Emma Ray Riggs (center) with her brothers Lester (sitting o table at the left) and Ned (standing at the right) Nell and Bell Barrett, who lived next door. By the hour they played jacks, jump the rope, and hopscotch. When the snow was heavy in the wintertime, they took turns riding on a sled. Her home was one of culture, refinement, and love: The family members, as Ray grew older, loved to play and sing together, not only the popular songs of the day, but music of the masters as well. Much has been said about their mother's love for music. She taught her children to love it, too. Ned, her oldest brother, dark and handsome, an outstanding athlete—ball player and fancy skater—had inherited his mother's strong voice and musical talent. An entertainer at heart, he spent hours in the evenings playing the piano, singing the operas of the day from memory, and telling humorous stories. Often Lester joined his older brother with his sweet tenor, and Ray's rich contralto harmonized beautifully with her brothers' voices in duets and trios. Lester was the literary one. He worked on the school paper, was an active member of the school's debating society, memorized quickly and could 407 June 1967 quote Shakespeare fluently. His interest later turned to law, which he studied and subsequently practiced for a short time. Ray, eager to learn, was especially happy when she could read. Instruction was given at the elementary and high school held in the original Seventeenth Ward meetinghouse on Second North between West Temple and First West Streets, a few blocks from her home. At last she could discover for herself the secrets contained in those volumes in her father's library. Of the many books he had brought from the East, one set was especially inviting to Ray, Junior Classics, the best from the world's greatest authors. She was in her glory as she read, and read, and read. In fact she read so much, her mother was afraid she would impair her eyesight. Hen she wasn't reading, she was practicing the piano. Drilling the scales, playing her exercises, or memorizing a favorite selection were seldom a drudgery, but a pleasure. The instrument upon which she played was one of the handsomest in the valley. This stately, mahogany grand piano, with elaborately carved legs, had journeyed across the plains. It was one of three brought to Salt Lake City by John R. Robbins and presented to his daughter Emma Louise Riggs. It was a source of pride and boundless pleasure for members of the Riggs family, their friends, and acquaintances. Frequently, Ray's mother took time from her voice and piano pupils to teach her daughter. All her life Ray not only enjoyed this talent herself, but she brought many hours of pleasure to others with her playing. From her mother and grandmother Robbins, Ray learned the art of homemaking. She helped with the daily household chores, with the cooking and cleaning. If one of the coal-oil lamps was low in oil, sputtered with an untrimmed wick, or failed to produce a bright light because of a cloudy chimney, it was Ray's fault. The lamps were, for the most part, her responsibility. It was late one Saturday afternoon when Ray finished cleaning her grandmother's house. "Is that all right, Grandma?" she questioned, hoping for a word of praise for her afternoon's work. "Oh, I guess so," sighed her grandmother. "Just tell me what else you want done and I'll be glad to do it," offered the willing Ray. "You haven't dusted the tops of the pictures." Ray complied by doing this. Her grandmother expected thorough- 408 Emma Ray Riggs McKay ness. By doing tasks well in her Faas Ray learned to be immaculate in her housekeeping. There were socks to mend, sewing to be done, and the weekly washing and ironing to do. These latter tasks were the most difficult. First, the clothes were soaked overnight, then boiled in lye water on top of the stove and, finally, scrubbed by hand on a washboard in a metal tub of homemade soapsuds. Ironing, an all-day chore, was accomplished with heavy flatirons heated on top of the stove. On many hot summer days, Ray stood pressing long, full petticoats, with the coal stove burning fiercely, perspiration dripping down her face. It's a wonder she didn't faint. A rich pioneer heritage was hers and she delighted in listening to the story of her grandparents' conversion to the gospel in the East. Desiring to join their fellow members of the Church in Salt Lake City, the John Robbins family had two choices: one, to travel by land across the plains, or two, to sail with the Sam Brannan Company by boat around Cape Horn to San Francisco. They decided to go by water. With spirits high, they boarded the ship Brooklyn, not dreaming it would take them six months to complete their journey. Two small sons were buried at sea; a baby daughter was born on the Pacific and appropriately named Anna Pacific Robbins, who later became Ray's aunt and the mother of Nell and Bell Barrett. Love for the gospel was instilled in Ray as a child. The family was taught to be consistent in saying individual and family prayers and in attending Sunday School, in the Seventeenth Ward chapel. Her testimony developed through Church activity. At seventeen, after completing a teaching course under Dr. George H. Brimhall, she taught Primary in her ward. Two years later she became a Sunday School teacher. She loved to teach. Before she was graduated from college, she did some substitute teaching in one of the elementary schools. Her pupils cried when she had to leave. Recently, a woman who was a member in her class at that time reminded her of this experience and remarked that she had never forgotten what an excellent teacher she was. Ray was about eighteen when her mother called to her one day to look out of the front room window. Joining her mother, Ray was impressed by what she saw. Two tall, handsome young men, each holding an arm to help their mother up the walk, were accompanied by their two younger sisters. "See, Ray, how attentive the boys are to their mother. They will make fine husbands for some fortunate girls someday." While attend- 409 June 1967 ing the University of Desert, these young people were to be tenants of her mother's home for the next two years and were to be numbered among Ray's best friends. Little did she realize then that six years hence, the dear friends would be her brother and sisters, and David O. McKay, the dearest one of all, her beloved, lifelong companion. Ray, too, was attending the University of Deseret. One day as she was walking down a corridor she heard someone speaking. Noticing the door of the room ajar, she stood in the hallway and listened to a talk given by young David O. McKay before the Normal Society. That young man will amount to something someday, she thought to herself. N June 1897, David O. McKay, president of his class, was graduated from the normal school and was chosen to be the valedictorian. During the commencement exercises, Ray, thrilled by his words, wondered whether she would ever see him again. She was overjoyed when, in July of that same year, Jeannette and Ann McKay invited her to Huntsville to attend David O.'s missionary farewell, and she willingly accepted. That evening after the program, David O. Walked Ray from the chapel to the McKay home, holding her hand all the way. They agreed to correspond while he was away. The month of August found Ray busy and worried as she took care of her ailing mother. It was a bitterly sad August 29, 1897; Ray was heartbroken; her sweet mother had passed away. Later in life, when she was Utah's Mother of the Year, Ray paid a sincere public tribute to this capable woman: '"My mother set me a wonderful example, for she had to the 'nth degree all of the qualifications required by the Golden Rule Foundation for a good mother—courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability." Following her mother's death, Ray plunged into her University studies. Keeping busy helped to fill the deep void caused by this untimely tragedy. The year 1898 was Ray's final one at the University, terminating in her being graduated in June with a B. A. Degree. She was one of six in that year's graduating class. When school closed, she traveled to Cincinnati where she enrolled in the College of Music and studied piano. Growing homesick for her friends in the West, she returned and accepted a teaching position in the Madison Elementary School in Ogden, Utah. On her first day of teaching, the principal followed her into the 410 Emma Ray Riggs McKay room and introduced her to the class. Then he pointed to a little boy who was sitting on the right side of the room and remarked aloud, "Miss Riggs, you might have trouble with that boy down there. He has been a disciplinary problem ever since he entered the class. Now, if you have any trouble, you just send him to me and we will see that he behaves himself."' She noticed that he colored with embarrassment as he slumped down in his seat. She felt sorry for him. After the principal left, she took time while the pupils were studying to write a note. As she walked down the aisle, she slipped this note into the little boy's hand unnoticed by the rest of the class. On the note she had written, "I don't believe what the principal said about you. I am sure you are a fine boy and that you will give me your best this year." Later, his mother told her that he took the note from his pocket for her to read and said, "Be sure to return it, Mother, because I want to wear it next to my heart." He was cooperative all that year. He grew to be one of Ogden's outstanding citizens, a fine man. Just before he was released from his mission, David O. Received an appointment by mail to teach at the Weber Stake Academy in Ogden, which he readily accepted. The courtship which had begun at his missionary farewell blossomed through correspondence, and was continued in earnest for a year and a half after he returned from Scotland, in August 1899. One colorful autumn afternoon under a graceful umbrella tree, he proposed to her in Lester Park in Ogden. She was thrilled, but answered, 'Are you sure you want me?" "Yes. I am very sure," smiled her sweetheart. They became engaged. It was some months later, January 2, 1901, when David O. Called for Ray in his horse-drawn hack to drive her three blocks to the Salt Lake Temple. Here they were married by Elder John Henry Smith to be companions for eternity. "Though it was crisp, zero weather, our hearts were warm and we didn't feel the cold," Ray recalls. Following the ceremony, they drove back to the home of her cousin Bell White to complete last-minute preparations for that night's reception. The next day the happy couple traveled on the old Bamberger Electric train to Ogden. They visited at David O.'s Aunt Mary's, hitched the team to their fringed surrey, and drove to Huntsville where they started their married life. They have been considering each other's needs and problems ever since. From the first, Ray knew that a successful marriage has to be worked for, not just in the first six months of wedded bliss, or the first five or ten years, but each day the couple are together—forever. 411 June 1967 Photograph by C. R. Savage A year prior to their marriage, David O. McKay had been called to the Weber Stake Sunday School board and later became second assistant to Superintendent Thomas B. Evans. In this community, also, he was well established in his teaching career at Weber Academy, so they made their first home in Ogden at 2247 Monroe Avenue. In April 1902 he was appointed principal of Weber. While her husband was busy with his responsibilities as the academy's chief executive and a stake auxiliary leader performing his Church duties, Ray was concerned not only with the problems of bringing children into the world and of rearing them in an atmosphere of love and kindness, but of being a loving companion to her husband as well. During 093) eee many miles in a horse-drawn so she could be with her young husband and encourage him as he visited wards in the area on speaking assignments. "I have a husband who wants me to be with him and I am glad to do what he wants me to do at all times," was her resolve. "Tt warms my heart when I look down in the audience and see her sitting there," her husband has said repeatedly. HOW SHE TRAINED HER CHILDREN When Ray sat in the congregation and first heard the announcement of her husband's appointment as a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles at the April 1906 general conference, she began to cry. Though her joy was great at this deserved honor and recognition of his spiritual worthiness and leadership capabilities, she knew in her heart that this important assignment would require him to spend considerably more time away from her and their little ones. In the 412 b Emma Ray Riggs at the age of twelve her early married life she traveled buggy holding a baby on her lap Emma Ray Riggs McKay years that followed, he did have to spend two and three weeks away from home for stake conferences, for the General Authorities traveled by horse and buggy. But she was equal to her increased responsibilities as homemaker and mother, teaching her children to be prayerful, helpful, honest, thoughtful of others, and faithful in their Church duties. Mothers ask "How did she rear her children?" The following are some incidents in their lives. LL meet the needs of their growing family, a larger house was built on 676 Twenty-first Street which served as home from 1904 to 1920. The children were trained to help in the home. One of the earliest recollections of her oldest son is of helping his mother on washday. She began the laundry process by transferring the overnight soaked clothes into an elongated boiler on the coal stove and boiling them in lye water as she had learned to do as a girl. She then used the handle of a broom, from which all of the paint had been scraped, to move the clothes from the boiler to the washer. Her son turned the washer. It was a great day for him when a motor was attached to the washing machine and he was relieved of this chore. It was his duty, also, to make a fire every morning in the kitchen stove, and, later, in the furnace. Milking and caring for their cow were his responsibilities as well. Sometimes the children helped her pluck the feathers from chickens which had been dipped in boiling water, then dunked quickly in a tub of cold water so the pluckers wouldn't burn their hands while they worked. The cleaned chickens were then singed over a flame to burn the fine hairs, fried to a golden brown, and served on Sundays or for night meals. Sometimes her children churned butter from thick, sweet cream skimmed from the top of their pans of cooled milk. She traded at a little corner grocery store located half a block away, charged each time, then paid the bill at the first of the month. Once, as she was reviewing her charge slips, she noticed several marked "candy." Upon questioning the children, she found one to be the guilty party. Instead of becoming angry and spanking him, she took him firmly by the hand and walked with him to the store. She had him apologize to the storekeeper for charging candy without his parents' permission. This punishment was far more effective to impress the principle of honesty on the youngster than a spanking would have been. She then provided an opportunity for him to earn a little spending money by giving him the responsibility of the white Leghorn chickens they kept in the back yard. He fed them and gathered the 413 June 1967 eggs. When his mother had used all the eggs she needed, she allowed him to keep the rest, which he washed and saved. As soon as he had a dozen, he soid them at the store for his spending money. Next door to their home was a vacant lot. One day one of the boys, while in this field retrieving his runaway chickens, stumbled onto someone's stray rabbit. Forgetting the chickens momentarily, he gave chase to the bunny, caught it, took it home, and improvised a pen out of a cardboard box, intending to keep the pet. Noting his activity, Mother reminded him that the rabbit wasn't his. It belonged to somebody else. "Oh, please let me keep it. We don't know who the owner is," pleaded her little boy. "We'll speak to Papa when he comes home." On the principle of honesty the two parents were united in their stand. The rabbit must be returned to the field. In a few minutes the boy re-entered the house still carrying his furry treasure. "Why didn't you let it go?" "T did, but it kept coming back to me," he hedged. Gently, his mother accompanied him to the field and stood beside him as he reluctantly placed the bunny on the ground and watched it hop away. Sensing his grief, she felt as sad as he did. A week later a pair of rabbits was bought and given to him to care for as his own. Every day this son had to walk several blocks to find clover or alfalfa to appease the appetites of his ever-increasing group of rabbits. Across the street lived Miss Seaman, the principal of his school, who grew a large plot of lucerne in her back yard. One day, in his searching, he spotted this plot, so conveniently near his home. He was overjoyed at his good fortune. Crawling through a hole in the fence, he hurriedly picked the tender lucerne, stuffed it carefully into his gunny sack, climbed back through the hole and, with the full pack slung over his shoulder, ran whistling to his hungry pets. This he continued to do. It wasn't long before Miss Seaman, peering out of her window, noticed a neatly cleaned area in her green patch. With diligent watching, she soon discovered the culprit and called his mother on the phone. His mother was humiliated. To think a son of hers would do such a thing! He must go with her to apologize. That was a blow. It was bad enough to have to say he was sorry to the groceryman, but to his principal! This was too much. Though he pleaded, promising never to do it again, his mother was adamant. He gave the apology and was made to understand he wasn't permitted to go into her 39 414 Emma Ray Riggs McKay yard again. His mother instructed him, "If you want rabbits, you'll have to look around for food for them." She could be lenient when the questioned act didn't hurt the child or infringe upon another's rights. She asked one of her boys to go to Miller's Butcher Shop on Washington Avenue, several blocks away, for some pickled onions. On the way home, he tasted one. It tasted so good, he kept eating them. The carton was only half full when he arrived home. His mother remarked, "Oh, you like these, do you?" He was relieved that she hadn't scolded him. "If you obey me, nothing will happen to you."' He was convinced that if he were hurt, it was because he had disobeyed. Once he piled several boxes on top of one another to stand on so he could reach to string some ropes across the room. He was cautioned by his mother to use a chair. Not heeding her advice, he climbed on the tier of boxes and fell, but he didn't cry because he knew he had disobeyed. To help her children develop an interest in things, Ray let them have patches of the garden for their own. With considerable patience, she showed them how to plant pansy and violet seeds, reminded them to water them daily, then shared their pleasure when the tender shoots appeared and the flowers blossomed. Ne morning in March 1916, David O. McKay was severely injured and hospitalized after a serious car accident in the canyon. That night when Ray called one of the boys to eat his dinner, he refused, saying he was fasting and praying for his papa's recovery. The next morning he asked his mother what he could do to help. She suggested he pick a bouquet of his pansies. This he did and walked nine blocks carrying his offering personally to the hospital. This sincere display of affection not only cheered the patient, but was treasured through the years by a grateful father and proud mother. Ray loved to be with her children. One boy remembers he lived only a block away from his elementary school, but, to be able to eat in a hurry to have more time for ball playing, he asked repeatedly if he could take his lunch to school. It would have been easier for her to prepare a sandwich, and have him away for the day, but instead she said, "I would much rather have you come home at noon." "But why?" "Because I just want to see you. I like to have you home." This made him feel that he was wanted and loved. She believed that each occasion shared with the children strength- 415 Sat, ete hth atti fi Soiieotes: a" Emma Ray plays the piano for her husband President David O. McKay 416 Emma Ray Riggs McKay ened her relations with them, so she spent a lot of time with her children. Often she sang to them by the stove in the dining room before the furnace was installed. There were always lullabys to help her children go to sleep. She drilled them with their spelling, or in other ways helped them with their studies. If members of her family were in plays she practiced with them, giving them their cues. At the end of their performances she was always ready to praise, but only when commendation was deserved. If needed, she suggested ways for improvement. ''Now in such and such a scene, we couldn't hear you very well," for example. With her children, too, Ray spent a lot of time teaching them how to read, starting on a primer she had bought entitled The Sunbonnet Babies. She encouraged them to go over and over the pages, sounding out the words, until they knew The Sunbonnet Babies and other books by heart. As a result, they were readers when they entered school and were placed in high first or in the second grade. She also started her children on the piano, and though some of them played other instruments later, she maintained that learning the piano was an important foundation upon which to base a music education and appreciation. She played duets with them. One of her sons played the violin. She accompanied him in Church or on programs where he was asked to perform. She was present when any of her children performed in any way. She always showed an interest in their various accomplishments and activities. When her children made a grammatical error in their conversation, she corrected them each time and gave the reason for the proper usage, thus giving them good training in English. On the day her oldest son left for his first day at school she was apprehensive. Would he be subjected to swearing and other bad language from which he had been sheltered these six years? He returned at the end of the day and she inquired, 'Well, dear, did you hear any bad language today?" "Yes, Mother."' "Oh! That's too bad. What did you hear?" " 'Ts' for 'are,' "' was his reply. Recently this son, now a prominent attorney, visited his parents. Thinking his mother was asleep on the couch, he passed by her and walked directly across the room to greet his father. As they were conversing, his eighty-nine-year-old mother raised her head and remarked, '""You made a grammatical error." "There's nothing like a grammatical error to awaken your mother," laughed her husband. (To be concluded) 417 For Successful Family Home Evenings Belva B. Ashton Member, General Board of Relief Society « Robert Frost has one of his characters in "The Death of the Hired Man" say, "Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in." A wonderful woman whom I know well told a group of us that her teenage daughter once asked her, "Mother, why are you nicer to everyone else than you are to us?" Knowing this woman as I do, I am sure she does love and serve her family, but in a humble, sweet way she suggested that perhaps too often each of us saves her "special" manners, "kind" words, and "encouraging" smiles for friends and acquaintances, Supposing any action will be accepted by those with whom we live —they will "love" us no matter how we treat them! Or, in the words of Robert Frost, "They have to take you in." However, a song from "Showboat" says, "It ain't necessarily so." And it is not necessarily so! Homes are not automatically filled with love. There is need to apply gospel teachings in our lives every day and with every person. Most certainly we should be 418 Left to Right: Randall Holt, thoughtful and considerate with the members of our family. Learning how to live better must be worked at the year around— summer and winter. But here it is—June! In the Northern Hemisphere trees are green with leaves and some are colorful with blossoms. Skies are blue and birds are singing. Streams are rushing downhill over smooth pebbles, fish are jumping in cool lakes. Children are busy with chores or playing, and fields are newly planted. Summer has arrived! Summer is a wonderful, delightful time. Activities, interests, chores, and responsibilities change, and with this change in routine and activities, something else often happens... FAMILY HOME EVENINGS ARE OFTEN PUT ASIDE. This would olt, Violet P. Passey, Jeffrey Holt not be serious if bad habits also "went on vacation" during the summer, but, unfortunately, such is not the case. How can any of us—adults or children—choose the right if we do not constantly, day by day, learn and practice the right? This ability to choose and live wisely is what I envision the Family Home Evening can help us do. It does not automatically happen in the home of the active Church member, nor in the home of the inactive believer. It more often happens, when conscientious and prayerful teaching and _ living make it happen. It is neither easier nor harder to hold regular Family Home Evenings in the summer than in the winter. In both cases there are forces which tend to draw us away. The only difference is that For Successful Family Home Evenings the reasons or activities may be different. In the winter there are school activities, studies, social events, and other such involve- "ments. In the summer it may be employment, summer trips, and so forth. In making the transition from winter to summer activities and interests, we may neglect planning for Family Home Evening and miss several weeks almost before we realize it. We. Are thus neglecting. Opportunities to strengthen ourselves and our families even though bad habits and bad influences are still at work. In the Southern Hemisphere the process for seasonal planning would be reversed. The qualities and habits of a happy home life can be learned or developed. The qualities which make a good, happy home can be acquired. It is extremely important that a concerted effort be made to bring family members closer together. It requires planning and effort. It is not easy nor automatic. If we should have learned one thing from our Cultural Refinement lessons this past year, it is that any improvement in personality benefits the one making the improvement more than anyone else. The mother who treats her family with love and consideration will not only bless her family, but will have significant personal growth and personal inner happiness. Perhaps those who will benefit the most from holding regular Family Home Evenings will be ourselves—the women. We need not look at our children nor our husbands as having a monopoly on the need to apply gospel teach- 419 June 1967 ings in their lives. If we do not possess "'their" faults we must assuredly have "our"? Own to overcome. I interviewed many women in the preparation of this article and, in every case where Family Home Evening is being held regularly, the woman expressed her conviction of its great worth in the growth of love, understanding, and loyalty within the family. Not one, however, said this success came easily. It is a continuing challenge. In every case where thoughtful and creative planning of the Family Home Evening has been carried out, I universally received the response that the results did merit the effort and planning. The change of routine from winter to summer can have an exhilarating effect on the Family Home Evenings, if families plan for it and are cognizant of the opportunities. Family Home Evening may be held in different surroundings out-of-doors: around a campfire, in a back yard, in a canyon, or on a family overnight camp. Home evening may be held with relatives or at an historic or sentimental place. It may even be held in a car as a family travels together. Some of the most intimate visits with family members or friends have been while traveling. The physical closeness tends to create an emotional closeness. All of the elements of safety should be observed, and family members should be well-rested and not overly hungry. Most Family Home Evenings, in both winter and summer, however, will be held in home surroundings. This is not nec- 420 essarily a detriment. The women I interviewed did make suggestions as to things which have helped make their Family Home Evenings more enjoyable and meaningful and, since they may be helpful, I should like to share their ideas with you. RELAXED ATMOSPHERE At the conclusion of a thoroughly frustrating Family Home Evening, when one child had been sent to his room and others had vied with each other to lead the singing or play the piano or outspeak one another, and had been corrected in rather loud and harsh tones, the woman said to her husband in the privacy of their own room, "Honey, if ever there is a time in our home when love is not present it is when we try to hold Family Home Evening. It seems to do more harm than good in our family." Knowing the importance of following the counsel of our Church leaders, they decided carefully to evaluate what was happening to cause this failure. Among other things, they decided there were three primary areas of weakness: (1) Their Family Home Evening was a strict teaching situation. They decided to encourage a more relaxed atmosphere. (2) Through actions and comments of the husband and father, it was made to appear as '"Mommy's" home evening. He came to realize that he was creating an impression he had not meant to give. He became convinced of the importance of his role of leadership and of presiding. (3) Assignments were made in = advance for leading the singing, playing the piano, or other participation, so that children were not "yelling" for the privilege of doing those things. These very few and simple adaptations have since created an entirely different atmosphere in their Family Home Evenings. TEEN-AGERS Don't be overly sensitive to teen-agers' reactions. They often enjoy Family Home Evenings and get more out of them than one would ever guess from observing them. Don't terminate Family Home Evenings just because they don't bubble over with enthusiasm. After a sixteen-year-old daughter had destroyed the spirit of teachability and love of a home evening through her bored expressions, disinterested attitude, and flippant replies, the mother had a private conversation with her. Ee oe Left to Right: Owen R., Wendell J., Belva, Marged (holding baby), Allyson, Kay Rem: The mother asked, "Jane, do you believe the gospel is true?" The daughter, abashed at such a seemingly foolish question, responded, "Well, Mom, that's a silly question. You know I do." To which the mother said, "If you were a parent and were commanded to hold Family Home Evening, would you hold it?" The girl responded in the affirmative, and the mother said, 'That's what Dad and I are trying to do, but your attitude makes it very difficult for us. The younger children look up to you and want to do the same things that you do. You could help make it a success." "T'm sorry, Mother." This direct, private, and polite conversation made a big difference in that home. The father who was then an Aaronic Priesthood adult began to teach the lessons and preside at the home evenings. His own teachable spirit was influenced through those les- 421 June 1967 sons and other Church activities, and he has now taken his wife to the temple. This family attests to the wonderful influence of these lessons in their lives. SIMPLIFY We often allow our lives to become too complicated. One mother told me that the greatest contribution she feels she makes toward a successful home evening is to plan her personal activities on that day toward being ready for home evening. She has learned through experience to eliminate the extra errand, the additional chore, or the brief stop at the grocery store or cleaners. She decided it was necessary to keep her life as simple as possible on that day. With the right kind of preparation in the home, she found dinner could be served on time and home evening could then start on schedule. Older children were willing to participate because they realized they could count on when it would be over. PERSONALIZE The lessons which are most successful and have the greatest appeal are those which are personal to the family. The more this can be done, the better. In one Family Home Evening before the eldest daughter was married, the family, quite casually, under the direction of the father, expressed how much this sister and daughter had meant to each of them and how much they would miss her. It was one of the sweetest and happiest moments in their family life to hear their returned missionary son tell of his love and appreciation for his sis- 422 ter, and how much he would miss sharing confidences with her. Another family took a lesson on pioneer heritage during an outing at Lake Powell. Several families of cousins were along, and the entire group climbed to Hole in the Rock and heard true stories of their own ancestors and other pioneers. Being in such rugged, beautiful surroundings, it was easier to visualize some of the physical hardships which their forefathers had experienced. Another mother had _ been working on personal histories of progenitors. She had pictures and stories, and each child chose which progenitor he would tell about. The family members divided into groups of two or three so that older children could help younger ones and, after a time of preparation, they made their reports to the family. Each progenitor thus discussed has become more real to the members of that family. TIMING Young children do not have the ability to sit quietly for long periods of time, and older members of the family often have commitments which require them to be free at a certain time. On special occasions, when agreed upon by family members, home evening activities may take longer than usual, but, in general, young people will cooperate in reserving time for home evening if they know when it will end. PRESCHOOLERS Many good suggestions are presented in the Family Home Evening Manual for adapting home evening lessons to very young children. Simply making a special occasion by putting a tablecloth on a certain table, playing games, or having a favorite person come in, will develop an atmosphere of anticipation and fulfillment toward family-centered activities. This will not only make little ones happy at the time, but will build a wonderful attitude toward future home evenings when deeper lessons can be taught. GRANDPARENTS Ideas have been presented in this and other Church publications for making home evenings valuable and _ interesting for couples whose families are no longer at home. In addition to enriching their own lives, if they know the lesson material in the Family Home Evening Manual, grandparents can often be a blessing to their children and grandchildren by (1) reinforcing teachings which have been presented by the parents, or (2) discussing lesson information and appropriate stories with grandchildren who may not have Family Home Evenings. One grandmother told me she cherished such an opportunity of sharing gospel truths with her grandchildren on a level of 'their ability to understand. The guidance of. The Family Home Evening Manual in this situation is most helpful. LISTEN TO CHILDREN Home evening can be a wonderful opportunity for parents to listen to their children, as well as teach them. Make it possible For Successful Family Home Evenings for the reticent child to talk. He will not fight distractions. EXPERIMENT If your Family Home Evening is working well, then continue as you are doing. If, on the other hand, it is not working as well as you would like, experiment with other ways of doing things. Be alert to new ideas, but above all don't give up... Keep trying. There are solutions and the effort will be worth it to everyone in your family. It is important to have Family Home Evening and it is equally important that parents take the time to plan and prepare for home evening. One cannot teach the material in a personal, meaningful way if thought has not been given to it. To bury one's nose in the manual, to use every illustration or story which is written, or not to relate the material to one's own family, can be "quick death" to interest and personal involvement. In the introductory remarks of the Family Home Evening Manual it says: "No other family is just like yours. Everything in any lesson may not be appropriate for your family. Please omit material which you or your children do not need or could not relate to. This will give you more time to get involved with the application and assignment. The idea is not to go from one subject to another as fast as you can, but rather from a bad habit to a good habit. In our homes, let us change Robert Frost's words to these: "Home is the place where, when you want to go there, they want to take you in." 423 s The fundamental principles of the everlasting gospel were presented in strength and beauty at EDITORIAL the 137th Annual Church Conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6th, 8th, and = 9th, 1967. This year, the great —— = _ —— + domed Tabernacle, once called ''a | glory in the desert,'' is one hundred years old, and within its sacred walls the voices of latterThe 137th Annual | day prophets and apostles have counseled the saints; and anthems Church Conference of praise have been heard throughout a century. In addition to the usual radio and television coverage in many countries of the world, the first — transmission of proceedings to Mexico and Central America com- ' forted and inspired an estimated three million viewers and listeners. The Sunday morning session was Volume 54 June 1967 Number 6 Wi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Pacific Ocean. President David O. McKay, beloved prophet, seer, and revelator, now in his ninety-fourth year, preAnna B. Hart Hazel S. Love;: Edith S. Elliott Fawn H. Sharp sided at all sessions and appeared Florence J. Madsen Celestia J. Taylor in the Tabernacle personally for Leone G. Layton Anne R. Gledhill; Evon W. Peterson Zola J. McGhie morning and Sunday morning. He Aleine M. Young Oa J. Cannon. Josie B. Bay Lila B. Walch watched the other sessions by Mildred B. Eyring Marjorie C. Pingree nal re ye G Ee Semen McKay. All General Authorities Mary V. Cameron Kathryn S. Gilbert were present at the conference, alton ae ae ee with the exception of Elder Harold Fanny S. Kienitz Alice C. Smith B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, Flzabe ae pameacis who was confined to his home due Alice L. Wilkinson Zelma R. West to illness. Irene W. Buehner Leanor J. Brown; Irene C. Lloyd Reba 0. Carling In his opening address, President McKay emphasized the responsibility of the Church and its individual members in helping to combat the pervasive social evils of the present day. 424 mi Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Wi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Blanche B. Stoddard = Belva _B. Ashton Alberta H. Christensen Lenore C. Gundersen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Cleone R. Eccles carried to Hawaii for the first time by use of the satellite "Lani Bird," in orbit 22,300 miles above the two of the sessions, Thursday television in his apartment. His Darlene C. Dedekind three eloquent and vital messages were read by his son Robert R. Among the glaring evils of our day are two which seem to be most detrimental, and which must be curbed if we would preserve true Christian ideals. These are: First, an increasing tendency to dishonor the marriage vow; and Second, the moral decline and the mounting juvenile delinquency.... The mission of the Church is to minimize and, if possible, eliminate these evils from the world. It is evident that we are in-need of a unifying force to eliminate these evils. Such a unifying force, such an ideal is the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It explains man's life and its purpose, and has within it the vital saving elements, noble ideals, and spiritual! Uplift for which the human heart is yearning. President Hugh B. Brown, in speaking of the divinity of the spirit, declared: Revelation is unfolding truth, whether in... The human mind, or a message from the Creator. It is the infinite becoming known. Death is not extinguishing the light but putting out the lamp because the dawn has come. Night never has the last word. The dawn is irresistible.... That the Savior conquered death, after having taken upon himself mortality, gives us the divine assurance that our spirits also transcend death, and that our loved ones who have gone before still live. Our spirits are divine, for they are the offspring of Deity—therefore cannot be touched by death.... Life is the absolute power which overrules all else There can be no cessation. President N. Eldon Tanner spoke of the uplifting and saving power of love, patterned upon the mission of the Savior, and exemplified in the lives of noble men and women throughout the ages: If we are to have this love of which the Savior spoke, and which he emphasizes as being the most important thing in life, it must begin in the home and then carry into our daily lives. A happy marriage is never handed to a couple on a silver platter, but it is something that we have to build continually. If each will think of the other's comfort, convenience, needs, and happiness, and determine to see the best in each other, try to understand and express love for each other, there will be true love and harmony in the home.... As we look over our life, whether it be short or long, we realize that the thing that gave the greatest joy was doing something for someone else because we loved him. President Joseph Fielding Smith counseled all members of the 'Church to express their love for the Savior by obeying his commandments. There was only one way of redemption, one way in which reparation could be made and the body restored again to the spirit, and that was_ by an infinite atonement, and it had to be made by an infinite Being—someone nat subject to death, and yet had the power to die.... And so, our Father in heaven sent us his Son Jesus Christ, into the world with life in himself.... He could yield up his body to death and then take it again..... So his infinite atonement resulted in two things: (1) restoration of the body to the spirit, and (2) the redemption of those who accept the gospel of Jesus Christ and who will be foyal in the keeping of his commandments—freedom from their own sins. At the close of the conference, President McKay pleaded with the saints to keep the counsel and the messages, ''on the tablets of our memories." Let us make God the center of our lives. That was one of the first admonitions given when the gospel was first preached to man. To have communion with God through his Holy Spirit, is one of the noblest aspirations of life. It is when the peace and love of God have entered the soul, when serving him becomes the motivating factor in one's life and existence, that we can touch the lives of others, quickening and inspiring them.... 425 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, received the Distinguished Achievement Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, March 1, 1967. The citation, which listed many outstanding accomplishments of Sister Smith, mentioned '"'her distinguished career as a soloist, her long service with the Tabernacle Choir, her-years of dedicated teaching of youth... And her devotion and support to her husband both at home and as a traveling companion to stakes and missions of the Church throughout the world."' Mrs. Eleanor Johnson, a member of the Ottawa Branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, reigned as queen of Ottawa's Senior Citizens for Canada's Centennial 'Year's «observance (January 1967). Among those who honored the ''queen'' were Prime Minister of Canada Lester Pearson and his wife. Mrs. Johnson, eighty-three, has long been active in civic work and social service. She is presently editor of a monthly newspaper published by the residents of Island Lodge Geriatric Centre in Ottawa. Miss Lue Grosebeck was named professor of the Month at Brigham Young University in December 1966. This is the first time that a woman has been named to this honor at B. Y. U. Miss Groesbeck, who was born in Ogden, Utah, has been a teacher in several Utah school districts, and is at present a Professor of Music at B. Y. U. 426 Shirlee Stade Blackner (Mrs. Keith Blackner), Lyman, Wyoming, is one of the best known home economists in the United States. In 1966, she was awarded the 4-H Alumni Key in national competition. She was her State's delegate to the Triennial Conference of the Associated Country Women of the World, at Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1950. Mother of four children, she has served as an officer and a teacher in the auxiliaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and has been a ward Relief Society president. Mrs. Lurleen Wallace, newly elected Governor of Alabama, mother of four children, has announced that her administration will reflect ''the inner feelings of a wife and mother,'' and that she will advocate programs to increase the welfare of families. She is the third woman governor in the history of the United States. The others were Nellie Tayloe Ross of Wyoming and Miriam Ferguson of Texas (both elected in 1924). Zara Nelsova, distinguished cellist of international acclaim, and wife of Utahn Grant Johannesen, world-famed pianist, performed with the Utah Symphony Orchestra in March 1967 in an outstanding presentation of Ernest Bloch's '"'Schelomo"' (Solomon) in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This rhapsody has been called '"'ancestral... The voice of sages and prophets,' and Miss Nelsova's interpretation of the music was _ pronounced by critics as "definitive. Magnificent... Evocative.'' Synopsis: Nora Blake, alone in the world, secures a schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and young Ben Wade, an orphan, who lives with Jed. Nora is astonished to find out that Jed cannot read and she offers to teach him. Finding a piece of land open for homesteading, Bishop Shepherd suggests to Nora that she homestead it. A mysterious elderly man, called Old Free, a non-Mormon, challenges Nora's interest. =» Nora returned to the barn to tell Sam about Trudy's death. Old Free stopped milking and sat listening. "Tell them not to worry about the coffin," he said. "I'll make it." He brought it to the house the following afternoon. It was made of cedar, polished to a fine finish. The Golden Chain Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 5 The Relief Society presidency came to line it with a light pink lining. "About the dress, Bertha," said Sister Norton. 'How would you like it made?" "No, we won't need a dress," said Bertha Shepherd. Nora saw that she was holding the blue velvet which she had cut down for Trudy from one of her own. "She loved this one,"' said Mrs. Shepherd, ''so this is the one we will dress her in." Nora was amazed at the spirit that prevailed in the Shepherd household after Trudy's passing. Each family member seemed to share the feeling that this was but a temporary parting, and that, sometime, they would again have Trudy with them. The funeral was an experience that she was to remember always. 427 June 1967 Even the songs sung by the ward choir echoed the same assurance displayed by the family. The words struck Nora's love-starved heart forcefully, and she remembered bits of them for days afterward: For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth....... In the heav'ns are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason; truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there. Could it be possible that she, Nora Blake, had really been placed here on earth "for a wise and glorious purpose?" she wondered. Could it possibly be true that she had, somewhere in the great heavens, a heavenly mother? Nora had never heard of this before, but she was attracted by the rationality of the idea, new to her as it was. And wonder of wonders! Could she—dare she hope that one day she might be reunited with her own parents? She thought of her mother's funeral and the cold emptiness of the service. "Dust thou wert and unto dust shalt thou return." As_ these words had 'been intoned by the minister, it had been as if a cold hand had clutched at her heart, but to Nora this funeral for a child was something quite different. And when Jed Oliver arose to deliver the funeral sermon, it seemed to Nora that he was speaking directly to her own lonely self. "Only at times of death, perhaps, do we really appreciate the blessings to be received in the 428 temple of God and the sealing power of the Priesthood. It is a Golden Chain, binding the family together through all etemity. Life, here, for all of us, is short. Maybe not so short as it has been for Trudy, but she is not lost to her family. Sometime, if they live to be worthy, as I am sure they will, this family will be reunited. And Trudy, the gay, delightful Trudy, that has been such a joy to her family, is now a link in their Golden Family Chain." Ture was mourning, of course, and sadness, yet Nora had never attended a funeral so filled with promise and hope. It gave to her a kind of peace that she never had before experienced. Certainly, nothing she had heard in previous Mormon meetings had touched her as had the things she heard that day. As the fury of the weather decreased, so did the number of cases of flu. By the first of February school had opened again, and Nora, grateful that somehow she had escaped the sickness, went eagerly back to her teaching. Ben continued to wait each day until after the other students had left to pick up any work Nora was sending to Jed. He was not as deficient in the subject matter of arithmetic as he had been in reading; still Nora found Jed to be quite lacking in his ability for general computation. The first step she had insisted that he take was to lay a background by learning his times tables. Jed had enjoyed this immensely. It was with a little flash of pride that he repeated the nineteens to her. "T really didn't expect you to learn them that far," apologized Nora. "J just assumed that you knew most people stopped at the twelves." "How about you?" Jed had asked mischievously. 'Do you know your thirteens? Come on. I'll have you a contest." Nora had had to admit that she didn't. But she hadn't minded. There had been the old look of confidence on Jed's face that hadn't been there since he started the reading lessons, and Nora had been glad to see it return. As she took the paper from Ben, she was surprised to see the set of story problems she had sent with him the night before returned exactly as she had sent them. There were no answers. "He hasn't done these,'' she said, holding the paper out toward Ben. "Here," she said, "take these back and tell him to work them before I send any more." Ben shook his head, not taking the paper. "He said he wasn't going to do them, Miss Blake, and to send some others." "Not going to do them? But why? Why does he want more before he has finished these?" The boy looked pained for a moment. Then he answered, "Jed says to tell you he's not going to do them, and you can either send some others or forget the whole thing." "IT can't understand," Nora said. ''He has enjoyed the arithmetic so. Why has he suddenly decided not to do his assignment?" "Well, take this first problem," The Golden Chain said Ben, reading from the paper. "" "A man had forty acres of ground. He sold half of it, and _then three-fourths of what was left. How much ground did he sell?' I think that's as far as Jed read. He just threw the paper down on the table and said a man with only forty acres is a fool to sell any of it, let alone half of it in one whack. I tried to tell him that it was only a problem, not real or anything, and the problem was only fooling. He said, 'Land is nothing to fool around with, and you take these problems back and tell her to send me some others.' " Nora took the paper to her desk. Ben sat and waited while she wrote a new set of problems, trying to teach the same fractional fundamentals in differently worded problems. Bur, as Ben thanked her and took the paper, another thought came, a sobering one. Land! It was more important to Jed Oliver than anything else in the world, with the possible exception of his religion. "Land is nothing to fool around with." No, not to him, it wasn't. It was his real love, and Nora felt something that she recognized as a twinge of jealousy, wondering how she could ever become as important in Jed Oliver's life as a piece of good earth. Along with the reading lessons, of course, Nora had felt it was important to teach Jed to spell. He had a wonderful mind, needing but to read a page once to remember everything on it. That's the way it had been with spelling. 429 June 1967 Words began to have a particular fascination for Jed, and it was only a short time later that Ben asked if he might borrow the dictionary. "Why, of course,' Nora answered. 'It's there on the desk." "IT mean to keep it home for awhile," continued the boy. "At home?" asked Nora. "But Ben, it isn't going to help you when it's at home, and you're here at school. Couldn't you bring it back in the morning so the other children can use it? There's only the one that belongs to the school and my own." Ben looked at her uneasily for a moment, and then he said, "Well, I'll tell you, Miss Blake. It isn't for me. It's for Jed." "Oh! Why, of course. Here. Take mine and tell him he may keep it as long as he likes. Is he having trouble with some of the meanings in that new reader?" "No," said Ben. "I don't know exactly how he does it, but once Jed hears a word or figures one out, somehow he seems to know what it means. No, it's not the meaning. It's spelling. That's all he wants to do. Spell, spell, spell! This is the list I gave him last night. Found them in The Book of Mormon." 9 430 "We spell until I'm so sleepy I can hardly keep my eyes open. Then, when I go to sleep, he reads. I know some mornings he's hardly been to sleep at all." During the last week in March there was a ward social, but Jed did not appear. Nora moved near to hear Ben's answer when Mrs. Shepherd asked where Jed was. "Oh, he's home," said the boy, piling his plate high with sandwiches and cake, and balancing a cup of punch on one side of it. "Home with a book." "He must have some new ones," said Mrs. Shepherd. ''Miss Blake says he has read about everything you have at school." "No, Ma'am," answered Ben. "It's not a new one. It's the same one. Jed is learning the dictionary." Ben's words brought a general round of laughter from those who were near enough to hear. Nora paid no particular attention to them until the night of the annual school spelling bee. Then she had cause to remember them, "Jed is learning the dictionary," and indeed, it seemed that he had. The schoolhouse had a special attraction for Nora at night. The new electric lights seemed to give the room to which she had grown so accustomed in the daytime, a certain night-time magic. As president of the board, Bishop Shepherd gave a welcoming speech to students and parents, and then called upon Mr. Pine to open the gathering with prayer, as was the custom at all public gatherings in the little community. And then the spelling began. It was boys against girls, ranged in a line across the front of the room and reaching down either side. Nora gave the words, beginning with fairly easy words for the benefit of the very small, and proceeding to more difficult material as the younger children were, one by one, eliminated. From the many spelling experiences during the school year, Nora could have predicted it would be between Ben Wade and Ellen Shepherd to settle the contest, and so it was. But between the two of them, even Nora could not have predicted which one would be victorious on any given occasion. She certainly did not expect Ellen to misspell "cemetery," substituting an "a" in place of the final ''e,"' which gave Ben a chance to pick up the mistake quickly and be declared the winner. After the applause had subsided, Bishop Shepherd again rose to his feet. "We want all of you boys and girls to know how proud we are of you," he said, 'as parents, and also as members of the School Board. Now, Ben has won the match, and it is the right of anyone in the audience who would wish to, to challenge the winner." The room was silent for a moment, the adults busy with their thoughts, many of them, no doubt, thinking that the boys and girls had spelled many words that they would hesitate to attempt themselves. However, after a good deal of joking among neighbors and husbands and wives, deciding which one would tend the baby, and which one would spell, a rather sizeable group stood in the The Golden Chain places occupied by their children a short time before. Nora straightened the spelling _ books on the desk in front of her, taking a certain security from them in their keeping her from actually participating in the contest. Everyone expected a good showing from the schoolteacher, and who could ever tell what would happen in a spelling match. Why, she might be spelled down in front of all the parents and students, and on an easier word than cemetery. But her hope to stay out of it was short-lived. With Mrs. Shepherd in the group of spellers, and Ellen looking after Robbie and Mark, it left the bishop free to offer to give out the words. "Go ahead, Miss Blake," he said, reaching for her book. "If you'll just show me where to begin, it will give you a chance to take part." "A chance," thought Nora, "that I can do very well without," but she surrendered the speller to the bishop and took her place on the ladies' side. Only then did she notice that Jed had taken a place on the end of the men's row. Her heart jumped, knowing his sensitive nature, knowing that he was very likely to get beaten easily, embarrassed in front of his entire town, but things were out of her hands. There was nothing she could do at this point. The bishop opened the book. "Anticipate," he said, and the spelling match of the evening had begun. It was long past eleven before everyone else was spelled (Continued on page 460) 431 -- se ecep—ntmineepem m The Holy Family by Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531), Italian (Rome, Galleria Nazionale) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 2 "Honesty, a Measure of Life." Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. = If one will study the paintings of any sincere artist he will find that in a very real sense the paintings are portraits of the artist himself—not of his physical likeness but of an indefinable quality of his whole personality. The subjects he chooses, the way he uses the paint, the parts which are emphasized, the content he selects are all fused together and we see something of the artist. This is not done consciously if he is sincere, but it is inevitable and unavoidable. Just as a man's handwriting speaks of his character, so an artist's work mirrors his personality. This is true in the work of Andrea del Sarto, known as ""The Perfect Painter" by the Florentines of his day and whose character is so aptly described in Browning's poem. Art historians seem to substantiate what Browning says about him. Worldly splendor and vivacity had come into the life of his time. He was impressionable and sensitive to his time and thus was able to reflect this culture in his work. Although not necessarily religious by nature, he painted religious subjects to please the court and has been referred to as a "religious court painter." He had great honor in his day. We sometimes tend to deify men because of their works—artists are still men with strengths and weaknesses. Andrea's strength was in his great talent and craftsmanship, his ability to say what he had to say. There are a sweetness and underlying note of pathos and tenderness that give his work a genuine character, although perhaps not the greatest. Vasari, an artist, writer, and pupil of del Sarto's says, "Had this master possessed a somewhat bolder mind, had he been a more distinguished man, qualified by character as he was by artistic skill, he would have been without equal."' Lack of force and conviction in his nature took ardor and animation out of his creative works. Can you see Andrea del Sarto in his painting of "The Holy Family"? This is a good example of his work in which he uses the classical Renaissance style— soft, warm light, rich color, unified tonality, and the chiaroscuro (strong use of light and shade) for which he was noted. The model for the Madonna was no doubt his beautiful wife Lucrezia whom he idealized in many of his paintings. Do you also sense a certain character about the painting which is difficult to describe in words, but which is nevertheless just as real and is a reflection of the personality of the artist? "THE HOLY FAMILY" by Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531) Transparency by Camera Clix 432 = —— | Mary lla's Wedding Cake (From a Family Heirloom Recipe) Mary Ila Flinders Homemaking Leader Centerville First Ward, Davis Stake, Utah 1¥% c. Shortening 3 c. White sugar 6 eggs 3 tsp. Vanilla 3 c. Sour applesauce 6 c. Flour (cake flour preferred) 1, tsp. Cloves 114 tsp. Nutmeg 1¥% tsp. Salt 3 tsp. Cinnamon 3 tsp. Soda 114 Ibs. Walnuts (may be cut in halves or smaller pieces, as preferred) 1 Ib. Seedless raisins 2c. Dates (cut in sizes preferred) Heat oven to 250 degrees (slow). Grease, then line with aluminum foil or brown paper two or three round loaf pans, as desired. (The above recipe was made twice for the cake in the picture. The bottom layer was baked in a 12-inch pan, and the top layer in a 6-inch pan. Both layers were four inches deep before baking. The middle fayer is made of styrofoam and iced over the surface.) Mixing the ingredients: Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Beat in eggs, vanilla, and applesauce (add citron, if desired). Sift together flour, cloves, nutmeg, salt, cinnamon, and soda. Add slowly to the previous mixture and mix well. Fold in nuts, raisins, and dates. Pour into prepared pans and bake two hours. If larger pans are used, the cooking time must be increased in proportion to the size of the pans used. For this recipe, the smaller pan would be removed from the oven at the end of two hours, and the larger layer would be left in the oven an additional hour. Icing: Any plain white icing stiff enough to have good adhering qualities may be used for the first, or preliminary, icing for the cake. The intricate lace work is made from a meringue of whipped egg whites, to which enough powdered sugar has been added to make a consistency that will hold the lace work. Making the lacework is a difficult and exacting work and requires much skill and practice. A pastry bag is used for the process. Note: The cake in the picture was made by Sister Flinders for the 66th wedding anniversary of President David O. McKay and Sister McKay, January 2, 1967. 434 Model Nancy Amorette Anderson Photograph by Marian C. Anderson Three-Year Old Three-year old, three-year old, Who could be so sweet? So winning, so smiling, So swift on small feet? Blowing out candles, Reflecting our tear. Never, oh, never, Except when you're four. Christie Lund Coles 435 Three-year-old, three-year-old, Who could be so dear, Three-year-old, three-year-old, | could love you more Artist Afton Davis displaying her work. East Long Beach (California) Stake Fine Arts Show The Fine Arts Show, open to Latter-day Saint artists, received 343 entries for exhibition, and more than seven hundred interested and appreciative patrons, students, and lovers of art attended, including a large percentage of the members of East Long Beach Stake Relief Society. So great was the interest in the exhibit that entries were received from artists outside of California, including Idaho, Arizona, and Utah. Two lovely portraits were entered by a young returned missionary from Tooele, Utah, who is partly blind. The Art Show was highly acclaimed and represents a cultural activity of Relief Society which proved to have great appeal for members, for their families and friends, and for many women who were introduced to Relief Society through this unusually beautiful and appealing exhibit. Color photographs by Richard Adams 436 4 | ecail Artist Ardith Oddous displaying her work. She served as general chairman of displays, Artist Bernice Houser displaying her own work. Sister Houser served as co-chairman of displays. 437 Embroidered Motifs Decorate Crocheted Afghan The regular afghan crochet stitch is used for making the vari-colored squares, which are set together with black woolen yarn. The fringe for the afghan shown in the picture was bought. Handmade fringe may be used, but the process of making such fringe is a long and tedious effort. The attractive "little people" who gaily appear upon each square of the afghan are illustrated in the accompanying diagram. For the hands, legs, and faces of the figures, use a fill-in stitch with fine flesh-pink yarn, split to one strand. Make the eyes blue with the same weight of yarn, and the mouth red and the hair yellow, brown, or black, as desired. Fill in the dress, hat, suit, and shoes with any color yarn desired, using a fine weight yarn. 438 Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Embroidered Motifs by Florence G. Williams Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Model Margaret Lloyd Embroidery by Florence G. Williams A Sweater That Blossoms With Flowers A white knitted sweater for a little girl is made bright and beautiful, as well as originally distinctive, by using fill-in embroidery stitches for rich and lovely flowers. Themes for similar designs could be worked out in flowers all of one color, or in tones and tints of a single color, or one could use all blue flowers, all red flowers, yellow flowers, or any colored desired. Also, the variety of petal shapes is almost endless. A "designing"? Woman might make sunflowers, chrysanthemums, daisies, cosmos, or imaginative shapes of flowers that never grew in any garden, and yet might make a little girl happy by their blossoming on her favorite sweater. A pale pink sweater, with flowers of deeper rose could be a gift of hag ness, or perhaps, a light blue sweater, with deeper blue blossoms. 439 CT EA os dhoer. Pinateoreiv? OoloHeolog. NEM Py a (Ker NT WY tt AV MAA AN \. Vw, '— eaten e tae Spinner of New Zealand Wool The ancient craft of spinning wool, now obsolete in many parts of the World, is still practiced with much satisfaction and success by Mary Vickers, President of the Fifth Ward Relief Society in Auckland, New Zealand. Not only is Sister Vickers an expert in spinning the high quality and worldfamous New Zealand wool, but she also dyes the wool and weaves it into lovely, useful articles, or knits and crochets many pieces of wearing apparel and dress accessories. Various plants are used as a basis for the brilliant colors of the wool—lichens, weeds, berries, onion skins, beet roots, and flowers. Sister Vickers continues to give demonstrations before Relief Society organizations and other groups of interested women. Included in her instructions are specific directions for selecting a fleece, preparation and carding of the fleece, spinning on a hand spindle and on a spinning wheel, vegetable dyes for wool, weaving of wool, and how to make a rug loom. In the picture, left to right, may be seen the following handcrafted articles: crocheted baby shawl, made from homespun Merino wool; ski socks; handwoven bag; knitted sweaters; hanks of yarn dyed with vegetable dyes; ski mittens; shades of natural fleece, from white through black. On the floor: hand-woven wall hanging, car cushion, bags. 440 Flower Show in Lost River Stake (Idaho) Mary 8B. Davies, President Lost River Stake Relief Society This picture of some of the lovely flowers grown in Lost River Valley is representative of the nine other floral displays which added much beauty to the flower show and Singing Mothers concert held in August 1966. The theme for the occasion was taken from the conference address of Sister Louise W. Madsen: "Behold, I have set before thee an open door." Helen Four Eagle Boy and & Roseline Long Knife F Make Patchwork Quilt | Helen Four Eagle Boy and her daughter Roseline Long Knife of the Northern Indian Mission, together, have worked out an interesting and colorful project which has brought much joy into their lives. Roseline, who has been paralyzed from the waist down for many years, has been tenderly cared for by her mother who has provided the materials and assisted her daughter in making many lovely quilts and doing beadwork and other crafts. The family home is near Frazer, Montana. Sister Four Eagle Boy also cares for six grandchildren and hauls water for household purposes nearly a quarter of a mile on a little red wagon or sled. Sister Long Knife, rejoicing in her blessings as a member of the Church, pays a double tithing on sales of her handwork. Sister Four Eagle Boy recently joined the Church. 441 Transparencies by John A. Alius Variations of the Tortilla Leanor J. Brown Member, General! Board of Relief Society, Mexico City, Mexico There was a time when the tortilla held no special place in my cookbook. Now I wonder how I ever got along without it. It makes a base for a variety of palatable casseroles, and is the essential part of those delectable concoctions called tostadas and tacos. There was also a time when I thought the tortilla belonged to all Latin America. Actually it is a food product of Mexico and Central America. If you were to ask for a tortilla in South America, they would probably give you a Spanish omelette. A toria is a cake in South America—at least in Southern South America—and in Mexico it is a sandwich. By dropping the a and adding the illa, you get what Mexico uses as the staff of life, or the unleavened bread made from corn. Another food that usually goes along with the tortilla is hot chili. Hot chili dishes and sauces do not go much farther south than the Mexican border in the Americas.. Each Latin country has its own particular method of preparing foods. The most southern countries, such as Argentina and Uruguay, are greatly influenced by European cuisine, since the people are mostly of European origin. And of all things! Chile doesn't know what chili is—at least the hot, edible kind—and in Spanish chili is spelled chile. Have you ever wondered why we in North America call Mexican food Spanish food? They are entirely different. Spanish food is paella (rice cooked with seafoods, and all things great and small), flavored with tomatoes, onions, bell peppers, and other seasonings. Mexican food is tortillas, beans, enchiladas, tamales, tacos, and the like, most of which you couldn't find in Spain if you searched from San Sebastian to Sevilla. 442 Another interesting discovery I have made is that American - Mexican food, the kind you get in parts of the Southwestern United States, and the MexicoMexican food have very little in common. They neither look nor _ taste alike, although many dishes are called by the same names. Both are equally good, but very different. The latter is somewhat hotter! The following recipes have as a base the corn tortilla. You won't find them on the menu of any restaurant or in any cookbook, except a private one, because they are the result of attempting to please per- (Continued on page 462) Mix-and-Match Wardrobes Ethelynn Keiser Work Director, San Jose West Stake (California) By developing the craft of sewing, and by thoughtfully planning to make the most of the sewing dollar, the Mix-and-Match Wardrobe is the answer to a "basic" problem. It is not only an economical way to have an excellent wardrobe, but it provides better made, better fitting, more original wardrobes, and a sense of creative accomplishment when a beautiful article of clothing is completed. In making a Mix-andMatch Wardrobe, it is a challenge in design to start with a three-color theme. First, choose a fabric, either plaid, check, tweed, or print, and from this tri-colored fabric, the theme is selected for combining the matchmates for the rest of the outfit. Skirts, blouses, sweaters, jackets, jumpers, and weskits are all perfect matching partners. Any piece of the wardrobe, such as the suit, the dress, or the skirt, or weskit can be made of the tri-colored fabric. The rest of the pieces should be selected carefully so that the colors and fabrics can be worn compatibly together. Four beautifully designed and carefully sewed outfits were made for display and modeling at the San Jose West Stake fashion show, three of which are described and illustrated here. I. A Many Purpose (Everyday) Wardrobe The first model, Addie Jensen, had chosen to make a many-purpose (everyday) wardrobe suitable for Church, Relief Society, luncheons, or other similar occasions. She chose a bright print of orange, yellow, and olive green of 100 per cent rayon. From this tri-color fabric, she picked her color theme and made a beautiful mix-and-match wardrobe. There were (Continued) 444 Fabrics for use with models on page 445 Everyday Wardrobe #1 eight different articles of clothing in her wardrobe, and these pieces combined in various attractive ways gave her fourteen different mix-and-match combinations. Ll. A Second Version of a Basic Everyday Wardrobe The second model, Lee Zinke, chose a basic wardrobe with the same purpose in mind, to provide a number of becoming costumes for daytime and informal evening occasions. She selected a print fabric of olive green, beige, and hot pink of 100 per cent rayon for using as her color key. The suit which was made as a part of this outfit was almost an exact replica of one selling in a fine dress shop for $49.50. It cost Lee $12.50 to make the entire outfit. There are eight pieces in her wardrobe, which can be combined in twelve different ways. 446 Everyday Wardrobe #2 11. A Dressy Wardrobe for Special Occasions Our third model, Estelle Wardle, made an elegant dressy wardrobe. She chose a lovely 100 per cent orlon material of red, dark blue, and light blue as her tri-colored theme. She made a beautiful 100 per cent wool coat in the light blue of her color theme. The coat can be worn with any of the other pieces of her wardrobe. She also made an elegant dark blue suit from a fabric called Veltessa. From the coat to the beautiful hostess skirt, Estelle's dressy wardrobe is truly stunning. She has nine separate pieces and can combine them in thirteen different ways. Our models polished or repainted their old shoes to match their new outfits, so that they could achieve a finished appearance and give their shoes new life and added usefulness. 447 Dress Wardrobe From the color pictures and the drawings, it will be seen that the mix-andmatch costumes are conservative and simple in design, and they can be made from patterns readily available in most areas where women do their own sewing. We realized more and more the merits of mix-and-match wardrobes, as we observed the many combinations available in planning wardrobes in this manner. Such outfits give those refreshing changes that make clothes more serviceable and useful, and by combining the various pieces to change her personality, a woman actually has more clothes to wear. Mix-and-match wardrobes can be as creative and inventive as the woman herself, and she can have a beautiful wardrobe by sewing her own clothing in the colors and designs that please her and enhance her feminine attractiveness. 448 MEDALLIONS OF ARTISTRY MARK HER YEARS. Eva Christena Otteson Evans, Hayward, California, is ninety-nine years old, and as she says, her handicraft has been a pleasure and an ornament over the years. She is now knitting a skirt, and she has been making quilts in many patterns since she was sixteen years old. Knitting was a familiar craft of her childhood days and very early she learned to make her own designs and to fit her stitches into clothing for use in the cold winters of her native town—Spanish Fork, Utah. She spun the wool from her father's sheep and dyed it in beautiful deep colors. She has made forty-two hooked rugs, fifteen sweaters, ten woolen stoles, six afghans, and numerous table covers, chair sets, pillow tops, and chair throws. Her handwork brightens the homes of her relatives and friends and is lovingly treasured as gifts of artistry. She is mother of eight children, grandmother to thirty-two, great-grandmother to 129, and great-great-grandmother to forty-six. She has served as an officer and teacher in Sunday School, Primary, and Relief Society, and was for many years a singer in the choir of her ward. 449 451 = During 1966, 301,248 sisters throughout the Church, an increase of 14,428, were blessed in their individual lives, in their homes with their families, Annual in their Church service, and in their community activities through membership and participation in Report the world-wide program of Relief Society. Strengthened testimonies, increased understanding of principles of the gospel as they have application in the lives of women, greater skill and effectiveness in performing household duties and in home management have been a part of the benefits that have come tc Relief Society members regardless of whether they lived in Norway, Austria, Guatemala, Korea, Australia, the Islands of the South Seas, Argentina, United States or in any of the other countries throughout the world where Relief Societies are located —57 in total. The skills learned in the homemaking program have been applied to the cultures of the respective localities in making a total of 1,361,894 articles of clothing, quilts, household furnishings, and non-sewed handicraft items. Through the social relations lessons which were correlated with those studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood, Latter-day Saint women have been able to see more clearly their responsibility to human relationships that originate in the home and extend into areas of Church and community living. Increasing numbers of sisters have responded enthusiastically to their study of the new cultural refinement course dealing with literature and fine arts which reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Latter-day Saint woman. The greater percentage of sisters attending regular Relief Society meetings is indicative of their appreciation and acceptance of the enrichment available to them through the varied courses of study which are carefully coordinated and guided under the direction of the Church Correlation Committee. Bounteous rewards of enlarged abilities, talents, and testimonies have also come into the lives of 196,259 Relief Society members who have served as leaders in carrying on the program of the organization, in 837 stake, district, and mission organizations and 5,972 ward and branch units throughout the Church. 1966 Marked progress has been made in the quantity and particularly the quality of visiting done by 130,301 visiting teachers, who, as emissaries of Relief Society assigned in pairs, have made 4,704,379— nearly five million—visits to families carrying with them a message of spiritual uplift and with a charge to observe any instance of need in the homes where they visited. Services given by Relief Society to the distressed and the aged have been far-reaching. A total of 753,371 hours of sympathetic, loveinspired service was given at the direction of Relief Society presidents, in addition to 395,181 visits to the sick and homebound, and also other services such as bedside nursing care and assistance to families at the time of death. At the direction of the Priesthood, 56,212 devoted women contributed 765,086 hours of service on Church Welfare projects, such as assisting at the canneries in processing vegetables, fruits, and meat products, and also in making clothing and household articles for the needy, As an aid to the bishops, Relief Society presidents made 99,512 visits and 86,812 other contacts to families needing assistance. Music continues as a vital aspect of the program of Relief Society. In addition to the development gained by its members through congregational singing in the regular meetings, 50,561 sisters have participated in 3,601 Singing Mothers choruses whose refining influence has, in turn, been carried over into their homes. The Relief Society Magazine, the Voice of Relief Society, which since June 1966 has been published in Spanish, as well as in English, is providing a direct channel of communication to thousands of LatinAmerican sisters. This marks a historic step forward in making available to this second largest language group in the Church the Magazine in their own tongue. This divinely established organization thus continues in its great mission of guiding and developing the women of Zion and aiding in building the kingdom of our Heavenly Father. General Secretary'Treasurer 452 1966 Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States IN MISSIONS IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS OrganiTOTALS IN STAKES OrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiMembers Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Dist. Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Members zations zations | Members | zations | Members zations zations Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming United States 1966 Totals 1965 Totals 1,392 27 123 10 69 3,708 112,062 1,333 6,833 406 3,778 248,609 587 Members 446 161 zations 4,295 Members 261,614 3,578 236,158 581 4,159 248,897 453 Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Azores Belgium Bermuda Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark E! Salvador England Ecuador Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan 1966 Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Organi in other countries IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS Organizations Members Organizations Members Organizations Members Korea Lebanon Libya Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Niue Norway, Panama Canal Zone Paraguay Peru Philippine Islands Poland Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Singapore Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Thailand Tonga Turkey Union of South Afri Uruguay Vietnam Wales Other Countries U. S. Totals 1966 Grand Totals 1965 Grand Totals zations and Members IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS Organizations OrganiMembers | zations 347 | 12,368 Members Organizations Members oR celtics 3,/08 {248,609 4,055 {260,977 3,902 [247,395 454 20 Year Membership Growth Increase 195,650 320,000 300,000 280,000 260,000 240,000 220,000 200,000 180,000 160,000 140,000 120,000 100,000 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 June 1967 455 MEMBERSHIP (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS (Total) Stakes, Missions, and Districts Stakes Missions Mission Districts Wards and Branches In Stakes In Missions Increase 1966 1965 or Decrease Annual Report 456 L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers (Total) In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers (Total) In Stakes In Missions MEETINGS Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings Other Functions Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and District Board Meetings Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Sessions at Stake Quarterly Conferences Total Meetings Held 607,205 489,220 117,985 271,374 197,662 39,363 20,626 13,723 8.470 4,619 3,851 Increase or Decrease June 1967 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) 115,471 In Stakes 971%: In Missions 16,279 Spiritual Living 119,418 Homemaking 116,774 Social Relations 109,407 Cultural Refinement 108, 286 Visiting Teacher Meetings 6b, itd Relief Society Leadership Meetings 79,918 SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Chorus (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions MAGAZINE English Edition 252,902 Spanish Edition 5,590. VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers 130,301 Visiting Teacher Districts 69.317 Family Visits (Total) 4,704,379 Home 3,056,027 Not Home 1,643,352 Per Cent At Home 54 9HY, Communications in Lieu of Visits 140,22 An Average of 9 Visits Was Made in the Stakes to Each Family in 1966 An Average of 8 Visits Was Made Church-Wide to Each Family in 1966 Annual Report 457 Total 258,492 458 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by All Females On Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance, Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFI To Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick Visits to Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses (Total) In Stakes In Missions Increase or Decrease 99,512 86,312 765,086 56,212 252,570 4,693 31,120 395,181 JN SUNT Ta dune 1967 459 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) 1,361,894 Sewed Articles (Total) 827,866 Quilts 29,239 Children's Clothing 83,075 Women's Clothing 92,228 Men's Clothing 5,399 Household Furnishings 326,469 Other (Miscellaneous) 291,456 Non-Sewed Articles 534,028 Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) 5,533 In Stakes 4.713 In Missions 820 Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1966..........$2,901,148.20 Receipts................. Po 0000000000 ONE 5,005,182.27 Total..............5000000 OID 0 0 0 7,906,330.47 Disbursements...... OCS O65 re... 4,766,843.05 Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 1966....... 3,139,487.42 Assets—December 31, 1966 Net Cash on Hand December 31................$3,139,487.42 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office.................... 422,909.67 Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.)...... 36,914.44 Real Estate and Buildings...... 0 Se. 84,014.06 Total Assets.............900000000000000$3,683,325.59 Annual Report CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS \ The Golden Chain (Continued from page 431) down, leaving only Nora and Jed Oliver. She knew the townspeople were enjoying the situation immensely. Jed made a good impression. She needn't have worried about him. And while she toyed with the idea of purposely missing a word, her idea came too late. Jed missed one first. Tue bishop had long since given up the spelling book in favor of the dictionary. He was working through the "'o's" when Nora was startled to hear Jed say "obfuskate." He was reading from his paper, too. He, as several of the others, was aided by seeing the word, and it was ruled that this was fair, everyone being given the same right, to see the word in writing before spelling it orally, if he chose so to do. Immediately, as if. Correcting one of her pupils, Nora found herself saying, "obfuscate." She looked at Jed. No, she had not embarrassed him. His face was a big grin as she began receiving the first of many congratulations. And it was not until the next morning that what had seemed to her to have been almost a deliberate error proved to be just that. She found Jed's paper, crumpled and dropped on the floor where he had been. There was no mistaking the handwriting. She had seen too much of it for that. But there was the word, as plain as could be, obfuscate, yet he had spelled it orally with a "k." Nora's heart skipped a _ beat. Jed had deliberately misspelled the word. But why? Why had he been concerned for her, as she 460 had been for him, that there be no embarrassment? Perhaps he had felt that her embarrassment would be doubled before both parents and her students? Nora could not know. But she taught that day with a light step and in an especially happy frame of mind. Nora had found that within the small community of Banner there was a surprising number of people who could enrich the experiences of her students by sharing their own. As missionaries for their Church, the men of the town had traveled the world over. Nora had heard the children speaking of the wood carving done by Freedom Lang, and the idea had been growing in her mind to invite the old fellow to school to show his work and to talk about it. She had a double purpose, actually, desiring to do something that might help to draw this man, who must be very lonely, into the group life of the little village. She knew herself to be somewhat of an outsider, but not as he was, and she could not say '"'those among whom he lived," for he did not live among them. He came into town only when he absolutely had to have supplies. She mentioned her plan to Ben. "T'll have to see him right away or the school year will be ending," she said. "I wonder if you would drive me out there after school one night this week." "Old Free? Miss Blake! You're not really going to invite him to come to school!" "And why not? I've heard from several people about the beautiful things he carves. I think it would OO be very worthwhile to have him show them to the class and perhaps tell a bit about how he does it. Who knows? We may have someone in class who might be interested in learning to carve." "T know you, Miss Blake. You have someone in mind already. It's Joe, isn't it? Joe Pine?" Nora laughed. "You're too sharp, Ben. Yes, it is Joe. He has quite a talent for modeling with that clay we brought in from the ditch bank. I'd like to see what he could do with wood." Still Ben appeared reluctant to become a party to the plan. "T don't know," he said. "'I'd have to tell Jed where I was going, and I know he won't like it. Me going out there, or you The Golden Chain either." Nora caught her breath. There were times when she had been tempted to question Ben. She would have liked to ask, Does he ever talk about me, Ben? Does he' care at all? But always she rejected the impulse as not auite honorable. She kept her voice low as she said, "Ask him, Ben. Tell him we plan to go tomorrow after school." But the following day Ben was absent. Not to be dissuaded, Nora determined to walk. It was probably not more than three miles out to the Lang cabin. Then, as the last student left, Nora looked up to see Jed standing in the doorway. (To be continued) if WREN TIME Ethel Jacobson ~ In filaments of fine-spun gold The wrens' cadenzas, whorled and scrolled, Make filigrees of melody That glint from every aspen tree. Beaks, like slim curved needles, wrought This bright metallic lacework caught On dancing leaves that tip slim boughs Where the small winds of summer drowse. ~ LIFE'S JOURNEY The path, narrow and steep, winds its way to the top of the lofty, majestic mountain. Sharp rocks, thorns, and tangled underbrush reach out, threaten to trip, to turn me aside. Sometimes | feel myself slipping backwards. I'm tired. | stop to get a firm foothold, to renew my strength, then | continue to climb. Wouldn't it be easier to follow the wide paved road that travels around the base of the mountain? No. | must reach the top. That is my goal. Judith Leigh-Kendall 461 June 1967 VARIATIONS OF THE TORTILLA (Continued from page 448) sonal tastes. Some have been concocted from exchanging food ideas at Relief Society luncheons here and there. Whether you are an old Mexico food fan or have never tasted a tortilla, you ought to try these recipes. You are sure to like them. TOMATO ENCHILADA CASSEROLE 2 doz. Tortillas (approx.) Ingredients for sauce 1 Ib. Ground meat 10 or fewer small green onions (10 if you like onion flavor) 1 bell pepper chopped fine 1 tsp. Chili powder (optional) 1 can yellow corn, drained 1 cup grated cheese 1 can tomato sauce (small) 3 cans cold water 1 can consomme and/or 1 small can tomato soup; enough flour and shortening to thicken sauce Make sauce by browning flour in butter or other shortening. Remove from fire and stir in liquids which have been mixed together. Return to fire and continue stirring until it thickens. Next, sauté meat with onions and bell pepper. Salt and pepper to taste. Add the chili powder and can of corn. Fry tortillas, one at a time, in very hot cooking oil about an inch deep. Use small frying pan. Use kitchen tongs to place tortillas in hot oil. Cook for about three seconds, then turn and cook other side. Hold tortilla up with tongs and drain off oil. Dip tortilla in tomato sauce and place in bottom of large casserole dish. Continue until you have a thick layer of sauce-covered tortillas. Add a layer of the meat and corn combination. Sprinkle with cheese, then make another layer of each. Pour remaining sauce over all. Place in 325° oven for 30 minutes or until bubbly hot. Just before removing, sprinkle a little cheese on top. Sometimes | add peeled, toasted chili strips to this casserole—the kind you get at any grocery that carries Mexican canned foods. | often substitute chopped chicken or pork for ground round. The nice thing about this casserole is that it tastes just as good the next day. Note for all the casseroles: A good rule to remember is to stop using the tortillas when there is about a cup of sauce left in pan. If you have a cup of sauce to pour over all, it will assure you a nice, moist dish. GREEN TOMATO ENCHILADA 20 or more little green tomatoes oil or butter, as desired (the kind with jackets on) 2 doz. Tortillas (approx.) 1 small green hot chili (optional) 1 cup grated cheese (approx.) 3 medium-sized onions about 2 cups leftover roast or boiled 1 avocado (optional) meat (torn into fine strips) 1% pint sour cream parsley Boil tomatoes (jackets removed), onions, and chili in small amount of water. When tender, put in osterizer (or blender), until thick. Salt to taste. Fry tortillas as explained above. Dip in sauce; put a little of meat in center. Roll and place side by side in casserole. Make two layers. Pour remaining sauce or 1 cup of sauce over top, then the sour cream. Sprinkle with cheese and leftover meat. Place in moderate oven for about 30 minutes. Remove and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and place slices of avocado on top. Serve immediately. This casserole has a different taste and is delicious. 462 Variations of the Tortilla CHEESE, CHICKEN, AND TORTILLA CASSEROLE 1 barbecued, roasted, or fried chicken (1 usually get mine at my _ favorite rotisserie.) 5 to 10 little green onions—use part of the stems, too. 1 large can creamed chicken soup, diluted with about 34 can (1414 oz) of milk 1 cup grated cheese (I use a mild cheese.) YY cup chopped celery—if you like celery. About two dozen tortillas cut in strips and lightly browned in shortening, butter or substitute. Cut tortillas in medium-sized strips. (I cut about five at a time, using my sharpest butcher knife and cutting board.) Brown lightly in shortening. Sauté chopped onion and celery in a little shortening. Blend chicken soup and milk well. De-bone chicken and cut in bite-sized pieces. Place browned tortilla strips in casserole, then the sautéd onion and celery, then the pieces of chicken and grated cheese. Pour chicken soup over all. Place in moderate oven for 30 minutes or more. When the budget is low, omit the chicken, and add a little more cheese and onion. If the mixture seems a little dry before you put it in the oven, add a little more canned milk. TACOS tortillas—usually 3 per person meat—left over roast, chicken, pork lettuce—shredded or cut very fine sausage, or ground beef tomatoes—chopped fine cottage cheese—small curd frozen cooked peas or canned peas dairy. Sour cream or sweet cream grated cheese 1 small can taco sauce green onion—finely chopped Fry tortillas as described above, only this time double in half and fry a little longer. Place tortillas on paper towel to drain and keep warm. In each tortilla put cooked meat that has been torn into little strips or the cooked ground meat. Add about a tablespoon of cottage cheese or cream; next, a spoonful of peas, then a little chopped onion, tomato, and lettuce, and, last, a sprinkle of cheese and a spoonful of taco sauce. Now comes the fun part—hold. Tightly with both hands and eat immediately. Good luck or, as we say in Spanish, ''buena suerte." TOSTADAS There is very little difference in the above type of taco and the tostada, but to some the difference is important. The tortilla used for tostadas should be a day old and should be fried until crisp. The day you cook beans, remember to set aside a quart full (not much liquid—nearly all beans) to make tostadas. When the beans are a day or so old, place them in a frying pan with a cube of butter or butter substitute. While they are cooking, mash them until they become a paste. This is called refried beans and is delicious alone, especially if you add a little cheese and fet it melt in the beans. Now take about a tablespoonful of the refried beans, spread over top of the crisply fried tortilla, then place any kind of cooked meat in small pieces on top of the beans, then the finely chopped lettuce— very fine, remember—then next you should place a bit of soft, crumbly, fresh cheese on top (a white cheese). This may be hard to find in some areas. If so, substitute cottage cheese; small curd. Salt to taste. Spread a little cream on top, if you like it juicy, and it is ready to eat. Tostadas and tacos are for strictly informal affairs—but what fun, and oh, so good! And as we say in Latin America "'buen provecho," or "happy eating." 463 LESSON DEPARTMENT HOMEMAKING Development Through Wy Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion [V—Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1967 Southern Hemisphere: February 1968 Objective: To learn fundamental procedures in setting in a basic sleeve. INTRODUCTION The set of the sleeve is one of the most important earmarks of a professional looking garment. Since the sleeve is sometimes 1%" to 2" fuller than the armhole into which it is to be sewed, it is necessary to ease and mold this fullness to fit the upper arm and shoulder so that it will be free from tucks and gathers, thus giving the curve of the armhole a smooth appearance. Different methods for sewing in a sleeve may be used, but they all must give that quality look when completed. Standards for a wellfitted, plain set-in sleeve show that (a) the crosswise grain at the base of the sleeve cap is parallel to the floor, (b) the lengthwise grain is perpendicular to the floor and falls in a vertical line from the high point on the shoulder to the elbow, (c) the curve of the armhole is stitched so that it follows the normal curve of the body, (d) the sleeve is balanced so that it hangs evenly, (e) there 464 are no diagonal folds or wrinkles on the top of the sleeve or underneath at the armpit, (f) the sleeve is large enough to prevent binding at the upper arm, yet free from a puckered or puffy look in the armhole seam, (g) it must not look as though the dress had been eased onto the sleeve. PREPARATION The entire sleeve cap is ease stitched by placing one row of stitching exactly on the hemline, sewing while the sleeve is flat and right side up. This places the bobbin thread on the wrong side of the fabric. The stitch is lengthened slightly. The sleeve seam may then be permanently stitched and pressed, and, if desired, may be hemmed before it is set into the armhole. 'This, of course, would not be done until the sleeve length and general fit had been checked. The sleeve cap requires ease to.. Mold and fit the upper arm and shoulder. Therefore, clip the bobbin thread at the front and back notches and draw up the ease, distributing it to give an even appearance. There is very little ease, if any, across the top, but more is found where the sleeve is bias. It is at this point where care must be taken to prevent too much fullness. SETTING IN THE SLEEVE Turn the garment wrong side out, placing the sleeve into the armhole so that the right side of the sleeve matches the right side of the garment. Pin the two garment sections together at the underarm seam, top of the shoulder, front notch, and back notch, remembering to hold the sleeve side toward you and to place the pins at right angles to the seamline. The sleeve must fit the armhole along the seamline, so that any adjustments can be made between the top of the sleeve and the notches. Best results will follow if the full side of the sleeve is worked over the fingertips. It may be necessary to place one or two additional pins to help hold the edges, but try to avoid using more than six or eight altogether. It may be advisable at this stage to baste (either by hand or machine) the sleeve into the armhole and check the way it hangs before permanently stitching it. (Figure 1) STITCHING The garment is placed under the machine so that the sleeve side is up. To reinforce the lower portion of the armhole, two rows of machine stitching are used. Lesson Department Begin the stitching at the back notch and continue sewing around the armhole until the starting point is reached, then continue on to the opposite notch. This gives a double line of stitching (one on top of the other) on the lower part of the armhole only. Since the ease stitch on the sleeve was made exactly on the seamline during the preparation, the permanent stitch may be sewed one thread inside the ease line. If there is difficulty in holding the ease in place while permanently stitching the armhole, it may be necessary to hold 'the fabric "off grain." This is done by placing the forefingers opposite each other in front of the needle at each side of the pressure foot and pulling the top layer of fabric outward with the fingertips as the machine sews. (Figure 2) FINISH Trim the armhole seam to 14" and finish according to the type of fabric. Pinking is suitable on many fabrics. The seam allowance on the under part of the armhole (from notch to notch) is trimmed down to 3%". The narrower seam gives more room, is comfortable, and prevents binding. The armhole seam should not be clipped. Cutting the seam allowance down to 4%" on top and 3%" underneath serves the same purpose as clipping without weakening the seam. (Figure 3) For sheer fabrics, a false French seam is used and is made ¥," wide all the way around the armhole. If the sleeve has been set in properly and the seam naturally turns toward the sleeve, it isn't necessary to press it. However, if 465 June 1967 (Figure 1) Setting-in the Sleeve = (Figure 3) Trimming and Finishing The Sleeve (Figure 2) Stitching the Sleeve (Figure 4) Attaching Bias Strip To Maintain Roll at Sleeve Cap (Optional) pressing is desired, with sleeve side up (wrong side), press the armhole seam, allowing the iron to extend into the sleeve about Ye" to 4". This will help retain the natural roll the sleeve should have rather than a flattened look. Some fabrics need more attention than others in achieving a soft, smooth round look over the cap. To help maintain the roll at the cap of the sleeve, cut a bias strip of self-fabric approximately 466 114" wide and 6" long. Match the edge of the bias to the sleeve seam edge, then attach it by hand over the cap of the sleeve, stitching as close as possible to the sleeve line of stitching. The addition of the bias helps to fill in spaces where there is too much ease. (Figure 4) All seam edges turn toward the sleeve when finished. Note: If self-fabric is too bulky, use another fabric, such as outing flannel. SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Elder Roy W. Doxey =» Last year the structure of the lessons for this department attempted to involve the members of the Relief Society to a greater degree by pointing out pertinent discussions in the lesson material. In addition to this device being used this year, the format of the lessons is changed to emphasize one major principle in a section of the Doctrine and Covenants rather than to discuss all or most of the contents of the revelation. We will continue to include, however, as much material concerning the background of the revelation as seems necessary and also to emphasize as much of each revelation as is pertinent to the one principle. With the change to a one-principle lesson, it seems necessary that each person read the entire section to enjoy further the spirit of this book of scripture. The abbreviations in earlier lessons will be used. The one abbreviation that might give new teachers and readers a question is DHC. This abbreviation means Documentary History of the Church, which is also known as the seven-volume History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints by Joseph Smith, Jr. During this Relief Society year the spiritual living lessons cover a four-year period from April 1834 to April 1838, using eight of the twelve revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith during this period. One section, written in 1835, which is an opinion on government, is to be studied in another year. Historically, then, this four-year period, as far as these lessons are concerned, includes the Zion's Camp expedition of 1834; in February 1835 the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Quorum of the Seventy were organized; the Kirtland Temple was completed and dedicated in 1836; the extension of missionary work across the ocean to Europe occurred in 1837; and in 1838, with the Church more perfectly organized, it received its official name by revelation. Theologically, one lesson conAGT June 1967 siders the concept of building Zion upon the earth, the major principle revealed in the dispensation, as the objective of all Latterday Saints. This lesson points out what is necessary for each member of the Church to do that this goal may be realized. Another lesson revolves around the manner in which the saint is blessed by sustaining those who preside over him. The Kirtland Temple dedicatory prayer, though it was a special one, gives many prayer principles which the members of the Church may find profitable for use in their own prayers. Another lesson concerns the wonderful events that occurred in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. These events have tremendous bearing upon the eternal salvation of men. Knowledgeable Church members have come to love the principle of humility as it is revealed in the scriptures, for he who lives this principle has the windows of heaven opened to him in many ways. The 1967-68 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 81—tThe Lord Will Provide for His Saints (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 104) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns that the Lord will provide for his saints, but it must be in his own way. Lesson 82—Preparing for the Redemption of Zion (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 105) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns from the experiences of the saints in former days under persecutions brought on by transgressions, that she must be obedient to present-day commandments if she would have a part in the redemption of Zion. Lesson 83—The General Authorities (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns of the Lord's organization of the General Authorities of his Church and recognizes the inspiration that guides them. Lesson 84—Sustain the Brethren (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 108) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is blessed as she observes her vows and sustains the Brethren in authority. Lesson 85—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer) (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the Lord to assist her in her own praying. 468 Lesson Previews Lesson 86—The Restoration of the Keys of the Priesthood (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110) ~ Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman rejoices in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood and resolves to accomplish the duties imposed upon her by the restoration of the keys. Lesson 87—'"Be Thou Humble" (D&C 112:10) (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 112) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman views her own life in light of the commandment to be humble with the great promised blessings resulting therefrom. Lesson 88—The Church and lts Purposes (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 115) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman examines herself to see if the purposes of the gospel are fulfilled in her life that her light may be a standard to her family and associates. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths To Live By Preview of Messages for 1967-68 Alice Colton Smith =» The Church in the spring of 1833 reflected the season's hope. Intellectual and spiritual ferment was in the air. True, the mob spirit was abroad in Missouri, but, in Kirtland, the brethren were engaged in raising money for a schoolhouse in which they could study together. As a group they would learn to magnify their callings. They were beginning to learn more about the Lord whom they worshipped. He was a God of love, permissively allowing all men to act in free agency, but for those who chose to be in his kingdom, as joint heirs with him in eternity, there were rules, laws, and expectations. As in any great kingdom, one's free agency must be exercised within the bounds of responsibility. The Lord (the King) whom the saints worshipped and wished to follow, called them to the realm of excellence. One's faith and one's love were not to be blind. Love was to be fortified by faith, and also by learning. Out of the combination of love, faith, devoted service, and learning would come wisdom. On May 4, a conference of High Priests initiated plans for raising funds to erect a schoolhouse in which structure the elders might be instructed. They were carrying out instructions previously given by the Lord. Two days later, the Lord by revelation taught the Church that "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and _ truth. Light and truth forsake that evil one" (D&C 93:36-37), and that "He that keepeth his command- 469 June 1967 ments receiveth truth and light" (D&C 93:28). Through the gospel plan, we all are to be trained in the intelligent use of free agency. Intelligent understanding of each other is also necessary. We are to learn how to be responsible for one another. Our greatest concern should be for those whom God has entrusted to our care: our families, our friends, our neighbors, the saints of God—in time, all men. We should be prepared to risk all in their behalf, at the Lord's request. We are to take time to love. There is to be no sitting on the sidelines. The Lord calls us to action, tempered by study, learning, wisdom, faith, intelligence, and the promptings of the Holy Ghost. The visiting teacher messages for October 1967 through May 1968, are as follows: Message 1—Light and Truth Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: ''The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth'' (D&C 93:36). By becoming responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, we have special access to light and truth. Message 2—Love—-a Way to Salvation Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: God revealed through his Son Jesus Christ that the basic principle of his kingdom is love. By implementing this principle, we help ourselves and others to obtain salvation. Message 3—Loving Oneself and Others Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: Understanding and loving oneself is an integral part of understanding and loving others. Message 4—A Loving Person Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To become a loving person requires desire, study, and practice. Message 5—Take Time to Show Love Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: We must organize our lives so as to have time to show love to others. Message 6—-Love, Intelligence, and Compassionate Service Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: Love and intelligence result in compassionate service to others. Message 7—Courage and Love Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To be a loving friend or a good neighbor may require courage. Message 8—Love Is Active Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To show that love is active, not passive. 470 HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Preview of Discussions—1967-68 Celestia J. Taylor = Our leaders from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to President David O. McKay, have been devoted exponents of the influence of the home upon the families who dwell therein—both parents and children. We are all familiar with the emphasis which our beloved President McKay has given and is giving to the importance of the home in the rearing of our children. President Brigham Young said in one of his discourses, ""The only heaven for you is that which you make for yourselves," and again, ""Make your homes lovely, and adorn your hearts with the grace of God." The homemaking discussions for 1967-68 continue to be based on the general topic, Development Through Homemaking Education, and are designed to encourage Latter-day Saint mothers to make of their homes places of beauty, where happiness and mutual contentment are natural characteristics. To achieve this end, the discussions make a practical approach to the various contributing factors. Discussion 1—Family Protection—Wills—Estate-Planning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: To show that estate-planning and the making of a will are important for the well-being of the survivors. Discussion 2—Family Protection—Insurance Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 November 1967 Objective: To show the need for insurance in family protection. Discussion 3—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show how Christmas food, fun, and finance can be combined to make a happy family holiday. Discussion 4—The Kitchen—the Heart of the Home Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To show that the kitchen can be the heart of the home, where human needs are satisfied. Discussion 5—The Living Room—yYour Design for Living Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To awaken us to the possibilities of using what we have to the greatest advantage. Discussion 6—The Dining Area—the Threshold of Hospitality, Family Communication, and Courtesy Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: To encourage mothers to create a happy atmosphere for family observance of good manners and courtesy. 471 June 1967 Discussion 7—The Bedrooms—Wake Up Smiling Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To show that comfortable, attractive, quiet bedrooms can contribute to the physical well-being of the family. Discussion 8—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To show that the home which invites the reading of good books will add enrichment to the lives of the family members. Discussions for Summer Months: June—Home Nursing Training Northern Hemisphere: June 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 July—Simple Nursing Techniques Northern Hemisphere: July 1968 Southern Hemisphere: December 1968 August—Family Attitude Toward All Ill Person—Rehabilitation Northern Hemisphere: August 1968 Southern Hemisphere: January 1969 September—Care of the Aging Northern Hemisphere: September 1968 Southern Hemisphere: February 1969. SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alberta H. Christensen » The general guideline for the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1967-68 is that of Light and Truth. The Priesthood manual will include some lessons which deal with Priesthood oriented responsibilities and Priesthood administered ordinances. Others will be on subjects in which all Church membership participate. The companion Relief Society lessons will correlate with those Priesthood lessons which have a corresponding application in a woman's personal life and in the individual-to-individual relationships of which she is a part. As heretofore, the correlation may be close in some cases; in other lessons the general subject used in 472 the Priesthood lessons will be followed, but with different emphasis. Again, as in previous lessons, class involvement is important. To listen is not necessarily to learn. Therefore, to promote active discussion within the class period and to motivate individual action beyond the hour in one's personal life, the involvement procedure will continue to be used. Scriptural quotations, a pertinent question, a provocative statement, life-situation cases, a sociodrama, or fragments of conversation as aids to involvement, will continue to appear within the. Lessons. Class leaders who make full use of these participation helps should have very little temptation or opportunity to retain the lecture method. Instead of presenting a lesson, there will be a development of ideas embraced in the lesson. All class members should participate by actually reacting Lesson Previews mentally and vocally expressing themselves. Only when this is done may the lesson reach its full potential. A forward look at the lessons for the coming year will be of interest to the social relations class leaders. Lesson 1—''Seek Learning, Even By Study' (D&C 88:118) (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: Latter-day Saints have been commanded by the Lord to seek learning by study and also by faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who complies with this commandment and who uses the acquired knowledge for good, will enrich her mortal life and be eternally blessed. Lesson 2——''And Also By Faith' (D&C 88:118) (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman may know the blessing of truth revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of faith. Lesson 3—As a City on a Hill (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: ''Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid' (Matt. 5:14). The Latter-day Saint woman may know the joy of being "a light unto the world." Lesson 4—What Will They Remember? (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes her responsibility to represent the standards of the Church in all aspects of personal deportment. Lesson 5—Do | Live What | Say? (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that integrity is essential to all rewarding human relationships. Lesson 6—Of Thoughts and of Words (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that ''For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he' (Prov. 23:7). 473 July 1967 Lesson 7—Home and the School (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To point out that an understanding of the purposes of education on all levels is of value to both mother and student. Lesson 8—"'That's What They Say, Mamma'"' (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To emphasize the responsibility of the mother in fortifying the home against some propagandizing of the commercial world. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Preview of Lessons—-1967-68 Dr. Bruce B. Clark s A program in literature has been functioning for three years with the addition, a year ago, of music and art as a cultural refinement course. For the first two years (1964-65 and 1965-66) Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books was used, focusing upon developing individual values. During the year 1966-67, Volume 2 has been used, focusing upon home and family problems and ideals as_ seen through literature and the related arts. The program for 1967-68 will be a continuation of the present program—that is, the central focus for another year will be on intelligent family living as seen through literature and the related arts. Materials are published in Volume 3 of Out of the Best Books. As during the past three years, so again for 1967-68, the emphasis will be upon the works of literature and art and music themselves, rather than upon 474 authors' lives or historical background. Such an emphasis is intended to encourage stimulating discussion and an exchange of ideas with all the insight into life and life's values that selections from the world's great literature, music, and art can yield. Also, continuing concern will be given to harmonizing literature and art with the gospel, permitting a rich correlation between the ideals of our cultural heritage and the ideals of our religion. An obligation, as members of the Church, is to study the scriptures and the words of our modern prophets for the fulness of the gospel that they contain. But, beyond these, we are encouraged to study the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At its best, literature is concerned with building faith and championing spiritual values— and with exposing and opposing selfishness, materialism, shallowness, and all things harmful to human personality or destructive in human relationships. There will be a sufficient number of selections covered each month so that stake and ward class leaders can select those most useful for their group. And, again, the sisters should be encouraged to bring to their reading and discussion of the selections all of their own background in life's experiences. For literature is valuable not only because of the author's talent and insight, but, also, because it stirs readers to think, evaluate, and aspire. As we approach another year of study it is good to remind ourselves that reading a work of literature is a beginning and not an end. It opens doors rather than closes them. When we finish reading a selection, we should be left thinking, not with all questions Lesson Previews answered, but with sufficient insight so that we are just a little better prepared to meet life's challenges and to achieve life's eternal goals. Finally, as we participate in the cultural refinement course, we should remember that the course will be fully successful only if we apply the lessons in our own lives, and carry them into our homes, sharing the wonder and wisdom and beauty of music, good literature, and art, as well as their delights, with our families. One of the most valuable things we parents can give our children is a love of reading, music, and art, plus some skill in analyzing these arts; and one of the best ways to do these things is to discuss and enjoy literature, music, and art as a family group in the home. Lesson titles and objectives for the year 1967-68 are as follows: Lesson 1—by Robert K. Thomas: ''A Glad Heart" "With a glad heart and a cheerful countenance.''—Doctrine and Covenants 59:15 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: By developing a glad heart, a woman may more effectively set a tone of harmony within her home. Musical selections with comments for lesson 1 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. Lesson 2—by Bruce B. Clark: ''Honesty, a Measure of Life'' "The measure of life is not length, but honesty."—VJohn Lyly Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: Apri! 1968 Objective: To emphasize that as she is honest with herself, a woman helps others to value the sincere and trustworthy. She should recognize dishonesty in all its forms and thus be more fully honest in all that she does, says, and is. A consideration of the painting ''The Holy Family'' by Andrea del Sarto, as printed on pages 432-433, of this, the June issue of the Relief Society Magazine, will be a part of this lesson. Lesson 3—by Robert K. Thomas: ''Patience and Forbearance" "In your patience possess ye your souls.''-—-New Testament, Luke 21:19 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 475 June 1967 Objective: To show that a woman who lets patience turn into resignation is substituting endurance for forbearance. Musical selections with comments for lesson 3 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. Lesson 4—by Bruce B. Clark: ''Obedience, the Mother of Success"' "Obedience is the mother of success, the wife of safety."—Aeschylus Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To emphasize that a woman should anchor her life in obedience to high principles through loyalty and trust. A consideration of a painting which will appear in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be a part of this lesson. Lesson 5—by Bruce B. Clark: "'A Loving Heart" "A loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge.""-—Thomas Carlyle Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To show that a woman's life is refined and enhanced by the gift of genuine love and affection. Musical selections with comments for lesson 5 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. Lesson 6—by Robert K. Thomas: "'The Substance of Faith" "Faith is the substance of things hoped for.''-—New Testament, Hebrews 11:1 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere. August 1968 Objective: When her life is lighted by eternal principles, a woman can live both in and above the world. A consideration of a painting which will appear in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be a part of this lesson. Lesson 7—by Robert K. Thomas: ''Charity Out of a Pure Heart" "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." —New Testament, | Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give— and those who receive—graciously. This lesson will include a musical selection from the teaching kit, and a painting which will appear in the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The Text Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, will be on sale in the late summer at $2.95 postpaid from the Deseret Book Company. Orders will be filled in the order they are received as it comes off the press. The teaching kit for the cultural refinement course, 1967-1968, will consist of copies of four paintings, and musical selections, both with commentaries. Copies of the four paintings will be published in the Relief Society Magazine —the first one for lesson 2 in this, the June Magazne, and the three remaining pictures for lessons 4, 6, and 7, in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine, with commentaries by Floyd Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art and Education, Brigham Young University. Large reproductions will be available in the teaching kit, with additional nformaton. The teaching kit, consisting of the paintings and musical selections, may be ordered from Communications Services Division, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 84601, at a cost of $3.50, each kit, postpaid. Time will be allotted at each class period for the consideration of the art or music as well as the literature. A476 Reg. Retail $234.50 11 patterns to choose from: ATX Dery be @ *plus freight if delivered out-of-town. A selected seconds 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN ASSORTED) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at Vsthe regular price... Factory-to-you © OVEN PROOF ¢ HAND PAINTED © DISHWASHER SAFE ¢ PERMANENT PATTERN GUARANTEE FACTORY OUTLET STORES inl -_ si — | 625 South Broadway [ 714 State Street, Santa Barbara altiLake City, Uta Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos HAWAIIAN TOURS June July October PAGEANT TOURS including Canada's World's Fair July 17 July 22 EUROPE TOUR August ALASKA TOUR August CANADIAN ROCKIES NORTHWEST TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop WAN CMT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 477 Merchants Park Shopping Center — In California — NOW THE OTHER WORLD IS GONE Dorothy J. Roberts Since | still shun the taking One green path alone, The lake it winds around, The flat, familiar stone; Since | still shrink from forest With its velvet fawn, The lupine and the lily— Now the other world is gone, Hold me softly, summer, On your lap of leaves, In your arms of blossoms With the lichen sleeves; Hold gently; After one last lullabye, A little dream before The rudely opened eye; Then lead me firmly Till | learn to walk alone, For looking back will only Turn the heart to stone. DIRECTIONS Dixie Randall Oveson A little child has asked the way, And do you point and tell? Or do you show him day by day, And bid him follow well? A little heart is broken, lost— And do you watch and weep, Or do you firmly lift it up And save it from the deep? A little soul has strayed away, And do you stand and scold, Or do you gently lead him back Into his Father's fold? To us is given the power to guide— From God, a sacred trust, That each child's steps directed be, And lead the way we must! NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR June 16-24 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES June 25—July 8 Aug. 20—Sept. 2 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 TWO HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR Aug. 20—Aug. 27 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2—Sept. 4 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 distributed WORLD FOODS INC. |g" THE NEW so" NON-CAFFEINE HOT DRINK A delicious and nourishing way to start the day for the whole family. Adults and children like the delicious flavor of the wholesome grains. Simple to fix — just add boiling water and serve! Economical, too! Look for it at your favorite market. Dealers Inquiries Welcome 2520 South 7th West ¢ Salt Lake City, Utah 478 Vikinglands Scandinavia PLEASE SEND INFORMATION CONCERNING YOUR SCANDINAVIAN NAME TOUR MURDOCK [Ubics BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6......... -90 Zone 3.......... -60 Zone 7......... 1.05 Zone 4...........65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5.........- 80 = DESERETREWS PRESS — Thank You for your patronage and your friendship over the years. Yes, we have: ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Gold Leaf, Decoupage, Feather Flowers, Furry Animal Pictures, Tissue Paper and Velour Flowers PLUS ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Aluminum Trays, Basketry, Ribbons, Styrofoam, Faces for Dolls and Stuffed Toys, ete. Send 25¢ for catalog and also receive our booklet, "How To Make Feather Flowers" ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 8411] Dept. R. M. 479 TRA VEL MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST, SALT LAKE CITY 103 Mrs. Mary Adelia ''Dell'' Young Salt Lake City, Utah 102 Mrs. Martha Rogers Platt Salt Lake City, Utah 98 Mrs. Isabell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah 97 Mrs. Ida McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Mary Johannah Lundquist Glines Tridell, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Bateman Quinton Idaho Falls,! Daho 96 Mrs. Mary Vincent Provo, Utah Mrs. Minnie Gardner Sugar City, Idaho Mrs. Rebecca Allphin Orton Payson, Utah gf Mrs. Lois Ann Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Frances Mary Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily A. Parker Kennewick, Washington 9 Mrs. Johanna Herstad Salt Lake City, Utah 480 9] Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Martin McIntosh Mobile, Alabama Mrs. Anabel Rowell Clark Chester Hill, Australia Mrs. Irene Smith Merrill Richards Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Harris Lehi, Utah Mrs. Annie Rothe Lehi, Utah Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Keey Cowt Birmingham, England 9) Mrs. Emma Ray Riggs McKay Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Palmer Jones Malad, Idaho Mrs. Martha Spratley Chadwick American Fork, Utah Mrs. Letitia Wood Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Catherine Holden Wood Logan, Utah Mrs. Rhoana Elizabeth Hatch Sawyer Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Eliza Ann Barnes Coalville, Utah Mrs. Minna Berndt Garz Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Crampton Clarkson Tonasket, Washington Mrs. Pearl Alberg South St. Paul, Minnesota eseret COMPANY REASONING, REVELATION — and YOU! By James J. Unopulos Jr. $4.95 Here is the gospel plan in its plainness and also in its majesty. The book is based on a course of gospel achievement taught successfully in southern California for several years. Inspirational reading — and a thought provoking course of study that will make a rewarding summer project. TEACH ME by Dorthea C. Murdock A book every mother needs for the summer months to help her keep the children amused and constructively busy. Originally created for use in Relief Society nursery classes, this enchanting collection of stories, games, make-it projects, etc., has found a wider use in homes. Every page is full of fun ideas children will really appreciate. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me: (] TEACH ME SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 771 SO. MAIN ST. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA (] PLEASE SEND ME CHARGE ACCOUNT INFORMATION account [J. Total amount of purchase $.....00. 00.2... Which includes 3%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, and 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. I enclose check / money order [] OR, please charge my established June 67 RS. 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL (J REASONING, REVELATION and YOU! Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE ~ Snucarce a Company The Relief Society Magazine JULY 1967 TOM Over the years The Relief Society Magazine has surely been a_ testimony builder and a source of encouragement and knowledge, and | want to express my appreciation to you and al! Who contribute their time and talents to this wonderful Magazine. Elaine Vogt College Park, Maryland Words are inadequate to describe the true joy and appreciation that our Relief Society sisters have for the Magazine in Spanish. One has to have lived in the mission field in these areas where so little has been available in Spanish for so long to really appreciate the true feeling one has when such a beautiful publication is now made available to so many. Our missionaries have requested their subscriptions in Spanish because the Magazines are wonderful as a proselyting tool. Glenna M. Hansen Supervisor Guatemala-E! Salvador Mission The precious joy of seeing a son build a tree house was skillfully pictured by Alda L. Brown in her poem 'Tree House" in the October issue of the Magazine. Her talent is fresh and delightful, and | would enjoy seeing more of her poetry in the Magazine. Mrs. Tess Christensen Richmond, Utah | had to write to express my thankfulness for the beautiful story ''Who Loves Here?" (first prize story, January 1967). How very true this story is. It brings to mind similar happenings. | am the mother of six precious little girls, ranging in ages from one to nine years, and, like Andrea, in the story, am expecting our seventh. | know that our girls are blessings and have brought us love and happiness. Dona C. Parker North Ogden, Utah 482 car aul Jur In the past three years, starting from Scotland, | have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. | hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine. Ann Petrie San Francisco, California - Again | have received another wonderful issue of the Magazine (January 1967). | think our Magazine is a whole institution of learning and enjoyment. | have taken it since 1926, and have thoroughly enjoyed each issue. | especially liked the lovely poem ''Love's Magic"' by Leone W. Doxey (in January). Helen H. Sticken Salt Lake City, Utah Brother Burton's address (February Magazine) was surely inspirational and practical in analyzing ''The Class Leader Makes the Difference."' | was very much impressed with the story "A Star's Slim Light'? By Alice Morrey Bailey (December 1966). It was perfect in form and content. | think | would have recognized it as hers without the name. What a marvelously gifted person she is. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah We are proud and happy to have the Magazine poet Alda L. Brown in our midst, and equally happy to know that her poetry is being recognized as being worthy of presentation in the Magazine. Mr. And Mrs. Ray Christensen Smithfield, Utah | especially enjoy the poetry in the Magazine. ''Tree House,'' by Alda Brown in the October issue was very good. Mrs. Roderay Newton, lowa The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 54 July 1967 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 485 Emma Ray Riggs McKay—Part Il Emma Rae McKay Ashton 499 Family Vacations Can Be Fun—Part | Lillian Y. Bradshaw 504 Sewing Machines for the Pelotas Branch, Brazil Spencer W. Kimball Fiction 506 Trapped Gail A. Jorgensen 513 Gold Lady Lenora Hansen 522 The Golden Chain—Chapter 6 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 482 From Near and Far. 510 Editorial: ''The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness'' Louise W. Madsen 512 Woman's Sphere Ramona Cannon 529 Notes From the Field The Home - Inside and Out 520 Recipes Old and New—Tried and True Esther Thomson 521 Quilts That Tell a Story Lesson Department 537 Spiritual Living—The Lord Will Provide for His Saints Roy W. Doxey 543 Visiting Teacher Message—Light and Truth Alice Colton Smith 544 Homemaking Meeting—Family Protection—Wills—Estate Planning Celestia J. Taylor 547 Social Relations—''Seek Learning, Even By Study'' Alberta H. Christensen 552 Cultural Refinement—''A Glad Heart'? Robert K. Thomas Poetry 581 Rose Bower Revisited Vilate R. McAllister Foresight, Juanita W. Sharp 517; Another Season, Christie Lund Coles 518; Summer Senses, Gilean Douglas 528; Thorn Beset, Ethel Jacobson 542; For This | Have Wept, Peggy Tangren 546; Golgotha, Margery S. Stewart 559; Home, Sylvia Probst Young 557. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided fer in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 483 Onna Fey Sigg MoS ay PART II (Continued from the June Magazine) CHILDREN — CHURCH WORK — TRAVEL Emma Rae McKay Ashton FUN TIMES WITH MOTHER ARE REMEMBERED BY THE CHILDREN On the children's eighth birthdays Ray gave them a party to which they could invite their friends for well-planned games, cake, and ice cream which she had prepared. On Saturdays, she took her young family shopping with her. Often the excursions ended with a silent movie starring John Bunny, Fatty Arbuckle, and the Old Maid, or a Big Bill Hart cowboy show, features she knew they would enjoy. The Barnum and Bailey circus was an exciting annual affair the McKays seldom missed. The wise parents suggested the children work for their show admission by digging dandelions out of the front lawn. They paid them a cent for every ten they dug. The evening before the intended matinee, their father, with a twinkle in his eye, would say, "Which would you rather do, keep the money, or go to the circus?" One of them invariably would say, "Keep the money," but being outvoted, would accompany the family to the anticipated event. When her children were young, Emma Ray McKay served as president of the Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society. Determined to make a success of this position, she bundled her baby in his carriage, and pushing him, made personal visits to the sisters of the ward, inviting them to attend the Relief Society meetings. Her diligence was rewarded. The membership increased from twelve to ninety. Later, she was asked to be counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency and traveled to the various wards on a streetcar, again taking her children with her. When she found this a hardship as her family increased, she was released from this position. She then served as a teacher of the Religion Class in the Ogden Fourth Ward, then as president of this organization for two or three years. Being able to accompany her children every week proved to be more compatible with her home situation. To her, home and her children came first. 'resident David O. McKay and Sister McKay, Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1949. 485 July 1967 Through this organization and the Sunday School, her children received valuable experience appearing before an audience. She directed two children's plays and a duet, "The Lord Is My Shepherd," in which one of her boys sang the alto part. She always insisted upon hearing her children give their talks aloud at home before they spoke in the meetings. "Let me hear it," she urged. "No, I don't want to say it to you." "Yes, come on. Just let me hear it." Her coaxing netted results. She corrected mispronounced words and coached them on standing up straight, speaking loudly and clearly, and in memorizing the thoughts they wished to convey. Under no circumstances, would she allow them to read their talks. These wonderful parents built family traditions. Christmas at the McKay home was (and is) a joyous holiday, with everyone participating in the fun. Secrets were whispered behind closed doors, for surprises were part of the excitement of Christmas. Many of the gifts given were handmade, secretly worked on weeks before the December holiday. Santa Claus was real; so were brownies, who reported to Santa each child's daily behavior. The Christmas tree was truly their own—well-earned. The two oldest sons, with their father and uncles, obtained permission from the property owner to cut trees in Ogden Canyon. They climbed the mountain in the snow, tramped from one evergreen to another until they spied the prettiest and bushiest, chopped it down and hauled it home. Since it was too big, it required much sawing and shaping to fit the corer of the living room. Their mother always let the children trim the tree. She showed them how to string cranberries and popcorn and how to drape them in artistic loops from branch to branch. Red and green balls with silver tinsel and a star at the top completed the traditional decoration. She made each of her children a red and white felt stocking which Santa, on Christmas Eve, filled with nuts, apples, candy, and a surprise in the toe. She even filled them again with goodies on New Year's Eve, the present being a new toothbrush for each family member. Summer traditions, too, were formed. The children looked forward to the close of school. Summer vacation was spent on the farm in Huntsville (riding horses, jumping on the hay from the beams in the barns, and enjoying a daily dip in the delightful old swimming hole). For Ray, the change meant careful planning and organizing, washing, ironing, cooking, and packing. Each summer the Model T, or current automobile, was piled high with supplies of food, clothing, EE 486 Emma Ray Riggs McKay 95 Rs SOTO Emma Ray McKay and Robert R. McK y, at Durham House, Liverpool, England. President McKay presided over the European Mission during 1922-24, -_ and bedding. Life on the farm was hard, with few modern conveniences, but for years she made the best of the situation and madea. Happy home for her loved ones. SUPPORT OF MISSIONARY HUSBAND In her memory the year 1920-21 stands out as the most difficult of her married life. Elder David O. McKay was appointed to make a world-wide tour of the missions of the Church. His traveling companion on this journey was Hugh J. Cannon. From the time the two missionaries sailed for Yokohama, Japan, December 20, 1920, Emma Ray McKay shouldered the full responsibility of caring for their six children and of managing their city home and the Huntsville farm of fifty acres. Without complaint, she supported her missionary husband fully by performing creditably her part of this important call. She exhibited courage and resourcefulness and relied heavily on prayer and faith in the Lord to make this possible. Her task was more difficult because her eldest son was serving his mission at this time. 487 July 1967 Frequent letters to Ray related in detail the glorious experiences of her husband and Elder Cannon. From. Yokohama, the missionaries traveled again by boat to Peking, China, where Elder McKay felt impressed to dedicate the land of China for the preaching of the gospel. After a second visit to Japan, they continued their voyage to Honolulu and remained on the Hawaiian Islands nineteen days visiting and holding meetings with saints and missionaries. Then mail arrived stating that the only way they could board a ship for the South Sea Islands was to sail to the mainland to catch it. When they arrived on the West Coast they would be so near yet so far away from home! They landed at San Francisco March Ist. Here a pleasant surprise awaited them. In his diary Brother Cannon wrote:... To our delight we found that Presidents Grant and Ivins had come to San Francisco to meet us and had brought with them Sisters McKay and Cannon. And right here it may not be out of place to mention that busy men, men who are burdened with vast responsibilities, who will take two women, each with a baby six months of age, on such a trip, are surely thinking more of the happiness of others than of their own personal comfort. While we were endeavoring to meet some difficulties in connection with our transportation, word came of the death of President Anthon H. Lund, and it was decided that we should return home and wait the sailing of the next boat! (Journal History, March 28, 1921) This was a welcomed respite to the McKays' loneliness for each other. The brethren and their wives traveled by train to Ogden where they remained until March 25th, during which time they attended the funeral of President Anthon H. Lund, visited Church authorities and family members, and made preparations for their extensive journey. A week later, while en route on the voyage to the Tahitian Islands, Hugh J. Cannon wrote a letter to the Deseret News which paid a witty compliment to his distinguished companion: "Brother McKay has rounded into perfect form as a sailor. Since leaving San Francisco he has not been seasick for a moment; but there have been times when, after looking at the pictures of his wife and kiddies, he has seemed to be see-sick."' At one time during her husband's absence, Emma Ray was in financial difficulty. She needed a sum of money to pay some obligations. She had exhausted all her resources without being able to raise the money. Finally, the night before the money was due, with tears rolling down her cheeks, she knelt by her bed and prayed with all her heart that Heavenly Father would show her a way to obtain this needed sum. The next morning there was a knock at the door. The visitor was 488 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Brother John Hali, a member of her stake presidency. Since he had never paid a social call on her before, she was somewhat surprised to see him when she opened the door. His first words were, "Sister McKay, do you need me? When I was down at the corner, something told me to turn up this way." "T should say I do. Won't you come in and sit down?" She then related her problem and the ways she had tried to solve it. He promptly produced his checkbook from his pocket and wrote her the needed amount. "But, President Hall, I have no collateral, and I don't know when I can repay you." '"Never mind, David O. Will see to it when he returns."' Her letters across the world, always optimistic, always encouraging, assured her missionary that he needn't worry about family affairs or his loved ones. All was well. It was truly a joyous reunion the afternoon of December 24, 1921, when David O. McKay stepped off the train at Ogden into the arms of his waiting family. To a reporter he said, 'After traveling 62,500 miles through the world, the dearest spot to me is home." THE EUROPEAN MISSION Eight months later Emma Ray McKay received a new challenging assignment. September 14, 1922, David O. McKay was appointed by the First Presidency to succeed Orson F. Whitney as president of the European Mission. She would accompany him with their five children, the youngest only two years old, the eldest being already on a mission in Switzerland. The call came as a surprise to the McKays, but they readily accepted it and began at once to make preparation to depart for their field of labor. They sailed two months later, November 17th, from Montreal, Canada. Ray's consistent activity in Church organizations, her rigorous year carrying the household responsibility alone, and her selfless attitude prepared her for the additional weighty responsibilities that awaited her in this new call. Ray had been set apart as the head of all the women's auxiliary organizations in Europe. She spent much time visiting, instructing, writing lesson plans, and encouraging a high quality of leadership among the Relief Society, Primary, and YWMIA workers. She was mother to 500 missionaries who were influenced for good by her love and kindness. Her labors were strenuous; her travel almost constant. During the two years, she traveled with her husband some 2,000 miles attending the conferences in the British Isles and touring the missions each year in Holland, Germany, the Scandinavian countries, Switzerland, and Belgium. Early in January 1924, the busy couple boarded a steamship from Marseilles, France, bound for Syria to visit the 489 July 1967 Armenian Mission, holding meetings for three days with the rejoicing saints. She was admired and praised by the women of these countries for her wise counsel, helpful advice on home and spiritual matters, and her exemplary leadership. Then, in August 1924, word came from the First Presidency that Elder James E. Talmage had been appointed to preside over the European Mission and that upon his arrival in Liverpool, President McKay would be released. Another mountainous task, a major operation, for Ray McKay to uproot her family again from their established home, pack, and be ready to board the steamship Montcalm on Saturday, December 6, 1924, for home. All of this was sandwiched in with visits to missions for final instructions and fond leavetakings. RETURN TO SALT LAKE CITY Upon their return to Utah, they began residence hunting in Salt Lake City. A comfortable apartment at 50 West North Temple Street was home until the spring of 1939, when they moved to a house at 1037 East South Temple Street. Emma Ray's activities, many and varied, kept her busy. For a number of years she was active in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society presidency until an operation terminated this call. She worked for the Red Cross during World War II and served a year as the president of the Parent-Teacher Association of the Lafayette elementary school. She enjoyed a rich social life with their hosts of Church, business, and civic friends, attended the theater, symphony, and special musical concerts. Homez-and her children still came first. She continued to maintain a high level in the spiritual and cultural atmosphere in the home. Keeping standards high was as natural as breathing. With complete unselfishness she guided those around her. "Won't you take the easy chair?" or "Let me help you," or "You may have my share," are her familiar phrases. In her daily routines she has manifested her selflessness. Every morning she has risen between five and six o'clock to prepare a nourishing breakfast for her busy husband and children; every day, with no word of complaint, she has kept warm the midday meal even though it might be served any time from twelve-thirty to two, depending upon her husband's appointments; every evening if he was detained, she would feed her family, but wait for his return in order to have the evening meal with him. "I know it isn't pleasant for Daddy to eat alone," she would remark. She is not only patient, loving, and understanding, but also beautiful in form and feature. One person remarked that she was the most beautiful bride she had ever seen. In her appearance in her house- 490 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Pra = 5: P-. 4 a" Fe - < - FAMILY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Picture taken on the Golden Wedding Anniversary of the McKays in 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Francis Ellen Anderson McKay; Robert R. McKay; Emma Ray Riggs McKay; President David O. McKay; Lou Jean McKay Blood; Llewelyn R. McKay; Alice Smith McKay. Back row, standing, left to right: Conway A. Ashton; Emma Rae McKay Ashton; Dr. Edward R. McKay; Lottie Lund McKay; David Lawrence McKay; Mildred Calderwood McKay. Keeping she is always neat, and though soft-spoken, she is cheerful, with a sparkling sense of humor. She says, "Life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for somebody else." She lives as she teaches. In the April 1942 Relief Society Magazine, she wrote, '"True prayer springs from the sincerity of the soul. To be successful in rearing a family, to be true Latter-day Saints in every sense of the term, parents must be sincere. They must do as they pretend, perform what they promise and really be what they appear to be." Recently, in reminiscing about her beloved mother, one of Emma Ray McKay's children paid her this tribute: Mother darling is such an extraordinarily exceptional subject. Her spiritual qualities, her tenderness, and her unusual strength of character have been an inspiration for all of us. Her endless supply of strength and gentle love taught | us unselfishness and kept harmony in the family. Her sympathy and encouragement promoted intellectual thinking. Her respect and trust in her children 491 July 1967 taught us tolerance and consideration of others. Her beautiful, firm faith created an atmosphere in our home of unquestioning belief in God and his Church. TRAVELING COMPANION TO HER HUSBAND In later years, when her children were grown, she became her husband's constant traveling companion and won a place in the hearts of people everywhere with her graciousness. She gave a message of peace and prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their husbands and children. Through the next twenty-five busy years, Emma Ray McKay, ever by her husband's side, supported him fully when his work as apostle, and a member of the First Presidency carried him into all parts of the Church. With him she toured the Mexican, Hawaii, Southern States, Eastern, Central, Northern, and North Central States Missions, as well as various stakes on quarterly conference appointments throughout the United States. She was present at chapel and temple dedications, ribbon cuttings, and on other special occasions. January 2, 1951, at their home on East South Temple Street in Salt Lake City, President and Sister McKay celebrated their Golden Wedding Anniversary. It was a day for reunion and rejoicing for this happy couple, their devoted children, and members of their two families. Tributes paid to this beloved couple included some by their children who appreciated the fact that their mother had never been too busy for games, to tell or read a story, to play for them, or just to talk about their daily adventures. The children were grateful for being made to feel a part of their parents' active life of service, never left out nor neglected in any way. Monday, April 9, 1951, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in a Solemn Assembly attended by the Priesthood and members of the Church, Emma Ray McKay raised her hand to sustain David O. McKay as the ninth President of the Church. With tears of gratitude she realized her husband was vigorous, alert, and in excellent health to bear the demands of this great office. With pride and admiration of her capable husband, she knew that he was fully prepared by years of experience and training to carry on the duties of leadership as head of the great Church. From now on their travels would be confined not to the North American Continent, but would extend to visits with members of the Church all over the world. The next year, 1952, she accompanied her husband on his tour of the European Missions, and was honored in Finland on her seventyfifth birthday. It was pouring rain in the picturesque Finnish forest, but Emma Ray McKay's spirits weren't dampened by the weather. Standing 492 Emma Ray Riggs McKay under an umbrella, she smiled and expressed her appreciation as, one by one, twenty-one missionaries stepped up to her and each one presented her with a red rose. It was a memorable birthday party. Much good was accomplished on this eventful tour. The couple's travels, reported in news accounts, were followed with interest. President and Sister McKay personally greeted the members of the Church. They enjoyed renewing old friendships, and making new ones as well. Arriving home after this successful eight-week trip, they stepped into an enthusiastic throng of 2,000 friends and neighbors who had gathered at the airport to welcome them home. Ray McKay was presented with a bouquet of ten long-stemmed roses presented by groups representing the ten missions visited. The announcement that the Church would build two temples in Europe was greeted with enthusiasm. The poem Emma Ray McKay quoted in her report to the Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1952, expresses the power and influence of the personal touch felt by the travelers and those whom they visited. *Tis the human touch in this world that counts, The touch of your hand and mine Which means far more to the aching heart Than shelter, and bread, and wine. For shelter is gone when the night is o'er And bread lasts only a day, But the touch of the hand and the sound of the voice Sing on in the soul alway. NJ r, The McKays continued the personal touch to members throughout the world, through meetings, handshakings, personal interviews, and talks in subsequent historic journeys to Europe in August 1953; then, in December to February 1954, a 32,000 mile air and rail tour of the South African, Uruguayan, Brazilian, and Central American Missions. For the first time in history a President of the Church visited in South and Central America. In 1955, President McKay observed his eightysecond birthday in Berne, Switzerland, where he dedicated the Swiss temple. With her husband, she appeared in several European countries with the Tabernacle Choir as it made its famous European concert tour. Earlier in the year, the McKays had traveled 45,000 miles touring the South Pacific missions of the Church. These 493 July 1967 Emma Ray Riggs McKay receives award as Utah Mother of the Year 1954 from Governor J. Bracken Lee. Emma Ray Riggs McKay historic journeys provided a boon to missionary work and attracted wide attention to the Church in the countries being visited. In 1953, Emma Ray McKay received during the MIA June Conference the honorary Golden Gleaner award, as evidence of the wide influence of her exemplary life as a Latter-day Saint wife and mother and "for all she has done to instill Christian principles in the youth of the Church." UTAH MOTHER OF THE YEAR In April 1954, she received honors as Utah Mother of the Year. She expressed her gratitude as she accepted her award, an impressive trophy presented by Governor J. Bracken Lee, before an overflow crowd assembled Sunday afternoon in the Garden Park Ward chapel. "T am thrilled with this honor of representing the mothers of Utah, and in behalf of all these fine mothers here and of the many hundreds of other wonderful loving mothers of Utah, I accept this trophy award with heartfelt thanks and pray that I may represent all mothers here in New York, and elsewhere, creditably." In connection with the presentation of this honor, her daughterin-law said this of her: During the travels with her husband hundreds of people of all ages, races, and creeds heard her talk—encouraging better living, higher moral standards and better. Understanding between nations to bring us peace.... She has had audiences with and is at ease with crowned heads of Europe and other countries —yet her love for children and home puts her on common ground with all people.... Young and old have felt her influence through the articles she has written instructing Christian principles, building perfect family relationships, and acquiring peace of mind. Many young people contact her personally and by letter seeking advice on love, marriage, family troubles, and divorce. Each is given her prayerful attention and personal answer. Mrs. McKay's life is one of beauty because her thoughts are beautiful. She believes, thinks, and tells only good about others. When asked to comment on the honor bestowed upon his beloved wife, her loving husband stated, "She has been Mother of the Year every day of every year to her husband, six living children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren."' A quotation from an article appearing in the Church Section of the Deseret News May 22, 1954, by Eileen Gibbons, tells of another honor Ray McKay received in 1954. 1954 is a year of double honors for Mrs. David O. McKay. Few women in the Church or even in the United States can claim distinction of being a "Mother of the Year" and also an honorary doctor of humanities. 495 3 - President David O. McKay and Sister McKay on their 66th wedding anniversary, January 2, 1967, at the Riggs home from which Emma Ray Riggs left as a bride in 1901. 496 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Yet Emma Ray Riggs McKay will within two months have achieved both when she receives an honorary doctorate from Utah State Agricultural College at commencement exercises May 29..=~ Mrs. McKay has influenced the lives of thousands of all ages through her numerous talks and writings on Christian principles, especially proper family life... Encouraging better living and harmony among nations.... The influence of Emma Ray Riggs McKay has gone far beyond the bounds of her own family. Her natural affection, cheerfulness, and understanding which are so evident in all she does have affected a great many throughout the world. FURTHER TRAVEL At the historic dedications of the New Zealand Temple, the Church College and two chapels in the South Pacific, Ray McKay was present to greet the thousands who attended these events. When they left the country, tears filled the eyes of many with love for them. Though an illness in February 1960, has curbed her activity, she has not been slowed down altogether, and honors continue to be heaped upon her. In 1961, she again flew with her husband to London for the dedication of the Hyde Park chapel. In May 1964, at the annual woman's week celebration, she was honored-as ''Ricks College Woman of the Year," and received Ricks College Distinguished Achievement Award. The citation reads: The purity of her life, the serenity of her spirit, the devotion of her service, and her unfailing good humor, modesty, and love have enshrined her in our hearts as the ideal Latter-day Saint wife and mother. She is the personification of the search for everything ''virtuous, lovely, of good report, or praiseworthy," and stands as a beacon of inspiration to all women everywhere. We lovingly honor this gracious companion of our beloved Prophet for her distinguished achievement in woman's most glorious work: sustaining a noble husband with love and courage, rearing an exemplary family with patience and understanding, creating a home life of kindness, refinement, and faith. In November 1964, at age eighty-seven, she attended five of the six sessions of the dedication of the Oakland temple. April 21, 1966, the Associated Women Students of the Brigham Young University honored her as their '""Woman of the Year," she being the first recipient of this: award which the AWS will present annually to motivate and inspire women students on the campus. The girls on the committee fasted and prayed that she would be well enough to be present. She did attend the event, enjoyed herself thoroughly, and thanked everyone for the lovely program and beautiful quilt presented to her made by the Honeyville Relief Society members. She was described as ''A woman of physical and spiritual beauty, a woman of pure thoughts and high ideals." 497 July 1967 cr -" PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY and SISTER McKAY Picture taken just before the Annual General Conference of the Church, April 1967 At ninety years, Ray McKay is happy, in good health, and still radiates a sense of humor. A son telling of his plans for a European trip said, ''Mother, why don't you join us?" 'All right," came her answer without hesitation. "Fine. We'll discuss the details later." When he left, she turned to her companion and quipped, "He knows he's safe." President McKay claims that June 23, 1877, was a most fortunate day for him because it was then that Emma Ray Riggs was born. He always credits his loving wife for keeping their long married life on an even keel. "She has never spoken a harsh word to me during the many years we've spent together." To any who would aspire to sixty-six years of happiness, President McKay gives this advice, 'Find a wife like mine."; 498 Map Showing the Route of the Vacation Family Vacations Can Be Funl Lillian Y. Bradshaw Part I Laughter and excitement vivid on our faces, everyone turned and caught our enthusiasm as the nine of us in green Hawaiian shirts— all alike—filed down the aisle of the train. This was both the beginning and the ending of a summer vacation we shall never forget —ending because it was the end of six months of planning. PLANNING A VACATION Making our plans had become so much a part of our fun as a family that, as with Christmas, I mentally wanted to delay the day of unwrapping this beautiful, carefully wrapped vacation package, a package full of family togetherness. Excitement, work, and sharing of a common goal had made us as one for six wonderful months. Actually, this entire dream 499 July 1967 started five years ago when Blair, my husband, and I visited Williamsburg in Virginia and thrilled with the feeling of patriotism that penetrated our very beings as we stood in reconstructed rooms where once George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Patrick Henry had stood. It was then we vowed that someday we would somehow give our children the same thrill and opportunity. Last year was the year—1966. We decided—I say we because, from the moment Blair and I enthusiastically told the children so long ago of our experience, it became "The Trip" the family would all make someday. And so from now on we means the family. May I introduce them to you: Russell, eighteen; Becky, sixteen; Jeffrey, fourteen; Kathy, twelve; Dick, ten; Suzanne, eight; Tom, three. Our destination, then, had been chosen but, more importantly, the purpose for taking the trip was indicated. We have found if one wants the ingredients of excitement and anticipation—the kind that keeps everyone (teenagers, husband, and all) involved—give the vacation purpose. It must have the element of adventure, something different, a challenge. Making Plans for the Vacation Seated at the left (front): Suzanne; back row, at the left, left to right: Jeffrey, Becky, Blair (the father); at the right: Kathy; group in front of Kathy, beginning at the bottom: Dick, Tom, Lillian (the mother); Russell. THE PURPOSE The purpose of a trip becomes the thread that gives meaning— the one thing for which the family will remember this particular vacation all their lives. The '""Do you remember when?" kind of event. It might be a fishing trip. One year we decided to camp at Granite Creek, Wyoming, and test a five-gallon survival kit of dehydrated foods that was supposed to feed a family our size seventy-two hours. Another year we climbed Hole in the Rock, and by planning ahead, had a book to read about it as a family while we were there. Yet another year found us in Colorado and New Mexico tracing the migrations of some of the Indians who had once lived in that part of the country. Often the purpose developed as I watchfully listened to the entire family talk of plans around the dinner table. This is the moment I, as the mother, waited for, because it was from this point that anticipation really started and built up to a fever pitch before we were ready to leave. And so it was around the table we decided that, in 1966, since we planned on going all the way across country to see Williamsburg, we would also trace our Nation's history from whence our religious freedom came; and then trace the journeyings of our Church. We had always wanted to see the Mormon Pageant in Palmyra, New York.. Blair called the Church offices and found that the pageant would be held the last week in July. All of us crowded around the calendar. We set the date of departure— Friday, July 15. It was now FebFamily Vacations Can Be Fun! Ruary. That gave us six months to plan together. TRAVEL—BUT HOW? ~ From then on, little else was discussed except the trip. I enrolled in a Brigham Young University Church history class. In the evening, at home, maps were brought out and laid on the floor, and together we began to answer such questions as: How far are we going to travel? How much time do we have? Which route is best? Approximately, where will we be on Sundays? Will it be mostly travel or staying several nights in one spot? How much do we have to spend? How will we prepare meals? Do we intend to eat in restaurants? Do we have time to stop and prepare every meal? What would be the cost of motels every night? Is this the kind of trip wherein camping equipment (tents, sleeping bags, etc.) could be used? Should we travel by car? Is there enough room for comfort and naps during long distance driving? How much will the gas and oil for the trip cost? What about a camper or trailer? Where will the bags be stowed away? Watching the children scramble to see who could figure out the answer most quickly, it didn't take very long to have the facts we needed. For several weeks we searched to find some way of traveling four weeks, 6,000 miles across country, in the dead heat of a July summer, with seven children —and enjoy it. Blair and I, and the children as they were born, had gone camping or boating, as a family, each summer from the time Russell, our eldest, was nine months old. We 501 oo _ diastase aS aed gS Seaman tis DA RE Il Lac YS OEE AR All Aboard! In front, left to right: Suzanne and Tom; back row, standing, left to right: Jeffrey, Dick, Kathy, Lillian, Blair, Russell. Had experienced traveling for years with a baby, a "portacrib," and baby bottles. So, after seventeen years, we were not inexperienced with the problems that arise when traveling with all ages. But now we had a new challenge. Four of the children were now adults. Where would we put all those long legs, especially all six feet three inches of Russell, and still have room for Tommy (who turned three on the trip) to take his nap and play around? Our former play and nap area at the rear of the station wagon was gone. We would have to travel long and hard some days. We wouldn't always have the time to stop and prepare our meals. Yet we couldn't afford to eat out all the time or have a motel every night. Having considered well all the challenges of traveling with our family, can you visualize the joy that was in our home when we discovered, after much searching and corresponding, that we could 502 lease a "Motor Home Bus" out of Denver, Colorado? From the brochure, we found wé could eat, sleep, and live "on the move." The bus had a stainless steel sink, oven, and hot plates, a table for eating and playing games, which converted into a bed for the night; a refrigerator, shower and _ bathroom facilities, and a couch that could be made into bunk beds. There were also a double bed and two bunk beds in the rear where one could lie down and read or rest at any time. Air conditioner, lights, and electric outlets operated off their own AC 110-volt generator, and so we could even use my electric frying pan and cook while driving. Best of all, the driver's seat was right in the bus, and we could all be together all the time. With automatic transmission, Russell and I could help with the driving. EXPENSES Now we had to make some real decisions and preparations. Of first concern was the saving of every penny by the children as they sought work of all kinds. We decided as a family, that they ~ would pay for all our eating out expenses and all the admission fees, and make all the decisions as to how it would be spent. My regular food budget would take care of all the meals eaten on the bus. The bus expenses would be Blair's and my responsibility. It was my responsibility, also, to carry the travelers' checks for the money the children had earned, but Jeff, fourteen, kept an accurate record of all expenses, deducting from the total on hand, so that at any given moment he would know how much was in the "kitty." He kept the account in a special small book I bought, just large enough to fit inside his pocket. Becky, sixteen, carried all the change. We let the children decide what was worthy of their hard-earned cash. This turned out to be one of the brilliant decisions. Never did we have a moment of teasing for incidental expenses on the entire trip. On the contrary, it was Blair and I who suggested, after an exceptionally long, hot day that, perhaps, this one night we might stop at a motel with a swimming pool and refresh ourselves. When the children realized the amount that would have to be spent from their money, they declined, and said we had better save for something really special later on. Russell was given the responsibility of keeping an accurate record of all costs for the bus—oil, gas, and other expenses. This, too, he kept in his own special book. Blair kept a running record of all Family Vacations Can Be Fun! Expenses as a double check on everyone, but, at the end of the trip, he gave Russ the responsibility of settling the costs for the rental of the bus. I thought this was wise training. Each member in the family was responsible for carrying his own souvenir money. This could be spent as each desired and did not have to be accounted for, though we strongly advised the children to watch for something worthwhile to keep as a memento and not to buy a lot of gadgets that would mean nothing later. We came out a little better than fiftyfifty with this advice. How difficult it was for Sue to keep her money for that something special, but how much she still remembers the pleasure of buying Priscilla, a Pilgrim doll, she found in Plymouth, Massachusetts. I don't believe she will ever forget the lesson she learned in wise spending, nor do I think some of the others will forget her pleasure and their own disappointment at their purchases. A few weeks before leaving, everything was in order financially, and then the children suggested it would be fun to take the overnight train to Denver instead of driving, since most of the family had never been on a train. They called the station to find out the exact amount for a roundtrip ticket for each child. We left it entirely up to them. If each could earn his portion, we would agree to go by train. They wanted the ride so much. It ended with the older ones helping the younger ones, and we all had an overnight train ride in the coach. (To be concluded) 503 Here, the Relief Society sisters are busy using the new sewing machines to make dresses and other clothing. One sister is modeling a dress which she made in Relief Society. Sewing Machines lor the Pelotas Branch, Brazil Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve [Elder Kimball wrote this interesting account of a rewarding experience in the Relief Society of Pelotas, Brazil. —Editor] « On April 6, 1966, which is the birthday of the Lord Jesus Christ, I received on my desk an envelope containing a check and saying that the money was a gift to the Savior on his birthday and suggesting this gift be given to some individual or organization which would please the Lord. This came from a faithful member of the Church who desires to remain anonymous. I did not have any idea to whom this gift should go when I received it April 6th, but in September, I was sure who the recipi- Sewing Machines for the Pelotas Branch, Brazil ent should be. It was the Pelotas Relief Society. Pelotas is a fairly large city in the far south of Brazil. In the late summer, Sister Kimball and I, with the president of the mission, Elmo Turner, visited this branch and I dedicated their new chapel. As we looked through the new building to be dedicated on the evening of our arrival, the young president of the branch proudly pointed out the points of interest and especially the very delightful Relief Society room. As he went around the room, he pointed out to us an old used sewing machine which, he said, had been lent to the Relief Society sisters by some kind friend. At once, there came into my mind the gift I had received on April 6th, 1966, and I asked the president, "How much would a new machine cost?" He made an investigation and said, "About $95 American money or about 200,000 cruzeiros," and remembering the dollars I had available from my friend, I authorized the branch president to purchase a machine for the Relief Society and I sent the $95 to the mission president to be given to them for the purchase of the machine. I received word back that when the president of the branch went to pay the merchant for the machine, he asked, ''What is this for?" And the answer was, "For our Relief Society in the Pelotas Branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Then came other questions, and when the merchant realized the unselfish service rendered by the Relief Society, he said, "I am going to give you forty per cent off." So then this enterprising Relief Society group put on a bazaar and earned enough money which, with the $95, bought them two —machines. Since that time, the branch has been divided into two Relief Societies, having two machines, and they are very grateful. The accompanying letter expresses the appreciation to my friend who desires to remain anonymous. Beloved Sister in Christ, The Relief Society sisters of the Pelotas Branch, in Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, take this opportunity to thank our beloved fellow member for the gift of two sewing machines which we received for our Relief Society, which machines were given to us through Apostle Spencer W. Kimball, at the dedication of our chapel on August 31, 1966, the giver being an unidentified member in the United States. We are extremely happy with this blessing that our Heavenly Father conceded to our Relief Society, in which the beloved member was the instrument of the Lord. We desire for you all the blessings of the Lord, and much health and happiness, in working in his service here on earth. Your gift filled a great lack of sewing machines here in the Relief Society of Pelotas, because we have classes in cutting and sewing clothes but had no machine. The first class has ten sisters and we already have eight enrolled for the second class. We are sending you photos of the bazaar that was held November 21, 1966, showing many clothes sewed on the machines by the Relief Society sisters. We thank you for your kindness and desire that the Lord will bless you always. Signed Maria Martinez Blanco, President da Azambuja Guido, lst Counselor Iracema Fagundes, 2nd Counselor Dilza Dannemberg, Secretary 505 Gail A. Jorgensen ¢ The sound came again, sharp like the sound of. A gun. I paused, while loading my arms with fruit bottles to carry into the basement, to listen. I told myself, it must be my imagination. If anyone was outside, Rags would be barking his head off. I will just take the rest of these bottles into the basement before I go looking to see what is wrong, I thought. If I stop now I may not get them downstairs for some time. It surely can't be anything or Rags would be barking. I picked up the last bottle from the floor, and started back down the basement stairs. Halfway down, I paused, remembering. Rags had been barking. His bark had sounded muffled and far off from the basement. I put my armload of bottles down on the stairsteps and started back upstairs to investigate. A heavy footstep sounded on the porch. The kitchen door crashed into the wall. Footsteps crossed the kitchen and entered the living room. Paul never slams doors, I 506 thought. Besides, he went to town for milker parts. He can't possibly be back this early. It is. Too early for the school bus. It will not be here for another hour. A feeling of apprehension filled me with fear. Goose flesh covered my arms, and my spine was pricked by a cold chill. I stepped backwards down the steps. The footfalls grew fainter as the intruder searched through the boys' room. I knew where he was, for I could hear the closet doors bang. Realizing that in a few moments our bedroom, where the trap door to the basement was located, would be entered, I moved instinctively. Reaching up, I undid the leather thong that held the trap door upright against the wall. Holding the door with both hands, I backed slowly downwards, lowering the door into place, where it became part of the floor above me. Automatically, I snapped out the electric light globe. It is lucky he didn't come into this room first, I thought. In the semidarkness, I moved cautiously back into the basement until the fruit shelves on the east wall let me know I had gone as far as I could go. I felt along the - shelves until I reached the southeast corner. Moving a stack of bushel baskets away from the corner, I made a place for me to hide. Gradually my eyes became accustomed to the eerie half-light the small window in the west wall allowed. That window is awfully small. We need more light down here. Still we were lucky to have room enough for even one this size when we dug this basement. Old houses don't take easily to remodeling, I mused, while my ears searched diligently for any sound upstairs. Overhead, I heard the footsteps return to the kitchen. A masculine voice said, ''Nothing in there. Keep a sharp lookout while I search the rest of the house." The words of the morning's news commentator came vaguely back. "Two convicts have broken out of the penitentiary. One guard dead. These men are dangerous." It can't be they. We are a long way from the penitentiary, my thoughts protested, while admitting to myself that this is the day of fast cars. My reflections were cut short by a squeaking hinge on the bedroom door above. The feet advanced to the wall closet. Hangers squealed as they were shuffled about. Then a man's gruff laugh sounded. A second pair of feet hurried across the floor to join the first. Mentally, I could see our guns Trapped racked up on the back wall of the closet. On the shelf above were our boxes of shells. There was a good deal of chuckling going on overhead. Suddenly, the floor door creaked and light from the room above fell on the basement steps. "Well, what do you know, a ready-made hiding place." A man's feet began descending the stairs. One foot struck some bottles of fruit I had left on the steps. The bottles rolled and thumped their way to the bottom of the steps. "Someone left bottles on the steps." "Ain't no need of you going down there. It's just a fruit cellar. When the door's down it's a floor. You close and open it from the top. Won't be nobody down there," a second voice said. The feet hesitated. I held my breath. "Close the door. Ain't no need of us hiding anywhere. We'll wait up here where it is comfortable and catch the family when they come home. With them as hostages, we can make our plans later. Maybe even make them drive us clear out of the country." "Say, that's right. They won't even know we are here till they walk in on us. I'll go hide that dog we shot. Dead dogs tell no tales if they can't be seen."" Chuckling, he let the door drop back into place. The feeling of relief, at being unnoticed, was quickly replaced by a greater fear. Poor Rags! Then, as the helplessness of our position became clear, I thought, poor us! My thoughts began to race— hostage, my family for a hostage! 507 July 1967 How can I warn them without giving my hiding place away? This window is away from the road, so I cannot hope to attract anyone's attention. The boys will be coming home on the school bus within an hour. Paul won't be home till later. It is up to me to protect the boys, but what can I do? One thing I was sure of, I would have to warn the boys, but how? Feeling my way carefully, lest I trip over some unseen object, I made my way to the window. It was new pinewood, freshly painted, a proud addition to our new basement. The cement wall we had added fit the window like a glove. The metal chain that let the window fall forward, for ventilation, was securely fastened to the frame. If I had a knife or something to work with—all the tools were upstairs in their cabinet. We had stated, firmly, that the basement was too damp for tools. A feeling of complete helplessness engulfed me, defeated before starting, because I had nothing with which to work. I leaned against the cement wall, and tears of rage and hopelessness cruised silently down my cheeks. I hung onto the window, tried pulling and shoving, to no avail. The screen would have to be cut. All I could see were fruit jars and empty baskets. I had to have a knife. A knife? A sudden tap on the stair frame, and I held the jagged top of a fruit jar in my hand. I felt on the floor for pieces. They were sticky and slick with fruit juice. Upending the fruit baskets on 508 each other to make a platform of sorts, enabled me to get closer to the window screen. Pushing with all my strength, I drew the jagged edge of glass across the screen. The screen gave a low sigh of protest, not loud, but definitely a sound. I would have to chance their not noticing the noise. Again and again, I drew the glass edges over the wire. The glass crumbled away in glass sawdust. The screen took on a shine from the repeated rubbings. Seconds ran away with themselves, while minutes seemed to drag. I worked on, not daring to think of time, nor of its passing. The blood from my cut fingers mingled with the fruit juice and made the glass hard to hold. Just as I despaired of ever getting out, I noticed a tiny hole, a hole which grew larger as I rudely forced the jagged glass into i. Gradually, the hole grew large enough to let me stick my thumb out. "Heavenly Father, help me," I prayed. "I have to get out faster than this." I had no idea how long I had been working. It seemed like ages. I grabbed the screen to tear it. My hands slipped off, leaving a bloody smear. Why, I am bleeding, I thought. Funny you could cut yourself and not really notice it. The hopelessness of my situation hit me with full force, and I sank to the floor and buried my face in my hands. I prayed silently, but the feeling of relief and hope did not come. Shifting my weight on cramped legs, I put my hand on the floor to steady myself. A cold thin object touched my fingers, the broken blade of a hacksaw. In my mind's eye, I saw our nine-year-old son's woebegone face. "I was being awfully careful, Daddy." Then I heard his Daddy's reply as he inserted a new blade in the saw for his son, "Well, try a little harder." He ruffled up the tousled hair before he turned back to finish the basement window. The six-inch piece of blade made short work of the screen. A few moments longer, and the chain was in two pieces. It took a great deal of effort to pull me up through the window. Halfway out, I froze. The sound of our old truck starting, sounded loud in my ears. I lay there, half in, half out, my hands grasping the dirt in front of me for support. "Hey, we don't have to wait for anybody. There is a key in this truck." "Get back in here," called a sharp voice. "We wouldn't get anywhere before somebody would report it stolen. Come on, here comes a...." Then I heard it, the school bus, its motor pulling heavily as it climbed the hill to our place. With superhuman effort, I pulled myself free and stood up. I heard the kitchen door slam. The bus turned into our drive. The door opened and the largest boy stepped out. Then I was running and screaming, "Get back in. Get back in!" across the lawn, directly in line of a shot, should they choose to shoot. "Get in!" I shoved in the startled boy, and noticed the bloody smear I left on his jacket. "Get in, and hurry and go." I sank down on the bus floor and Trapped pulled a little schoolgirl off the seat into my lap. "You children get down off the seats; they might shoot." _ There was a great grinding of gears and racing of the motor, as the startled bus driver seemed to get the gearshift into all the gears at once. The bus backed slowly out of the drive, then shot forward down the road, the bus door still partly open. "Somebody had better tell Paul," I said. "He has gone to town." The roar of the engine sounded deafening in my ears. "I don't believe they are going to shoot," I murmured, and promptly fainted. Somewhere, a long way off, I heard voices. Why, I was in bed! What a nasty dream. I moved restlessly, running my hands up over my face. "I have gloves on." A voice said, "She is coming out of it. Everything is fine. A handful of cuts, but mostly shock. She will be all right." "You left the keys in the truck."" The daylight was blinding. "Thank goodness!" Paul said, "The truck is gone." "But your insurance won't cover cases where keys are left in stolen cars." "Old trucks don't move very fast. They will get picked up somewhere. Besides, you're safe, and they aren't holed up in our place any more. We could have wrecked the place getting them out." A feeling of contentment and thanksgiving flooded over me. "I did wreck the basement window." Then I added hastily, "But it is nothing that you cannot fix." 509 510 The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness EDITORIAL # The woman whose "'price is far above rubies' (Proverbs 31:10), the costliest gems, ''looketh well to the ways of her household"' (Ibid. 27). For years the Brethren have taught the value of family preparedness. Much emphasis is again being laid upon the need for families to plan the use of their incomes to provide for savings, for storage of food, clothing, and other items necessary to meet any emergency. The conservation and wise use of resources, the need for family members to make the most of educational opportunities, the development of a forward-looking approach to living are constantly being stressed. Women have a role in implementing these teachings as they carry their household responsibilities. Of more value than emeralds is a woman who creatively can plan, with her husband and family, for the present and the future. While family preparedness is in reality a project for the whole family's planning together, with the father in the guiding position, still it is the mother who brings many of the plans to fruition. It is necessary to work the plan that will enable the family to have the security of being prepared to meet what may befall. To use her talents and discover new ones, to bring to the fore her innate abilities and add to them, to listen to words of counsel and implement them, this, too, is the: role of a woman. Of greater desirability than diamonds is the ability to buy wisely. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her...'' (Proverbs 31:11). Frequently, the actual spending of the food and clothing money is entrusted to the wife. While the guidelines for spending are laid in a carefully planned budget, deliberately tailored to the income, needs, and desires of her particular family, she must use wisdom in every expenditure. Family preparedness requires storage of food, clothing, and other items for future use. One of the cardinal rules in storage is that each family decide what to store. Another rule concerns use and replacement, rotation of items to keep them in good condition. A wise woman plans her shopping with these rules in mind. Of more worth than pearls is a woman who ''worketh willingly with her hands' (Proverbs 31:13), who uses her talents to make her home a heaven and a haven. She who seeks to increase her knowledge of homemaking skills, who learns the basic arts, is prepared to meet the contingencies. Proverbs explains her security in these words, "She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet."'. Better than silver or gold is her ability to save. To economize, to be thrifty, to make do, to keep her yearnings within family earnings, bring the goal of being prepared within reach. Often it becomes the lot of the mother to exercise a restraining hand in the matter of acquiring luxuries. A provident housewife is a blessing to her family. Better than the whole galaxy of precious gems and riches is a woman who knows her responsibilities and fulfills them, who uses her capabilities and increases them, who hears the counsel of those in authority and follows it, whose desire is her family's good and she works for it, and who seeks to be a helpmate to her husband and achieves it. L. W. M. 511 Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Patricia Marie Smith of Seattle, Washington, has practiced medicine among the Montagnards of South Viet Nam since 1959, She now operates a forty-bed hospital, and in the past three and a half years more than 12,000 patients have been treated in her hospital, and thousands of ''out patients"' have been cared for. Among the Montagnards, she is known as "Ya Pagang Tih—Big Grandmother of all Medicine." Dr. Mary I. Bunting, President of Radcliffe College, has a Ph. D. In microbiology, and advocates continuing education for mothers and homemakers. Herself a mother, she believes that home study can be combined successfully with motherhood. She emphasizes the need for trained women in many fields of social service work, and in such positions as members of school boards and in other organizations having influence on the welfare of children. Jean Saubert, former Olympic ski champion, regarded by many as the best woman skiier in American history, is now a schoolteacher in the mountain resort town of Vail, Colorado. A graduate of the University of Utah, and a native of Idaho, Miss Saubert was rated as the second best woman skiier in the world in 1964 by the International Ski Federation. Peggy Fleming, eighteen, Colorado College freshman, won the women's crown at the world figure skating championship events in Vienna, Austria, in March 1967. In this second year of her championship award, she won the decision of all nine judges. 512 Berta H. Christensen, a member of the General Board of Relief Society, in April, placed first in the Utah State Poetry Society Annual Book Manuscript Award Contest. Her manuscript, ''Walk the Proud Morning,' also won the Linnie Fisher Robinson $100 cash award. The book will be published during the summer and will be presented at a poetry concert in Salt Lake City, Utah, in October. Bethany Beardslee, soprano, has won international fame through her premiere performances of vocal works by Stravinsky, Berg, Schoenberg, and Webern. She has ''a superb voice of pure color and lyric inflection."" A graduate of the Juilliard School of Music, she has sung with the New York Pro Musica, and the Boston, Minneapolis, and St. Louis symphonies. Her 1966 concerts at Stanford University, California, during the summer, will include a lecture on ''Vocal Techniques for 20th Century Music." Marjorie Merriweather Post May has re-_ ceived medals and awards from six na-- tions and more than thirty associations for her charitable work. Among the recipients of her philanthropies are the Red Cross, the Washington National Symphony, and a number of colleges. She is a world traveler, a horticulturist, and a noted antiquary. She is a daughter of Charles William Post of the famous food company which made the first recipe for Postum (from wheat, molasses, and bran), and developed many other wheat products known throughout the world. —==—— ) i SS Lenora Hansen ¢ The hospital had a large waiting room downstairs, where "Information" sat behind a high marble counter and visitors gathered in groups and were strangers to each other. But, in the little waiting room upstairs, people sat beside each other and smiled and shared case histories and small talk. I remember when the lady with gold hair came in. I was sitting toward the left, on the long couch, thinking that the world outside the hospital seemed muffled and shadowy and that only the world inside seemed real. I was thinking that I felt close to each of these people, whose names I didn't even know, but with whom I shared that little room—the man with the mustache, whose wife had cancer; the lady with gray hair, whose husband was paralyzed; the parents and the grandparents of the child who had had an operation on her throat; and the very young couple, she like a blond child, crying about her baby, and he, with a scant dark beard, trying awkwardly to comfort her. ™ As the lady with the gold hair came in, the father of the girl with the chest case moved to a chair, leaving space on the couch for both the woman and the man who followed her. She sat, not on the couch, but in the chair by the door, apart. She crossed taut, slender legs and laid her hands together in her lap. She sat still and straight. The man who followed moved the remaining chair out of its corner between the long and the short couches, and placed it in the narrow walking space, facing the woman. They seemed withdrawn, as if a blanket of air insulated them from all the others in the room. The man looked at the woman quietly. "Can I...?"' "No!" she cut him off—cold and flat. What was it. He had meant to offer? They sat in silence. Conversation resumed around them. After a little time, she stood up and walked out into the hall. He followed. The father of the burn case was telling us how to feed roses to get the largest blooms, when I heard the voice of the Gold Lady again. Her words were knifeedged, like her '"'No."' "Someone ought to care about me!"' 513 July 1967 "TIT care about you," the man answered. "I love you, but both of us have to think about the boy now. After all, you're an adult." 'Why do I always have to be an adult? Why can't he be an adult for a change? Oh, I'm sorry! I didn't mean that!" Then, more quietly, ''All right, I am an adult, but what can I do?" "You can sit by his bed and tell him you love him." "And have him laugh in my face?" "You say you love him." "JT do—I would...." The words seemed earnest and sincere. 'Oh, what's the use!"' I found myself straining to hear more of this private conversation, forgetting that it was none of my affair. Only nothing more was said. Finally, the man walked down the hall to the right, toward pediatrics. The woman went with him. It was not until night that I saw the Gold Lady again. At night, the people of the little waiting room went down the hall, to the right or to the left, for a last word with the patients. Then they gathered up their wraps and their magazines, said goodnight and, one by one, went down the elevator. The hospital had given me a pillow. I used my coat for a blanket and slept on the couch, to be near Mike. Mike was only five years old. He lay, burned, in a white room down the hall—a sterile room, where a nurse in a gauze mask was on duty night and day. Visitors were kept outside the room, but someone of the family always stayed in the little waiting room, in case Mike 514 should wake up and be frightened by the strangeness. I went into pediatrics to look at Mike once more, before I lay down. In the doorway of the room directly across from Mike's stood the Gold Lady. Her lips were closed and her stance was rigid, but her eyes held hurt. Since I could not go inside Mike's sterile room, I opened the door a little and stood there while the nurse counted the drops as they went from the bottle into his arm. I watched her put another blanket, tent-like, across the frame that was his bed. I" spoke to him, but he didn't know that I was there. When I closed the door and turned again, the Gold Lady was gone. The door where she had stood was open, and the upper half of the wall was glass. The gentle husband sat by the bed and held the hand of a boy that had to be his son. They both had dark hair—the man's receding— the boy's tightly curled. Both had eyebrows that grew out across the nose. The man's nose was long—the boy's half-formed, but they both leaned toward the left. The boy looked to be about eight, the man near thirty-five. They seemed held in silent searching. The man's face was anxious and the boy's withdrawn. I saw pain in the boy's eyes. Then I realized that it was not a physical pain. It was the same hurt that I had seen in the eyes of the Gold Lady. I knew the nurse at the desk, so I stopped and asked her what was wrong with the boy across the hall from Mike. "A car hit his bicycle," she said. ""The doc- tor had to do an operation." "Ts it serious?" The nurse said, ''No." Then she looked away and said, "Yes!" Her eyes came back to mine. "He shouldn't be serious, but he is. A person has to want to get well." She went back to her bookkeeping, then looked up once more. "The boy is his, but not hers." In the little waiting room, I turned the lights out, took off my shoes and lay down. In the dimness from the hall light, I sensed the couch, beneath me, like mottled moss. The weight of the walls pressed — massive. Three narrow, slatted windows reached up and up, forever. I slept—slept and awoke and slept again—and walked down to stand at the door of Mike's room. I put a sterile gown and mask on about one o'clock and sat with him while the night nurse went down to the cafeteria. As I went back down the hall, a painted elephant looked at me from the wall and swung his trunk over toward a monkey, balancing himself above the open door of room number 213. All the doors in pediatrics were open, except special cases like Mike's that had to be kept sterile, and the upper half of all the walls was glass so that nurses could keep watch over the children. On the wall across from 215 a pink baby hippo winked one eye. Farther on, two tiger kittens tumbled near a striped zebra. Where the camel knelt, I stopped to watch three nurses turn another patient on a frame like Mike's. After that I went back into the waiting room. I lay awake for a long time, wondering about the Gold Lady Gold Lady and the boy, and the hurt in both their eyes. The man looked like the kind who could play ball with a boy or run down a hill, laughing, with a woman. She had said, "I do—I would...." I would? What did that mean? She would love the boy— if he wouldn't "laugh in her face?" I gave it up and went to sleep. The nurses changed at seven in the morning. At eight, my daughter Beth came to stay near Mike. 0. The way out, I stopped for breakfast at the cafeteria. As I waited for my toast, I looked at the people. The white groups were the doctors and nurses. The colors, here and there, were people from the waiting rooms, like me. It was a room of faces and right hands. The hands came up and down with an uneven swinging. The faces bent forward and back in conversation. The conversation was a background for the clatter of china and the ring of silver as it fell. A man stood up from the crowd, carrying a tray. Then I saw the Gold Lady. She and the gentle man were sitting by a window. I collected my tray, paid the cashier and deliberately made my way toward an empty chair near where they sat. As I came close, I felt the tension between them, and when I sat down, with my back toward their table, I could hear their voices. "'We've been through all that! It just won't work!" It was the Gold Lady speaking. "Larry always seems polite." 515 July 1967 "'Polite—and cold. If he would get angry, I could fight it.' Her voice grew urgent. ""Why has he built this wall between us? What have I ever done?" "IT don't know. There must be something he resents." "Tt could be because you married me." "No, it couldn't be that. He was awfully pleased at first. It must be something that has happened. Maybe something that he didn't understand. Whatever it is, please try a little longer." "TI have tried! I bought him a puppy. He thanked me politely. He made no move to touch it. He never looked at it again. I gave him paints for his birthday, the paints that I heard him asking you for, the ones he wanted more than anything there was. The next day Ike Dean was playing with them. Larry had given them away!" "He rode the bicycle you gave him." "Yes, he wanted the bicycle even more than he wanted to hurt me. He was riding it when the car hit him. So now, he can blame the hospital onto me, too!" '"He's hurt now. When he's better...." "He isn't getting better! He doesn't want to get better. The doctor said he could get better, if he wanted to. Remember? I am certain it's because of me." "Don't be silly! Larry's just a very sick and little boy." "Anyway, I have decided. I'm going to go away." "But you can't! I love you!" "As you, yourself, said, we've both got to think of Larry now." "Please, try just once more. Go sit by his bed and talk with 516 him. Once more—for all of us?" "It isn't any use. I'm going." "He's only eight! You said you loved him!" "T do—I have—I would.... " There was that word again. "If only he would let me!" There was silence for a while. Then, 'Wait until he's out of here."' "He won't be out of here unless I go." This time there was a long silence. I became conscious, once more, of dish clatter and of other voices. I forgot, again, as the man resumed: "Wait until tomorrow night when the doctor comes. Please give both of us that much longer, him and me." "Let's get out of here," said, "I can't eat any more." I heard them push their chairs back and leave. My toast was cold. My orange juice was getting warm. She. That evening the Gold Lady walked by twice, both times alone. When I went back to look at Mike, Larry's dad was by his bed, their two dark heads together, looking at something that I could not see. Late that night, she came into the waiting room. Everybody else had gone. "How is the boy?" IJ asked. She opened her mouth to speak —closed it and considered a moment. "No better." I would have spoken again, but she did not look at me. Her eyes and her mind were turned in upon her own thoughts. We sat a long time, quiet. She looked at me, at last, and I thought that, now, she was going to speak, but she changed her mind. She stood up and went out. Each time I went back to Mike, that night, I looked through the glass into the room across the hall. Larry lay quiet; but I felt sure his eyes were open. Lying on the couch, I tried, again, to piece together the things that I had heard. I kept going back to those two words—"I would." I would what? "I would love him if he would let me." Why wouldn't he let her? Because he was hurt. The look in his eyes was hurt. As I thought back, I felt certain that the look was also guarded. Guarded against what? Against being hurt again. What could have happened that neither the man nor the woman seemed to know? What possibly could have happened? I was still wondering that when I went to sleep. It was late when I went down for breakfast the next morning. Before I left the waiting room, word passed that the baby belonging to the Little Blond and the Young Beard had not lived through the night. Mike's doctor came and went, stopping to say that there had been no change. Nurses, pushing patients in wheel chairs, passed our hall, going into and out of "Laboratory." The parents of the throat case and the four grandparents came to take their patient home. A new patient came. The girl who waited with us was his aunt. The father of the chest case and the gray-haired lady and the man with the mustache were all in and out. But I saw nothing of the gentle man and the Gold Lady. It was late that Gold Lady night before I saw either of them again. Dr. Brent was with Mike, and I was on my way down to wait for him to come out of the room. The night supervisor was talking to the Gold Lady in the hall. As I passed, I heard her say, "The doctor said not to leave the boy alone. Until his father comes, you had better go sit with him." I wondered where the gentle man was. Then I remembered that this was their "tomorrow night." The lady must have hesitated or demurred; for, as I went on down the corridor, I heard the supervisor's voice snap: "I don't know what there is between you and your husband and that boy, but ever since his father talked to him about something, late last night, he has Jain like he is now. About a half an hour ago, your husband came in and walked down the hall. We are trying to locate him again. In the meantime, you go in there and sit with him!" A. Mike's door, I leaned against the wall and waited for the doctor to come out. Across the hall, Larry lay, motionless and looking straight ahead, just as I had seen him in the night. The Gold Lady was coming, slowly. Her shoulders drooped. Each foot held back its step a moment. I thought the hand at her side trembled. She stopped at the door and stood with her back toward me. Was she looking at the boy, I wondered, or did she pray? Then she went in and sat down by his bed. If the boy knew she was there, he made no sign. 517 Cina. Aoe She sat quiet for what seemed like a long, long time. When the words came, they were jagged, torn and spoken softly: "Larry— Larry, I wanted so much to love you! Larry, you must get well! If I have done something, truly I do not know what it is. If it's because you want your father, I'm going away and you can have him. I wanted so to have the three of us.... Oh, Larry," she cried suddenly, "Larry, why won't you let me love you?" The dark head turned slowly, and the boy spoke—wonderingly, "You don't hate me anymore?" "T don't hate...? I love you! You are the one that.... Why would you ever think I hated you?" "You said you hated me." "J didn't—I couldn't have! When, Larry?" "The night Evan and I had a fight, Evan went home and I heard you—on the porch. You said, 'I hate him! I hate him! I hate him!' "' The woman was crying, now. "Oh, Larry, no! Not you!' She ye choked and, for a little, no words came. Then, softly, "If I had only known! Please, Larry, I've always loved you. Remember, I hadn't ever been a mother before. Please understand! It was Evan that I meant, not you—only I didn't really mean J hated him." She closed her eyes a moment. This time, I was almost sure it was a prayer. Now her voice held such tendemess. "You remember—after the fighting—I had wiped the tears and the dirt off your face. Your nose was bleeding, and you had one eye swollen shut. It was Evan that I meant—but not really that I hated him—just that I hated what he had done to hurt the son I loved. Larry—Larry, I love you! It was Evan that I meant—be- 'cause he had hurt you!" Larry was crying now, too, and the Gold Lady held him in her arms. I heard the door open behind me. As I turned to meet the doctor, I saw the gentle man coming down the hall. FORESIGHT The woman |! Wish to be Will not allow the girl that | am To rob the children | hope to have Of the birthright of chastity. 518 Juanita W. Sharp Joseph Muench ANOTHER SEASON It was another season when we walked here, Together through bright leafing and blooming. It was another day, tulle-soft and lucid clear As blown glass; fragile as lace looming. Lt was another hour of sudden seeing The earth restored, almost celestial bright. We were a part of sun and vibrant being, A part of laughter, caught in gleaming light. The years have passed, have brought us pain and weeping, Yet, this season is as when we saw it fast: The blossoms fragrant, mountain streams still leaping, No thing remembering that we once passed. Yet, we remember, and earth's constancy Gives solace to our hope... And memory. Christie Lund Coles = o oars opinoe Dld and Alouws— Trine é j! Rléa and (rue Esther Thomson Spicy Meat Loaf (To be served cold) 14, medium-sized onion, chopped 3-4 eggs (one for first mixture, 2 or 3 sauté in 4 tbsp. Butter or margarine for boiling) add \% tsp. Each: allspice, salt, crushed 1% c. Bread crumbs bayleaf 1 c. Pickle relish (24 cup for garnishing) pepper to taste Chili sauce or other garnish may be 1 Ib. Hamburger substituted 1% c. Water tomatoes for garnishing (sliced cr use cherry tomatoes) Combine all ingredients and bake at 350° for about 30 or 40 minutes. Boil 2 or 3 eggs ten minutes or until hard. Split loaf in center and put whole eggs (shelled) in center of loaf. Pat loaf carefully together and bake ten minutes longer at 350°. Chill thoroughly. Turn out on platter. Garnish with small tomatoes or slices, and pickle relish. Slice so you will cut through eggs crosswise to serve. Serves 4. Five-Minute Fudge 24, c. Evaporated milk 114 c. Sliced marshmallows 1 24 c. Sugar 1% c. Semi-sweet chocolate chips 1% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla Bring milk, sugar, and salt to boil over medium heat. Cook four minutes. Stir constantly. Remove from heat. Add marshmallows, chocolate chips, and vanilla. Stir or beat vigorously one minute. Pour into pan and garnish with nuts. Cool, cut in squares. Homemade Ice Cream Ingredients to make 4 gts. Of ice cream 4 eggs, separated YY c. Flour 2 c. Heavy cream, whipped 1% tsp. Salt 21% c. Sugar 114 c. Evaporated milk 2 tbsp. Vanilla whole milk as needed (about 1 qt.) Separate eggs and beat whites stiff, set aside. Mix the sugar, flour and salt, and add to slightly beaten egg yolks. Add vanilla, evaporated milk and whole milk. Whip cream and set aside. Freeze the egg and milk mixture until mushy. Fold the whites into the whipped cream, and add to freezer. Freeze al! Until stiff. Remove dasher and stir to fill center vacuum. Pack down with spoon. Put two layers of heavy wax paper over it, then the lid with a cork in it. Pack with crushed ice and a little more salt and set aside to ripen. Proportions of 3 parts ice to one part salt. Check outside container often, and if necessary drain salt water off occasionally to avoid salt getting into cream. Lazy Housewife Pickles 1 c. Salt, scant 5-6 qts. Green cucumbers (any size up 14 c. Mustard to 414 inches long, but have each 2 qts. Vinegar jar of pickles uniform in size) 1 qt. Water Bring all to boil and pour over cucumbers pre-arranged in sterilized jars. Seal and let stand at room temperature till they change color. Store and let ripen a month or two. This syrup covers about 5-6 quarts of cucumbers. Delicious to use at your leisure. I've never had any spoil or waste. 520 ae]. ~ Pm ape s i we et $ << a. Ca Nee oe: _— > as A ess ry Re) \ ra 9 lasted Ng es a ( eel ' QUILTS THAT TELL A STORY Elizabeth Hales Hammond, Springville, Utah, makes original and effective use of form and color in making quilts, then she adds a new dimension—a design that tells a story. For a child's bed, animals appear upon the quilt, or faces of children, dolls, or toys. A ''Nature'' quilt presents birds and flowers, or a stylized design based upon a sunflower pattern or a tulip cup, with various leaves and tendrils. Sister Hammond is skillful in appliqué work and in piecing quilts, but the art that gives her the greatest sense of accomplishment is her work with fabric paints, which she uses for radiant color and pleasing harmony. Her butterfly wall hangings and her intricate smocking work for pillows, as well as netting and crocheted articles, have given her much admiration as a ''most versatile artist." Sister Hammond has held positions of leadership in the Church auxiliary organizations since 1918, and her devotion to her three daughters, her grandchildren, and great-grandchildren reminds those who know her of the Biblical description of a woman whose children ''arise up, and call her blessed." 521 Synopsis: Nora Blake, a schoolteacher in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and is astonished to learn secretly that he cannot read. She offers to teach him, and Jed accepts her instruction. Being informed that good virgin land is available, Nora takes up a homestead. One of her neighbors is Old Free, a mysterious hermit, and a non-Mormon. When Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza, Nora learns significant gospel principles from the funeral talks and the attitude of the Shepherds. ¢ "T came as soon as I could," Jed said. "'Ben was sick today. He said you wanted to drive out to the Lang place. Hope you won't mind riding with me instead of Ben." "Why, no, that is... Stopped, flustered. She pretended to busy herself in her top desk drawer. As she did so, her hand came upon the scrap of paper she had picked up, following the spelling match. She held it out to him. Jed glanced at it, crumpled it tighter, and tossed it into the wastebasket. "Here,"'she cried. "Don't throw that away! That's my proof." 2' Nora 522 The et Bole Chain Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 6 "Proof? Of what?" "That you really did know how to spell obfuscate." She glanced at him. Something in his eyes stopped her from pursuing the matter further. "T'll get my things," she said. "T'll only be a moment." On the road, the May afternoon sunshine was delightful. A slight breeze stirred Nora's brown hair, curling it around her face. Jed kept his team to a walk. "T've been waiting for a chance like this, Nora,"' he said. Nora! Not Miss Blake, but Nora! "T want to tell you a story. You probably have no idea what you have done for me, in teaching me to read. I want you to know how it was that I never learned before." Nora was silent, waiting for him to begin. Jed reached down into the bottom of the buggy and pushed an empty grain sack under the seat. "Y remember doing that as a boy a good many times," he said, "pushing the grain sack down out of sight. Once when it was about half empty, I hid it under my saddle in the bottom of the wagon so Pa wouldn't be tempted to sell if for a grubstake. I'd seen him start off in search of gold often enough. I knew it meant trading something for food, but it would not be' the seed grain—not if I could help it. "One spring, my corn and wheat had come up real fine. Pa was tramping the hills from top to bottom around Dry Gulch. Then the news swept through our camp that there was plenty of gold that could be had somewhere farther west, in a place called Banner Canyon. I knew when I heard it that Pa wouldn't wait around for any corn patch to ripen. "The camp in Colorado began breaking up. Most of the men in Dry Gulch were prospectors, except a few like the Moffitts, who had come looking for farming land. Their two boys had been good friends to me. When we left, they jumped at the chance to cut my wheat along with their own. I was glad to know that someone would benefit from all my work. At least my crop wouldn't be a total loss. "The Moffitts had helped me plant. I remember Mr. Moffitt lifting a handful of wheat and letting it run through his fingers back into my sack. I remember what he said. " "This is the real treasure of the land, Jed. A man can spend his life looking for the other kind. Often, by the time he finds it, he has lost most of the worthwhile things along the way. This is the kind of gold that brings a man contentment.' " Jed continued, "I liked my days measured out. So much work planned for the day, and so much The Golden Chain work done when the day came to an end. I liked knowing that seeds were in the earth and would respond to my care. I liked living ~and working among friends. I would have liked going to school, but Pa either did not stay long enough in one place, or where we did stay, there wasn't any school. When we finally came here to Banner I thought I was too old to go." Ream Jed paused, but Nora said nothing, happy in sharing this closeness, this confidence with Jed; unwilling to do or say anything that might break the spell. "There was one thing I could be sure of wherever we went. Freedom Lang would show up. I mentioned it once to Pa. " "Funny, how Old Free always comes to the same diggings we do.' "But Pa didn't say anything, but still I wondered about it. I remember leaving Dry Gulch. Pa was busy working the nicks out of his axe with the whetstone while I loaded the wagon. He was whistling as he worked. He was always in real good spirits whenever we headed for a new gold field. "T closed the cabin door and wondered who would live in it next, wishing we could stay on at least until the harvest. "TJ usually drove the team. That left Pa free to search the countryside as we drove past. Often we would stop for him to inspect a ledge of rock or break a stone up with his hammer. "We came to an Indian trading post, and I saw Pa's eyes going over the contents of the wagon. 523 July 1967 We had the bedroll, the plow, packsaddle, a couple of pans, and a few dishes wrapped in two coats, my saddle and bridle, and the prospecting tools. And my two sacks with the seed corn and wheat Mr. Moffitt had given me. " "We'll need some grub, Jed boy,' Pa said. "T just sat there, holding the lines in my hands. ""There's enough corn and wheat to trade for a slab of bacon, and some beans and a bit of jerky,' he went on. "Still I sat. Finally he said, 'I want that seed, Jed.' ""And I say we've got to keep the seéd, Pa.' "TI kept my voice real quiet, but Pa was raising his. "" 'What do you expect me to trade?' he asked. 'My pick? My sledge hammer? My packsaddle?' " * No, Pa,' I told him. 'Take my saddle, my bridle, too, if you need it.' " "Jed, boy!' He was so eager I could hardly believe it. 'You mean it?' he asked. "T just nodded. Pa lifted the saddle and bridle out of the wagonbox and stood there a minute, holding them. " "You won't be sorry, Jed. This time we're bound to find gold.' "I told him I didn't need a saddle to plow with. I wouldn't be riding the horse. I had to get some ground broken up before the fall storms set in. "T remember thinking it was strange that, no matter how hard up we were, Pa never did ask for the little gold piece that I had worm around my neck on a piece of buckskin during all the years while I was growing up. 524 "'When we started on again, Pa said, 'I want you to ride with me this time, Jed.' ""T'll be plowing, Pa,' I told him. 'Besides, you won't be alone. Old Free will travel faster than we do. He'll probably be at Banner Canyon waiting for us.' "TY spoke better than I knew, for that was exactly what happened. We drove right up to his camp. I knew it was Free's. His burro was staked out behind his tent. " 'Probably staked himself out the best claim already,' Pa said. 'Beats me how the old codger got ahead of us again.' «| didn't bother to mention how many times we had stopped along the way, with Pa clambering over this pile of rocks, then calling for me to pull the wagon ahead a-bit and wait for him while he looked at the next ledge. "Pa decided to go on up the canyon a ways before we set up camp. He didn't say it, but I knew he wanted to get farther away from Old Free. Myself, since there were only the three of us, I would have preferred to camp together, but not Pa. "Some days he insisted that I ride with him, saying we could cover a lot more territory when there were two of us. On other mornings, he had me take the pan to the creek to see if I could wash out any gold from the gravel on the bottom of the stream. The only gold that appeared was one afternoon when Free was helping me, and then it was he who found the little nuggets, not I. It made Pa just as happy as if 'd found it myself. *" 'T knew there was gold here,' The Golden Chain came late at night and left early the next morning. Sometimes he stayed through the night, his craze for gold taking him higher and higher into the mountains.: i * After one such trip, he came back he cried. 'We'll move the camp back down into Banner Valley now. We'll be staying here. We had best choose our piece of land. Soon as word gets out there is gold here, the place will swarm with people. Start your plowing, Jed: I'll prospect alone from here on.' "T could understand that. If there really was any gold to be found, Pa wanted to do the finding himself. Now that he felt he was getting close, he left me alone pretty much to my farming. "The valley grew a good stand of sagebrush. I knew it was good land then, and it still is. Took a lot of work, though. I burned the sages off at first, then had to plow the roots up. "But there was still something about Old Free finding those nuggets that bothered me. I thought of it often, as I went up and down the furrows, shaking the dirt off the roots of the sages. "I had washed the gravel in that particular spot over and over. Of course, they could have turned up, just at that moment. They were so smooth and shiny, about like the piece I wore around my neck, but I got the idea that they were shiny because Free had carried them for a long time inside a pocket. "T worked on through the summer and into the autumn. Pa to tell of a strange sight. '"' "Tt must have been a giant of a landslide,' he said. 'Yet it's hard to tell where the land slid from. It has almost filled the canyon with gray, sharp-cornered rocks. Banner Creek disappears completely and comes out at the bottom of the slide. It's impossible to describe. You've got to see it, Jed.' "So I went. There was a weird beauty about the place. It's up there, Nora. Sometime I should like to show it to you." Jed motioned toward the canyon. "T should like very much to see it," said Nora softly. Jed continued as if there had been no interruption of his story. "Old Free had moved his camp right up near the top of the slide, which was almost to timberline. He had built a cabin, and Pa said Free must be intending to stay through the winter. " *Ain't that a sight?' Pa asked. 'I knew you'd like to see it.' "Creepy. That's how it made me feel. I was glad to be away from the slide. It had a treacherous appearance, but my curiosity was aroused. As the stormy season came on, and the plow would no longer scour in the mud, and the ground began to freeze, then I took to making long rides into the canyon, keeping an eye out to watch the old man. "Free still made his occasional trips to town and continued to pay for his supplies with gold. 525 July 1967 This kept the interest in Banner Canyon at fever pitch, and I knew Pa would stay on the hunt until snow forced him to stay in camp. Miners, with less hope of finding gold, were becoming discouraged and began taking up more and more of the land near the little town of Banner by our tract, or else moved on. "On one ride into the canyon, I took my two bags of seed grain, figuring to put them where Pa couldn't be tempted to trade them off before spring came. I found a place near the bottom of the slide. I lined the bottom and sides with smvoth rocks, put the sacks in, then covered the top with heavy, tight-fitting stones. "TI was about ready to go back to where I had tied my horse, when I saw Old Free step out of his cabin and walk a short distance out on the mass of gray rocks. He had not seen me. I stepped back by the trees and watched. From among the rocks, Free lifted an old copper teakettle. I stood there while he replaced it and then I waited until he passed by me on his burro down the trail. He didn't even notice my horse. "By the time I reached the kettle, my heart was pounding in my throat. Before I even took off the lid I knew that this was the source of Free's gold. What I had not known was that the kettle would be almost empty. I put everything back as I had found it, then turned and ran like the wind down the trail to my _ horse, hidden among the trees. "I debated with myself that winter as to whether I should tell Pa about the kettle. I knew that if he found out Free's gold came 526 out of an old teakettle, we would be on the move again. While there wasn't much gold left, maybe, for Free, it would be enough for another year. That would mean a whole growing season, a planting and a harvest. Maybe even Pa would realize then that this was the best land we had ever had. "One morning when winter had not quite gone, I woke up and found that Pa had already left the house. I dressed in a hurry and ran outside. There he was, on his horse, anxious for his first day back on the trail. I knew the winter had been a drag for him. ""T'm going up on the slide today, Jed,' he said. "IT watched him ride away. Why, Pa had combed every foot of the hills near the slide. There was no use going over it again. His words came back to me, 'I'm going up on the slide!' "T was scared. I was good and scared. With the ice melting from among the rocks, even a jack rabbit crossing the slide would set some of them in motion. I knew I had to tell. I ran behind him and caught hold of his leg. "Pa! Pa!' I cried, 'there isn't any gold, Pa! Free gets his nuggets out of an old teaketitle!' "TI guess I was almost screaming the words out, but Pa shook me off as he started away. "So he's got you in cahoots with him, has he? Well, it won't work. He's got gold all right, and I mean to find it. Not in any tin pan, either.' "J just stood there, looking after him, until he disappeared. "But I couldn't eat breakfast. I couldn't do anything around the cabin. Finally, I got the halter rope and went for my horse. I could ride faster than Pa could, and maybe, somehow, someway, I could get him to change his mind. I didn't dare even call to him, thinking maybe even the sound of my voice might start the rockssliding. "It was when I crossed the creek in the bottom of the canyon that I heard it. Or maybe I didn't actually hear anything above the roar of the spring runoff. Maybe I just felt it under the horse's feet. When I got there it was all over." Jeo pulled the team to a halt, his eyes on the hills of Banner Canyon. Nora put her hand on his arm. He covered her hand with his own. She could feel his struggle to finish his story that he was, for the first time, putting into words. "TI could see the dark strip of rocks where they had slipped. I seemed to know that Free would be waiting for me. "IT tried to tell him I knew about the kettle, but he wouldn't believe me. " Ton't blame yourself, Jed,' he said. 'He wouldn't believe me, either. I even showed him the kettle, but he said it was just a trick to keep all the gold for myself. I tried every way I could to stop him, but it only made him mad. Told him only a fool would go out on that slide. He said he had been a fool all right, to take my word that there was no gold out on the slide, and he didn't intend to be one any longer.' " Jed cleared his throat. Nora drew her hand gently away from his. "At the bottom of the slide I found two pieces of wood. There was no telling where Pa was, The Golden Chain under all those rocks. That seemed as good a place as any to mark his grave. I needed something to tie my boards together. I looked around, but there was nothing to be found, so I opened my shirt and took the piece of buckskin from around my neck. I untied the ends and slid the small gold piece into Old Free's hand. Then, with the buckskin thong, I tied the crosspiece together. Free stood for a long time with his old hat in his hand. "He still held the small gold piece, turning it over and over. Then he reached inside his own shirt and brought out one just like it. I saw him fit the uneven edges of the two pieces. They matched perfectly. "*T cut this myself,' he said, 'made the holes, too. Gave the one to my daughter when she left to marry your father. I never saw her again. Next time I heard of her, it was only to visit her grave.' "He held the gold pieces as though they were very precious, as if he had been waiting to do so for a long, long time. "*We had bitter words, your Pa and I,' he said. 'I told him she'd still be alive if he had settled down. He said I was a fine one to talk since I had spent my life on the gold trail.' " "But why, why?' I asked. " 'Why didn't I claim you as my grandson?' He understood my question without its really being asked. "*T really wanted to,' he said. 'Through the years, I wanted to. But your Pa threatened me. Said if I ever did he'd take you so far away I never could find you.' "There was one more thing I had to know. 527 July 1967 "Why did you try to make them think your gold came from the mountains?' I asked. " "Tt did,' he said, 'from many mountains. A bit of dust here, a small nugget there. I gathered it a little at a time from lots of mountains. When I learned I had a grandson, I vowed a vow. I wanted more than the gold trail for you. I decided to use my gold to bring settlers into some valley. It worked, too. They'll stay on here now, in Banner Valley, and build a church and a school. I want you to stay on here, Jed, among the Mormons. The things they believe are true.' " Jed's voice stopped. The story was over. Nora felt the moment of nearness passing, as Jed spoke to the horses, urging them forward. "He believes in the Mormon Church, and yet he has never joined?" mused Nora, almost to herself. "No, he has never joined. And he has never wanted anyone to know that we are related. Says he isn't worthy of either, of a grandson or baptism. You see, long ago, on a day at Carthage, he was there. He was very young, only a lad, but he was there, and he has never been able to forget that he was." Nora felt a surge of encouragement that Jed had confided in her to this extent, but she could feel the same old barriers returning to come between them. She was never quite sure just what the barriers were, only that they were there. Perhaps, perhaps—if she were only patient.... She did not finish the thought, but a new hope began to grow within her. As he drew the team to a halt in front of Freedom Lang's cabin, Jed spoke again. "So now do you understand, Nora? Do you understand why I never learned to read, and why I like the land? It was Pa's wandering that did it, made me want to stay in one place. The rest of my life won't be too long. Traveling is not for me. I'm content to spend my life right here in Banner." Oh, Jed! Jed! I would be, too, if you would include me in that life! Nora's heart cried out. "Do you understand, Nora? Do you?" His persistent questioning intruded into her thoughts. "Yes, Jed," she answered quietly, "I think I do." (To be continued) la SUMMER SENSES Gilean Douglas, Whaletown, British Columbia, Canada Summer beauty! Can touch, feel its taste upon my tongue, smell the clean and moistured earth, see green invitation hung where the mind can spend a day— never knowing day has gone— and hear a thought come through the ferns softly as a bright-eyed fawn. \ L 528 c@hom) FROM THE FIELD = ] —t All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt: Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society fagazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities he Fe F7 Central British Mission Relief Society Conferences Completed in January 1967 Left to right: Isabel Cannon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society; Gladys M. Jones, President; Evenda Fowler, First Counselor. Sister Cannon reports: '""We have just completed our fall district conferences. The whole series was very effective and beneficial to the sisters. The booths were prepared as demonstration material, not for a bazaar. The theme was 'Sew and Sow,' with the following titles discussed: Sowing—Visiting Teaching; Cultivation—Magazine; Harvest Time—Records; Tested and Tried—Singing Mothers; Sewing and Sowing—Bazaars. "Collapsible booths decorated in Relief Society colors displayed articles and home-baked items which were made by the mission Relief Society presidency. Price tickets were decorated and threaded through knitting needles. Table favors consisted of pin cushions made from different colors of foam in which were placed needles made from dowling and threaded with various colored ribbons. "Through the many miles traveled to reach each district in the mission with this conference material, the needs and spirit of sisterhood found in Relief Society reached and touched the hearts of many sisters." 529 July 1967 Finnish Mission Relief Society Seminar November 5, 1966 Pauline Poulsen, Supervisor, Finnish Mission Relief Society, reports: "A lovely new chapel in Turku was the site of a mission-wide Relief Society seminar, planned and directed by the mission Relief Society presidency: Liisa Uusitalo, President; Mirjam Haglund and Sylvi Hankiala, Counselors; and Lea Kulju, Secretary. In attendance were approximately 200 sisters, representing eighteen branches of the mission. The seminar consisted of a special demonstration of the preparation and preservation of foods, the presentation of a visiting teacher film 'Unto the Least of These,' musical demonstrations and instructions, homemaking helps, and general directions for strengthening Relief Society in the mission. Another feature of the conference was a breakfast for branch and district Relief Society presidents, hosted by the mission Relief Society. The seminar came to a close with a testimony meeting, which featured a combined Singing Mothers chorus. All sisters present were thrilled with the true spirit of sisterhood that prevailed, and returned to their branches newly invigorated with the joy of serving and being a part of this marvelous organization. "Many sisters attended the seminar in the Finnish national costume. The mission Relief Society President Liisé Uusitalo is standing in the front row, center, with a white band on her hair." West Covina Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 1966 Front row, left to right: Virginia Eves, guest organist; Jeannine Lauderman, stake organist; Elfreda Clark, soloist; eleventh from the left: Counselor LaVonne Howe; and to the right of Sister Howe, left to right: Marcelle C. Jones, President, West Covina Stake Relief Society; Oa J. Cannon, member, General Board of Relief Society; Felice Smith, stake chorister; at the right: Blenavond Curtis, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Jones reports: "The concert was an outstanding presentation, with approximately 725 guests in attendance. Stake President Mark W. Smith, after our first Christmas concert in 1964, requested the stake Singing Mothers to enhance the true Christmas spirit by presenting such a concert each December. We have done so, for the two following years, and we feel that each one has been a delight, for the Singing Mothers to present an outstanding spiritual message through music and story to those in attendance. The annual concert has been 'our gift' to the stake, and no charge has been made for attendance at the concerts." Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society Conference Veracruz, Mexico, September 10, 1966 Fannie B. Hatch, Supervisor, Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "This was the first conference for our women organized on a missionwide basis, and we were delighted that so many were able to come to Veracruz from the districts in the mission. President Berta Morales writes: "There are dates in the history of the Church which we always remember with love and emotion. They bring into our hearts a living strength that inspires us always to go forward. In the future, one of these dates will be September 10, 1966, for on this day a group of faithful members attended the first Relief Society General Conference for the Southeast Mexican Mission. The beautiful port of Veracruz, in gala attire that day, received the representatives of the districts, with their counselors and secretaries, who began to arrive early from distant places, to receive instructions. A spirit of harmony, understanding, and interest reigned at both sessions of the conference. As we bade our sisters adieu, we felt that they would work with diligence and love in order to strengthen the work of the Lord.' " 530 Es g o = fag July 1967 East Central States Mission, Tullahoma Branch, Tennessee, Bazaar November 19, 1966 Left to right: Catherine M. Hunter, Homemaking Counselor; Leah C. Tidwell, President; Becky Hunter. Erma T. Eldredge, Supervisor, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "This was the first bazaar open to the public held by the Tullahoma Branch Relief Society. It was held in one of the town's largest shopping centers, in a nice vacant store, in which there was ample space for displaying many handmade articles, homemade candies, and baked goods. The sisters received much publicity in the local paper before the bazaar, and the paper presented an article afterwards, printing some of the recipes used for the baked goods. For the bazaar, the sisters all wore old-fashioned long skirts, and the townspeople enjoyed the spirit of an old-fashioned church bazaar." Blackfoot Stake (Idaho), Moreland Ward Spiritual Living Class Leader Honored at Leadership Meeting, November 9, 1966 Left to right: Rowena Merrill and Barbara Gneiting, Counselors, Blackfoot Stake Relief Society; LaRue Cox, President; Genevieve Lindsay, being honored for serving forty-one years as theology (spiritual living) class leader in Moreland Ward. Sister Cox reports: 'Sister Lindsay began her service as theology class leader in 1925, as a young bride. She has been a faithful and diligent class leader, and was released in the autumn of 1965 due to a call to become an ordinance worker in the Idaho Falls Temple. She was presented with a lovely corsage of autumn colors in recognition of her devotion to Relief Society." Brazilian Mission Relief Society Conference February 11, 1967 Alice C. Hicken, Supervisor, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, reports: "On February 11, 1967, the sisters of the Brazilian Mission held their annual mission Relief Society conference in the Santana Branch chapel, Sado Paulo, Brazil. This was an outstanding conference in every respect, perfectly organized and executed. It was planned and organized by our mission Relief Society board, with Adriana Conteir de Freitas, President, and her secretary Laudelina Donofrio. Eight branches in the Tiete District furnished the food, and the various outlying districts prepared the presentations for the conference. Included were demonstrations for the benefit of our newer branches of an entire Relief Society meeting and various class discussions, also the skit 'Clinica Fantastica,' a lovely display of bazaar items from each district, and a testimony meeting. "The most gratifying thing about the conference was the expression of love and unity of the sisters from all over the mission. Probably the most unique feature was the attendance itself. Since our farthest branch is 2700 miles from S4o Paulo, we did not have anyone represented from the Recife area, but every other district was represented. We had a large group travel ten hours by bus from Rio de Janeiro, another group of eleven from Belo Horizonte, which was an eleven-hour bus trip. Brasilia, which is over 700 miles away, and interior cities 300 and 400 miles away were represented. In spite of these great distances, there were almost 200 represented." 532 July 1967 Emigration Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Twenty-first Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers, December 14, 1966 Front row, left to right, visiting teachers who have served for more than fifty years: Alice Asper; Phoebe Booth; Theodosia Dana; Isabella Kippen. Second row, left to right, officers of the Twenty-first Ward Relief Society: Doris Watts, Secretary; Fern Voss, First Counselor; Eva Peterson, President; Eula Pusey, Second Counselor. Hazel Young, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society, reports: "At noon the visiting teachers were honored with a lovely dinner and program. The tables were attractively decorated with the Christmas theme. This ward has done 100 per cent visiting teaching for twenty years. Doris Watts was honored for serving as secretary for twenty years under seven presidents. She has been a very efficient, dependable secretary, and everyone loves her. There are 128 members in this ward Relief Society, twenty-one of whom are between eighty and ninety years of age.' Clearfield Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''Prelude to Christmas" December 10, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Leora D. Ashbaker, Second Counselor; Ora R. Barlow, President; Maxie L. Larson, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Lundquist, organist; Mary U. Blood, chorister. (Coleen P. Clark, First Counselor, was out of town the day the picture was taken.) Sister Barlow reports: '"The evening began with a delicious banquet, followed by a lovely concert presented by the Singing Mothers. The hall glittered with exciting displays of Christmas handicraft made by the wards, while the banquet tables were beautifully decorated with nativity figures created by stake board members.: "The concert developed the Christmas theme in word, song, and tableau. Each ward chorus presented a song and a tableau. The combined chorus sang three numbers. The stake organist was assisted by Edna Rasmussen and ward organists. Narrator was Flora Knight." Santa Monica Stake (California), West Dale Second Ward Relief Society Presents ''The Gift'' For Anniversary Day, March 16, 1967 On stage, standing at the left, left to right: Glyda Bates; Marion Muir; Beryl Nicholaisen; Alice Kochheim. Seated: Sheryl Anderson; Eleanor Muir; Sharon Shirley; Doreen Blackburn. Standing at the right: Amanda Hightower, spiritual living leader and director of the dramatization. Not on stage: Judy Hoppe, chorister, and Arlene Brown, organist. Evelyn R. Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our nine wards were delighted to have "The Gift' sent to them from the General Board for their 125th Anniversary parties. Having the families at an evening party they accepted as a new and challenging idea. Four of the wards decided to have a family dinner, two had ice cream socials, and the other three served finger foods and dessert. It was extremely interesting to the stake visitors attending to note the ingenuity and talents displayed in presentation of the dramatizations. The combined attendance in the wards was 1405, and many of these men, women, and children were enlightened for the first time to the responsible position the Relief Society holds as an aid to the Priesthood." 534 Pioneer Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah) Celebrates The Relief Society Anniversary, March 17, 1967 Standing left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency of Relief Society; Viola Crowton; Ida Deters. Seated, left to right: Eva Passey, stake spiritual living class leader; Patricia Jensen. Dicie Godfrey, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society, reports: "Patricia Jensen, Viola Crowton, and Ida Deters portrayed the first Relief Society presidency of the Church, and Eva Passey represented the first secretary. The anniversary social was held in the cultural hall. It was a great honor to have Sister Sharp visit with us this memorable day. The play "The Gift? Was presented, with the following sisters participating: Donna Drechsel, Lucille Hansen, Lynette Hansen, and Geraldine: Morris. The stake Singing Mothers, a chorus of forty-five women, presented the music, under direction of Elaine Cobia, stake chorister, accompanied by Molly Taylor, stake organist. After the play, 'The Lord's Prayer' was sung by Bonnie Robinson, stake social relations leader. Judith Sparks, dressed as an Indian maiden, gave the story of 'The Lord's Prayer' in pantomime, while Sister Robinson sang the words. They were accompanied by Molly Taylor. "Sister Sharp, with her uplifting spiritual remarks, left the 325 women feeling well-paid for attending the anniversary party. Also in attendance was President Joseph Nemelka of the stake presidency. Refreshments were furnished by the ward Relief Societies and served by the stake board." 536 SPIRITUAL LIVING——The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 81—The Lord Will Provide for His Saints Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 104) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns that the Lord will provide for his saints, but it must be in his own way. INTRODUCTION On April 23, 1834, following the removal of the saints from Jackson County, Missouri, through persecution, The First Presidency and other high priests met in council to consider matters relating to the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. The Lord gave Section 104 of the Doctrine and Covenants at that time. Because of the' persecution of the saints in Missouri, it was impossible for them to live the law of consecration, which required that they give their property to the Church and receive a stewardship from which they would support their families and also produce a surplus to be used by the Church. The Lord revealed that every man was accountable for his own stewardship. He reminded the saints that all things were his for he was the Creator of the heavens and the earth. Therefore, in order for the members of the Church to take care of the temporal needs of his people, they were under obligation to follow his way of making this possible. "But it must needs be done in mine own way" (D&C 104:16). Then, the Lord declared the important truth that there is ample for the temporal needs of man, but man has the responsibility, as a free 537 July 1967 agent, to help his fellow man who is in want. (D&C 104:11-18.) The law of consecration as described in the Doctrine and Covenants is not in force today. The Church, however, has other divinely inspired programs which are designed to give the saint an opportunity to fulfill his covenants in behalf of his fellow men. These programs are also to help him provide for himself, both temporally and spiritually. Preparations for any eventuality, whether individual, local, national, or world-wide, are a part of this over-all plan. THE LAST DAYS When the Angel Moroni visited three times with Joseph Smith the night of September 21-22, 1823, important instructions were given concerning the days in which we live. Moroni referred to a number of prophecies from the Bible that would be _ fulfilled "soon." In addition to the clarification of these prophecies, the important information was given that, beginning with the restoration of the gospel, the last days had begun. Judgments in the form of destructions caused by war and calamities of various kinds would be a part of these days. (D&C 43: 22-27; 45:25-42; 88:87-96) Class Discussion: What makes you believe we are living in the last days? In view of troubled world conditions, what should be your attitude as a Latter-day Saint woman? FACING THE FUTURE Latter-day Saints are the most blessed people upon the earth. 538 There are no other people who have the assurance of security that those do who are faithful to the gospel covenants they have made with the Lord. They have the promise of the Lord: If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation (D&C 6:13). TRUST IN GOD; HE WILL PROVIDE The prophet Isaiah said that in the last days a marvelous work and a wonder would be wrought in that, among other things, there - would come an increase in faith that would be equal to all circumstances and needs. Full and complete confidence in the word of the Lord as given anciently and today brings rewards in this life and in the world to come. Early in this dispensation, the Lord told his people, though few in number, that they had no need to fear, but to do good, and, since they were built on his rock, the forces of evil would not overcome them. (D&C 6:34.) And then these words: "Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not" (D&C 6:36). The strength and power which come from the scriptures are illustrated in what Elder John A. Widtsoe said in a general conference about the above passage. I remember reading, when a boy, a helpful passage from the Doctrine and Covenants. Let me read it here in conclusion. As a lad I felt fear, sometimes of men, but more often of the dark outside forces. I often wondered if this persecuted people after all would be able to accomplish all that was pictured in its destiny. Then I found in my reading of the Doctrine and Covenants this passage which has been a joy and a help and a strength to me all my life, for the Lord said to his people in Harmony, Pennsylvania, before the Church was organized: "Therefore, fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail. Behold, I do not condemn you; go your ways and sin no more; perform with soberness the work which I have commanded you. Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not. Behold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the nails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. Amen" (D&C 6:34-37). What do we care for the slanderer or the liar; what do we care for the enemy who arises to defeat our holy purposes? We have the truth, the mightiest weapon God has given to his people, and we shall win, in the end, if we do the things that God requires us to do (Conference Report, October 1923, p. 27). The Lord has spoken consoling and comforting words to those who will believe in what he has revealed. His gospel is positive and assuring. From a revelation about the law of consecration, the Lord gave these words of assurance and admonition: And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way... (D&C 104:15-16). IN HIS OWN WAY Have you ever fallen into the error of rejecting what the Lord has revealed by replacing his word with your own ideas about what he requires? An example may be the seemingly harmless practice of telling lies to gain advantage when the Lord has condemned this practice. (D&C 42:21; 76: 103-105) Lesson Department "Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life" (Matt. 7:14). Such a pronouncement of the Savior as the need for baptism of water and of the Spirit to obtain salvation, is an example. (John 3:5). His counsel to the people of his dispensation was that he was the Good Shepherd and only through and by him would salvation come. (Ibid. 10:7-9) In the present dispensation he has spoken positively on this subject as follows: Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as I and my Father ordained unto you before the world was? I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment—that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord (D&C 132:8-12). The Lord works through his children insofar as they are able to live by his commandments. Class Discussion: Why do you believe the Lord is concerned about the temporal welfare of his saints? TEMPORAL AND SPIRITUAL When the Lord declared that he would provide for his saints, he was referring to their everyday needs. One of the unique doctrines of the Church is that the gospel of Jesus Christ is to be lived daily. Therefore, the Latterday Saint believes that the fulness of blessings comes through daily application of the principles 539 July 1967 of the gospel in his life. Not only is the Lord concerned with the spiritual aspects of life and the future existence, but also with one's daily affairs. He has said, "not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal [only]. For my commandments are spiritual" (D&C 29:34-35). Consequently, when a Latter-day Saint thinks of preparing for or earning a livelihood or of the multitude of things which must be done in this life, he relates these things to his spiritual welfare. With this philosophy, he then keeps his mind single to God, as commanded. (D&C 88:67-68) Thus we see that, as the member of the Church makes his life a spiritual experience, though involved in some activities that seem to be quite earthy, he knows that his actions should agree daily with the Lord's own way. Class Discussion: In what way is the Lord providing for his people's temporal needs today? THE LAW OF THE FAST Through his prophets the Lord has revealed that the saints should observe the law of the fast. The money not used for the meals not eaten during the fast, should be given to the bishop of the ward for the use of those in need. This amount is known as the fast offering. By this law the Lord is providing for those in his Church who are in need. Although some may be unable to fast, yet all could fulfill a fundamental purpose of the fast—to give to the Church for the poor. (Gospel Doctrine, 540 Selections From the Sermons and Writings of Joseph F. Smith, Thirteenth Edition, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, 1963, p. 243). President Joseph F. Smith has also told us that there may be some who are unable to fast: Many are subject to weakness, others are delicate in health and others have nursing babies; of such it should not be required to fast. Neither should parents compel their little children to fast. I have known children to cry for something to eat on fast day. In such cases, going without food will do them no good. Instead, they dread the day to come, and in place of hailing it, dislike it; while the compulsion engenders a spirit of rebellion in them, rather than a love for the Lord and their fellows. Better teach them the principle, and let them observe it when they are old enough to choose intelligently, than to so compel them 4 bid., p. 244). What, then, is the obligation of the Latter-day Saints to this law? The observance of this law is mandatory upon all saints. By this means they are following the Lord's instruction that a certain number of his people are being cared for "in his own way" (D&C 88:68). THE WELFARE PLAN The law of the fast is a part of the greater law—the Welfare Plan. In 1936, it was instituted, based on earlier commandments, to take care of those in need. It is a much broader program than the law of the fast which was established earlier in the dispensation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said that:.. The Welfare Plan is not the United Order and was not intended to be. However, I should like to suggest to you that perhaps, after all, when the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation—it is not so yet—we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order (Conference Report, October 1942, p. 57). Since that day there have been many improvements in that Plan, so much so that the needs of his people who are in want are being provided for "in his own way." Recognizing that the Welfare Plan has come to the Church by revelation, the Latter-day Saint is fulfillmg an obligation to the Lord when he participates in welfare activities. There are some in the Church who desire to help the poor in their own way. This practice should not be discouraged, nevertheless, every Latter-day Saint is under covenant to support the Lord's way. The bishop is the common judge in Israel by divine appointment. (D&C 107:74.) The Lord has placed upon him the mantle of discernment by which he may be able to provide for the needy as the circumstances require. In the Welfare Plan, however, the participant contributes to the common good and not to any one individual only. He places his faith in those who administer welfare orders that they will use their best judgment in taking care of the Lord's own. He is not concerned that the needy person know that he has contributed to his welfare. The Latter-day Saint knows that the Lord knows of his faithfulness. Along these thoughts, Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, gave these instructions: Well, some people say: "I would like to help the poor in my own way." Lesson Department I think we all should help the poor in our own way, but I think likewise we should help the poor in the Lord's way, and the Lord has said so much in so many words: Said he: "And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints, that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low' (D&C 104: 15, 16.) And then Elder Petersen asked some pertinent questions, as follows: How do we measure up? Are we willing to share by paying fast offerings? Are we willing to share by laboring earnestly in the Church welfare program? Or are we going to drag our feet? Are we selfish? Do we love our neighbors as ourselves? Do we live the way we pray? Are we like the priest and the Levite in the story of the Good Samaritan? Or do we love the Lord our God with all our hearts, realizing that we cannot love God whom we have not seen if we do not love our brother whom we have seen (Conference Report, April 1947, pp. 101, 102). HOME FOOD STORAGE Under the Welfare Plan, there is provision for each family in the Church to provide for itself when emergencies arise. Thrift and industry are cardinal principles of. The gospel plan. The idler is not acceptable to the Lord. (D&C 42: 42.) His latter-day prophets have stressed the need for each Church member to provide for himself. A program to have on hand a year's supply of food, clothing, and other essential commodities is designed so that the families of the Church will have in store one year's supply of necessities to meet such circumstances as unemployment, sickness, and lack of materials when otherwise needed. This plan 541 July 1967 also envisions preparation for any calamitous event over which man does not have control, such as floods, earthquake, famine, and war. This program is a part of the Lord's own way in providing for his saints and those who heed this counsel are blessed daily as well as during the times of crises. The application of basic principles of industry by the Church member brings satisfaction and joy as he realizes that he has accepted the Lord's 'own way." Class Discussion: Give some reasons why the Latter-day Saint woman should support the home storage plan. RECAPITULATION—IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints know that they are living in the last days when the Lord's word will be fulfilled. Among these calamitous happenings are war and famine. The Lord has said that the day will come when the crops of the earth will be destroyed. (D&C 29:16) In preparation for such calamities, the saints have been warned. They have also been provided with certain laws and programs which will test their faith to see if they believe in the Lord's way. In addition, these laws are designed to fulfill specific covenant obligations which the member has to his fellow man under the general commandment to love his neighbor as himself. For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves. Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment (D&C 104:17-18). The living of these laws brings blessings commensurate with the specific law obeyed, and, in keeping the commandments, the member imparts of his substance in the Lord's own way, the Welfare Plan. Furthermore, he knows that by observing the law of the fast, he obtains temporal and spiritual blessings for himself, and, at the same time, he is also imparting of his substance to those in need. And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way... (D&C 104:15-16). A THORN BESET Ethel Jacobson Desert charms unfold to those who respect the thorns that shield its beauty. ~ 542 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths To Live By Alice Colton Smith Message 1—Light and Truth Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: ''The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth'' (D&C 93:36). By becoming responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost we have special access to light and truth. "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D&C 93:36). Every clear night since man has walked the earth, if he has looked up, he has seen the works of God. He has sensed the mystery of the Lord's awesome intelligence. The Lord said to Moses millenniums ago:... The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man (Moses 1:37-39). In these three verses one makes a startling discovery. In the midst of his continuing cosmic creation, and he must be very busy, God is concerned and interested in each man who lives on this earth, which earth is only one of countless worlds. In the face of earth's billions of inhabitants, man sometimes feels he is insignificant and his life meaningless. Often he is tense, anxious, fearful, and frustrated, trying, in the face of material affluence or poverty, to find a meaning to life, standards to live by, courage to go on, faith to believe in, and hope to sustain him. Where can he find these? If he will listen to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, called the Comforter, he will be reminded that the earth was formed for his benefit and training, that its Creator is vitally, intimately, ultimately interested in him, and that Jesus Christ, immortal and divine, is his Friend and Redeemer, and that there is a glorious purpose in his life. The Holy Ghost brings man assurance of that purpose and gives him peace. The blessing of such extraordinary understanding is given him when he is confirmed. Man attunes himself to this special knowledge available through the Holy Ghost by righteous desire and living, which include faith, prayer, study, practice, and listening to the Holy Ghost with a receptive mind. To man is given understanding of "all things which are expedient unto the children of men" (D&C 18: 18), discernment of "the peaceable things of the kingdom" (D&C 39:6), and special knowl- 543 July 1967 edge that "he (Moroni 10:7). Armed with these particular enlightenments, we are to live [Christ] is" virtuously and be "full of charity towards all men" (D&C 121:45). The Holy Ghost, then, will be our constant companion. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Family Protection—wWills—Estate-Planning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: To show that estate-planning and the making of a will are important for the well-being of the survivors. NOTE: This discussion has been written to give a general understanding of the subject since the actual laws regarding estate-planning and wills differ in the various areas of the world. INTRODUCTION All of us are concerned with the business of living—of providing for the wants and needs of our families—but not all of us are aware that providing for the future after we are gone and preparing a will is one of the most important parts of the business affairs of a family. Certainly none of us would willfully neglect our families or fail to provide for them, and yet, when we fail to make a will, this is exactly what we are doing—depriving them of the support and the means which should rightfully be theirs but for our negligence. After we are gone, it is too late to determine what should be done with our means and our property.. It is too late, then, to decide who will own our homes, drive our cars, wear our favorite jewelry, or who will benefit from our careful management of stocks and bonds 544 over the years. Even though we may have told everyone just how we wanted our things distributed, there is no assurance that our desires will be carried out. It is entirely possible that they cannot be. In death, we cannot take our material possessions with us, neither can we dispose of them as we wish. We won't be here, and whatever we leave will be distributed in accordance with the prevailing laws of intestacy, which govern when a person dies without a will. These laws vary from state to state and from country to country, but the distribution is fixed by these laws and our wishes do not control. Sometimes family members who might and should have benefited are dead and buried before a judgment is finally handed down, and some entire estates are consumed before the litigation is completed. WHAT IS A WILL? In simple terms, a will is the legal statement of a person's wishes concerning the disposal of his property after death. A will may be fairly simple or extremely complex, but, in either case, it must conform to certain legal requirements. It should not be executed without legal advice, because the absence of certain formalities may invalidate it. Previously, a will applied only to real property and did not include personal assets, which were taken care of by a separate document called a testament. Today there is no such distinction, and the "Last Will and Testament" disposes of both real and personal property. WHO SHOULD MAKE A WILL? Every person should make a will when he comes of legal age. The answer to this question is the same whether the individual is a millionaire or whether his only assets are his earning potential and his life expectancy. Everyone should recognize the necessity of making a will as soon as he or she becomes twenty-one years of age. If an individual, who has reached the age when he is no longer under the financial protection of his parents, should meet death in an accident, said parents—or any relative for that matter—would be unable to collect damages through suit or other process of law if the individual had not made a will. Especially should both a husband and a wife make a will, whether or not they have children. Many a court case has been fought, and a substantial part of many an estate which should have gone to the Lesson Department surviving mate has been distributed to other surviving relatives because no will had been made. In the event that both husband and wife meet death simultaneously, existing wills would assure that surviving children would be cared for and the estate fairly and accurately distributed. For this reason young parents, especially, need to make wills so that they can determine who will be the executive of their estate and who will be responsible for the care of their children in the event of their deaths. Unfortunately, many people, especially those who are young, feel no need to make a will. They believe that their meager possessions do not justify a will, or they assume that their parents will take care of the disposition of their things. The truth is that if they are of legal age and fail to make use of this legal instrument, everything they own, from the item of least consequence to their most treasured possession, may pass into the control of the court for probate and, in many instances, be lost in the process of litigation. To Discuss Ilustration A: Frank and Sue, a young happily married couple with three children, own a lovely suburban home which is listed in Frank's name. Frank dies very suddenly without having made a will, believing that a will was not necessary since Sue would automatically inherit whatever he had after his death. Sue finds that she cannot maintain the house and commute back and forth with the children, so she decides to sell it. According to the law in the area in which Sue lives, however, Sue owns only one-third of the house while the other two-thirds be- 545 July 1967 longs to the three children, and she cannot sell without extended court procedures. An administrator must be appointed and the property appraised by special court appraisers. Even then, Sue may not touch the money from the sale without a court order each time she finds it necessary to make some expenditure. Illustration B: Mark and Joan have been married for fifteen years, but they have no children. 'They have _ considerable property, including a home which is listed under Joan's name. An accident takes Joan's life, and, when Mark attempts to dispose of the house, he finds that because his wife had made no will he is not the sole owner. Joan's father, who had bitterly opposed their marriage and who had been estranged from them throughout their married life, is, according to probate law, owner of the house and of the stocks and bonds which Mark had bought with his savings and placed in Joan's name for her protection. Illustration C: A single woman married an oldcer man who had a grown family by his first wife. He owned a house in combination with a store which was their sole means of livelihood. He died intestate (without a will) and she continued to run the store for a period of three months, after which a son by his first marriage had himself appointed administrator of the estate. She was forced, finally, to buy out the two-thirds interest which had, by law, gone to the children of his first marriage. Her husband's intent had been that all his property should go to his second wife for her use during her lifetime, but, with no will, this was not possible. GENERAL SUGGESTIONS 1. No one should attempt to draw his own will without legal advice. A lawyer's fee for this service is not large, and legal knowledge is required in the making of a will. Your will is perhaps the most important document you will ever make or sign; failure to comply with the formalities which the law prescribes may invalidate your will and leave your intentions unfulfilled. 2. A will, unlike a deed or a contract, can be revoked when desired or when necessary. A will does not become permanent until death. If you enter into a contract, you may be subject to a lawsuit if you attempt to make any changes at all. A will, however, can be changed as often as you desire. 3. A will should be examined periodically to determine whether any changes are necessary or advisable. Changing conditions make it imperative that a will be reviewed at least once a year. 4. Your will should be kept in a safe place where it is available without delay. Either your bank or your lawyer will provide safekeeping for this a FOR THIS | HAVE WEPT Peggy Tangren For this | have wept—for a single flower Dying before parturition hour Of ripened seed. Its promised worth Denied a somber yearning earth, Willing no blossom to a flowerless plain, Gone forever for the want of rain. With oceans, lakes, and rivers, still Beauty can die on a thirsty hill. Valuable document. 546 SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1—"Seek Learning, Even By Study" (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: Latter-day Saints have been commanded by the Lord to seek learning by study and also by faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who complies with this commandment and who uses the acquired knowledge for good, will enrich her mortal life and be eternally blessed. INTRODUCTION The phrase used as the title for this lesson is taken from Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, where the search for truth through study and prayer is enjoined. Concluding verse 118 are these words: "seek learning, even by study and also by faith." Learning has been defined as the process of acquiring knowledge. Obedience to this divine commandment will result in the acquisition of knowledge, but to be knowledgeable is not necessarily to be wise. To be wise one must be able to use sound judgment, and to deal sagaciously with facts as they relate to life and conduct. This lesson is concerned with satisfactions which learning obtained by study may bring into a woman's life, and emphasizes the fact that knowledge and wisdom are not synonymous. Wisdom results only when knowledge is properly used. By proper usé we mean that which is in harmony with divine purposes. The succeeding lesson will consider learning obtained through the exercise of faith. THE NEED FOR KNOWLEDGE The most significant truths relative to this earth and to the gospel of Jesus Christ have been given to man through direct revelation, but the principle of eternal progression requires that each individual put forth effort in the direction of growth. All commandments of the Lord are designed for our individual good and the admonition to seek learning is fundamental, since only through the understanding and acceptance of gospel truths can we benefit from them. The Prophet Joseph Smith stressed the fact that man cannot be saved in ignorance. It is impossible for an individual to discover for himself more than a small fraction of the truths pertaining to the universe, however diligently he may apply himself. It is necessary, therefore, that he draw selectively from the accumulated discovery and knowledge of the ages. He will add to what he learns from others, his own experience, and discovery. KNOWLEDGE VERSUS WISDOM Wisdom is the principal thing; 547 July 1967 therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding (Proverbs 4:7). Being learned does not necessarily mean that one is wise. An individual may possess great knowledge, yet not act with prudence, with humility, nor with justice toward his associates, all of which are essential to wisdom. Elder Stephen L Richards writes of wisdom thus:... I define wisdom as being the beneficent application of knowledge in decision.... And I can think of no wisdom that does not contemplate the good of man and society. Wisdom is more than prudence, more even than judgment which is less exalted in character, and far more than skill. Wisdom is true understanding... (RicHAarDS, STEPHEN L: Where is Wisdom? Deseret Book Company, 1955, page 67). George Albert Smith, Jr. States: Wisdom... Is seasoned learning— learning that has been matured by experience—by experience accurately observed and correctly interpreted.... [A wise man] has insight and vision. Out of what he sees and hears, [and reads] he spawns ideas which do lead or can lead to constructive action, taken by himself or by others whom he influences (Commencement Address, University of Utah, 1955, page 6). It is wisdom that the Latterday Saint woman needs to develop and use as she rears her children. It is to acquire wisdom - for all personal relationships that she observes, studies, and attends classes in the auxiliaries and lectures on human behavior. It is to become a wiser cook that she consults the nutrition guide and contemplates upon the Word of Wisdom. It is to become a wiser homemaker that she reads, dis- 548 cusses, and experiments with methods of effective homemaking. WHAT DOES IT MEAN? What does it mean to study? A common definition is this: to meditate, or to focus the mind, with attentive consideration, upon a subject for the purpose of acquiring knowledge. This broad definition could include the experiment or the study of a situation or particular problem through observation and analysis. Perhaps the most common application, however, is that of focusing one's thought upon the information contained in books. This statement implies that there may be a difference between reading and learning from reading. Casual reading may result in mere impressions. From studyreading one may obtain learning (definite knowledge). Class Involvement Discuss the merits of the following: 1. Scheduling a regular time for reading. 2. Having a definite objective in reading a particular book or article. 3. Casual reading versus studyreading. 4. Value of note-taking for assimilating ideas and for future reference. 5. Discussing with others, the ideas obtained through reading. Question: Is it practical to suggest a regular study-at-home plan for the younger woman who has children still in the home? If so, suggest one. Never in the history of the world has there been so much opportunity to acquire knowledge from books, to become selflearned. For the woman who has passed the years of affiliation with high school and, ordinarily, of college, there is ample opportunity to become informed through selective reading. Most communities have free public libraries where books and periodicals may be enjoyed without purchase. For many women, today's world is so complex and tightly scheduled that for them this question is realistic: How can I make time for the study of books? Other women need only motivation and direction toward opportunities that are available. Class Discussion Discuss the following suggestions for Latter-day Saint women who wish to improve their minds and thus enlarge their world: 1. Participate actively in Relief Society and attend community adult education classes and lectures. 2. Read printed lessons and supplementary material suggested in the publications printed by the auxiliaries | of the Church. 3. Appraise past interests or areas where they may feel particularly uninformed, then visit the local library. "EXPEDIENT FOR YOU TO UNDERSTAND" (D&C 88:78) Verses 78 and 79 of Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants suggest specific areas for our study:... That you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms... Can you envision a more Lesson Department pleasurable or inviting commandment? Class Involvement The areas for learning suggested in the foregoing scripture include gospel teachings, the physical world, and may embrace all human relationships. This lesson suggests some here-andnow benefits which may be realized by a Latter-day Saint woman who seeks learning in these areas. (To the Class Leader: Enumerate the fourteen benefits which follow, in order that all class members become aware of their importance and variety. See lesson helps for suggestions as to sources from which such benefits may be obtained.) 1. Be strengthened in her testimony of the divinity of Jesus as the Christ, and of his gospel. 2. Be more aware of prophecies and their fulfillment. 3. Be better able to evaluate the present in terms of what has transpired in the past. 4. Be better equipped to enjoy travel in foreign lands. 5. Have a greater understanding and more compassion for less privileged people. 6. Have a deeper appreciation for one's own blessings. 7. Be more alert to and interested in both domestic and foreign national affairs. 8. Be a more interesting conversationalist. 9. Be better able to assist or counsel children on their school assignments. 10. Be better equipped to fulfill one's own civic and Church assignments. 11. Apt to be less prejudiced and more tolerant with others. 12. Be more informed as to professions, arts, and crafts (even skilled in them). 13. Be more able to evaluate the problems and purposes of life. 14. Know the exhilaration of feeling that one is a part of the wonder of the world. Others may be suggested. _ 549 July 1967 Select for discussion two or three of these benefits which may be of special interest to the group. Knowledge should lead to constructive action. We should seek knowledge not as an end in itself, but for the values derived therefrom in obeying the will of the Lord. Point out (as time will permit) several acts of service which have been or may be motivated by the increased knowledge. For example:; No. 1: Relate the strengthened testimony of the divinity of the gospel to the woman who, with her husband, helps support a missionary, other than their own child, on a foreign or home mission. No. 5: Relate the increased understanding and compassion for the less privileged to the woman who provides foster home care for an Indian child through the Indian Placement Program, where this program is in effect. Others might be suggested. Question 1: Would any of the listed benefits likely result from a casual reading in the areas suggested? If so; which ones? Question 2: Which ones would likely result from study and mature thinking? ON THE READING OF BOOKS The ability to record and to read the written word is one of God's great blessings, and it is difficult to overstate the delight of great books to those who read widely and wisely. 'Now as always it is the function of the printed word not only to communicate, but to liberate mankind from inertia and ignorance, to free him from his irrational fears.... A book will always be a superb tool to think with, to ask with, to affirm with" (Jacoss, BRIANT L.: Evening Classes Newsletter, December 1965). Class Involvement Discuss the following different attitudes toward the reading of books: 550 A. The woman who says, "I don't read any of these new-fangled books. Mother didn't read much and what was good enough for her is good enough for me." B. The woman who reads fiction, hour after hour, but who reserves very little time for recreation with her children or with friends. C. The woman who says, "I don't believe you can teach an old dog new tricks. I am sixty-eight and I don't imagine any amount of reading and study will do me much good at this stage of my life." D. The woman who suffers a broken leg and is confined to her home for several months, decides that during this time she will add depth to her thinking through the reading of carefully selected books, and reflect upon the ideas they contain. Later she says, "This experience has shown me that out of the mind, when better used, and with an expanded point of view, can come new happiness and more usefulness. I wish that I had gained years earlier the knowledge that has come to me in this seventy-sixth year of my life." E. The woman who loses her eyesight in her declining years. At the age of ninety she learns to read Braille that she might not be denied the blessing of self-improvement through the printed word. THE SELECTIVE READER With limited time for leisure reading, the Latter-day Saint woman will need to be particularly selective in the magazines and books she reads. A_ great amount of mediocre and even pormographic material is being currently printed. Many, even reputable periodicals, are apparently using the spectacular theme and sex-slanted articles as ''attention getters" in the interest of promoting sales. Relief Society members are counseled to consider their own time as too precious to spend upon mediocre reading material. They also are counseled to help their children to be selective, and to understand that the printed word has power to motivate undesirable, as well as good and moral actions. EXPECTED OF US Our Heavenly Father expects us to use our inherent capacity to learn. He expects us to make use of the knowledge we acquire by study and by faith for the building of our own lives and the good of others. The Church places great emphasis upon individual learning. Women who are familiar with the history and growth of Relief Society are aware of the encouragement given to its members, through its education program, to read and to study the prepared lessons. They recall, with special interest, that, at the sixth meeting of the Society, April 28, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith made this memorable statement:... I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth (DHC IV:607; History of Relief Society, 1842-1966, page 8). In discussing the Latter-day Saint definition of intelligence, Elder John A. Widtsoe states: "Whoever uses knowledge for man's good is intelligent. KnowlLesson Department edge plus the correct use of knowledge equals intelligence. [Thus] intelligence becomes synonymous with wisdom" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Program of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Fourth Edition, 1941, page 44). ¥ With this definition in mind, knowledge and wisdom have blessed Relief Society through the years. Its members have collectively spent countless hours in self-improvement and in compassionately serving others. Question: What has Relief Society's education program done for you? THE INVISIBLE FRIEND One of the great rewards of learning through study and the reading of books, is the host of additional friends one may acquire. The gifted, philosophic, the courageous, the patient, the charitable personalities of past and present, life-real or fictitious, may become cherished friends. FOR DISCUSSION 1. Questions that appear in the lesson. 2. Can individuals or a people live better than their knowledge? FOR HOME DOING Ask yourself and answer: Am I making the most of the reading time available to me? Are the books I read worthwhile, mediocre, or trash? 551 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K.. Thomas) Lesson 1—"'A Glad Heart' Elder Robert K. Thomas "With a glad heart and a cheerful countenance." Doctrine and Covenants 59:15 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: By developing a glad heart, a woman may more effectively set a tone of harmony within her home. Note To Class Leaders: Musical selections with comments for lesson 1 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. INTRODUCTION When we are "counting our blessings," we gain appreciation for what we have by contrasting our 'own situation with that of others less fortunate. Especially in our adolescence is this experience in perspective valuable. For we need to understand our strengths and prepare to take advantage of special opportunities. When we grow older, however, and have had some of the selfabsorption of youth qualified by meaningful service to and from others, we no longer feel simple gratitude when we do not haye to undergo another's misfortune. In maturity, our reaction to the problems of our associates is tempered by realistic awareness that our advantages may be illusory or fleeting. All experience teaches the general lesson that the only control we may have over some circumstances in our lives is the ability and willingness to adapt skillfully to them. Accidents for which we have little responsibility 552 may rob us of health, may limit our choice of vocation or may even take from us the very things which seem to make life most meaningful. At such a time it is not particularly helpful to hear that everything will "work out in the end." In the most tragic circumstances the end seems to have arrived, and the pain of the present moment appears to numb our ability to find immediate comfort in a long view. Yet if we are not given all the consolation we need in a trying situation, we can always make enough happiness to carry us through. Most of the selections in this section will stress such achieved well-being. The short opening poems which begin this month's lesson let us see happiness and harmony, in which circumstance plays a major part. Wordsworth's sudden exhilaration as he comes upon a field of daffodils should be able to be duplicated by many people who are sensitive to nature's gifts: 1 WANDERED LONELY AS A CLOUD I wandered lonely as a cloud That floats on high o'er vales and hills, When all at once I saw a crowd, A host, of golden daffodils; Beside the lake, beneath the trees, Fluttering and dancing in the breeze. Continuous as the stars that shine And twinkle on the milky way, They stretched in never-ending line Along the margin of a bay; Ten thousand saw I at a glance, Tossing their heads in sprightly dance. The waves beside them danced; but they Out-did the sparkling waves in glee: A poet could not but be gay In such a jocund company: I gazed—and gazed—but little thought What wealth the show to me had brought: For oft, when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills, And dances with the daffodils. Perhaps. A basic concern of Wordsworth was the transactions which take place between the living person and his environment. The poetry of Wordsworth often lets one see the beholder assimilating the natural scene he is confronting and turning it into a mental landscape which can be revisited at will. If circumstance triggers the experience, what happens later is the really creative act. Recollecting the daffodils gives them immortal freshness and continuing meaning. One of the great functions of poetry may well be the annihilation of time (remember Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn" in Vol. I), and Wordsworth's afterimage of the daffodils becomes a source of happiness that is ever-renewable. Since life will add to our recollecLesson Department tion of the experience, the original can take on meanings which are limited only by our growing sensitivity. _What works against such developing richness is our getting so involved in present duties and responsibilities that we confine our minds, as well as our bodies, to numbing routine. Many household tasks require little mental effort. Dishes may be done doggedly or in pleasant reverie. The creative remembering of special moments can give one repeated joy—and help one set that time of relaxed harmony which distinguishes a happy home. For Discussion What are the values of living in memory as we see demonstrated in "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud'? What are the dangers? RONDEAU Jenny kiss'd me when we met, Jumping from the chair she sat in; Time, you thief, who love to get Sweets into your list, put that in: Say I'm weary, say I'm sad, Say that health and wealth have miss'd me, Say I'm growing old, but add, Jenny kiss'd me. —Leigh Hunt Leigh Hunt's "Rondeau" also emphasizes the possibilities for happiness in the smallest acts. There are few mothers who do not recall a sudden hug from a slightly embarrassed teen-ager or the lift which a sticky but emphatic kiss from a toddler can give to an otherwise dreary day. It is worth remembering that our own happiness will encourage such expressions. Despite evidence, which sometimes appears overwhelming, that youngsters are concerned 553 July 1967 wholly with themselves, they usually know the value of a smile when nothing seems to be going right. If they have to develop the ability to view misfortune with a "cheerful countenance," they need examples to encourage them. Our consistently positive attitudes give them courage and confidence, and, when we finally succumb to a particularly trying situation, we will have helped prepare them to rise to the challenge of comforting us. For Discussion How can such a small act as being unexpectedly kissed, in "Rondeau," counter weariness, sadness, poverty, and ill health? How literal do you think Leigh Hunt's assertion is here? "A DUST OF SNOW" With "A Dust of Snow" by Robert Frost, we pick up the direction which has been hinted at in two earlier poems. DUST OF SNOW The way a crow Shook down on me The dust of snow From a hemlock tree Has given my heart A change of mood And saved some part Of a day I had rued. —Robert Frost Circumstance is still primary— and we can get something out of our encounter with the crow in the hemlock tree without much effort—but the resources of this small experience are almost beyond recounting. Consider the small physical result: only a dust of snow is shaken down, and it is quite 554 possible the crow doesn't know of the poet's existence. But he is adapting to his difficult situation admirably. The poem contains no conjectures as to why the crow has remained or what he is going to do. Somehow it doesn't occur to the reader that the crow might be lonely. Activity and loneliness or activity and unhappiness seldom go together. Just doing something about our problems can change our whole attitude from one of despair to hope. Who claims he is too busy to be happy? For Discussion What is suggested in "Dust of Snow" by the last line? Is "rued" appropriate here? "THEY MIGHT NOT NEED ME" The poem by Emily Dickinson which begins "They might not need me, but they might," is short enough to be reprinted in the lesson: They might not need me; but they might. T'll let my head be just in sight; A smile as small as mine might be Precisely their necessity. These few lines, at first glance, seem almost too tentative to be convincing. There is such reiterated qualification that we might find them hopelessly indecisive. Yet one of the hallmarks of genius is the ability to make the questionable finally appear inevitable. In her use of "precisely" Miss Dickinson brings this little poem into triumphant integration, for it rescues the tentative from its usual connotations. Instead of suggesting vacillation or timidity, it reminds us that uncertainty may simply be a preliminary and necessary step toward certainty. There is a point in most of our development when someone's brief smile of encouragement is just what we need. Too beaming a smile may appear either false or coercive. No smile at all will only reinforce our insecurity. With those we love—as in a family—Miss Dickinson's point is particularly well taken. A glad heart need not manifest itself in effusiveness, and we should not estimate the success of our encouragement by its heartiness. Few know us so well as the members of our family, and in no other group would falseness be more quickly detected. It doesn't hurt to let others know that we, too, are often discouraged, but that we can manage a little smile of hope and encouragement. In many cases, when a child must learn something for himself, even if he makes disappointing mistakes in the process, a smile of encouragement may be "precisely" his need. For Discussion What keeps "They might not need me" from sounding merely coy? "A COURAGEOUS LETTER" "A Courageous Letter," at first glance, could appear to be dated. The situation it describes is obviously a result of the great depression of the 1930's. Yet the approach we need to solve any problem—and to remain happy in our effort—is here given classic formulation. If this letter reflects a mother's point of view, it is just as successful in letting its readers see what anyone can do when faced with adversity. Because it makes clear how little material Lesson Department circumstance has to do with happiness, it is a peculiarly appropriate selection for this lesson. The writer describes her family as "eager for happiness" and exhorts her friend to let a film gather on the windows of her home, if it must, but not to let it collect on her spirit. In being the "'jolliest group of soldiers that were ever put through a forced march," the family referred to here suggest the discipline and dynamic acceptance that prepares the ground in which happiness can flourish. For Discussion What is the difference between the assertions of "A Courageous Letter" and the common advice to "keep a stiff upper lip"? "THE HAPPY JOURNEY TO TRENTON AND CAMDEN" In commenting upon "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden" by Thornton Wilder, Alexander Woollcott insists that it is a "finer, wiser, and more beautiful" play than most of its "slum and windy" comtemporaries. Glum and windy "The Happy Journey" is not, but it might be dismissed as superficial if we fail to hear the profound overtones which this one-act. Drama sounds. A contemporary critic suggests that nothing in Wilder's plays surpasses the married daughter's question to her father: "Are you glad I'm still alive, pa?" Into this line Wilder packs three of man's basic feelings: the desire for love, the fear of rejection, and the fear of death. At the moment of the play's conclusion, comes the taut suggestion that all will be well for the entire family, and, consequently, for all humanity. 555 July 1967 For Discussion What is especially appropriate about the hymn Mrs. Kirby is singing as the curtain goes down on "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden"? "L'ALLEGRO" This poem by John Milton has been one of the most popular poems in the English language. Reasons for this esteem are not difficult to find. The happily modulated lines in which Milton describes a day in the life of a cheerful man (this is a reasonable translation of the Italian title) use appropriate mythological and pastoral imagery to build up a mood of contentment. The poem is full of light and movement. Most critics of Milton find both L' Allegro and its companion piece I] Penseroso attractive, but they do not agree in interpreting them. Some have felt that Milton was presenting the dominant forces of his time—Cavalier and Puritan—in these poems. Others have found here a study of the contrast between day and night. While a resolution of meaning in Milton's work is the understandable preoccupation of scholars, most readers will find a poem such as L'Allegro rewarding in noting the skill with which a mood can be created by appropriate imagery and tone. Note the perfectly caught feeling for the simple pleasures of work and love in the following lines: While the ploughman, near at hand, Whistles o'er the furrowed land, And the milkmaid singeth blithe, And the mower whets his scythe, And every shepherd tells his tale Under the hawthorn in the dale. For Discussion The cheerfulness that Milton describes in L'Allegro never becomes boisterous. At what point does an action or an attitude move from the legitimately gay to the questionably boisterous? ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. As the ward or branch class leader has not presented all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, Volume 3, she may bring unused selections from the text into her lesson. 556 MUSICAL SELECTIONS FOR CULTURAL REFINEMENT LESSON 1 "A Glad Heart'' (included on the record in the teaching kit): Schumann, 'Du Ring an Mienem Finger' from Frauenliebe und Leben 2. Dvorak, 'Songs My Mother Taught Me"' Puccini, ''Flower Duet' from ''Madame Butterfly"' Thank You for your patronage and your friendship over the years. Yes, we have: ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Gold Leaf, Decoupage, Feather Flowers, Furry Animal Pictures, Tissue Paper and Velour Flowers PLUS ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Aluminum Trays, Basketry, Ribbons, Styrofoam, Faces for Dolls and Stuffed Toys, ete. Send 25c¢ for catalog and also receive our booklet, "How To Make Feather Flowers" ZIN'S __ 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. HOME Sylvia Probst Young | shall return when twilight comes this way; Here in this sheltered place | close the door Against the hurried pattern of the day. This is an isle of peace—a quiet shore, Away from storm and strife—inviting rest, Where dreams are born and tender thoughts may flower; Here memory is an ever-welcome guest, Companion for a solitary hour. This is my home—a lintel worn and old, A kettle singing, and a lazy chair, A laughing fire keeping out the cold; The touch of gentle hands, a wondrous share Of love as constant as the bright star-glow— This is life's bounty—all my heart would know. 557 Salt Lake City's Newest PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 PLAY TOUR Aug. 20-27 cR AFT g NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES ee NOVELTY LABOR DAY TOUR paper flowers, and many others. HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Free Instructions also available 486-1017 45-PIECE $70 Ts *) SERVICE FOR EIGHT £ Reg. Retail $234.50 delivered out-of-town. 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN ASSORTED) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at ° OVEN PROOF — ¢ HAND PAINTED ¢ DISHWASHER SAFE FACTORY OUTLET STORES pecans! G! St South f y 625 South Se chaew { 714 State Street, Santa Barbara Salt Lake City, Utah Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos 558 TWO HILL CUMORAH BLACK HILLS PASSION Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-Sept. 4 MESA VERDE and CARLSBAD CAVERN TOUR Sept. 23-29 Oct. 14-29 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 a patterns to choose from Yathe regular price... Factory-to-you selected seconds Merchants Park Shopping Center Handicraft Shop UTAH We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, Write for new catalog. 50¢ UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 *plus freight if ¢ PERMANENT PATTERN GUARANTEE — In California — GOLGOTHA Margery S. Stewart What thorn bush stripped To circle ultimate anguish? What nails forged To pierce blessings? (All roads empty now Of hallow and healing). Those who drink of the Grail and fall Must be pierced By the spear. God, forgive us— Forgive us Who eat the bread And are destroyed Thereby. Water, tears, Forgiveness.... Empty us of the black Tides of forgetting. Is not the hollowness In us the forgetting? But in all Our caves Will, dwell. FUN-FILLED HOLIDAYS EXPO '67 Montreal, Canada World's Fair _—Bus: Leaves July 15 & 22 Returns Aug. 1& 15 Air: Leaves July 19 & 26 Returns July 28 & Aug. 10 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT Bus: Leaves July 15 & 22 Returns Aug. 1 & 15 Air: Leaves July 19 & 26 Returns July 28 & Aug. 10 HAWAII Monthly EUROPE Depart August MEXICO October Phone or write MARGARET LUND TOURS 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 328-8981 485-2444 Ogden, Utah 399-4587 Idaho Falls, Ida. 522-2581 St. George, Utah 673-3136 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to toble listed below if bound volumes are fo be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 5.......... -80 — COOK RLECT RIC ERS) Pots and pans stay "'white glove'"' clean lf itS electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 559 Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 4...........65 Zone 6......... -90 Zone 7......... 1.05 Zone 8..........1.20 100 Mrs. Ellen France Robbins Salt Lake City, Utah 98 Mrs. Leotta Hendershot Bigelow Ogden, Utah 97 Mrs. Sarah Sloan Card Cardston, Alberta, Canada gf Mrs. Lauretta Mattison Borup Layton, Utah Mrs. Ida Mae Peach Gillespie Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Rosannah Cannon Irvine Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Elthora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Clara Ann Ashford Martin Sait Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Annie Spencer Milne San Diego, California 9? Mrs. Stena Sorenson Anderson Central, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Kate Hermia Jones Isbell Washington, D. C. 560 Mrs. Rosa Dell Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen McGrady Fort Wayne, Indiana Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Alice E. Allen Bell Gardens, California Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Mrs. Edna Ryerson Troutman Yakima, Washington Mrs. Elizabeth Allred Aiken Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Swan Badger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margret Field Baird Ogden, Utah Mrs. Adelaide Eldredge Hardy Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Persis Esplin Heaton Richfield, Utah Mrs. Alice Robinson Holyoak Parowan, Utah Mrs. Kate Jensen Olsen Elmonte, California Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course / 1967-68 \. \ \: \ \ ¥) \ \ SS — \ Very s# { ] j / f ~ by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 postpaid anywhere in the world the reader. Order now / Available about September 1 OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3., This third volume of the series is | themed to "Intelligent Family Living." Selections from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform Orders for this highly popular work will be filled in the order in which they are received at Deseret Book. By ordering now you should be among the first to receive your copy of EE ae | Deseret Book re: e | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL —— ee ae aed eo. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah » SSS ee w= 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669. Send me ((] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 Enclosed is check / money order for full amount, including 32% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. CHY ect e etter: BS) ©: 1 2 EAN) cnc02990029203002-200. SOTTO OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! R. S. July 1967 SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East Second Class Postage Paid ity, Utah at Salt Lake City, U The Relief Society Magazine AUGUST 1967 CLIFF DWELLING Peggy Tangren In this ancient house |! Hear Shelling of corn dried on the ear And its crunching on a grinding stone.! Am not alone, Voices are in every room. | hear a loom, A baby cry, a dog baying at the sky. From far below, Down in fields where farmers sow, A cloud is seen, and a water call Echoes from a sandstone wall Where bins are built for keeping grain Away from field mice and the rain. Mothers sew as they have. Always sewn, Though the thread be thong and the needle bone. The sun is cool, the shadows long On a homing trail, and the fathers' song Wings to the ledge, and on the edge Children lean to watch them come Up the ladders. Kneeling, some Blow the smoldering charcoal hot Under an earthen cooking pot. Ancient, empty, silent, and yet The walls of a home cannot forget. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: Pine-Fringed Lake at Naples, Maine Transparency by Eric M. Sanford Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Mesa Verde, Near Cortez, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 In the March 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, Elder Gordon B. Hinckley enumerated four challenges and responsibilities of Relief Society activity to help us appreciate our opportunities. For the Relief Society Anniversary observance we used these challenges on beehives at each end of the serving table and the lapel pins we made for the sisters. Whenever it is my privilege to help in Relief Society activities, my Magazine affords great. Pleasure, while aiding me_ with innumerable suggestions and materials for inspiration. Linda Chambers Houston, Texas Please thank Mary Scopes for her lovely art work for my story ''Automation;'' in the May issue of the Magazine. There are so many outstanding features in that issue that | am happy to be a part of it. | enjoyed the editorial '"Timeless Words" by Vesta P. Crawford. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho | have just finished reading ''These Things Endure,"' by Alice Colton Smith (May 1967). It is beautifully written, encouraging, and article has much to offer to the women of the Church, wherever they may be. Grace F. Arrington Pacific Palisades, California The cover of the April Magazine is the epitome of spring. It makes my heart glad just to look at it. | loved the story by Sylvia Probst Young, ''And It Shall Be Given You.'' It illustrates so clearly how we are often blind to our own weaknesses, and how prayer can help us find the strength to come to grips with them. Thank you for publishing stories such as this which give insight into problems we all have to face. Arlene Larsen Bascom Orem, Utah 562 inspiring: Such anThe Magazine has brought me closer to our Heavenly Father and his purposes. | am thankful for Relief Society and other Church organizations that help us to live full lives. | especially enjoyed the poem '"'Inviolate,'' by Lael W. Hill (April frontispiece), the article 'Lake Country, England,'' (by Mabel Jones Gabbott), and ''The Patient Soul' (by Rose Openshaw). Each Magazine seems better than the last, and they are all effective missionary tools. Ruth E. Yashko Cocoa, Florida | have tried many of the recipes in the Magazine, and have found the one for "Dilly Bread'' (June 1966) to be exceptionally good. | know the lesson ma: terials are divinely inspired, and the talents expressed in creative prose and poetry are rewarding to the many readers. | am particularly fond of the work of Eva Willes Wangsgaard; for she ably describes in many ways my feekings towards life and about life and living—"Over night's purple hill, tomorrows come to offer faith, new hope, another chance."' Mary W. Stauffer: Nashville, Tennessee Editorial Note: Sister Wangsgaard passed away in April 1967, closing a lifetime of family devotion, loving service to neighbors and friends, and lasting literary achievement. | have been a member of. The Church for just over a year, and find great joy in attending Relief Society, and in reading the beautifully illustrated. Magazine which | receive monthly. | am secretary-treasurer in our ward Relief Society. Iris H. Cooper Hatfield, Herts., England The Relief Society Magazine eee - oo <a Volume 54 August 1967 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Belle S. Spafford 569 Family Vacations Can Be Fun! — Part Il Lillian Y. Bradshaw 580 Our Garden Barbara Dowdle Fiction 574 Lost Summer Christie Lund Coles 588 Transfer Hazel Loomis 601 The Golden Chain—Chapter 7 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial: The Worth of a Grandmother Marianne C. Sharp 586 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 609 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 640 _ Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 594 Washcloth Slippers Mary J. Police 595 Thoughts on Life Angie Munson 596 Recipes for Venison Ann Andersen 598 Orchids in the Kitchen Elsie Sim Hansen 600 A Talent for Making Quilts and Coverlets Lesson Department 617 Spiritual Living—Preparing for the Redemption of Zion Roy W. Doxey 623 Visiting Teacher Message—Love—a Way to Salvation Alice Colton Smith 624 Homemaking—Family Protection—Insurance Celestia J. Taylor 627 Social Relations—''And Also By Faith'' Alberta H. Christensen 632 Cultural Refinement—''Honesty, a Measure of Life'' Bruce B. Clark Poetry 561 Cliff Dwelling Peggy Tangren The Melody Lark, Vilate R. McAllister 568; In Marshy Places, Gladys Hesser Burnham 579; Summer, Cynthia Trunnell 579; Remembering Late Summer, Caroline Eyring Miner 582; Daybreak, Alda L. Brown 586; Bright Begonias, Bernice Ames 592; In the Midst of Summer, Mabel Jones Gabbot 593; The Postman — Modern Pied Piper, Pearle M. Olsen 597; The Warp of a Perfect Day, Bertha A. Kleinman 597; Time, Dixie Randall Oveson 599; In a Greenhouse, Sudie Stuart Hager 608; Lattice for Love, Vesta N. Fairbairn 636; Unknown Heights, Lois M. Anderson, 640. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Retief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enciosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 563 fx KEKE 7 PDI INL IMI IDI IM IMI The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society KEKE iain KEK eee Spopopee [Address Delivered in the Tabernacle at Welfare Meeting, April 7, 1967] @ My dear brothers and sisters: the Brethren have kindly invited me to speak on the role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program as viewed by the General Presidency of Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph Smith, who, through inspiration of the Lord, established the Society, made clear that one of its basic purposes was "'to relieve the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes." He admonished the sisters that they were "not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." Experience has taught us the close correlation between sound practices in relieving the poor and the saving of souls. The Prophet further said: "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence." And, indeed, it is within the nature of womankind to give loveinspired, benevolent service. For one and one quarter centuries the sisters of Relief Society have walked along the path laid out by the Prophet Joseph Smith and redefined by the Presidents of the Church who have succeeded him. 564 Their tender, compassionate services to those in distress have been manifold. Relief Society has adopted the motto: 'Charity never faileth." The meaning which we attach to the word "charity," however, is not that which the world has come to accept. To us charity is the expression of unselfish love which builds up and strengthens not only the physical, but the spiritual in our people, and helps the individual and the family to realize their full potentials. The term "welfare" also has special meaning for us, differing from the connotation presently attached to it by the world. We accept the true meaning of the word "welfare" as a state of faring or doing well. It is a condition of health, prosperity, happiness; a condition of well-being achieved through living according to the teachings of the Church. With reference to this, we are reminded of the words of King Benjamin: And behold, all that he requires of you is to keep his commandments; and he has promised you that if ye would keep his commandments ye shouid prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that which he The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his commandments he doth bless you and prosper you (Mosiah 2:22). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in outlining measures for our se-~ curity and welfare, said: "First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments, that we may claim his blessing as of right and not as of mercy only." The meaning which we attach to the term "welfare" greatly enlarges the scope of Relief Society welfare services, encompassing many activities not ordinarily regarded as welfare activities. It influences our approaches, our procedures, our goals in helping people. It brings to our services the spirit and the blessings of the Lord. In all of its activities, Relief Society works under the guidance and direction of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith instructed the sisters in the beginning: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established... To lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church." This directive, of course, would be meticulously applied to its welfare services, which are among its most important activities. Through the years, as Relief Society has pursued its tender, merciful ministration, it has been able also effectively to meet the special requirements brought about by the differing circumstances of each succeeding era. The Nauvoo period was characterized by the administration of direct temporal relief. In this, the sisters were supported by the Prophet, who, at the founding meeting of the Society, after contributing a $5 gold piece, stated, "All I shall have to give to the poor, I shall give to this Society." It was during the Nauvoo period that a necessity committee was formed, which was the beginning of our present extensive visiting teaching program. The primary purpose of this committee was, "to search out the poor and suffering—to call on the rich for aid and thus as far as possible relieve the wants of all." Today, the visiting teaching program has taken on a new dimension as a resource of the bishop in obtaining, through the Relief Society ward president, either at the ward council meeting or the ward welfare meeting, significant information relative to the attitudes, circumstances, and needs of families, revealed to visiting teachers during their visits to the homes. This information becomes of value to the home teachers as they coordinate the efforts of Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations, under the direction of the bishop, in activating all family members, and in assisting them toward welfare, or well-being. The quality and extent of the visiting teaching service today is heartening. The annual report for 1966, which has just been compiled, shows that in the one-year period, approximately five million visits were made to Latterday Saint homes by faithful Relief Society visiting teachers. What a vast reservoir of valuable information this is to bishops of the Church in exercising watchcare over Latter-day Saint families! With the inauguration of the 565 August 1967 Church Welfare Plan, the Relief Society was relieved of administering direct temporal relief and of maintaining a separate charity account, and the Society became strictly a service organization. Its services, however, were expanded in a number of ways. The sisters were called upon more fully to devote their time to caring for members of the ward family. Emphasis was placed on training them to sew and cook and develop greater ability in all the arts of homemaking. With adroitness, mothers and other homemakers were taught how to get the most out of the means at their disposal. With consummate skill, mothers with special or more pronounced homemaking problems, were taught how to overcome these problems through the Relief Society homemaking meetings, and as often as deemed advisable, through special help in their individual homes. In addition, full support was given by the Society and its members to other facets of the Church Welfare Program as assigned to the Society by the Priesthood. Figures from our 1966 Annual Report reveal the nature and the extent of some of these services. During 1966, there were 100- 000 visits made to homes by ward Relief Society presidents at the direction of their respective bishops. These visits, made in the interest of the welfare of the family, followed the initial visit made by the bishop. In addition, 87,000 other contacts were made by ward Relief Society presidents as directed by their bishops. There were 765,000 hours contributed to welfare projects by 56,000 Relief Society members. There were 566 253,000 hours contributed by females receiving assistance. This, of course, was watched over and encouraged by Relief Society, as is the practice of having sisters who receive assistance make clothing for themselves and children, rather than to draw clothing from the bishop's storehouse made by some other sister. During 1966, there were 4,693 sisters who sewed for themselves and their families, most of whom were helped to do so by Relief Society. In addition, the sisters of Relief Society have done canning and have sewed clothing for storehouse distribution. They have given full support to the Deseret Industries by donating surplus items from their homes, and by shopping at the Deseret Industries stores. They have supported the Deseret Industries rag rug program, as well as the blanket factory, in disposing of surpluses. All of these services for the Church Welfare Program continue at present and will continue as long as the General Priesthood Welfare Committee so directs. May I call attention to the purposes of the Church Welfare Plan, once again, as printed in the Conference Report for October 1936, to which Bishop Vandenberg has already made reference? I quote from the First Presidency: Our primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling prineiple of the lives of our Church membership (Conference Report, October 1936, page 3). The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Now, with regard to this and Relief Society, the dissolution of the curse of idleness; the dispelling of the attitude that it is all right to get something for nothing; the establishment of the spirit of independence; the encouragement of industry and thrift, with their resultant self-respect; the need to glorify work as the ruling principle in the life of an individual, if he would be happy and productive — all of these have their beginnings in the attitudes, standards, and practices of the home. Indeed, the foundations of individual and family welfare are built in the homes. In a day when re-emphasis is being placed by the Church on the home as the training and governing center in the lives of family members, we must keep in clear focus the importance of the cardinal principles of human welfare as defined in the purposes of the Welfare Program, and the need for the home to meet its responsibilities toward them. Mothers are intimately involved in the attitudes and patterns of life adopted by their families in the homes. Relief Society, therefore, has the responsibility to guide, teach, and train the mothers in these fundamentals of good living. This, to me, is a vital welfare service of the Society. Relief Society is not a "load lifter' alone. It is also a great educational institution for women. It is clearly within the realm of Relief Society welfare to educate the sisters in the arts of homemaking, money management, home storage, thrift practices, legal responsibilities to insure protection and security for themselves and their families, and similar skills. Examples of a few of our homemaking lessons may _be of interest to you: "Wise Spending, Happy Ending" "Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning" "Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement" "Wills—Estate-Planning'' "Project Thrift" Mothers also need help in child guidance, including how to meet the need to provide opportunities for children to carry responsibility and to be productively employed. Children must be taught to value work through having incentives for doing it, and through joyfully participating in it. Emphasis needs to be placed on adequately preparing children for life through education and training in order that they may favorably compete in today's highly competitive society and live selfmaintaining, self-directing lives. Relief Society must also rally to the support of a mother whose child may be a threatened school dropout. Through our specialized welfare program, we have learned that a child often bolts school because he cannot keep up with his classes due to his inability to read well. Could not a Relief Society sister who is a schoolteacher, or possibly a retired schoolteacher, or some other sister competent in teaching, help by providing tutoring service for the child? Mothers must also be taught how to plan for fruitful days for themselves when family members are no longer with them, and also to prepare themselves for the so-called aging years by developing worthwhile interests that will engage their time and keep them active 567 August 1967 and productive. Otherwise, these aging years may become years of idleness and frustration. In addition to all of these services, it may be of interest to you that the Relief Society is assigned by the First Presidency responsibility for conducting for the Church specialized welfare services requiring license, such as the care of unmarried mothers, adoption services where needed, foster-home care for dependent or neglected children. Licensed agencies are presently maintained by the Church in Utah, Arizona, and Nevada. It is anticipated that we will go into Idaho in the near future. In the States where the Church does not maintain a license to render specialized services, we would be glad to offer guidance or counseling service if you wish to communicate with us. Relief Society presidents are cautioned against entering into adoption arrangements, since this is a specialized welfare service regulated by law. Relief Society's role in the Welfare Program of the Church is a broad and a continuing one. In discharging its responsibility, as directed by the Priesthood, the Society prospers, and the recipients of its service have cause to rejoice and pour forth blessings on its head, as was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am grateful for the opportunity that we have to be associated with our Priesthood leaders in this very important aspect of Church work. (— THE MELODY LARK y Vilate R. McAllister In the sandbox the children are busy at play— | watch from my window—wide-open today. It is springtime. The pear tree is lovely with bloom, And the lilacs contribute a heady perfume. From the maple tree suddenly bursts a sweet strain Of gladness, repeated again and again. The children are listening. Johnny says, ''Hark! | know who is singing: a Melody Lark!' "You mean a meadow lark, don't you?" ''Oh, no! It's a melody lark—my Grandpa said so. One day we heard one while down in the park, And Grandpa said, 'Listen! A Melody Lark!' "' | smiled to myself at his childish mistake, As | answered the summons to dig and to rake. Entranced with his music, | worked until dark, To the gay melody of the Melody Lark. ) 568 Family Vacations Can Be Funl (Continued from the July Magazine) Lillian Y. Bradshaw ———— alae oe ys Part II PACKING BAGS Each of us was allowed a small zippered canvas bag in which to carry four weeks' supply of clothes. We had decided that "perma" pressed clothes were the only things to take, clothes we could wash and dry at a laundromat, and which would not need ironing. In addition to our clothing for travel, we prepared a Sunday bag for all. In this, each put a complete Sunday outfit for going to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. Each would be expected to remain in these clothes all day Sunday. The boys wore shoes that could be brushed to look nice for Sunday, and the girls were allowed a second pair of best shoes. This plan helped to keep that extra special feeling for the Sabbath, even while on vacations. OM ae The Peter Whitmer Home (Restored) Near Fayette, Seneca County, New York Before leaving, we called the Church offices to find the ad- ~ dresses of several branches or wards where we might be the four Sundays we would be gone. Perhaps you would be interested in knowing why we all wore Hawaiian shirts that looked alike. One of the biggest reasons was that I could readily keep an eye on all the children. In large crowds this is a must. Also, the look-alike clothing would simplify our staying together on tours, for, without question, we would be allowed to go through as a group. Washing would be simplified, for the shirts could all be put into one batch, saving time and money at the laundromat. Also, for this reason, everyone selected white stockings—boys and girls. All the bags were packed by Thursday, the day before we left. 569 August 1967 Friday morning we placed the bags in the front room in groups, so that each knew which he was responsible for while getting on and off the train. Even Tom had the responsibility of his own bag and Teddy bear. COOKING AND EATING All facilities and equipment were provided. However, because joy in vacationing depends on the ease with which meals can be prepared and dishwashing not become a burden, we planned to use paper plates and cups for every meal. These were not the dull, plain white paper plates, but gay, colorful ones. We bought them in small quantities so as to have many changes. We used my electric frying pan, only, for cooking. Otherwise, we depended on local fresh fruit and the different specialties of various communities to add zip and interest to the meals: shoo-fly pie from Pennsylvania, clam cakes from Cape Cod, lobster from Boston. Very, very good was the huge, deep, tart lemon pie we found in Palmyra, New York, as we awaited the beginning of the magnificent Mormon Pageant. At noontime we ate sandwiches and fruit. The cereal we bought for each morning was in small individual boxes of all varieties. The boxes we numbered from one to nine beforehand, and, as each called a number of his choice, he received the cereal box with the corresponding number. We chose boxes that were perforated for opening so that milk could be poured in and they could serve as dishes. After each meal, we had only the silverware to wash and 570 put away, and, occasionally, the frying pan. OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES Each of us was responsible for his own clothes being packed and put away each day, with dirty clothes being put into the duffel bag we brought for this purpose, and making his own bed and stowing away blankets. We could have the bus in shipshape order in thirty minutes, when on a tight schedule. Other chores were no problem. We simply worked as a team, with myself as the foreman for duties in the bus, and Blair as foreman for all duties outside the bus. Amazingly, we found Dick to be an excellent mechanic, and he finally took over all the details of hooking up the bus to the facilities when we needed to pull into a trailer court. Kathy was an inspiration to all, as she cheerfully, uncomplainingly, went about her duties, after spraining her ankle the first part of the trip. As well-planned as a trip can be, with children, may I prescribe the only medicine that really works: early to bed, early to rise, makes a trip more fun for the wise. BOOKS As we approached a particular site of interest, I would read to the family a story telling of the events which took place there. The books we didn't have for a particular spot, we purchased and then read together. I purchased two cardboard milk cartons used for carrying four one half gallon bottles of milk. Books and maps fitted into them remarkably well and kept everything neat and orderly. We also took good, interesting, entertaining books for different levels of reading ability. Blair and I each took a copy of Those Who Love, by Irving Stone, the story of President John Adams and Abigail. This was an excellent background material for visiting Boston, Concord, Lexington, New York, and Philadelphia. An amazing reaction came over the children as we traveled. At first, for two days, they wandered through the bus and were irritable as we learned to live in close quarters, very much together, and without TV. After this period, they began to reserve these good books, with each in his turn "speaking for that book" next. Before the trip was over, each had read everything on the bus he could lay his hands on. Even Suzie challenged herself beyond her reading level. It was marvelous. Their contentment was contagious. It is a family tradition with us that on any trip I read to them all as they sit on their beds at night just before going to sleep. This book must be well-chosen and have high interest. May I suggest Where the Red Fern Grows, by Wilson Rawls, and Wrinkle in Time, by Madeleine L'Engle, as being two of the best books to keep all ages, even Dad, demanding "just one more chapter." We'll always remember: The heavenly peace and quiet as we sat on the grassy slope overlooking the valley of Adam-ondiAhman. As a family, we still speak of it in reverent tones. Our unexpected swim at CraigFamily Vacations Can Be Fun ville Beach at Cape Cod almost upset the entire trip. We just wanted to see what it looked like, _and when we found the surf was heavy and white-capped, and the wind fairly whistling with glee, we almost tossed care to the wind and could have spent the remainder of the trip at the Cape. There was our enchantment as we watched the gulls early in the morning pluck their hermit crabs for breakfast from the ocean, and then fly over the hard pavement of the parking lot and, from a height of twenty to thirty feet, drop the shell so as to crack it, and then swoop down to devour the crab inside. The parking lot became such a clutter of shells that a mechanical sweeper was necessary to clear it off for the day. Sailing on a_ three-masted schooner named the 'Spray' around Boston Harbor made Irving Stone's book Those Who Love come alive. The special tour by eerie moonlight, with the security officer, through stockade and dwellings of the first community in America at Jamestown, with the shadows and quiet rustling of the trees, made our skin creep at the thought of an Indian raid. With wonderment, we contemplated the Pilgrims traveling across the ocean on three small sailing boats. The walk around Walden Pond of Thoreau fame and the quiet of the woods as we slept overnight at Walden Breezes, Concord, Massachusetts, are memories to treasure. They had even greater meaning as I recalled to the children the Relief Society lesson I had heard, when the life of Thoreau and his thoughts, while 571 August 1967 writing at this beautiful spot, were taught. Early the next morning, with thick mist rising and sunrays just piercing through, we all felt as though lifted into another time and world, as we visited the Minute Man statue where the shot was fired that was "heard round the world," so long ago (from "Concord Hymn," by Ralph Waldo Emerson). So much more to tell. We saw Monticello—Thomas Jefferson's home, The White House, the Statue of Liberty, and it seemed that we were living briefly in the glorious early days of our country. The reverent feeling we had, as we stood beside a tree in the Sacred Grove—a tree old enough to have been a witness when Joseph Smith saw God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Afterwards, at the testimony meeting in the Grove, a number of young girls who had come to take parts in the pageant told of their missionary experiences. I am overcome with sentiment as I remember my daughters whispering that this they wanted to do, also, someday. How grateful we were to have our books when we arrived five minutes too late to go on a tour of the Kirtland Temple. We lifted one another to see through the windows, and we had keen compassion for those who arrived too late to get in at the dedication over a hundred years ago. What a thrill to contemplate what it must have been like to be there then and know that Jesus Christ and angels once appeared in this building. We visited Peter Whitmer's farm, though the original home no 572 longer exists. I tremble to think we might have missed it. So much took place here, and in the woods and farm land surrounding this spot—the supernatural help David Whitmer received with the farm work, as he prepared to go for Joseph and Oliver Cowdery in Harmony, the completion of The Book of Mormon, the organization of the Church in April 1830, the testimony of the three witnesses, and so much more. The excitement and interest of all were evident as we saw archeological students spading the earth at Brigham Young's and Wilford Woodruff's homes in Nauvoo, so that all would be as when they lived there. In visualizing another Williamsburg (Virginia) in Nauvoo, Illinois, as plans were unfolded, we felt we were seeing history being made. We saw Liberty Jail and Carthage Jail and thought of the tragic scenes enacted there, and the lasting imprint on Church history. By now this constant, repeated contact with history was no longer just another tour; it all began to make its impression. Places and buildings were no longer just stone and brick, but events of tremendous import. The trip, as wonderful and exciting as it was, had lasting effects upon the family as a whole and as individuals. We all grew in appreciation of our heritage, the beautiful country of the United States, and the good people everywhere. We had _ always thought it so; now we know it to be true. Now we know how dear each of us is to the others in the family. We took time and learned to listen to each other and learned of likes and dislikes. We laughed with one another over little things, and we found time and opportunity, as parents, to teach by actions true values—honesty in paying for groceries, appreciation and courtesy for good in other cultures. Above all else, we had time to let one another know how deeply we felt about our country's heritage—the men and women who loved freedom more than life, and then our very own heritage of men and women and children like ourselves who loved God so much they made it possible for us to return to Salt Lake City, to the home we love best, in a green valley surrounded by majestic mountains. Home — sweet, sweet home! NOTES A YEAR LATER—1967 Was it difficult to take the children on a vacation? Oh, my, yes—very difficult. But each trip it Capitol Building, Williamsburg, Virginia has 'had its rewards, and now, with this trip, those rewards are so great as to leave no doubts ever again — it was worth any effort. With a vacation came the concentrated view of all our teachings during the previous year. We became aware, keenly aware, of the many strengths in our children and ourselves. We saw the lessons taught in Family Home Evening bear fruit. The stature of our children opened boundless vistas. We saw them for the first time in many ways and loved and respected what we saw. They came back with an honest respect for one another's talents and a feeling of new confidence in their own abilities. To us has come a special warm feeling all wrapped up in the word family. Perhaps, because of this, we seem to have a greater understanding and deeper love for God and the gift he gave of his Son Jesus Christ. 573 ¢ Lucy Burt stood on the long porch of her white, weeping-rock house which stood on an incline and overlooked the valley. It was late summer and the intense heat had passed. The days simulated' summer, but the evenings whispered that autumn was closer than they liked to think. Most of the things she had wanted to do were still undone. She and John still had to take that camping trip to Flaming Gorge that they had planned since spring. A couple of groups had planned to get together, and hadn't because of the heat. There were a lot of other things to do, too, unless it was to be written off as a lost summer. Lucy looked toward the silver sliver of lake in the west, then glanced at the manuscript in her hand: "Our Town." The Little 574 i | Christie Lund Coles Theatre group in town wanted her to direct it for their opening play of the season. But she wasn't sure she wanted to take on anything that serious; especially not right now. She wanted some gaiety, some sparkle to make the summer memorable. After all, she was nearing fifty. Life was passing. Swiftly... All too swiftly. They wanted to begin rehearsing in ten days or two weeks. It was too soon. They could get Abbie Weeks to direct them. Why not? She asked her pricking conscience. She had done the last two plays. It was only fair to give someone else a chance. She closed the cover on the play. It was so sad... Beautiful, but sad. She wanted to be happy. Lucy put on her gloves and picked up the clippers, preparing to go to the rose garden and cuta few of the roses, which were blooming again, for the dinner table. Then she heard the phone ring in the hall and sighed as she laid the clippers on the porch chair and went into the house. Inside, she thought, this is where one can feel the difference in the season; nights really cool it off. She picked up the receiver, said, "'Hello," and waited to hear who was calling. She was surprised to hear her neighbor down around the corner. The woman lived below the incline and they didn't see one another too often. But she was excited now. She said, 'Lucy, I just didn't know whom else to call, so many are out of town." Lucy said, "Yes," thinking wryly to herself that it was very true. Everyone was away on vacation. "Well, Brother Stokes next door is quite sick. Sister Stokes doesn't want to send him to the hospital and he doesn't want to go. She's getting quite old, and it's a big job taking care of him. I wondered if we could help in any way. I'd be glad to go over and help her bathe him in the morning." Lucy said, quickly, without really thinking, "I would be glad to take some meals over. I was going to start lunch in just a few minutes." "Oh, that would be wonderful. I could take food sometimes, too." "Of course," Lucy agreed, knowing that their circumstances were not too prosperous, yet not wanting to deny her her good intent, adding, '"'T'll take lunch over in about an hour, and dinner this evening." After all, she did have a good-sized roast, almost too Lost Summer much for the two of them. It wouldn't be any bother. She hurried to clip the roses. One of these on the tray would make it attractive, and Brother Stokes might enjoy it. Then she went back into the house and toward the kitchen. Poor Brother Stokes. They'd had a hard life. She would be glad to help. After dinner that night she and John were resting on the veranda. He was lying on the chaise lounge, sipping some punch she had included with the dinner for Brother Stokes. He said, "This tastes good. I guess this will be the week end for our trip to the Gorge." "I suppose so. But Brother Stokes is quite ill. I've said I would take meals over for a few days." "Oh, is he? That's too bad. Why isn't he in the hospital?" "Well, you know how older people are. Sister Stokes said, 'We know how he is at home, but we don't know what will happen there.' Just an old-fashioned idea. Sarah Smith called me; she's helping all she can. So many are out of town." "And you wish you were? I'm sorry we weren't able to have a long vacation. But that. Wright deal came up, and I just couldn't make it." "No, I don't mind, really." He sighed, "I'm glad. It's so heavenly just to lie here. So cool, so quiet after the hot day in town." She looked at him, and for the first time, saw how really tired he looked. It would be a long, hot drive even to the Gorge. She said, "Let me get you another glass of punch. And how about a cookie?" 575 August 1967 "Well, you talked me into it." She touched his hand gently as she got up and went to the kitchen to pour the punch, to put fresh ice cubes in it. It was nice out there, about as near to heaven as one could ask. It was just that one needed to get away occasionally—away from the same humdrum things and people. The next day, however, as she prepared lunch for the Stokes she couldn't help but feel hot and tired and a little resentful that this long week end, too, was to be spent doing the same _ things. Brother Stokes was of vigorous pioneer stock, and if she knew him at all, she was quite sure he would linger on... Andon... Into the fall and perhaps the winter. She had a picture of herself doing the same things day after day after day, and getting older and more tired. She caught herself up quickly, reminding herself that the Relief Society president and _ others would be back and would take over the responsibility. Jerry, her son, and his family might be coming in October—and what a joy that would be. Everything would be just wonderful. (Well, it was just that it had been disappointing to have planned the trip to see Sue, her daughter, in Detroit, and that had fallen through because of the Wright case; then they had planned this short trip, and it had not materialized. Every week end there had been something.) But that was life. And, really, it was fortunate she had been home. Sarah Smith, shy soul that she was, would have been at a loss to know whom to call. She was surprised that Sarah had called her; but 576 Lucy had always gone out of her way to be friendly to Sarah. Lucy cut an extra large piece of cake for Brother Stokes and one for his wife—and laid them on the gaily decorated tray. Then, once more, she started down the street. She found them sitting in the rather gloomy old rock house. Sister Stokes wore a sweater, and he had an old-fashioned type of shawl across his pajamed shoulders. "My goodness," she said, "'you are cold in here, and it. Does feel chilly. But it's so warm and sunny outside, I wonder if we both dragged Brother Stokes' rocker, if we could get it out onto the porch. The sun and air should do him good." "T don't know," his wife hesitated. But he spoke up in his weak, but still firm voice, "Probably I need a little sun and fresh air. Might as well be winter the way we're cooped up in here." "You need sun," Lucy teased him. "Isn't that so?" He grinned (the first time she had seen him smile). "'Yep, that's right." Before long, they had him out on the porch, and they were both exclaiming about the heat and the beautiful, clear beauty of the day. '""Almost seems like coming alive after being dead," he commented. 'You know, with all the good food you've been feeding me, and beginning to get up and out a bit, I believe I'm going to make it." "Of course you are,' Lucy assured him, smiling. ""Now, when you get ready to go in again, have your wife phone me, and I'|l come down." "Goodness, no," his wife protested. "Mrs. Smith usually comes when she gets through baby-sitting (so that was why she Lost Summer pleased that she had had this intimate moment. They weren't just the neighbors around the corner; aging, casual friends. They were couldn't guarantee to bring the—good friends, they were people meals). She'll be glad to help." "All right. But if he gets tired before, just call. I'm right around the corner, you know." "But it's quite a climb," Sister Stokes reminded her, adding, "Well, Father, looks as if we'll have a picnic today. I'll bring the lunch out here." Sister Stokes said, 'Lands, I couldn't begin to eat that much cake. Let me cut it in half and you have a piece with us. I do hate this being on the receiving end of things. All my life, it seems, I was cooking and doing for others." "I'm sure you were. That's all the more reason why you should have a little help now when you have your hands full." Sister Stokes held out her hands and said, not in self-pity but rather matter-of-factly, 'These hands aren't too much good any more." They were knotted with arthritis, and Lucy wondered how she managed her sick husband as well as she did. She ate the cake with them, and it tasted so much better than it had at home. As Lucy sat quietly, she looked at the elderly man and his wife beside him, and saw what the years had written into their faces— pain, happiness, loss; but, most of all, a certain peace that had been won at the cost of surmounting obstacles, overcoming difficulties, accepting the inevitable. As someone had said, "growing old gracefully." As Lucy left them and started homeward, she was pleased, so whom she understood and loved. She turned and waved to them as she made the turn, and she secretly asked God to bless them, to give them a few good years of companionship, and of neighborliness of the kind she intended to give them. When she neared the porch she was surprised to see someone on the porch. John had phoned that he would not be home for lunch, and if she hadn't been getting this other lunch, she might have planned to meet a friend in town. But she was glad she hadn't, really glad. I It wasn't John, of course. It was Karolyn Peters, one of her speech students. She was very pretty as she stood in the sun, her dark hair falling in the latest "page boy," her cotton dress crisp 577 August 1967 and pretty. As Karolyn came nearer to her, Lucy saw that her eyes were pensive and her mouth looked tight. Lucy hadn't seen her for a couple of months, which made her. Pleasure all the more real as she greeted her, "Why, Karolyn, how nice to see you! Thought all you. Young people were having too much fun to think of me." Karolyn smiled, 'Oh, really. It's nice to see you again." "Thanks. Shall we go into the house, or sit out here?" "IT think it's beautiful here," the girl said, "but maybe there's something you need to do inside. Don't let me detain you." "Nonsense," Lucy assured her. "Sit down. Let's visit." Tazy sat down. When the girl did not speak, Lucy asked, '"'Are you having a good summer?" "TI suppose so," she said hesitantly, and then hurriedly, as if she didn't say it quickly she wouldn't say it, she went on, "That's what I came to talk to you about. It hasn't really been a very good summer. I've-been quite lonesome." "But I thought you went on that trip to Canada with your parents. Wasn't that nice?" "Of course. But, up until that time, I'd been quite chummy with the girls. Then, when I got back, somehow, I didn't seem to fit in too well. They invited me to the big parties—the cook-outs and that—but the little friendly daily chats and... I'm just not in...." "Have you tried calling them, asking them to come over-to your place, or go to town for a malt?" "No. I thought that would be too obvious." 578 not.. "Maybe they think you are busy, have other interests...." This girl with the cornflower blue eyes, lovely white skin, lithe figure; was the last person in the world one would imagine being. Lonely. In fact, she gave the impression of being poised, proud, almost aloof. And here she was so sad that she had been driven to come to her—almost a stranger —to ask for help. She weighed her words carefully before she said, "Have you thought, Karolyn, that maybe they think it is you who are not too friendly? You could give that impression, you know." "Oh, do you really think so? Actually, ''m shy, you know." "Perhaps. But no one would know that. And we can't always wait for the other person to make the friendly gesture." "T know, but...." "No 'buts.' Have you thought of giving a party?" "Yes. But, as I said, wouldn't that be obvious?" "You said they had. Invited. You, didn't you? Then, why shouldn't you invite them? Have a real fun party—back-to-school theme. I'd be glad to help you plan it, if you'd like me to." "Oh, I'd love to have you." The girl's eyes lighted up like stars, and she smiled, really for the first time since she had _ arrived. Funny, she had never seen this shyness, this reticence in her before. She, was afraid that she, too, had judged her to be a little on the proud side. The girl was going on, "You don't know how you helped me, with those lessons on poise and all." Lucy thought, yes. Put your feet just so; hold your head high; breathe so.... Maybe she had even helped make her into something a bit formidable to her associates. She said, "Oh, when you have your party, forget about all the rules. Just be your friend-- liest, friendly self. Look at people. See them as they are. Be warm and kind with them. Many of them, my dear, are very lonely, too." Karolyn asked seriously, "Are they, really?" Lucy nodded, moving over to kiss the top of the girl's dark head —as she would never have dared to do before—and thought how much Karolyn was like her own daughter, Sue, whom she missed so much. When they parted, Lucy asked, suddenly, "I hope you'll try out Lost Summer for the part of Emily in 'Our Town.' I'm going to direct it this fall, you know." "Are you, really? Do you think lcould?" "Yes. I think you could do it very beautifully." Without realizing it, Lucy had decided to do the play. It wasn't too sad, really. It was life. And life, in all its aspects, was poignant, was lovely. You only had really to look at people—as Emily says in the Wilder play—to understand, and know! At Christmas, John had promised her, they would go to Detroit to see Sue and Ross, the new grandson, and the two older lovely girls. _ IN MARSHY PLACES Gladys Hesser Burnham Queen Ann's lace and goldenrod Run riot along the ditch bank's edge. There are cattails, tules, and matted sod In marshy places among the sedge. In open water the killdeer breaks The whispering hush enveloping day. A fish jumps, startling the sunning drakes, Then swift wings shatter the quiet way. * SUMMER Cynthia Trunnell Look up, my soul, and see the sky Through needled lattice of the pines; Breathe deep this air, pine-touched and fresh; Watch close for tiny-footed signs Of little creatures, innocent and wise, Who scan the world with eager, curious eyes. Hold fast, my heart, these golden days, Each hour in this sun-fretted shade. God watches in the city, yes, But this is the world he has made! Here, where the granite mountains tower tall, Gather the strength that overcometh all. 579 Borden Barbara Dowdle ¢ The summer of 1966 we raised a garden. Besides enjoying the wonderful harvest of vegetables and fruits from that garden, our family enjoyed a feeling of unity and responsibility while working together on a family project, and it was a real joy to see the children participate in the miracle and creativity of planting and harvesting. We also found that our garden project was a lot of hard work. In the early spring I formulated my plans. "We are going to raise a garden," I informed our five children, ages two to thirteen years. "There is that space in the back yard beyond our lawn, and we may just as well use it all for the garden as have it grow up in weeds." I will admit that it did seem an ambitious project, for I was ex- 580 pecting my sixth baby in September, and my husband was far away in Viet Nam. None of us knew much about raising a garden, and we didn't know anything about irrigating one. But I felt that the children needed some responsibility during the long summer 'days ahead, and so we planned our garden. The first plan called for clearing the ground of all the cornstalks that had been planted there the year before, and that fell to me. I spent days out there raking and hauling off stalks, clods, and big rocks. Then it was time to buy the seeds, and that was a joyful part of our garden plans. I spent a long time looking over all the different seeds and decided to be experimental. I had never seen honeydew melons growing, so I bought a package of seeds to see what the melons would do in our garden. Finally, I decided on pumpkins, squash, cucumbers, and cantaloupes, as well as peas, beans, lettuce, potatoes, carrots, and beets. I might just pause to mention that if it had not been for my father and mother, who lived in a nearby town, our garden would probably still be in the planning stage, for when it came time to plant the seeds, Daddy was there to oversee the project. He marked off the distances between the rows and marked the rows while we planted the seeds in the furrows he made. I carefully marked the rows with empty seed packages, but little four-year-old Chris went out the next day and gathered all the markers, so we didn't know for a long time just where we had planted what. When I wrote to my husband about our garden and the great plans we had for it, he had only one comment... "Please get the rows straight.' For the most part, our rows were straight, but there was one place I did zigzag a little; every time I worked there I would get a guilty feeling, but that was where I planted the huge Klondike watermelons at the last moment, so I didn't think he would mind. The garden was a constant worry, work, and effort, from the sprinkling to bring the plants up, to making the irrigation rows afterward. The several late spring frosts really kept us hustling. I remember one midnight—a school night, too. It became clear to me that it was going to freeze, and all those unprotected plants out in the garden must get covered quickly. I got the three oldest Our Garden girls out of bed, and we all put on warm clothing and got to work. We couldn't find the flashlight, so we had to use candles out there -in the garden. Later, I thought about the weird sight we must have made out there. The next morning we found that about half our garden was frozen and gone, so the only thing to be. Done was to buy more seeds and try again. That was when I decided to buy the watermelon seeds. It was near the first of June, and I didn't even imagine we would actually harvest any melons, but it would be fun to see them grow anyway. Because our garden was so big, roughly a quarter of an acre, at least, it took us all to keep the weeds out. Almost automatically, the girls and I would reach for shovel or hoe every time we were outside. We learned all the intricacies of irrigating, too. I would be up and out irrigating by fivethirty in the morning many times. It was really pleasant to be up and outside working at that early hour and hear all the good country sounds. I would have missed all that without the garden, for I am not naturally an early riser. We discovered that all of us differed as to where our talents lay. Twelve-year-old Karen wasn't too thorough as a weeder, but she seemed very talented in shoveling out the irrigation rows which filled up with mud easily from water running down them. Eightyear-old Moana was a very good weeder, and_ thirteen-year-old Dean almost took over the irrigating. I shall never forget little Chris out watching the watermelons grow. Every day he would go out and examine them, and he talked about them all summer. 581 August 1967 Much to our surprise, we picked about a dozen ripe watermelons off those vines when September came. The long dry summer turned out to be good for melons. I never knew before there was such a difference between a fresh, ripe watermelon picked off the vine and one bought in a store. Our two rows of peas did very well, also. We all stood out in the patch and ate the peas right from the vine. We just couldn't help it; they tasted so good that way. We had only one meal of fresh-cooked peas at the table. Even two-yearold Danielle learned to eat peas off the vine, and when the beans came on, she was right out in them eating the same way, only she called the beans peas. We had a good harvest of potatoes, but our beets hardly came up, for they were flooded when that part of the garden sank a little. Our tomatoes were blighted, but we had enough for our table use. Squash bugs got most of the squash, but the pumpkins grew to huge sizes. We found that we were swamped with cucumbers, and all the cantaloupes and honeydew melons really were delicious. Yes, our garden was a lot of work, but the rewards were worth all the work, not only in our harvest of good things to eat, but in the companionship the children and I experienced by this family project. There is real happiness and feeling of individual contribution from working together. I feel the children learned a little more about responsibility and work, and learned from watching a seed grow to maturity and how to harvest it. As soon as frost turned our garden into a mass of dead vines and plants, the children were already talking about the garden we would have next year, always ending with the comment from Dean, "But, please, Mom, let's try to get the rows a little straighter." 4 REMEMBERING LATE SUMMER Caroline Eyring Miner Some August morning, breathless from the heat, i shall stroll up the lane to see you there Latching the sagging gate, thus to repeat An ancient ritual of your love and care. The scarlet pomegranate bells are gone And now the swollen fruit is ripening— The fig trees interspersed, with little sun, Are later with their mellow burgeoning. We'll walk together to the creaking swing And | will hear your gentle voice again, As languorous as the hum of bees that sing A lullaby of long ago, as when | basked in summer gold of love, my dear. It seems but yesterday that | was here.." ey 582 Ramona W. Cannon Minnie Guenther, Whiteriver, Arizona, mother of nine children, who has devoted much of her life to welfare work among the Apache Indians, was chosen American Mother of the Year in New York City in May. Mrs. Guenther, widow of a Lutheran minister, is grandmother to twenty-two, and has three greatgrandchildren. Expressing her formula for rearing children, she advises, ''Give a good Christian foundation to them, and they will build on that." All of her children have college educations and have contributed much time and energy to church and community service. Marian Gardner Nielson, Blanding, represented Utah as Mother of the Year. She is the wife of Joseph L. Nielson, a rancher, and is the mother of seven children. Of pioneer ''covered-wagon"' heritage, she was graduated from the University of Utah, and became a schoolteacher in Blanding. Civic worker, writer, and active in the Church, she is president of San Juan Stake Relief Society. Her chlidren speak of their home life as ''loving, secure, warm, friendly, and happy." Rhea Coleman Guild, a Latter-day Saint, was selected as New Hampshire Mother of the Year. She was born in Midway, Utah, graduated from Brigham Young University, and met her husband Lawrence W. Guild while both were traveling as members of the Chautauqua lecture bureau. She majored in speech and drama and was associated with her sister Lethe C. Tatge in Chautauqua programs. Her lovely New England home on 'Smiling Hill'' was built in 1793. She has served twice as president of Laconia Branch Relief Society. She has three children and seven grandchildren. Monica Dickens (Mrs. Roy Stratton, Cape Cod, Massachusetts), great-granddaughter of Charles Dickens, renowned English novelist, traveled across the United States on a lecture tour during the spring and summer of 1967. She illuminated certain little known aspects of the early life of her illustrious ancestor and the personal tragedy of his later years. Mrs. Stratton is the wife of a Commander in the United States Navy, and the couple have two children. Nancy E. Gwinn, of Sheridan, Wyoming, a senior English major at the University of Wyoming, has been selected for a signal honor. Beginning in September, she will receive a Cultural Exchange scholarship, including living expenses, and other funds, for a year's study at Oxford University, England. She will specialize in seventeenth century literature and music. Miss Gwinn is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi, and is listed in the United States Students' Who's Who. This outstanding honor is typical of awards being granted to outstanding students in other fields, also, for exchange education. Leslie Sheryl Roberts, of the Ottawa Second Branch of the Canadian Mission, will represent the Ottawa nurses at "Expo 67" in Montreal during the summer. She is district MIA music director, Sunday School chorister, and assistant branch MIA dance director. 583 EDITORIAL Volume 54 August 1967 Number 8 Mi Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Wi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Etna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 584 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill! Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Elfen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous fF o Grandmother Grandma told me all about it, Told me so | couldn't doubt it.... —Mary Mapes Dodge Memories of a grandmother are among the choicest of one's life. Contrast the family memories where the grandmother was present, and one where she had gone before the child remembered her. There is always a feeling of sadness not to have known her, not to have been taught lessons by her. The only memories of rather pioneer conditions shutter open as grandma walked to the pump at the back door, vigorously pumped a bucket of water, then stepped into the summer kitchen to see to her dinner. Earlier, on the treeshadowed pump steps, there had been a sharing of shelling peas which she had picked and carried to the house in her apron. Remembered is the steam rising up from a bed sheet as a hotter iron was lifted off the stove and the sheet folded and refolded almost automatically as the iron thumped and lifted. One of grandma's brothers had been killed by the Indians in Southern Utah. That made one fearful when Indians would call at the home demanding bread. There was one squaw whom people called mean, but she and = grandma seemed to have a warm understanding between them. Everyone assembled at nine in the evening for family prayers. The large circle of chairs around the dining table was used to kneel by, and usually during the midst of the prayer the old clock would ''bong'' out the hour. Precious memories giving a quick vista of a bygone era! What are the pictures and experiences the grandmothers of today will leave their grandchildren? Of course, one tells of experiences before the days of automobiles, radios, television, talking movies, airplanes, automatic washers, dryers, and refrigerators; but otherwise, except that life was more leisurely in certain aspects, less crowded and demanding, the way of life is not, fundamentally, so different. What then, is the priceless legacy a grandmother may leave to be of greatest value in the trying days ahead?' Perhaps it would be a bulwarking in moral values. To take the grandchildren, in turns, as they come to see grandmother, and talk and speak of things of the spirit, to relate experiences of healing in the family, and help them to realize a family closeness—to describe the marvelous healing of that old (to them) great aunt when she was a child. To thrill them with life experiences of their ancestors who joined the Church, helping them to realize that life was hard for them, too, and that they prevailed over great temptations. Often one may point up an experience of theirs through a scriptural account to help them realize that men are brothers in any age. Where grandchildren are able to visit on a systematic basis, a consistent reading of the scriptures is rewarding—not necessarily reading through a standard work—but finding out the comprehension of a child on the sequence of events in world history, with reference to the gospel, and then giving to him a bird's-eye view of where his present world fits in. It is a time to impress on him the privilege of living now as one chosen to come to earth during this great last dispensation with the need to remain true and faithful to his heritage. Some grandmothers make a practice of inviting all their grandchildren on a certain day; others invite them by ages; others by sex; others as the children ask to come. It would seem that to strengthen the home teachings of righteousness would be of most worth to grandchildren. These are the foretold, fateful days when the very elect will be deceived; they will live through perilous times, and the grandmother's role can be a vital one of teaching, by love and understanding, of the wisdom she has reaped over the years. —WM. C. S. 585 The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 27 and 28, 1967. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 27, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 27, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, September 28, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission district officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 27, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. DAYBREAK Alda L. Brown Dawn awakens with pink skies and jade pearls on the hemlock tree... Birds chirp staccato eighth notes with quiet feather-stirrings. The mountains are still shadowed in purple slumber. Light prisms dare not shatter too quickly nor awaken too abruptly, for at this hour the heartbeat is slow.... And the mind dull. Homes carry a quiet aloofness—a wanted privacy.... Phones dare not ring.... And the sound of a door-bell would be much too early. The sun is wise. It rises softly, as if to mellow the day's beginning. Slowly Dawn unfolds.... Pulses quicken.... Tasks loom.... Car motors startle the stillness.... Dogs bark.... Suddenly, there is a purpose... A goal... A striving. Dawn has caught its breath, And day is on its way. 586 greener et eee CAN YOU.... Help YOUR Husband Have A Heart? AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION More and more, the results of medical research carried on for years in the United States, clearly demonstrate that there are ways to help prevent the coronary attacks which claim the lives of so many American husbands and fathers each year. The risks of "coronary occlusion" due to atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) can be substantially reduced now by proper attention to certain "Risk Factors,'' according to leading heart specialists and the American Heart Association. These factors are: — High levels of cholesterol or other fatty substances in the blood — Overweight — High blood pressure — Lack of consistent exercise — Cigarette smoking — Diabetes — A family history of heart attacks in middle age HOW DOES YOUR HUSBAND RATE? ASK YOUR DOCTOR! YOU ARE INVITED! TO "HEARTS AND HUSBANDS DAY" SEPTEMBER 13, 1967 — 8:00 P. M. SALT LAKE TABERNACLE FEATURING DR. PAUL DUDLEY WHITE World famous heart specialist and personal physician to former President Dwight D. Eisenhower during his heart attack. 587 ae ¢@ Hank's face was unusually flushed when he came in the door. "Got the letter,"' he said, "here, look at this!"' Gail took the letter and looked up, startled, 'Transfer... Now they ask you... After you had settled for early retirement." She wasn't sure if her blood temperature was rising or falling. Looking up, she gave a nervous laugh. "Well, we're only young once," she muttered. She watched Hank's face wince. "Good thing the kids are out of school and married," she said. "Read on,' Hank said impatiently. '""'Do you realize, if I accept this offer, we will have to be sold and out of here in three weeks?" Gail watched Hank rise to his full six-foot height, and she felt his fifty years breathing down her neck, forcing an answer. 588 ea Transfer Hazel Loomis ' "Gail, we have to decide now. The subject isn't new. We've chewed on this for a year and now an offer's come." "We will have to sell our home then," gasped Gail. 'And everything else we don't need," urged Hank. Gail walked away from Hank's steady gaze to the wide glass view and the mountain beyond. "I was sixteen the first time I got on a high dive. I was scared to death. I stood teetering on the edge for a long time and then I shut my eyes and jumped in." Hank grabbed the letter and started for the door, turned to look Gail full in the face. '"What's the verdict? I have to see John and let him know." Gail realized her heart was pounding. "It's going to hurt, but I'll jump," she said. She saw the flush of a rodeo rider on Hank's face as he ran down the walk and, turning, shouted, "'Call Robbie's Real Estate and put the house on the market." Gail walked to the telephone. Her voice rose unnaturally high when she finally connected with her realtor friend. "Hey, this is Gail.... Will our house sell—-I mean in _ three weeks?" "You mean... You're kidding," came the voice. "Really — a transfer," Gail choked. "Sure, it'll sell—along with 150 others... But we'll come up and measure it and get the papers going." [. Was morning before the real estate man came—time enough to have a near computer file on what was to be accomplished in a bare three weeks. When he pounded the "FOR SALE" sign on the front lawn, it was like Deborah's tent peg in the skull of her enemy. From then on, the days grew with the accumulation of heartbreaking labor. Hank's mother came to give a hand through the harrowing experience and to answer "Shall I take this, shall I leave this, to whom shall I give this?" Tar, the twelve-year-old Labrador dog, was there through it all, and Gail was too tired to plan for his parting. But Tar was there and she was glad when he followed her from room to room. He ran when she ran, he walked when she walked. When she sat down, he sat and looked at her with eyes sorrowing. She patted him every time he was close. August 1967 Tar would be there to help her show the house. People would talk about him first and ease the heartbreak when she would tell _how they had made all those special things—the two-way fireplace—the mirrored china closet —the pull-out shelves for cleaning. They would never know how she and Hank finished the wood —how they tugged rocks from the petrified forest and made the rock garden. They wouldn't care that they did the insulating—that they built the dog house—that they built the stereo—that they put in the push-button door opener. They wouldn't know the months they had carried swatches of draperies—samples of wood— pieces of stone—sizes of pots and pans (for the exact closet space). She said to herself, "Forget this. You're selling a house," and then she would remember the very great crowd that gathered when the house was finished and the bishop blessed it. The house sold, and farewell parties began. From the accumulations of happenings, Gail felt like a hen still alive with the feathers being plucked, one by one. Then there was nothing left but the final goodbyes—the movers, and seeing Tar off. Then came the very last day in the house. Hank was away on last-minute business. The grandiose last service of the elders quorum, who came and did the perfect clean-up job, left Gail close to tears. What would the other goodbyes be and farewell to Tar for the last time? Gail was alone when the moving van rolled away. Hank would soon be coming, and they would 589 August 1967 take Tar to the plane. She pulled the 100-yard drape open for a full glass view and a last look. The afternoon sun came pouring in— the sky was clean of clouds and a rare blue. The fringe of mountains made a backdrop. It was the patterned cement wall that flooded her memory. It looked as if it would stand forever. That's what Hank said when she carried blocks to him and he slapped them together with plaster. That is what they were saying all the time they were building the house. The lawn was lush and freshly cut—the flowers in their best late August bloom. The rock garden was running over with squash and cucumber vines—carrots—beets —chard—and tomatoes—it was going to make a lot of good eating. She remembered Hank's stock remark, ''Gail grows vegetables and I grow flowers." She closed the drapes, and with Tar, her bodyguard, went from room to room. She stopped to pat him and wished he could speak his feelings, too. She went to the garage and lifted the lid of an old trunk to be sure her big old scrapbook was there. She opened it, thinking she would take the letter her mother had written before her fatal accident. In it was the pedigree chart she was working on. She 590 fingered around until she put her hands on it. She took it out and closed the trunk and put the lock down, remembering kindly the friend who was going to take all those nondescript storage pieces and store them at her mountain cabin. Gail put the letter in her voluminous handbag. By that time Hank had arrived. "Let's get out of here quickly," he said, and she knew exactly how he felt. The scene was putting Tar in the car for the last time and the screened travel cage —then the children pouring from every house in the neighborhood to say goodbye and to pat Tar for the last time. Finally, Hank got Tar into the front seat. He folded himself down like a big colt and put his head in Gail's lap. He groaned comfortably as he always did. Soon they came to the kennel's shipping office. Hank took Tar out of Gail's arms. He took the box out. She heard Hank's firm steps on the boardwalk and Tar's patter, patter, but she turned the other way. She had always said Tar would give his very life for her—that if there was any more loyalty to learn, Tar was the example. Hank soon returned, pretending composure, ''Won't those twins be happy when they see Tar?" If Gail had answered him, the sound would have been like cracked straw. Then she noticed Hank was taking the long road around the city. She didn't ask any questions, because she knew what was in his mind. When they were well on the journey, he said, "Iv'll be past midnight when we reach Denver. Hope the kids don't stay up. We'll be dog-tired, and that's the way I want it. I can't feel when I'm tired." Tt was certainly late when they arrived, and, after the harrow-— ing strain of three long weeks, Gail felt like a burned stump. But she caught fire again once safe in the nest of her married daughter. This was next best to being in her own bed. Next morning, they saw in church four families (all transfers from their own town) who waited until after the services to rehearse the joys and sorrows of uprooted families over bowls of homemade ice cream and large pieces of chocolate cake. S oxpay behind them, Hank and Gail began their 2,000 mile journey toward the crowded east coast. It had been such a warm, comfortable feeling to be with their own flesh and blood, and the separation from them was more philosophical than what they had felt. A house and a wall and a dog you can't write to, you can't plan holidays with, you can't talk to by telephone. You can't sell a child. As they drove away, Gail looked back, and the Rocky Mountains were strung as far as eye could see from north to south. "There they go," Gail said. "The everlasting hills." "Don't rub it in," was Hank's reply. Gail knew his thoughts, especially when he set his jaw like that. She knew when to keep quiet and when to boil over. She pulled out her notebook. Writing on paper was a release. It was midafternoon when Transfer Hank stopped at an eating place. While they sat waiting for their order, Hank asked what she had been writing. "Do you want to hear a line?" asked Gail, pulling out her notebook and reading: "What can compensate for the crystal mountain streams? Would that we might hold the clean air swept down from glaciers and use it when city smoke becomes oppressive. Our forebears were washed from the eastern shores to these. Mountains. Never were they pushed back again. Why are we going back? Did they leave something we must find—some genealogy—something needed to send us on the right road to get the job done? We are not refugees. We made a choice, and with God's help, we will make good." Few times had she seen Hank weep. She always respected his emotional control. He usually turned his head away, but this was a different day. Three days by car! They were one of a great mobile army going or settling down in a sea of docks and bridges, turnpikes, and toll roads. Oh, for a place, thought Gail, to reach out and touch a blade of grass, a flower, or even a weed! It was, finally, the morning of the seventh day, with Gail and Hank badly in need of rest after their search for an apartment. Yes, it was the seventh day, and they were tired, but they were up early and located a chapel. Around it was a pleasant lawn, shrubs, and flowers. Gail plucked a leaf and squeezed it to see if it oozed green. The hour was early, but there were cars already parked around. The foyer was 591 Transfer light and pleasantly familiar. Gail had a joyful coming-home feeling. A handsome, youngish man emerged from an office door. Gail poked Hank. "T'll bet this is the bishop," she whispered. It was, and he came with his hand warm with greeting. "We're transfers from the West," said Hank, "just sort of checking in." "I'm a transfer, too," said the bishop, ''six years ago. From Montana." There was plenty to talk about, then, with not enough time. After the bishop took the usual statistics about them, a young man burst into the front door with urgency written all over his face. "Well, meet the new folks," said the bishop. '"This is the Sunday School superintendent." Introductions were quickly acknowledged. "'What will I do with those teenage boys again? Glen just called and can't teach them this morning. They are incorrigible." "Hank just left from being Sunday School superintendent," Gail volunteered. "Why don't you ask him...?" "Well? Will you?" the poor man was pleading. Hank was shunted off, led by the superintendent. Gail knew what Hank's performance would be. She knew the effect of that sure, calm voice. Pretty soon the young boys would forget to wiggle and whisper as they listened to the Prodigal Son —the day in the Sacred Grove— he would know the story, whatever it was. Gail sat down on a bench and waited. She saw on the bulletin board "Singing Mothers' Rehearsal Tuesday Evening." Relief Society—memories came fast now.... She was glad she had brought her arrangements for hymns. They would be useful here. All was so familiar. Possessions seemed unimportant.... She was glad she had brought her mother's last letter and the pedigree chart. The Church was the same everywhere and she had come home. R Color translates BRIGHT BEGONIAS Bernice Ames Here at the edge of a garden As velvet as Eden The sun has taken root To hold down moments of light. Begonias rise on brittle stems From Netherlands fields Of infinite care and choosing— Magenta, lemon, fuchsia, tangerine. The love that made them flourish. They give back a beauty Learned from partial shade. > y MT. WILSON, SAN JUAN NATIONAL FOREST, COLORADO PB 592 Photograph by David Muench IN THE MIDST OF SUMMER Mabel Jones Gabbott To be alive in the fulness of a summer day; To be aware of this sun-drenched moment; to feel [he warmth, the wonder of life; to note the way The bees, sated with hollyhock nectar, reel In the sunshine; to see the balanced grace Of hummingbirds on flimsy breezes, who Drink from petaled cups; at last to trace The sun-dialed hours to purple evening dew.... We are aware in waking and in sleep Of time's brief measure; but there is a length of day In which to dream, to share talk, long and deep, Of finite things and all their infinite way. To stretch a thought to the uttermost bounds of heaven For this, surely, a summer day is given. Washcloth ~ Slippers Mary J. Police For one pair, the following articles are needed: 2 terry facecloths, any color or print (in size to fit foot) 5% yard of 3%-inch wide elastic 1 card rickrack, matching or contrasting color small flowers, bows, or buttons for trim 1. Fold facecloth in half. Seam one end from fold to border of cloth. 2. Fold border down one inch. Slip stitch. Place rickrack 54-inch from top of slipper, stitch in place, forming the casing. 3. Draw 10 inches of elastic through casing. Firmly stitch ends of elastic to open ends of slippers. 4. Fold 114% inches of stitched seam upwards towards casing, to form heel shape. Tack to seam. 5. Stitch the open end of cloth 54-inch from end. 6. Tack small flowers, bows, or buttons to front seam for trim. If desired, a rickrack bow may be stitched to front seam. For men's or boy's slippers, skip the rickrack and other trimming and substitute braid or leave plain. 594 , Illustrated directions for making Washcloth Slippers. 1. Fold Cloth 2. Fold border down..-Seafn end from fold to border. Slipstitch 1-inch from fold. Sew rickBe / rack 54-inch from form casing. SPT a eS 3. Draw 10 inches of elastic through casing. MG h} Stitch ends of elastic bitte to open ends of y slippers. Sa Sr 3 ff, =.?:: Pp Pe is ot Baal, ee 4. Fold 114" of back seam up-. Wards to casing to form shape of heel. Tack to seam. 5. Stitch front seam closed 6. Tack tassel—flowers— bows or buttons here THOUGHTS ON LIFE Angie Munson The sky is dark blue with brilliant stars shining through, like the dark of our lives and the moments of joy. The darkness, at times, seems to invade our lives, surround, and overpower us, and we do not look for the light. There are, however, numerous stars or blessings in our lives, so numerous that we cannot actually number them. There are joys still too far distant for us to see, just as in the heavens So, when we feel the -dgrkness closing in, let us step outside and look to the heavens. At first' sight, they, too, may seem dark, but when our eyes become adjusted, we will see there is more light than darkness. It is only that, at the moment, the dark is closer to us. And, remembering this, we will realize we have only to open the eyes of our soul to see the beauty in life. 595 border fold to there are stars too far away even to comprehend. Reiteocteceabmarcap wiecactte ete Ot; August 1967 te — — Recipes for Venison Ann Andersen Venison is a nourishing and delicious meat. Through skillful preparation and a little extra care, the ''wild'' flavor can be lessened, and venison can be a favorite food for the family. A small amount of beef suet added to ground venison increases the flavor and adds to the rich brown surface coating of meat balls and meat loaves. CORNISH PASTIES Pastry (or use your own favorite) 1% c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c.. Shortening 1 tsp. Salt 3 c. Sifted flour Pour boiling water over shortening and beat with a fork. Add dry ingredients. Chill. Filling 1 Ib. Ground venison 3 tbsp. Chopped onion 2 potatoes, peeled and grated 1 tsp. Salt 3 large carrots, peeled and grated 14 tsp. Pepper 14, c. Catsup 14 tsp. Oregano Crumble and fry venison and onion. Mix with other ingredients. Using saucer as a guide, cut dough into 10 circles. Place filling in center and fold over, crimp edges, and prick top. Place on baking sheet. Bake at 400° for 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 350° for 10 minutes. This recipe will serve a family of four twice. The pasties freeze nicely. SWEET AND SOUR MEAT BALLS (Kottbullar) Meatballs 1 egg 1 tsp. Salt 14, c. Bread crumbs 14 tsp. Pepper 14 c. Water 4 tbsp. Sugar 1 small onion 1 Ib. Venison (ground) Mix ingredients and form into balls. 596 Recipes for Venison Sauce 1 c. Boiling water used if desired) Y% c. Flour 2 tbsp. Lemon juice ly tsp. Cinnamon 14~c. Water ' Dissolve cubes in boiling water. Simmer 10 minutes. Add flour a little at a time. Add cinnamon. Stir in milk and 14% cup water if evaporated milk is used. Stir and cook unti! Sauce is thickened. Stir in lemon juice, pour over browned meat balls and serve as soon as possible. Can be served over noodles, if desired. Serves 6. En a / THE POSTMAN — A MODERN PIED PIPER Pearle M. Olsen He makes no claim to using magic power, Nor does: he blow the pipe of legend's fame. No rodents follow him in their doomed hour, And he would be the first one to disclaim That he encourages a deed or thought When children leave their homes to follow him. Enduring lessons he has gently taught To boys with questing eye and robust limb. They wait and watch until he comes along, Then follow on the pathway to each home. Sometimes he tells a story, sings a song, While measuring steps like a metronome. His voice and leather bag of weighted mail Are more alluring than a flute's thin wail! THE WARP OF A PERFECT DAY Bertha A. Kleinman When the dusk descends and the setting sun discloses the deeds of the day well done, Do you still remember a task—just one, A task defaulted and shunned away to delete and despoil your perfect day? As you close your door on the eventide, to nestle and drowse at your fireside, ls there one last call you have failed to keep that flutters your dreams as you fall asleep? Not the alpine summit where eagles soar, nor the dizzy heights of Excelsior— It's the little tasks you postpone away that mar the Warp of your perfect day. 597 2 beef bouillon cubes 1 c. Milk (evaporated may be Orchids in the Kitchen ~ 598 Elsie Sim Hansen « A thunderstorm was scissoring across the sky as I looked out of my living-room window. It would probably be raining any minute, I thought, as I placed a scarf over my head in preparation for dashing across the street to my neighbor's house to borrow a cup of powdered sugar. As I entered Beth Jordan's kitchen and asked for the sugar, I noticed almost immediately that she was ironing, and that she had a lovely white orchid on the shoulder of her _ pink-flowered house dress. "Looks as if you have on your celebrating wings," I said, smiling, as I nodded my head in the direction of the orchid. Beth's face flushed a faint pink, and she laughed as she said, "I suppose you could say I am celebrating, although I am not really going anywhere today. Randy and I celebrated our anniversary last night." "Tt is a gorgeous orchid. I de not believe I have ever seen a white one so large," I replied. "I think it is sublime," Beth exclaimed. "That is why I didn't like the idea of shutting it away in a box in the refrigerator where I couldn't see it or enjoy its beauty. Of course, I realize it will not last long wearing it for awhile every day, but of what use is it doing lying in a dark refrigerator? I like to think I am getting as much joy and pleasure out of it as possible." I was silent for a moment as if trying to digest the idea, and then I said, "I always put my corsages in the refrigerator after wearing them a time or two. I have never thought about wearing them in the house." Beth glanced quickly at me as she said, "I feel sure other people have probably worn flowers in the house, but the idea might not have occurred to me if I hadn't helped my mother take care of grandmother's belongings when she died about a year ago." "Ts the idea a secret?" I asked. "And what has it to do with wearing corsages in the house?" "Grandmother's house was just full of lovely gifts that people had given to her, including a cedar chest that was filled to the brim with embroidered pillow slips, dish towels, tablecloths, and even a wedding-ring quilt top. Every thing was yellow with age. Mother said she had asked grandmother many times why she didn't use the articles, and grandmother always replied that she intended to when some special occasion arrived, only the occasion never came. Does that answer your questions?" I felt a guilty feeling skip down my spine as I remembered all the gifts I had stored away, so I said defensively, '"Not quite, because I Orchids in the Kitchen some lovely linens stored away for special occasions." "T do, too,' Beth answered, "but not like grandmother did. Just think of the time and effort friends and relatives expended in making the lovely gifts they gave to her. Now she is gone, and she didn't give herself any opportunity to enjoy them."' "Perhaps she received her pleasure in just knowing she had them," I suggested. Beth looked at me skeptically for a moment, and then she said, "The scriptures tell us, 'For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?' Grandmother evidently never learned how to receive her gifts. Randy and I have decided to obtain as much joy and happiness out of our gifts now, today, as it is possible." As I picked up the cup of sugar from the drainboard, I said thoughtfully, "I am surely glad that I came over today, Beth. 1 realize now that it is about time for my family, and me, to start enjoying a few orchids of our think it is a good idea to have own 39 ° 7 TIME Dixie Randall Oveson Whoever said time flows or glides? It swoops and jerks, drags, or flies. For time is teasing, mean and dear— It's here and gone; then gone and here. Each hour and minute drags or fleets: When time is needed, on it speeds. When anxious, waiting for some word, It hovers, stays, is never heard. It's so elusive, no man yet Has caught time in a human net. With all our scientific skill Time comes and goes just as it will! \ YY 599 A TALENT FOR MAKING QUILTS AND COVERLETS Katherine B. Weber, San Gabriel Ward, East Los Angeles Stake, California, contributes her talents for design and stitchery to her Relief Society organization. Each year she thinks of something new in color harmony or color contrasts, and something different in quilting patterns—something bright and cheerful for the children's beds, something lovely in '"'singingpastels'' for the woman of the house—dquilts and coverlets beautiful enough to serve as bedspreads—warm and comfortable for replacing blankets. Sister Weber was born ® Romania, and later moved to Germany, where she became a member of the Church in 1911. She came to the United States in 1932, for a temple marriage. After many, many moves, she ''settled'' in San Gabriel, where she has supervised quiltmaking in the ward Relief. Society for many years. She has been a visiting teacher for forty years. Her homemade bread has been in the ''best-seller'' booth at the bazaars ever since she joined the Relief Society in San Gabriel. 600 Chapter 7 Synopsis: Nora Blake, who comes to teach school in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latterday Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and is astonished to learn that he cannot read. She teaches him to read. Nora takes up a homestead. Her ties to the valley become deeper and she grieves with the family when Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza. Through truths and hope expressed at the funeral services, and afterwards, Nora learns significant principles of the gospel. Finally, Jed explains the mystery of Old Free, a hermit, and non-Mormon, who is really Jed's grandfather, and how the old man had watched over Jed for many years while his father prospected. Nora, by now deeply in love with Jed, wonders why he does not speak to her of his own feelings. @ Somewhat to Nora's surprise, Old Free didn't hesitate about accepting the invitation to come to school. The fact was that he seemed to be pleased to find Hazel M. Thomson someone interested in his wood carvings. "How in the world did you do this?" she asked, picking up a piece of large wooden chain. "It's not hard," he said. "I just got me a good piece of pine to start with, and whittled away the part that's gone and this is the part that's left." Nora laughed. "Sounds easy," she agreed. "But I wouldn't know just which part to whittle away. That's what I'd like to have you do, show my students which part to cut away, as well as show them some of these things you have made." He had a marvelous collection of his work, ranging from the heavy chain to dainty figurines. There were many bowls made of various woods of differing sizes and colorations and inlaid in 601 August 1967 beautifully intricate patterns and designs. Nora spent a delightful halfhour just looking and feeling the woods and listening to the old man talk. "That's it,' he said. "Pick it up. You can't get the feel of wood by looking. You've got to handle it." The piece he had reference to was a tray in a breathtakingly beautiful arrangement of pieces and colors, arranged in a geometric pattern. "It's beautiful," breathed Nora. "Perfectly beautiful." They agreed on his coming the following Friday afternoon at two. As she said goodbye to the old man, it occurred to Nora that he had lived on the fringe of the community's life, just as his cabin was on the edge of town in its location, that he was actually welcoming this opportunity to be a little part of the happenings of the village near which he had spent those many years. Hearing Jed's story on the ride out to the Lang place had given Nora new insight into Jed's life, and the new feeling of compatibility between them clung to her. She hoped, how she hoped, that Jed, too, recognized a new feeling of closeness between them, but her hopes were short-lived. As they neared the lights in the Shepherd farmhouse, Nora asked, "When he comes to school, Jed, wouldn't you like to come and hear him?" "IT don't believe I can," he answered. "I've got a lot of work to do around my place. If the snow keeps melting, we're due for an early spring. I don't look for much storm now, not after such 602 a lot of snow. I'll soon have to have my crops in, if I hope to raise anything this year." Nora's brown eyes blazed. "Land! That's all you think about, Jed Oliver!" she cried. "Have you forgotten that this is your own grandfather? Nothing ought to keep you from hearing him. But I should have known," she said bitterly, 'to you, people are nothing. It's only land that matters." Noa stopped, shaken by her outburst, regretting it immediately. Her lips quivered, but Jed did not notice. She could not see that his own face had paled under its weathered tan. He didn't answer until he drew his team to a stop at the Shepherd home. At last he spoke, quietly, evenly. "T think you're right," he said. "T've had something of the same idea myself, but now that you put it into words, I can see it right clear. I have always put my land first, and just as you say, people are what're really important." Nora felt helpless in coping with this unexpected turn in his attitude. She wanted to apologize for the things she had said, yet his manner stopped her. He seemed to bear no resentment over what she had said. As he said good night, there was no bitterness at her outburst, but rather she sensed a great humility, or something akin to gratitude, as if she had done him a very real favor. The conversation remained fresh in her mind and she found herself going over it again and again. Sometimes she blamed herself for her inexcusable rudeness. Other times she found herself trying to justify her criticism. Well, he does pay more attention to his farm than he ever does to people, she told herself. I wish — I hadn't said what I did. No! I'm glad I said what I did. Maybe, just maybe, it will jar him a little and somehow make him aware that I'm alive.; On Friday, Old Free appeared exactly at two o'clock, his white hair and beard neatly combed and his old brown bag bulging with his carvings. Of all her visitors for the year, this one proved to be the most enjoyable for her students. At fourthirty Joe Pine still sat at his desk working on the first link of his chain from the piece of wood Old Free had given him. "T've got to get home," he said at last. "But if I come out to your place, will you show me how to finish this?" "Glad to,' the old man answered, and Nora noted the vleased look on his face. "Glad to. You just cuime out any time. Any time at all." "Tomorrow's Saturday,' said Joe, picking up the piece of wood and carrying it carefully toward the door. "It's Saturday, and [ll be there. And thanks, Mr. Free. Thanks a lot." "T can't tell you how much I appreciate your visit," Nora said, when Joe had gone. "I think you've solved two of my biggest problems for next year. That is, I don't think they'll be problems next year. I think they've found out that there are other ways of having fun. Why, both Joe Pine and Ed Johnson have been more interested in this than anything we've done all year. And J may as The Golden Chain well tell you to expect them both tomorrow. Where Joe goes, Ed goes along, too." "Tt'll seem good," said the old man, beginning to put the articles back into his sack. "It'll seem real good to have young folks around that don't come to laugh at me." He went on filling his bag. "Sometimes it gets a bit lonely out at my place," he said. "Don't see many people." "Why don't you try?' Nora asked gently. "Nowhere to go,' he said. "Nowhere except to church." He stood there, holding the tray she remembered from her visit. He held it out to her. "Here," he said. "I'd like you to have this." -"Oh, thank you!" she said. "Thank you, so very much." She placed the tray on her desk and looked at him. "Why don't you go, if you want to, to church I mean? I do. And I'm a non-member, just like you, but they always make me feel welcame. I'm sure they would do the same with you." "an was a great sadness in his face and in his voice. "I'm not worthy. You see, I was there, that day...." "But that's seventy years ago," said Nora. "You must have been very young." "Yes, I was young. But I was there. I was there." Nora remembered the two books she had seen in his cabin, the Bible and The Book of Mormon, worn from much use. "Think of Paul," she said. ""He held 'the coats of those who stoned Stephen, yet the Lord said 603 August 1967 to Ananias, 'He is a chosen vessel unto me.' " The old man nodded. "I have read it," he said, "many times, and it seemed that Paul was consenting to Stephen's death. At Carthage, I raised no hand. Maybe, I, too, was consenting." "But you were but a boy," cried Nora. "You cannot, you must not carry this load of guilt. You see," she said softly, "I know who you are." "You what!" "Yes. Jed told me. I know you're his grandfather. And I know it's timé the people in this town know it. Your place is with him. Not living alone, like a—like an outcast." "But I am an outcast. I cast myself out from all decent people and, especially, from the Mormons." He faced her, and his faded blue eyes looked deep into her brown ones. "Yet this much I know. What they believe is true." "Then you should tell them," said Nora, '"'and become one of them." The old man picked up his bag and shook his head. "T can't," he said. "I'm not worthy." He went out and closed the door. Days passed and Nora did not see Jed. Then on the last day of school, Ben mentioned that Jed had gone to Salt Lake City. On the following Sunday he was absent from church. During the week Nora made a new dress and bonnet to match. They were blue, and the following Sunday, wearing them, Nora knew she had never looked better. And Jed was back. But if she expected him to 604 notice either the dress or the bonnet, she had been mistaken. "I don't know how to thank you, Miss Nora," he said, shaking her hand briefly. Miss Nora! Nora could feel a new formality in his manner, sensing that her own words had made her position with him more remote than ever. "Tf it hadn't been for you, I might never have realized my lack of concern for my fellow human beings. You were right, you know." "No! No, I wasn't!" cried Nora. "I was very wrong. Wrong in what I said and wrong to presume to say it to you, you who have cared all these years for Ben. I don't know how I could have said such a thing." "Yes, I have been so taken up with my farm," insisted Jed, "that I really haven't given people much thought. But I mean to make up for lost time." ae hopes bounded. Perhaps he was going to say something! Something she had been longing to hear for so many days and weeks and months. Yes, since that very first day when she felt his strong arms lift her over the schoolyard fence to safety. "T'll be leaving next week for a mission to England." Nora felt that her heart would stop. "But your farm?" she cried. "Who will take care of your place?" "Ben. He can take care of what he can manage, and the rest will just have to lie fallow until I get back. The land will just have to get along, while I go out into the world and take care of people's souls." Oh, why had she done it? Why had she said those things to him? And, above all, why had she ever bothered to teach him to read? Nora was to ask herself these questions many times in the months that were to follow. Jed's farewell was set for the next Thursday evening. Nora dressed carefully, wishing she had been invited by Jed to go with him, but since she hadn't she went along with the Shepherd family. Jed was not there when they arrived. Neither did he put in an appearance until almost time for the meeting to begin. And when he did come, Freedom Lang was with him. Nora noticed whispers among the audience as Jed led the old man right up to the stand and seated him by his side. Nora could feel an air of expectancy as the moment drew near for Jed to make his remarks. When he began he never took his eyes from hers until he had finished. "T want you to know how happy I am to be going on this mission,"' he said. "T have something that is very precious to me, my testimony, and up to now I have made little effort to share it with anyone else. Now I have that opportunity, and I will share it with everyone I can get to listen. I mean to make up for lost time." He turned then and held out a hand to Old Free, drawing the old man to his feet, leading him over by the pulpit. "Before I go, I want you to know one thing. This man is my grandfather. It's a long story, and he had his reasons why he never wanted me to tell it. But I feel the The Golden Chain time has come for it to be known. I'm going away, and I leave him in your hands. He'll be moving in to stay with Ben while I am gone. __l-hope you'll take care of him until I get back." Nora found herself blinking back the tears. She could still feel them, there in her throat, when Jed came and asked her for the first dance. They didn't talk. There seemed to be nothing more to say. He held her close and once, just once, for a brief moment, Nora was certain she felt his lips against her forehead. When the dance was over, so was the evening for her. She knew Jed would take Ben and drive Old Free back out to his cabin. She left the building and walked back to the Shepherd home alone under the stars. Trere was a large group gathered at the little station to see Jed off on the train. Nora was disappointed. It seemed that the whole town had showed up. But, she asked herself, what had she expected? That she would be the only one there? She tried desperately to remember whether there was anything special about his handshake, but she had to admit that he had included her as one of the group, along with Mrs. Shepherd and the others, with no particular, special attention. As the train disappeared from sight a great loneliness engulfed her. Was it always to be this way for her, Nora wondered? At least, the feeling was familiar, one with which she had lived much of her life. She had coped with it before, and she would again. She watched Ben and Free drive off together 605 August 1967 as she got back in the buggy with the Shepherd family. "He'll make a mighty good missionary," said the bishop as he headed the team toward home. "There are few men that know the gospel better than Jed does." "Yes," agreed his wife. "He'll do a fine work." As they neared the Oliver farm, the bishop stopped at the adjoining field. "T hope you haven't forgotten that you own a piece of property, Nora," he said. "I want to drive in here for a minute. We have a surprise for you." He held the horses while Sam jumped down and unfastened the wires that served as a gate. "Have to get you a real gate made," he said, "'but I've been too busy lately on this other project." The place was rather heavily wooded near the road but back just a short distance there was a little clearing. And in the little clearing there stood a—yes, it was! A little, a beautiful little cabin. Nora caught her breath with the beauty of the setting. "But how? Why?" she stammered. "How?" asked the bishop. "Hasy. That is, with Jed helping, it was easy. He's a good man with an axe, that boy. And why? To try to repay you for what you're doing for my children, for all our children in the valley. And most of all, for what you did for us when we were all down with the flu. You see, in order to prove up on your claim, the law requires that you live here on the land a part of each year. I figured summertime would be the best, then when fall comes you can move back in with us again." 606 Nora was overwhelmed. A house! Her very own house! Here, on her very own land! The tears that had been threatening for these past days filled her eyes and overflowed. "How can I ever thank you enough?" she asked. "How can I ever begin to thank you?" Mrs. Shepherd put an arm around her shoulders. "Don't try," she said. '""There's nothing Josh likes better than giving someone a good surprise. You have more than repaid him already. Come on, now. Let's go in and see it from the inside." "You may bring your bed and the little rocker from your room," said Bertha Shepherd. "Then we'll move them back again in the fall." For a week, fixing up the little cabin took every minute of Nora's waking moments. At the end of that time, she was ready to move in. That was the day Ben brought the cow. With a rope around her neck he led her right up to Nora's door. "Here's Old Brin," he said. "Jed told me to bring her when you got settled." "Jed! You've had a letter irom him already?" "Well, no and yes. Not in the mail, if that's what you mean. He wrote a whole bunch of them and left them in a pile in the order I was to open them and this one comes first. It says to bring the cow. And for me to come and milk her if you want me to." "Why, no. No," said Nora. "I can milk her. I'm sure I can." She wasn't quite as sure as she tried to sound. But she had seen them milk often enough at the Shepherds. All you did was take hold and squeeze. "Well," said Ben. '(Come and try it while I'm here. Then maybe I can help if you have any trouble." Nora found a small pail and stooped down by the cow. "She's tame," said Ben. "Jed said to be sure and bring Old Brin so you would have a cow that doesn't kick." Then the cow drew back her tail and swatted Nora hard across the face. "Ow!" cried Nora, grabbing her stung cheek. The bucket fell in the dirt. "Qh, I should have fixed that so she couldn't," said Ben. "She doesn't kick but she is a tailswisher. Here." He moved to Nora's side and parted the end of the cow's tail. Taking an end in each hand he tied the tail firmly around the cow's leg. The Golden Chain "There. Now let her switch. She can't hurt you now." He took the pail and ran to the spring, rinsing it out well before _ he brought it back to Nora. Again Nora set the pail under the cow and squeezed. Then she squeezed again. Nothing happened. "T think she's dry," she said. Ben laughed. "No, she's not dry. I got a whole bucketful from her this morning. Here, let me show you. You start easier, like this." A white stream poured into the bucket. "Oh, I see," said Nora. "Now I think I get it." And she did. Not with the experienced hand Ben used, but she was getting the milk. She worked slowly, laboriously, for a time, then she stopped. "How is it I'm not getting any of that foam that comes on top of the milk when the bishop does it?" she asked. '"'Doesn't this cow give any foam?" Again Ben laughed. "Oh, you'll learn how to get foam all right, as soon as you learn to milk faster," he said. "It's easier if you tip the bucket a little. Let me show you." Nora moved out of the way and again Ben took the bucket. He squatted down low and held the bucket between his feet, his hands' working quickly and rhythmically. The milk foamed into the little bucket below his hands. "See," he said. '"'That's all there is to it." He finished the cow, stripping her out carefully. "She has to be dry," he said. "That's the thing you must be 607 August 1967 careful of. Otherwise you'll either dry her up too soon or have some other troubles. What do you think, Miss Blake? Jed said if you decided you don't want the cow I was to bring you some milk every day." "No, I can milk her. I'm sure I can, if you'll just come over for the first few times until I catch on a little better." "You say Jed left you a whole bunch of letters?" she asked, trying to appear unconcerned as she picked up the bucket of milk. "Yes. About ten, I guess. He said it would be quite a while before I'd hear from him direct and these would help me out until then." He opened his mouth as though he would have said more, then closed it again. But after he had gone Nora found herself wondering. What was it he had been about to say? Would there be other things in those letters that concerned her? It was on the following day that her curiosity reached a new high. The old kitchen range that the bishop had located for her cabin baked very well. It was afternoon when she decided to make a cake and take it over. To Ben and Free to have for their supper. They were both out inthe field, so she let herself in the door to find that they had left the house in a general state of untidiness, the dishes not even washed. It was after she had dried the dishes and was returning them to the cupboard that she saw the stack of letters. She hadn't meant to snoop. But there they were, right where she had to stack the plates. Holding the plates with one hand, she attempted to push the letters back into a pile with the other when they slipped from her grasp and scattered on the floor at her feet. They were not addressed, only numbered in consecutive order, that is, all except one. At the sight of this one she stopped—and stared. There it was in Jed's unmistakable handwriting: "To Nora, When." (To be concluded) r IN A GREENHOUSE Sudie Stuart Hager In this protected place | see Petunias blooming tranquilly, Nurtured in their fibre-pots To be transferred to garden plots. They've never seen a worm nor bug, A caterpillar or a slug; Have never known a stormy day Or children trampling them in play; Have never felt a burning sun, Or sudden chill when day is done. It troubles me to think about And yet it is their destiny To make a showy yard for me. At summer's end, they will have learned That garden beauty must be earned. ~ 608 q Their future when I've set them out; =. — a. In ee Ne ' ROM — "2 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities British South Mission, Thames Valley District Bazaar, Aylesbury November 5, 1966 Virginia Archer, former Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, (President and Sister Archer are standing in center) reports: "The town of Aylesbury is in the very center of the County of Buckinghamshire, of which it is the county town. Each year the Relief Societies of the Thames Valley District hold an annual Christmas bazaar together. In 1966 it was suggested at the leadership meeting, held in March, that the bazaar should be held at Aylesbury. The next few months became very busy arranging for the various attractions. Each Relief Society had its own stall. The stall had a variety of goods, all beautifully made and the choice of work on sale ranged from a Cindy Doll to a full-size quilt. There was evidence of many hours spent sewing, knitting, and baking. In the center of the hall, along with the pictorial screens (depicting scenes in the history of the Church), the missionaries had set up a stall well-stocked with pamphlets and Books of Mormon. Refreshments were served by the district Relief Society presidency." Joan Spratley Child is the new supervisor of the British South Mission. 609 August 1967 Southwest British Mission, Plymouth District Relief Society Displays First Quilt December 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Mildred Spencer, wife of the Building Supervisor; Helen Grant Barton, former Supervisor, Southwest British Mission Relief Society. Back row, standing, beginning at the right: Jean Wise, First Counselor; Pearl White, President; Jean Hodgson, Second Counselor. Sister Barton reports: "December 18, 1966 marked the date of our. First District Conference held in the new chapel in Plymouth. President James A. Cullimore had just officially opened it a few days before. This also marked the. Occasion of the first quilt to be made by the Relief Society in the Plymouth. District. Sister Mildred Spencer, who had never quilted before, taught the sisters how to quilt, and the finished product is shown in the picture. The sisters enjoyed the new challenge of making the quilt and hope to make many more. Sister Barton bought the quilt and is taking it around the mission to show the other Relief Societies." Marie Flachman Bradshaw is the new supervisor of the Southwest British Mission. Brigham Young University First Stake (Provo, Utah) Presents Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, February 19, 1967 Sixth from the left, second row: Joyce Lunceford, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth, tenth, and eleventh, fifth row: Beverly Polson, spiritual living class leader; Linda Moody, Counselor; Lynette Elder, organist; at the left, third row:, Sherry Weyland, chorister. Della C. Crockett, President, Brigham Young University First Stake, reports: "Bighty-three sisters from Brigham Young University First Stake blended their voices to furnish music for quarterly conference February 19, 1967. Included were fourteen sisters from the ward Relief Society presidencies, and five sisters from the stake Relief Society board." West Utah Stake, Pioneer Ward and Provo Second Ward Officers Prepare for Birthday Parties, March 1967 Left to right, officers of Pioneer Ward Relief Society: Eleanor S. Rees, Secretary-Treasurer; Pearl S. Jackson, First Counselor; Luella B. Jensen, President; Beatrice C. Patterson, Second Counselor; Esther M. Moulton, President, West Utah Stake Relief Society; officers of Provo Second Ward Relief Society: Cheryl B. Christensen, First Counselor; Merle T. Halladay, President; Jennie V. J. Bailey, Second Counselor; Bertha O. Nielson, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Moulton reports: "This picture of the Pioneer Ward and the Provo Second Ward Relief Society officers was taken just before their birthday parties. In 1942 when the two boxes shown in the picture were closed, these two wards were part of the Utah Stake, with a Relief Society membership of about 77 and 119 members. Now, in 1967, this same two-ward area is the West Utah Stake, with nine wards and a Relief Society membership of 841 sisters. It is interesting to wonder if the next twenty-five years will bring about as great a change. One thing we are sure of, and which will not change, is the influence for good that the Relief Society is now, and always will be, in the homes of the women who are active members of this wonderful organization." 610 August 1967 Central German Mission, Pioneer Dinner, Dusseldorf March 7, 1967 Mary B. Beesley, Supervisor, Central German Mission Relief Society, reports: '""We send greetings and a few words to describe what we are attempting to do here for the observance of the 125th Anniversary of Relief Society. We have distributed the little play "The Gift'? In every branch and hope sincerely that it will be put on as I know we all want it to be done. Last week we invited the mission Relief Society presidency and the district leaders, with their partners, to the mission home in Dusseldorf for a pioneer dinner. We served a typical dinner of chicken, green peas, mashed potatoes, cole slaw with pineapple, baking powder biscuits, and apple pie with homemade ice cream. Then we sent out recipes in German. Our table setting featured covered wagons and miniature spinning wheels which were made for the occasion. There were also small red-checkered sunbonnets at each sister's place, and matching checkered napkins. ° "The branch Relief Society here has just finished another lovely quilt. Several other branches have expressed a desire to make quilts, and we have shown many pictures of quilts from the Magazine." Tulsa Stake, Coffeyville (Kansas) Branch Relief Society Anniversary Observance, March 17, 1967 Left to right: June Hurst, Secretary-Treasurer; Reva Barnhill, Second Counselor; Carlene McWhirt, First Counselor; Inice Bever, President. Virginia Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: "A threetiered cake, commemorating 125 years of Relief Society, centered the table, flanked by vases of antiqued flowers made by the group at homemaking meetings. The sisters met in the multi-purpose room of their newly completed chapel for a covered-dish dinner at six-thirty. Sister Bever conducted a special program prepared by Eva Howard, after presenting the book 'The History of Relief Society,' to the Branch President Eugene G. Carns for the branch library. After the inspiring program, the guests were invited to inspect the displays prepared by each class leader. There was also a display by the music leaders one on home storage." Napa Stake (California), Napa Second Ward Honors Elderly Sisters at Birthday Party, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Flora Wheeler; Elsie Burtis; Alice Barry; Stella Tucker. Back row, standing, left to right: Dora Jensen; Mary Taylor; Lottie Auger; Ethel Holtz. Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa Stake Relief Society, reports: "At their lovely birthday party the Napa Second Ward Relief Society presented a short sketch of the life of each of the sisters shown in the picture, and presented each of them a beautiful pink and white carnation corsage. The program continued with the presentation of 'The Gift.' Bessie Auger is president of Napa Second Ward Relief Society." 612 August 1967 Anaheim, Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Beach, Santa Ana Stakes Present "Galaxy of Music,'' February 10, 1967 Seated, center front: Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society; on the right: Lois Anderson, President, Fullerton Stake Relief Society; Alberta Gunnell, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society; to Sister Madsen's left: Marjorie Kerr, President, Huntington Beach Stake Relief Society; Glenna Woolf, President, Anaheim Stake Relief Society; Afton Minson, President, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society; Alta Sorensen, Anaheim Stake organist; directly in front of Sister Sorensen: Marybeth Done, Anaheim Stake chorister. Sister Woolf reports: "The Anaheim Stake was the hostess for the 'Galaxy of Music' concert held February 10th. The Singing Mothers of Fullerton, Garden Grove, Huntington Beach, and Santa Ana Stakes were invited to participate and enjoy the evening with us, with a total of 182 Singing Mothers from the five stakes. Each stake presented a special song by the Singing Mothers, and also an instrumental number. It was a thrill and a privilege to have Sister Florence J. Madsen with us, and to have her conduct several numbers." South Box Elder Stake (Utah) Pioneer Memorial Nursing Home Relief Society Holds Anniversary Party, March 13, 1967 Standing at the back, officers of the Nursing Home Relief Society, and stake Relief Society president, left to right: Lenora Holmes, organist; Faye Laney, Counselor; Duella Victor, President; Fontella Scofield, Counselor; Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society. Sister Nebeker reports: 'It was a memorable afternoon for the sisters at the nursing home. The Brigham City Fifth Ward Relief Society presented "The ' Gift' and it was greatly enjoyed. Easter decorations and a beautiful birthday cake added a decorative touch to the occasion. A number of the sisters have expressed their appreciation of Relief Society and how much the meetings mean to them." Cincinnati Stake (Ohio), Fairborn Ward Bazaar November 1966 Left to right: Janice Wise, homemaking leader; Carol Heinz, Counselor; Mitzi Brandt, President; Glenda Carlson, Counselor. Juanita E. Laurents, President, Cincinnati Stake Relief Society, reports a successful pre-Christmas bazaar which featured smocked pillows, feather flowers, appliqué tablecloths and runners, embroidered items, special "lovable" handmade toys, and wall hangings for children's rooms. Quilts, aprons, clothing, and decorative figurines were popular, and knitted and crocheted clothing for dolls was an especially "quick-selling" display. 614 Settee etn deerme pertatsnenr—re ne August 1967 'et aq } | 4 i 4X North Sacramento Stake (California), Roseville Ward Display at "Giant Sidewalk Bazaar,'' October 1966 Freda Thayne, President, North Sacramento Stake Relief Society, submits a report from the Roseville Ward Relief Society: "For the last four years, in October, the Roseville Ward Relief Society has been invited to participate in a giant bazaar. It is held on the sidewalk of the local shopping square and is for nonprofit organizations only. We have enjoyed the opportunity of not only being able to sell our needlework, crafts, and baked goods to the public, but also we feel that our participation is an exceedingly good missionary tool. We have been top prize winners each time. Last year we used a large hive as our theme. This year, we chose to pattern our booth after the poem 'Sing a Song of Sixpence,' representing a giant pie with a garden attached. We displayed our baked goods on the piecrust, and our needlework in the garden where '... The maid was hanging out the clothes.' "' 616 SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 82—Preparing for the Redemption of Zion Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 105) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman learns from the experiences of the saints in former days under persecutions brought on by transgressions, that she must be obedient to present-day commandments if she would have a part in the redemption of Zion. Note (Summary of Terms): In this lesson the word ''Zion'' has been used with different meanings according to the context in which it appears in the respective scriptures. By way of summary, Zion means: (1) the center-place in Jackson County, Missouri; (2) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; and (3) the members of the Church who are pure in heart. INTRODUCTION The fact that the saints in the early part of this dispensation suffered persecution is consistent with other dispensations of the gospel. A characteristic of the true Church is the persecution that it suffers. Physical persecution causing suffering of body was the lot of the saints who were sent from Jackson County, Missouri. In subsequent years this tribulation did not cease. It is true that the form of persecution has changed today, but it remains, especially in some mission fields of the Church. Furthermore the Savior said: And blessed are all they who are persecuted for my name's sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake; For ye shall have great joy and be exceeding glad, for great shall be your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the prophets who were before you (38 Nephi 12:10-12; cf. Matt. 5:10-12). 617 August 1967 Class Discussion Discuss evidence as to why you believe persecution has been the lot of the faithful. THE ULTIMATE BLESSING To be persecuted for a cause, though righteous, does not merit the fulness of the Lord's glory. The ultimate blessing comes through obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Though one may perform good works for his fellow man, if he does not follow Christ, he can not obtain the ultimate blessing. (D&C 84:49-53.) The things of God are known by the gospel of Jesus Christ. So emphatic was the Nephite Prophet Moroni on this truth that he said:... For everything which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil... (Moroni 7:16-17). The celestial law that provides all glory, all mysteries, and all powers is founded upon the redemptive act of Jesus Christ. Acceptance of his atonement comes through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (D&C 76:50-62; 1-10.) To be truly accepted of the Lord is to follow this path. ZION'S CAMP Because of the persecution of the saints in Jackson County in the fall of 1833, the Lord gave a revelation, on February 24, 1834, that called upon the Church to organize a company of men to assist the saints in Missouri by 618 peaceful means. (Ibid., 103:30- 36.) The Church was to send agents throughout its. Branches to collect money for the purchase of lands in Missouri whereon the saints might settle. (Ibid., v. 23.) What has become known as Zion's Camp was to include five hundred volunteers, but, if fewer than one hundred volunteered, the Camp should not be organized. ([bid., 30-34.) Leaving in the month of May 1834, the Camp enrolled two hundred and five members, but fewer than this number arrived in Missouri, in June 1834, due to fourteen deaths resulting from cholera which struck the group because of dissensions within the Camp. By divine intervention the Camp was protected by a severe storm which dispersed mobbers who vowed to destroy its members. While Zion's Camp was located at Fishing River, June 22, 1834, the Prophet received what is known as Section 105. Class Discussion Discuss why the Church was under condemnation in 1834. "THE TRANSGRESSIONS OF MY PEOPLE" Uppermost in the minds of Zion's Camp was the redemption of Zion (Jackson County). For this purpose these brethren had traveled hundreds of miles to assist in that redemption. The cause of the persecutions and drivings from that place is reiterated in this revelation. Six months before this time, the Lord had also revealed some information upon this subject. (D&C 101: 1-8.) Obedience to the command- ments given for the redemption of Zion would have brought about her redemption at that time, said the Lord. Behold, I say unto you, were it not for the trangressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now (Ibid., 105:2). What brought about the condition which made the Lord speak of the Church as being in transgression? His answer is found in the revelations accounting for the persecutions that came upon the people in Zion. They had "not learned to be obedient to the things which I required at their hands" (D&C 105:3). What was required? The Church was required not only to live the moral commandments, but also to live the law of consecration as explained principally in Section 42. No one was exempt from living that law in that day. (D&C 70:10; 85:1-8.) The members of the Church had been commanded to gather to appointed places where they could live the laws that would bring a fulness of blessings. But in this command-. Ment the Church failed because the members were not united as required by the law of the celestial kingdom. (Ibid., 105: 3-5.) Important for all of us is to live the laws of the Lord which are in force at the time. WITHHOLDING ASSISTANCE The Church failed to live the law of consecration, and, when persecution came, the commandment was given that the branches of the Church should contribute money that land might be purchased whereon the persecuted saints might settle. (Ibid., 103: Lesson Department 23.) The Prophet Joseph Smith and other elders traveled among the branches of the Church to obtain money for this purpose. _Their efforts were not always successful. In fact, the Lord reminded the people that the branches of the Church must learn obedience even by chastening, if necessary, for there were many who said: 'Where is their God? Behold, he will deliver them in time of trouble, otherwise we will not go up unto Zion, and will keep our moneys" (Ibid., 105:8). Whether the circumstance is physical persecution as in the days of Missouri, or poverty caused by other reasons, as of today, the saints are always under obligation to assist their fellow Church members. Class Discussion What opportunities are given to members today to assist their fellow members? A TRIAL OF FAITH There are many times when members of the Church have their faith tried. It may be when they are confronted with the temptation to sin by breaking a commandment. To spend tithing money for some other purpose may be an example. Whatever the temptation, faith is tried. In the Missouri period of the Church, the members had their trial of faith when the Lord asked for money to help the persecuted saints. The men who were asked to volunteer for Zion's Camp had their faith tested also. Those who accepted this call to service and proved faithful to their responsibilities, were accepted of the Lord. (D&C 105:19.) 619 August 1967 Relief Society sisters who show their faith by their works find greater opportunity for service in the kingdom. To assist in the welfare of others as a teacher or leader in the Church is the reward of faith. The trial of faith received by the men in Zion's Camp prepared many for responsible positions in the Church. Most of the Twelve Apostles and many of the First Council of Seventy were selected from that group. WHAT IS NECESSARY TO REDEEM ZION The Lord declared that Zion's redemption, the building of the City of Zion, would not be realized in 1834 due to the transgressions of his people. (D&C 105:9.) It was also said that the elders would have to be endowed "with power from on high" (Jbid., 105:11) before this was possible. Let us consider the Lord's reasons why Zion was not redeemed in 1834 and think of those reasons as necessary for the preparation of Latter-day Saints today that this goal might yet be attained. First, they must be taught the commandments and _ their duties more perfectly; second, they must have experience; third, the Church membership must be "very great"; and fourth, they must be sanctified. (D&C 105:10, 31.) THEY MUST BE PREPARED The Lord said his people must "wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion" (Ibid., 105: 9). In the meantime, however, it was necessary that they make every preparation to fulfill this prophecy. Before the Church was organ- 620 ized there was a preparation going on in the lives of many people who later would make contributions to the building of Zion upon the earth. One of these was Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother. The following advice to him is pertinent to all members of the Church. Build upon my rock, which is my gospel; Deny not the spirit of revelation, nor the spirit of prophecy, for wo unto him that denieth these things; Therefore, treasure up in your heart until the time which is in my wisdom that you shall go forth. Behold, I speak unto all who have good desires, and have thrust in their sickle to reap (/bid., 11:24-27). Essential to living the gospel in daily life is to enjoy the spirit of revelation. President Lorenzo Snow suggested in the following words the importance of that spirit: There is a way by which persons can keep their consciences clear before God and man, and that is to preserve within them the spirit of God, which is the spirit of revelation to every man and woman. It will reveal to them, even in the simplest of matters, what they shall do, by making suggestions to them. We should try to learn the nature of this spirit, that we may understand its suggestions, and then we will always be able to do right. This is the grand privilege of every Latterday Saint. We know that it is our right to have the manifestations of the spirit every day of our lives(Conference Report April 1899, p. 52). THEY MUST BE TAUGHT Contrary to the situation which prevailed in 1834 when all members of the Church were converts, several generations of members have grown up in the Church. There has been time for the teachings of the gospel to become second nature to the member. Through Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations opportunities for learning are made available from birth to the end of life. The women of the Relief Society are being prepared in facets of gospel living. There is an abundance of instruction in gospel principles and their application in the lives of members through the organizations of the Church. As a Relief Society member participates more fully, her ability to understand and apply the principles of the gospel becomes greater. The impress made by these Church organizations depends upon two factors. First, the strength of the desire to learn and, second, the skill and dedication of the teacher. It is well to ask if we are following the counsel of the Lord in the way to become instructed—to "seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D&C 88:118). THEY MUST HAVE EXPERIENCE Preparation for success in learning duties and commandments is closely related to the second lesson to be learned—to have experience. The law of consecration, called the United Order, is one of the laws to be lived when Zion is redeemed. Insufficient experience in the principles of this order as they apply to individual worthiness and the mechanics of operating the order contributed to the earlier failure. As an example, since 1936, the ChurchWelfare Program has given the Church considerable experience in the operation of numerous projects designed to take care of those in need. Not only has this type of experience been gained by Lesson Department Church leaders, but also the members of the Church have learned that obedience to the counsel of the living prophets has brought numerous blessings. They have had the principle of work made more meaningful in their lives. Also, concern for their neighbors has been emphasized as a part of living. It is well to ask ourselves what contribution we have been making to the Welfare Program. Have we contributed to the building of Zion upon the earth by making this kind of offering to the Lord? MEMBERSHIP 'VERY GREAT" The number of members of the Church in 1834 is unknown, but 1200 Saints were driven from Jackson County, and a few years later when Nauvoo, Illinois, was at its peak, nearly 20,000 members left that place. With the present Church membership of nearly two and one-half million and a steady annual increase of nearly 100,000 converts, it is suggested that the Lord's army is "very great," when compared with the membership of 1834. How are converts added to the growing kingdom of God? First by a dedicated missionary corps who are generally supported by parents who are thus contributing to the building of Zion upon the earth. Second, by the referral system of helping missionaries receive "golden" contacts; and third, by living the teachings of the gospel so well that people become attracted to the Church. TO BECOME SANCTIFIED Finally, the Lord told the early saints that, in addition to his Church becoming "very great," 621 August 1967 the members should become "sanctified before me" (D&C 105: 31). Numerical strength without quality of life would not bring about the Zion which is defined as "THE PURE IN HEART" (Ibid., 97:21). In the beginning of the dispensation, the Lord revealed that men become justified through Jesus Christ. (Ibid., 20: 29-31.) This justification is brought about by the atonement which he made for man. When men completely respond to the commandments of the gospel, they may become sanctified. The principle of sanctification means that one becomes so immersed in the life of the gospel of Jesus Christ that he becomes purified, holy. He yields his heart to God. (Helaman 3:35.) This is not the sanctification interpreted as being filled with the Spirit on a certain occasion, but is the quality of holiness that comes through keeping the Lord's commandments. Moral cleanliness and devotion to responsibilities received as a worker in the kingdom are essential to us as women. Keeping one's mind single to God is the way to sanctification. Such single-mindedness' involves (a) walking uprightly before the Lord, seeking to know his will through study, praying unceasingly, recognizing that salvation comes only through Jesus Christ; (b) doing one's duty to bring about a change from the carnal to the spiritual state. To be "'born again" (Mosiah 27:25) by the Spirit (Holy Ghost) is a qualification to be sanctified. To become a new creature in Jesus Christ is essential to "inherit the kingdom of God" (Mosiah 27: 26). The meaning of being sancti- 622 fied by the Spirit is expressed in Section 88 in the following words:... My voice is Spirit; my Spirit is truth; truth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound. And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things. Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will (D&C 88:66-68). To redeem Zion presupposes that members of the Church become dedicated to the objectives of the gospel, receive sanctification, and enjoy the power that comes through righteous living. Class Discussion Discuss how women in the Church are making progress in preparation for the building of Zion.. IMPLEMENTATION Among the many privileges of the member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is to be a participant in the events foreseen by prophets of old. One of these is the preparation for the building of the city of Zion, the New Jerusalem, in Jackson County, Missouri. The following words of President Joseph F. Smith give us a picture of what is needed to help in the redemption of Zion. But when shall I be prepared to go there? Not while I have in my heart the love of this world more than the love of God. Not while I am possessed of that selfishness and greed that would induce me to cling to the world or my possessions in it, at the sacrifice of principle or truth. But when I am ready to say, "Father, all that I have, myself included, is Thine; my time, my substance, everything that I possess is on the altar, to be used freely, agreeable to Thy holy will, and not my will, but Thine, be done," then perhaps I will be prepared to go and help to reLesson Department deem Zion (Millennial Star 56:385- 386). When a Latter-day Saint woman is committed to this objective, there is always zeal and enthusiasm for the principles and programs of the Church. Her life becomes gospel-centered. She listens to and obeys the voice of the Lord through his servants. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 2—Love—a Way to Salvation Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: God revealed through his Son Jesus Christ that the basic principle of his kingdom is love. By implementing this principle, we help ourselves and others to obtain salvation. Is love rare? Do we deceive ourselves about how we love? Half of the hospital beds in the United States are occupied by the emotionally ill. The offices of psychiatrists and counselors are jammed with the mentally distressed. Crime rates soar alarmingly. Thousands are killed on our highways each year through careless driving. What is true in the United States finds its sad counterpart in other countries of the world. More than half of the world's people go to bed hungry each night. Almost daily revolutions and wars painfully remind us that man finds it increasingly difficult to love God, himself, or his neighbor. Israelites, immersed in their love of the Torah, the law of Moses, had lost sight of God's purpose in the adoption of the philosophy of an "Kye for eye, tooth for tooth" (Exodus 21:24). Jesus taught them that they had strayed from the essence of God's teachings which is the love of God, of self, and of neighbor. Has our own generation also strayed? Do we understand love? The scriptures repeatedly define love: the busy, despised Samaritan who took time to rescue the injured and abused; the father of the prodigal son who accepted his repentant son wholeheartedly and without scolding; the woman taken in adultery who was shown mercy and under- 623 August 1967 standing; the concern for children when Jesus gathered them to him over his disciples' protest; the necessity of seeking knowledge and understanding when Martha was gently rebuked; Jesus as he hung on the cross sacrificing his life for the love of God and his purposes. Did Jesus have more time than we? Was his life less precious? What matters our new dress, car, or television set, or the cake we are mixing, if our neighbor needs us, if our friend is in distress, if our child needs us to listen, or if halfway around the world a man starves? We will save ourselves and others when we show mercy, use wisdom, accept and seek repentance, extend forgiveness to all, and are actively, daily, responsibly caring for others. ''Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 2—-Family Protection—Insurance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: To show the need for insurance in family protection. NOTE: There will be need for this lesson to be adapted to the country, state, and local laws. Emphasis in the lesson should be placed on the importance of providing for family protection in any eventuality. INTRODUCTION In our present-day living, the term security has taken on so much importance that it has become almost a byword. The dictionary tells us that security is being free from fear, care, danger, or doubt, and the assurance of safety. The Latter-day Saint woman is one who wants to do something about her family's security instead of just worrying about it. During the past several months we have been emphasizing the im- 624 portance of a sound financial program in the management of a home and family. One of. The most important of these considerations is that of insurance protection, without which no family financial plan is complete. Years ago, financial insurance was looked upon as a death benefit only. Today, however, a wise insurance program will protect against the misfortunes and accidents that occur in life, as well. Young people, in particular, tend to neglect this most important form of insurance—the kind which offers protection if and when anything happens sharply to reduce or cut off the family income. Example A young husband, who had a substantial life insurance policy which would provide amply for his wife and family in the event of his death, suffered a broken leg while working on a home project and was unable to work for over six months. During this period his accumulated savings were used up, and he was forced to ask for a loan to carry his financial responsibilities until he could go back to his work. When we think of insurance, we should consider it in all its aspects. To bear alone the burden of property damage and loss, or of liability for harm caused to others is usually beyond our individual capacity. The function of insurance is to distribute these risks of loss among a large number of people under like circumstances. The premiums paid by policyholders create the funds which will be used to protect those who are struck by misfortune. KINDS OF INSURANCE 1. Life Insurance is of primary importance since it provides protection for the family in the event of the death of the breadwinner. There are four basic types of life insurance policies from which to choose. A. Straight or ordinary Life Insurance: With this policy the holder pays a premium every year throughout his life so that his beneficiaries will be paid the full value of the policy at his death. This is the least expensive form of permanent life insurance, as far as Lesson Department premium payments are concerned. It is the foundation upon which the average family can build a sound insurance program. B. Limited Payment Life Insurance: This has the same features as the above, except that it is paid for in a certain number of payments. For example, a twenty-payment life policy would be paid for in twenty years, but the policy remains in force for its full value for the rest of the insured's life. This type of policy is a good investment for those who wish to complete their payments during their best earning years. C. Endowment Policies: For a_ premium paid over a certain number of years, the insured receives at the end of that time the full value of the policy. If he should die before the end of that period, his beneficiary receives the full amount of the policy. An endowment policy not only provides insurance protection for the dependents, but it also provides a means of accumulating a specified sum of money to be available at a definite time. Although more costly than other forms of insurance, this is a wise method of saving money for the future for those who find it hard to save. D. Term Insurance: This is temporary insurance which has no cash surrender values. If the holder dies within the specified period, his dependents receive the full amount of the policy. This form of insurance provides a death benefit only and has no cash value. It serves as a protection against the death of the family provider, or as an assurance that certain business obligations or a possible mortgage will be covered in the event of the death of the family head. E. Special Policies: Many insurance companies issue policies based on the four standard types and designed to give extra protection during the growing years of the family. Also, Group Insurance policies are issued to employees of various firms and organizations under conditions favorable to the holders. 2. Medical and Hospital Insur- 625 August 1967 ance should cover all family members and pay medical expenses that would be a hardship to meet out of current income or emergency savings. 3. Accident Insurance is insurance against personal injury or death caused by accident. Our mechanical age has added many previously unknown hazards to our lives and created a great demand for this type of insurance. 4. Personal Liability or Casualty Insurance concerns itself with the protection of individuals from claims against them arising from damage or harm to the person or property of others. This includes the all-too-frequent car accident, the fall on a defective step or walk, the injured workman, food poisoning in a restaurant, and other accidents. 5. Burglary, Robbery, and Theft Insurance will protect the holder in case his possessions—furniture, clothing, jewels, cameras, and other effects—are stolen or if he suffers any other loss through fire, for example. HOW TO OBTAIN INSURANCE Well-established, commercial insurance companies usually handle all the basic types of policies, and there are always several agents in every community of any size, no matter where one lives. Reputable insurance companies are regulated by laws that protect our interests. We should make sure that any company we deal with is licensed in our state, or in our country. Discuss the kinds of insurance that would have prevented finan- 626 cial loss in the following examples: A. In a family car accident, a young son was injured to such a degree that he required months of hospital care, many costly blood transfusions, and expensive surgery. The accumulated bills amounted to several thousand dollars — more than his parents had been able to save in all the years they had been married. B. While Mr. Jones was in the process of remodeling his home, a milkman tripped on a loose board and fell, fracturing his skull. He was in the hospital for several months. He sued the home owner for $4,000 to cover his lost wages, $2,000 for medical and hospital bills, and $30,000 to compensate for the permanent damage to his health. C. A young couple left their apartment to spend the Christmas holidays with their parents in a neighboring state. Upon their return, they found their apartment completely stripped of furniture, clothing, linens, personal effects—everything of value was gone. Appeals to the police were fruitless, and nothing was recovered. CONCLUSION No one is immune to disaster of one kind or another, and when it occurs, its consequences are likely to be many and varied. In addition to the personal tragedies of pain and sorrow and death, there are often serious financial complications and losses. The experience of the past several hundred years has developed the practice of insurance to protect us against just such losses. We need to make certain that our insurance program gives our families the right kind of protection and the most for our money. CAUTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS 1. Do not carry more insurance than you can afford. Consider the needs and the goals of the family in determining this. 2. Review all of your policies, with your agent, at least every five years. Insurance plans need revision with every change in the vital statistics of the family. Lesson Department 3. Remember that in insurance, the same money can be used for two advantages—protection and income or savings. 4. Understand your insurance policies _and make sure of their cash values from time to time. SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 2—"'And Also By Faith" Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman may know the blessing of truth revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of faith. Lesson Follow-up: A brief report (3 or 4 minutes) by a class member appraising her current study or leisure reading, and giving one specific truth obtained. INTRODUCTION In addition to study as a means of acquiring knowledge, we are commanded to seek learning through the exercise of faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who lives worthily and who exercises faith in her search for knowledge may be blessed with divine guidance. Introducing this lesson are two life incidents on the exercise of faith: 1. The Testimony of a Young Woman Convert (illustrative of numerous like testimonies) Mary M. States: My husband is an atheist and consequently ridicules my belief in the gospel and the divinity of Jesus Christ. But deep within myself, I know that the gospel is true. This truth has been made as manifest to me, in answer to my earnest prayer, as if vocally spoken and affirmed by some unseen person. Although I was the only member of the Church in our city for over five years, my faith in this truth has never weakened. I know that the gospel and the plan of salvation are true. Discuss briefly the strength of such a testimony and her statement after being baptized and confirmed: I believe that having become receptive to things of the spirit, and because of my faith and earnest prayers, the Holy Ghost enlightened me far beyond my own power of discernment. Question: Have you had the experience of suddenly obtaining insight relative to a particular problem? 627 August 1967 2. A Testimony of The Book of Mormon Shared With a Chance Acquaintance. A day's journey by train. Usually gave Mrs. A. An opportunity to finish the book she was reading and to do some rereading of certain scripture. She had made it a habit of late, to carry one of the standard works of the Church with her when she traveled. Now, as she opened The Book of Mormon and began to read, the woman sitting beside her said, "I have heard about that book you are reading, but have never seen it before. Have you read it?" "Yes, indeed I have,' Mrs. A. Answered, "some parts of it many times. Perhaps you would like to read my copy?" As a result of the conversation which followed, the woman spent several hours that day reading in this latterday translated scripture. Finally, she said, '""This is very interesting, do you believe it to be true?" "T do," with emphasis. "I sincerely believe it to be true." "You, no doubt, have been taught that it is true, since you say that your Church accepts it as scripture. But how could I, or anyone else, not a member of your faith, know that it is the truth?" Mrs. A. Was grateful that she recalled now, the important passage in Moroni which would answer this question specifically. Quickly she opened the book to find the following passage which gives the conditions on which an individual testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon may be obtained. And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4). The woman reread the passage indicated, then she said, "I believe there is a God, but I am not what one might call a praying woman. Would I need 628 to pray vocally in order to receive this assurance?" Question: What would you have answered? Two significant elements are present in this Book of Mormon scripture, (1) that we ask witha sincere heart, having faith in Christ; (2) that by the power of the Holy Ghost we may know the truth of all things. This indicates clearly that faith is a prerequisite to enlightenment by the Holy Ghost. Class Discussion 1. What may the woman in the foregoing incident need to do in order to receive a testimony of the divinity of The Book of Mormon? 2. What procedure would you recommend for any woman whose faith is weak, but who expresses the desire for greater faith? Be specific. 3. What are the comparative merits to be found in the following statements, relative to increasing one's faith? Friend A: I am doubtful about certain principles of the gospel, so I am reading everything pro and con about the Church that I can find. When my faith is stronger I shall accept Church assignments. Friend B: I do not understand certain principles of the gospel, but I am trying to live the commandments, doing whatever is asked of me. I believe that through this obedience the Lord will help me to understand all that is needful for me to understand about the gospel in this life. 4. Is either of these women actively seeking to "know" by faith? Discuss. FAITH, THE FOUNDATION Since the objective of this lesson concerns the search for truth by faith, it may be helpful to define faith. One definition, given in an unabridged dictionary of the English language (Webster's New International, 2nd Edition) is: "The fact of accepting or the disposition to accept as real, true... That which is not supported - by sensible evidence or rational proofs or which is indemonstrable."' All Christendom is _ familiar with the definition of faith given by the apostle Paul: "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Hebrews 11:1). From a less familiar but significant and comprehensive analysis of faith appearing in Lectures on Faith given at the School of the Prophets in Kirtland, Ohio, we select the following statements and questions: Faith being the first principle in revealed religion, and the foundation of all righteousness, necessarily claims the first place in a course of lectures which are designed to unfold to the understanding the doctrine of Jesus Christ (Lectures on Faith, N. B. Lundwall, compiler and publisher, Salt Lake City, Utah, p. 7). Referring to Paul's definition of faith the statement continues: From this we learn that faith is the assurance which men have of the existence of things which they have not seen, and the principle of action in all intelligent beings... It is faith, and faith only, which is the moving cause of all action.... And as faith is the moving cause of all action in temporal concerns, so it is in spiritual.... But faith is not only the principle of action, but of power also, in all intelligent beings, whether in heaven or on earth.... Faith, then, is the first great governing principle which has power, dominion, and authority over all things; by it they exist, by it they are upheld, by it they are changed, or by it they remain, agreeable to the will of God. Lesson Department Without it there is no power, and without power there could be no creation nor existence (Ibid., pp. 7, 8, 10). Without going into the analysis technically, it may be well to emphasize the fact that faith is the moving cause for action in temporal concerns as well as in spiritual matters. As application of the temporal, surely we may say that man plants the dormant seed with faith that he will reap a harvest. Would Columbus have ventured upon uncharted seas had he not believed that he would prove, that he would find? From Lectures on Faith we read:... Would you have ever planted, if you had not believed that you would gather? Would you have ever asked, unless you had believed that you would receive (Ibid., p. 8)? Likewise, in the search for spiritual truth, we must be motivated by faith that we shall reap a spiritual harvest. BY ALL WHO BELIEVE We ordinarily think of learning as knowledge which is acquired by systematic study or by experience, and the learning process as one of gradually becoming aware of what previously was obscure, concealed, and unknown. In the scripture under consideration, the Lord admonishes us also to become aware of truth which was heretofore not understood or known to us, through the medium of faith in addition to or in lieu of the printed word. Revelation and inspiration are gifts of the spirit and are so acknowledged by all who have faith —who believe in the Father and in the Son. The atheist, on the other hand, does not believe in 629 August 1967 divine communication because he rejects the very existence of God. The Latter-day Saint woman may know through gospel teaching and through her own experience, that the gifts of the spirit are a reality. Not only does she acknowledge this, but she seeks to know, personally, through the exercise of her faith, the blessing of divine communication. She may know truth, revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of her personal faith. What truth, what learning will she likely seek to acquire? Class Involvement Involve the class, through discussion of the following, with this question in mind: In your opinion, would the following situations be embraced in the directive to "seek learning... By faith' (D&C 88:118)? If so, why? If not, what would? 1. The woman desiring better to understand a particular gospel principle. 2. The mother desiring guidance as to the proper procedure in handling a difficult family problem. 3. The single woman needing guidance in making an important choice or decision relative to her personal life. 4. The student feeling the need for special assistance in recalling facts for an examination, or similar situation. 5. The woman of middle years wanting to learn how to feel less dependent upon her married children. 6. The woman facing a Church activity problem who feels the need for divine help in making that decision. 7. The grandmother who sincerely wants to learn how best to assist her married children, yet not interfere with their lives. 8. The Relief Society officer who faces a misunderstanding situation and feels the need for divine guidance in resolving this problem of personality conflict. Others may be added. 630 "SEEK, AND YE SHALL FIND" (Matt. 7:7) It is of special interest to observe how important the "seeking" is to the "finding" of a truth to be obtained by faith. The yearning to know, expressed in the sincere prayer of faith that precedes the bestowal of truth is fundamental in the Lord's promise, '"... Seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). Among the many examples which are relevant the following is particularly illustrative. Here the prophet Alma, calling upon the Nephites to repent, and testifying of predictions which are to come, states:... Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself? Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true... (Alma 5:45-46). Class Involvement Excellent examples of spiritual learning sought and knowledge acquired through the exercise of faith, may be found in the area of missionary service of the Church. Discuss the need for divine help for the two following individuals: 1. A young missionary entering the mission field with a limited knowledge of gospel principles but who has an earnest desire to understand and teach those principles. He also has a difficult language to learn. 2. The investigator-woman who is receptive to the gospel message, but who has so much opposition from family members and friends that she Oo feels she must have a feeling of inner surety. BEYOND THE REACH OF MAN Tremendous strides have been - and are at present being made by man in the field of scientific investigation. Witness the truths regarding the universe which are being brought to light through orbiting satellites in outer space, photographing the surface of the moon, recording atmospheric conditions and returning to earth other important data. Consider also the advances made in other areas of scientific research, including the knowledge of the flora and fauna of the earth and of the culture and nature of its inhabitants. In spite of these advances, however, the most significant truths regarding the existence and nature of God, the Creator, and of the gospel of his Son, the Redeemer, have come to man through direct revelation. Much truth is beyond the reach of man, in his present state of mortality, unless revealed to him through the power of the Holy Ghost. We marvel with reverence as we read of the brother of Jared in Book of Mormon times and of the boy Prophet in this dispensation, to whom the heavens were opened because of their great faith, nothing doubting. In The Book of Mormon we read: (have a class member read) And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image (Ether 3:15). Familiar to Latter-day Saints Lesson Department is the fact that to the Prophet Joseph Smith was granted a similar manifestation. To him were revealed the Father and the risen Lord bringing to the world truth he could not have received from study of any source current in his day. TO WHOM AND WHAT REVEALED Revelation for the benefit of the Church is given directly to the President of the Church. The Lord's house is a house of order and the right to receive such revelation belongs to one appointed and sustained to represent the membership of the Church—one who holds all keys of the Holy Priesthood. But to all who believe, who have sufficient faith, and who live worthily, divine guidance may be given. This is according to the Lord's promise. CONCLUSION Seeking knowledge by study and seeking it by faith may become so closely allied as to be inseparable, and an individual's spiritual faith may become so strengthened through a study of the writings of Church leaders, that his ability to perceive and receive even greater spiritual truth is increased. Thus study and faith as a means of obtaining truth become interrelated. Having the inherent ability to learn and to progress, we have the obligation to put forth the effort to do so. One of the most poignant of comments is this: 'If I had only known." It not only is a here-and-now advantage to acquire knowledge, but to possess knowledge is of eternal value. This truth is inherent in the gos- 631 August 1967 pel plan and is affirmed in these words given us through the Prophet: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D&C 130: 18-19). It is of even greater eternal advantage to an individual to possess wisdom, for wisdom results from knowledge gained by study, experience, and also by faith, which is wisely used for the good of man. FOR HOME DOING Appraise your own personal need for spiritual help, then ask yourself: 1. Do I ask the Lord in humble prayer, having faith, or do I take the attitude that he knows my needs? 2. Do I gratefully acknowledge the divine assistance received in specific instances, or do I take this blessing for granted? 3. Do I help my children to know of this great blessing, dependent upon their faith? ' CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Lesson 2—''Honesty, a Measure of Life'' Dr. Bruce B. Clark "The measure of life is not length, but honesty." —John Lyly Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that as she is honest with herself, a woman helps others to value the sincere and trustworthy. She should recognize dishonesty in all its forms and thus be more fully honest in all that she does, says, and is. (To Class Leader: This month's lesson includes four selections—two poems and two short stories. All of these are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Two of Volume 3 Out of the Best Books. Also included as part of this lesson is a consideration of the painting ''The Holy Family" by Andrea del Sarto, as printed on page 433 of the June 1967 Relief Society Magazine.) A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, GENERAL COMMENT In the Old Testament, in Proverbs 6:16-19, we read: These six things doth the Lorp hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him: An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, A false witness that speaketh lies, 632 and he that soweth discord among brethren. Note that two of the seven "abominations" explicitly refer to the evil of dishonesty—"a lying © tongue" and ''a false witness that speaketh lies.'' Three others seem also to involve forms of dishonesty—"an heart that deviseth wicked imaginations," "feet that be swift in running to mischief," and "he that soweth discord among brethren." The Bible is filled with reminders from the Lord and his prophets that we should cultivate honesty and avoid dishonesty. Literature, also, is abundantly concerned with honesty as an ideal and dishonesty, in all its forms, as an evil. If we were just to list the great works of literature that in one way or another are concerned with honesty and dishonesty, we would have room for nothing else in this lesson. Through literature we have faith with Cervantes in Don Quixote that "honesty is the best policy." We painfully learn with Huck in Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn that '"'you can't pray a lie." We recognize with Alexander Pope in "An Essay on Man" that 'an honest man's the noblest work of God." We may, however, feel that Hamlet is too disillusioned when in his feigned madness he says to Polonius, '"To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man plucked out of ten thousand" (Hamlet, Act II, Scene 2). There may be those who agree with Stuart Chase in his famous essay "The Luxury of Integrity," written a few years ago, that anyone who wishes to be scrupulously and undeviatingly honest must be willing to pay the price—which Lesson Department means adherence to principle, resistance to temptation, and refusal to compromise integrity at whatever cost and at all times. - Temptations to compromise honesty confront all of us daily. If we are to be fully honest we must be honest in all areas: Honest with one's self. Honest with one's family. Honest with one's associates. Honest with the Lord. Honest in one's actions. Honest in one's speech Honest in one's thoughts. Perhaps the hardest of all is to be honest in one's thoughts and honest with one's self and with the Lord. Especially is this so because pride and selfishness distort our thoughts. Sometimes, like James Thomson in the following humorous lines, we even let pride exaggerate our sins: Once in a saintly passion I cried with desperate grief, "O Lord, my heart is black with guile, Of sinners I am chief." Then stooped my guardian angel And whispered from behind, "Vanity, my little man, You're nothing of the kind." To explore such problems of honesty, and to make us more sensitive in these areas, we now turn to the two stories and two poems. "THE WALTZ" BY DOROTHY PARKER This first selection is a clever, humorous story vividly showing the temptation that constantly confronts us to think one thing and say another. Unfortunately, the story is too long to print here, but studying it in Out of the Best Books will impress every reader with the extreme contrast be- 633 August 1967 tween what the woman in the story says and what she thinks. For Discussion Should we speak our honest thoughts even though others will be offended by what we say? Does courteous small talk involve dishonesty? Someone says "How are you?" and you answer "I am fine," even though you have a severe headache. Or someone says 'How do you like my hat?" and you answer "TI think it is very lovely,' even though secretly you think it is unattractive and in bad taste. Are there times when it is best to be silent and other times when it is necessary to speak out? RICHARD CORY Whenever Richard Cory went down town, We people on the pavement looked at him: He was a gentleman from sole to crown, Clean favored, and imperially slim. And he was always quietly arrayed, And he was always human when he talked; But still he fluttered pulses when he said, "Good-morning," and he glittered when he walked. And he was rich—yes, richer than a king— And admirably schooled in every grace: In fine, we thought that he was everything To make us wish that we were in his place. So on we worked, and waited for the light, And went without the meat, and cursed the bread; And Richard Cory, one calm summer night, Went home and put a bullet through his head. 634 (From The Children of the Night, 1897, reprinted by permission of Charles Scribner's Sons.) As will be evident to anyone who reads it, "Richard Cory" by the powerful American poet Edwin Arlington Robinson (1869- 1935), is a very adroit and excellent little poem, especially made so by its closing two lines. We have included it in this lesson, however, not for its adroitness but for its insight. To all who looked at him, Richard Cory seemed to have everything—wealth, health, culture, happiness, composure, even elegance. And yet, "one calm summer night" he "went home and put a bullet through his head." The point of the poem is, of course, that we cannot judge a person accurately by external appearances. To do so is not only unfair but in a sense dishonest. We have judged on superficial, incomplete evidence—and is not this a kind of dishonesty? The conclusion is that we should be very hesitant to judge people by how they look, or to envy people for what they seem to have and we don't have. There is no place for envy and jealousy in the world, but there is never enough genuine understanding, friendship, compassion, and help. Sometimes a smiling face conceals a crying, lonely, troubled heart. For Discussion Analyze "Richard Cory" closely. To what extent do people reveal their inner natures in their outer appearances? Is it true that neither books nor people should be judged by their covers? "ANDREA DEL SARTO" BY ROBERT BROWNING The most difficult selection in this month's lesson is this brilliant, famous dramatic monologue by the great Robert Browning. Readers will undoubtedly be intrigued by its challenge, artistic richness, and psychological complexity. Again, the poem is too long to print here but is included, with full notes and discussion, in Out of the Best Books. The poem relates to honesty because it portrays the life and personality of an Italian Renaissance painter, Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531), who, although he painted with flawless craftsmanship, lacked the integrity and strength of character to be either a great artist or a great man. As a young painter Andrea did brilliant work, displaying not only obvious genius but also a buoyant creative joy. In his later work, however, the flawless craftsmanship remained but the zest and creative joy were gone. Many have felt that an unhappy marriage stifled Andrea's_ creative powers. The fire of an unhealthy love consumed his genius and left only the burnt ashes of his craftsmanship. Above all else, in Browning's poem we see the pathetic weakness of Andrea—his rationalizing as he alternately blames God, his wife, and others for his failure; his vacillating self-pity and his arrogance; his pride as a _ skilled craftsman mixed with his futile yearning to match Raphael, Michelangelo, and Leonardo da Vinci as great painters; his flashes of genuine recognition of weaknesses in himself as painter and man; Lesson Department and, most of all, his mixture of honesty and dishonesty. "A RUN OF GRAY" BY BRIAN K. KELLY The fourth and last selection is a story by a gifted young Latterday Saint author. Although written by a relatively inexperienced young author, "A Run of Gray" is an excellent story. It is vividly realistic in detail, skilled in language, and significant in meaning, emphasizing the need to face life honestly, with recognition that all living things, especially people, are mixtures of good and bad. It is alsoa very interesting story, appealing both to young and mature readers. The story is not flawless. The simplicity of its sentence structure becomes a little monotonous, and it is ineffectively repetitious in a spot or two. Sometimes its words are not as dramatically intense and symbolically rich as they might be. These, however, are minor weaknesses in a story that is amazingly strong and meaningful. Descriptively, it is especially good, having vivid, realistic details: the poplar and cottonwood trees planted everywhere by early pioneers, the contrast between duck eggs and seagull eggs, and between duck nests and seagull nests, the ducks and gulls themselves, a boy milking cows with his head resting in the cow's warm flank as the heavy foam forms on the surface of the milk in the pail, the problems of hatching duck eggs with regular barnyard hens, the behavior of restless boys at stake conference. Obviously, the author knows what it is to be a boy ona farm. 635 August 1967 Its dramatic conflict is equally vivid, especially the account of the gulls devouring the fluffy ducklings, the boy smashing the gull eggs and baby gulls in his fury, and the subsequent scene with the boy washing in the canal. This is first-quality narration, and woven into the whole story is a rich background of Mormon history, including the famous incident of the seagulls and the crickets. The result is a story that is well handled descriptively, narratively, dramatically, and historically. And central to all of this is its tightly integrated meaning, which lifts it from being merely a good story for boys to being a mature story for thoughtful adults. The theme of the story is suggested in the very title, "A Run of Gray." It starts to take clear shape, especially when the boy, while listening to a sermon, becomes puzzled about the difference between a natural and an unnatural man. Finally, the meaning becomes fully clear when the boy realizes, through painful experience, that all living things are both good and bad, depending upon point of view and situation —the grasshoppers, the seagulls, Indians, Brother Wright, mankind, everybody and everything. This is a great and essential lesson for the boy to learn, and for everyone to learn in the process of growing up. For Discussion Point out specific descriptive details that make this story realistically accurate. Explain the title "A Run of Gray." In what ways are the grasshoppers, the seagulls, Brother Wright, and men, in general, gray rather than black or white? Why is it important 636 for us to see this about ourselves and about each other if we wish to be honest? In the last paragraph the narrator says that after watching men and gulls age he has often envied the gulls. Explain what he means. We have included this story in a lesson concerned with honesty. In examining ourselves, other people, and the world around us, it is important to be as honest as possible. What truths about people and life in general does the boy learn, in this story, in the process of growing up? LATTICE FOR LOVE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The whispered words we share Become a trellis where, Like climbing vine or rose, Our love entwines and grows. Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS.+Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces.. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 "~.. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY, eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 The Holy City Praise Be to Thee More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Satisfaction must be yours—or money gladly refunded. 637 The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord | Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide MARGARET LUND TRAVEL INC. PROFESSIONAL TOUR ADVISORS For all travel and ticketing arrangements HAWAIIAN TOURS Aug. 11 Sept. 1 Oct. 13 plus monthly PAGEANT TOURS including Canada's World's Fair July 22 EUROPE TOUR Aug. 30 TEMPLE TOURS Oct. 21 MEXICO October 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 Ogden, 399-4587 Logan, 245-6584 St. George, 673-3136 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa, 964-5283 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6......... 90 Zone 5........05 8 DESERET EWS PRESS THINKING ABOUT GE NE A LOGy? LET US HELP YOU! Competent Professional Research at prices You can afford VAIL RESEARCH FOUNDATION Box 581 Salt Lake City, Utah CHRISTMAS CRAFTS for Gifts and Decorations Ask about Free Classes and Demonstrations in All Handicrafts Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twenty-five Inexpensive Handicraft Projects' ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 638 Zone 3.......... -60 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 7........+-1.05 Zone 8.......65,1.20 45-PIECE $ 793 *) SERVICE FOR EIGHT B Reg. Retail $234.50 11 patterns to choose from "plus freight if Formal and delivered out-of-town. _ J informal settings 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN OR MORE) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at... Factory-to-you prices © OVEN PROOF ¢ HAND PAINTED © DISHWASHER SAFE e HUNDRED YEARS PATTERN GUARANTEE FACTORY OUTLET STORES i. - ail st South | 625 South Broadway [ 714 State Street, Santa Barbara Boone City, Utah Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos Salt Lake City's N aaatial Stes BLACK HILLS PASSION CRAFT & NOVELTY CANADIAN ROCKIES Aug. 20-Sept. 2 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-4 MESA VERDE and 0 a alae CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR * Complete line of materials for Free Instructions also available 486-1017 639 Merchants Park Shopping Center UTAH shop to serve you better!: plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 — In California — aries eee RS Sept. 23-29 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Shen. ROSE ee me James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 —_ Mrs. Lucy Robison Turner Morgan, Utah 100 Mrs. Lueila Scovil Hendricksen Laramie, Wyoming Mrs. Mary Hoopes 96 Eisinore, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh 9 St. George, Utah Mrs. Paula Reber Staheli St. George, Utah Miss Rosa Shuss Larned, Kansas Mrs. Alice Stice Humphrey Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Emily Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California UNKNOWN HEIGHTS Lois M. Anderson There are unknown peaks of knowledge In the region of the mind. But few men reach their summits, And few men ever find The hidden paths of wisdom, And the trails that twist and wind, To reach the shining mountains In the altitude of mind. 640 10 Mrs. Annie Cathrine Ericksen Benson | Logan, Utah Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Anna Kerstine Nielson Busk Salt Lake City, Utah g5 Mrs. Josephine Workman Fawcett Ye Katie Meikle Ewing Mrs. Esther Sperry Farnsworth 9) Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Isabelle Armstrong Stacey Simpson Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Annie Carter Johnson "Washington, Utah Lehi, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Rawson Cottle Menan, Idaho OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 (postage paid anywhere in the world) The third volume of the series is themed to "intelligent family living." Selections from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform the reader. Text for the Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course 67/68. YOU AND YOUR CHILD'S WORLD by Dr. Elliot Landau $2.95 Dr. Landau is a professor of education at the University of Utah. This book draws on material first used in his standing. Reading difficulties, dating, and school studies are among the problems discussed. See SS 0 seret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITy 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN ees - 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me...... Copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 ancopies of YOU AND YOUR CHILD'S WORLD Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake store add 3! 2% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange store add 4% sales tax. Total cost $........ CJ] Check 'Money Order Cj Charge my established account Re ie eee City. State. Zip........02.. LJ PLEASE SEND ME CHARGE ACCOUNT INFORMATION Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah The family most likely to succeed...... Will have the help of Beneficial Life Insurance. Insurance can be a source of security and comfort to your family — but it can also be a means of improving the quality of life for each family member. Beneficial Life has policies that provide immediate estates for your family; policies that take care of your retirement in comfort; policies that create funds for missions and college educations; policies that safeguard the family home. The family most likely to succeed as a family will use the advice of their Beneficial Life Agent to create security and opportunity through insurance. Wm. BENEFICIAL LIFE =— Srsesanee GE Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah oO £ Ni © 0) © 2 SEPTEMBER 1967 a iw O » O Pe Q O 4 ~*~ ry hey r Cpe acnsescsciny, Sn EOD REMEMBERING Christie Lund Coles Each of us bears his rememberings Of the valley's slope or mountain's cleft; Each carries the memory in himself Which leaves him sustained or bereft. You may recall the geese returning, 1, how they left. |, how the autumn curved above The lake in frail and transient tulle, The way the muted music sang In lowering streams that once were full, Aware of the misted air above me, Gray now... And cool. | will recall the. Swallow's leaving, How fragrant summer turned to pass Over the meadow, dark and fallow, Over the seared and withered grass, Newly aware of the leaves' soft grieving Like tinkling glass. Soon | shall recall spring and summer, too, But the remembering mind must do what it must do. The Cover: §| Autumn Day, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: )) Evening Near Meeker, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: §) Dick Scopes {ftustrations: [|] Mary Scopes 641 ye OQ ~ W— Since we are so far from the center of the Church, our thoughts are often. Turned to our former homes, friends, and sisters in the Church, as we see the covers and read the pages of the Magazine. Sometimes we recognize a familiar name, or face, or place, or experience. More than this, however, is the truth of the gospel which the Magazine brings through its stories, poems, talks, essays, and thoughts. Thanks for the love you send each month through the Magazine. Kathleen J. Damron Apia, Upolu Western Samoa We are grateful for The Relief Society Magazines. They are becoming more beautiful each year. The covers are lovely, and the group pictures give us many splendid ideas. But most of all we love the hobby pages showing the dear sisters and their many talents, such as painting, quilt making, and all kinds of handicraft work. | would like to encourage the elderly sisters to putter around in their gardens. | would not have lived to be almost eighty years old had it not been for my outdoor activities. Sarah E. Peterson Sebastopol, California | have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine through many years, and now | shall soon be eighty years of age. Of the many poems |! Have read and enjoyed in our great Magazine, none has hit my heart like Lael W. Hill's "Inviolate" (April frontispiece 1967). There is in the poem something that is beautifully mew and yet is endless. Only the elements, the "wind, or rain and stone"' can tell the soul that something. Her knowing insight combines in a sort of oneness both truth and beauty. Estella Cluff Freestone Los Angeles, California 642 'Cf UM Af | offer my thanks for the marvelous Relief Society Magazine. What a privilege and honor it is to belong to the world-wide sisterhood. It brings tears to my eyes to think that wherever my daughter or | may go there is a hand waiting to welcome us with the loving sweetness that Relief Society sisters develop. ' Doreen S. Walsh Brecknell, Berkshire, England The beautiful color pictures and the lovely flowers, the green trees and lush vegetation, and the temple in New Zealand set my heart to racing with expectancy for spring (''New Zealand—A Silhouette in Green."" by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, March 1967). | very much enjoyed the story "To Warm the Heart" and the serial ''The Golden Chain," both by the same lady (Hazel M. Thomson). Lillie Hendricks Big Springs, Texas Today the sun is shining and the spring signs are beginning to show, yet my heart and mind were drawn inward when!. Arose this day. | had two sorrows for which | had been searching for a way to express myself to these two beloved relatives. Then my Relief Society Magazine came, and as is my habit, | sat down to look through it and turned directly to page 289 (April) and the article ''Into Every Life Some Rain Must Fall'' (by Amy Giles Bond), then | went on to page 280 and found "Inner Struggles'' (by Arlene Larsen Bascom). Here were the answers to my need for expression. | am borrowing these two articles from my friends so that | may send them to my dear sweet mother who is ill, and also to my dear niece who lost her young husband in Vi Nam last week. | thank you for a Magazine that has so much to offer the si ters in the gospel. Barbara P. R Taylorsville, The Relief Society Magazine Volume 54 September 1967 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 645 Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 647 "'A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star'' Vesta P. Crawford 652 A Mother's Point of View—Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future Marilyn N. Hull 671 The Crafts of Mexico Claire Noall 689 ''Le Bénédicité'' (Chardin) Floyd E. Breinholt 689 'To Them of the Last Wagon" (Fausett) Floyd E. Breinholt 691 'Life From Death' (Breinholt) Floyd E. Breinholt Fiction 655 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 1 Janet W. Breeze 665 The Golden Chain—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Hazel M. Thompson General Features 642 From Near and Far 660 Editorial "Hold Up Your Light'' Marianne C.'Sharp 663 Notes to the Field: Teaching Aid Packet for Social Relations Lessons Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet 662 In Memoriam—Alta Hansen Taylor 664 Woman's Sphere Ramona Cannon 696 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 720 _ Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 676 Pasadena Stake Spring Fashion Show ''April in Paris'' 678 Luminous Gold Leafing Bette McDonough 680 Spanish-American Branch Relief Society, Provo, Utah 680 Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes 239 Quilts 681 Chicken ''Labscovs'' Luncheon Linnie F. Robinson 682 A Cardigan From Scraps of Wool Olive W. Burt 683 Fabulous Paper Maché RaNae Gledhill 684 Brilliant Borders Decorate the Garden 692 Beauty! S For Every Home Tasma P. Dansie 695 A ''Many-Ribboned'' Lady Lesson Department 704 Spiritual Living—The General Authorities Roy W. Doxey 709 Visiting Teacher Message—Loving Oneself and Others Alice Colton Smith 710 Homemaking Meeting—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Celestia J. Taylor 713 Social Relations—As a City on a Hill Alberta H. Christensen 718 Cultural Refinement—No lesson for December Poetry 641 Remembering Christie Lund Coles Autumn Gifts, Hannah C. Ashby, 651; Driftwood, Maude O. Cook, 654; September Courage, Kathryn Kay, 659; Swan Song, Elizabeth Simon, 662; And All the Love Between, Alda L. Brown, 663; Just Desserts? Ruth G. Rothe, 670; Wide Autumn, Dorothy J. Roberts, 677; Child in a Doorway, Ethel Jacobsen, 712. Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a Copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Ocie 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Ed manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.; Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Birthday Congratulations To September 8, 1967 ¢ Relief Society women throughout the stakes and missions of the Church join together:'on this September day to express love and appreciation for President David O. McKay. Over the years, his counsel has blessed the sisters in their homes, in their Relief Society organizations, and in their spiritual and cultural development. His words of comfort, encouragement, and inspiration have been a guiding light to the world-wide sisterhood. It is the hope and the prayer of Relief Society women that this ninety-fourth birthday of the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator will bring to him a realization of the gratitude and affection of the members of the Church who thank the Heavenly Father for a prophet in these latter days. Selections from President McKay's counsel to the sisters are reprinted here that Relief Society members throughout the world may partake again of words of faith and wisdom and eternal truth. MOTHERHOOD The noblest calling in the world is that of mother. True motherhood is the most beautiful of all arts, the greatest of all professions. She who can paint a masterpiece or who can write a book that will influence millions deserves the plaudits and admiration of mankind; but she who rears successfully a family of healthy, beautiful sons and daughters whose immortal souls will be exerting an influence throughout the ages long after painting shall have faded, and books and statues shall have been destroyed, deserves the highest honor that man can give. The mother's image is the first to impress itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world... That everdirecting and restraining influence implanted during the first years of his childhood lingers with him, and, as perfume clings to the fading rose, permeates his thoughts and memory throughout life. Beauty, modesty, sincerity, sympathy, cheerfulness, reverence, and many other sublime virtues must be hers whose subtle and benign influence is such a potent factor in the progress and destiny of the human race. September 1967 THE HOME A home in which unity, mutual helpfulness, and love abide is just a bit of heaven on earth. Most gratefully and humbly, I cherish the remembrance that never once as a lad in the home of my youth did I ever see one instance of discord between father and mother. Harmony, good will, concord and mutual understanding are virtues to be fostered in every home. Example is more potent than precept. Parents have the duty to be what they would have their children become in regard to courtesy, sincerity, temperance, and courage to do right at all times. Home-building is an art. At first thought some might object to the word art in connection with home-building. However, the adaptation of knowledge and skill to the building of a beautiful home is the highest of attainments. | By the art of home-building, I mean the inculcating in the lives of children a nobility of soul that leads them; instinctively to love the beautiful, the genuine, the virtuous, and as instinctively to turn from the ugly, the spurious, and the vile. In the art of home-building there should be manifest ' the work and skill of two artists, the father and the mother. If these work at cross purposes, the result of ( their efforts is frequently failure. If they work harmoniously, each supplying what the other needs as they. Daily work upon their living creations, the result will likely be boys and girls who will be a credit and an adornment, not a blight or a curse, to humanity. PERSONAL VIRTUES Appreciation is a great virtue; and if husbands and wives expressed it more frequently in our homes, wives would be happier, and husbands would probably be more kind. Self-control on the part of governing children: I think the children should be properly directed and controlled, not permitted to run around without any limitation to their actions as they affect other members of the household. Do I mean that you should be cruel to that child? No! It is unnecessary. But it means that when you say "no," you mean what you say. (Excerpts from "Secrets of a Happy Life' by David O. McKay, compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay, and "Pathways of Happiness" by David O. McKay, compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay.) 646 QyY 000000000000 000000) YYQR RY YVIQVQOYQVoRQQ000 7 QV i OTN "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" Relief Society remembers its heritage and looks forward to a multiplication of its blessings in many nations. 9° pp PROP FP OPO PpP PP oO o? D dD Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine ¢ Whatever season may mark the beginning of the "Relief Society Year," and whether the time be autumn in the Northern Hemisphere or a resuming of regular meetings in the southern lands— whatever be the climate or the meeting place, Relief Society is a continuing blessing. The worldwide sisterhood is destined, by prophetic vision, and by a sacred foretelling, to stand as direction and guidance, as comfort and inspiration to the women of many nations, for "this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth...." In December of 1867, in the mountain-rimmed valley of the Great Salt Lake, President Brigham Young instructed the bishops in the new settlements of "Deseret,"' to organize Relief Societies on a permanent basis; and at the April conference, 1868, he "repeated the requisition, extending it to all the settlements, calling upon the sisters to enter into organizations, not only for the relief of the poor, but for the accomplishment of every good and noble work." President Young called. Upon Eliza R. Snow, a woman of spiritual strength and great influence among the daughters of Zion, to assist the bishops in the work of organization. Accordingly, Sister Snow, already appointed as President of Relief Society, and her two Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, with seven other "leading sisters," began visiting the wards and settlements, renewing a priceless heritage to the women who remembered Nauvoo, and to those other sisters, more recently converted to the Church, who would be equally responsive to an organization of their very own. In 1868, when the far-reaching commission was given to Eliza R. Snow and her assistants, twentyfour years had passed since the day when Sister Snow, as secretary, had recorded the minutes of the last official meeting in Nauvoo, Illinois—on March 16, 1844. That meeting concluded two years of formal gatherings of 647 Ai 00 ittttttti NAO AA AMAA IITA September 1967 the sisters in the river city, where they had heard the voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith organizing the only auxiliary of the Church established during his lifetime. After much trouble and tragedy, the westward-bound wagons rolled out of Nauvoo—February 1846—and crossed the winterbound Mississippi River. And what of Relief Society in that interim of exodus, before the first wagons, and the. Thousands that followed, were circled in the fortress of the mountain valley? The sisters, instructed and experienced in the ways of compassion, tenderly ministered to those who were ill and those who were' hungry and those who sorrowed in the separation from their homes and loved ones. Small groups of sisters met together, as time and the waiting periods of the caravans would permit, and often they sang together, their voices echoing across the desolate plains, as they had once been heard in the river city, where now their homes stood desolate. Many members of the early organizations sang of their faith in the restored gospel, as the journey across the plains proceeded— "Tho' hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day... All is well... All is well." Testimonies by firelight were given, and those women whose faces looked to the west, remembered Relief Society—its precepts and its practices. At Winter Quarters, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who had been second counselor in Nauvoo, conducted a few meetings, wherein the sisters rejoiced and expressed gratitude for their heritage. 648 In the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, there were formal organizations of Relief Society as early as 1851, only four years after the coming of the first wagons—and informal meetings, sometimes referred to as "get-togethers," even before that time. An organization and a way of life had been so firmly implanted in the hearts of the sisters that there could be no forgetting, even during times of great hardship, when providing food and shelter seemed to be of utmost concern. In the years 1852-53-54-55-56-57, and into the next decade, the organizations in the valley grew and prospered and became a light and a beacon and a direction for the women. Some of the groups featured a multitude of handicrafts, and others, even in that -early time, studied "all the books available," and "hired a learned gentleman to give stereoscopic lectures, showing the scenery of the world."" In some organizations there was organ music and. A "vast singing of the sisters." In the meetings, testimonies witnessing the blessings of Relief Society became sounds of heartfelt rejoicing. By 1858, Relief Society had been organized in ten Salt Lake City wards, and in Ogden, Provo, Spanish Fork, and Nephi. Along the foothills and in the green valleys that fringed the Wasatch Mountains, Relief Society flourished, and some of the sisters said one to another, "It is almost like Nauvoo." But there were hundreds of women who had never attended a Relief Society meeting, and in the far-flung settlements, only a very few had seen President Emma Smith preside in Nauvoo —and very few had seen the hand of the first secretary—Eliza R. Snow—move across the page as she wrote immortal words for the first record books; in the outlying settlements, only a few had heard the Prophet's counsel. During that. Year of 1868, when the organizing sisters traveled the "tolerable good roads" and the "tolerable poor roads" to the faroff villages, events were moving towards a time of closer communication among the organizations already formed and those groups of sisters ready for cooperation and a joining of hands and-hearts in the noble work that only women can do. In 1868, twenty-six years had passed since the glorious seedtime of Relief Society. A girl child born during the last years of Nauvoo would now be a woman. Grown, very likely a mother and the mistress of a-home "far away in the West." The Church was thirtyeight years old; twenty-one years had passed since the first wagons had rumbled through a cleft in the mountains and those of the first wagon trains saw their future home—"'far away in the West." It was in a time of sending missionaries by the hundreds 'to the nations of Europe and the islands of the sea; it was a time of temple building—the saints, remembering the former sacred edifice in Kirtland, Ohio, and the fallen temple in Nauvoo, Illinois, had laid the cornerstone of the. Salt Lake Temple, and in other settlements, it was said—'Soon there will be a temple on this hill." It was eight years after the last of the sorely-tried but triumphant handcart companies had entered the Valley. The springtime of "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star" 1868 was one year before the Golden Spike, made of. Twentythree twenty-dollar goldpieces, had linked the Mississippi River with the Pacific Coast in historic pageantry at Promontory Point, Utah. It was another year of grasshoppers in the fields and "cloud-watching" vigils for farmers who prayed for rain. There was a meetinghouse in Provo, eighty-one feet. Long and fortyseven feet wide, having a tower eighty feet high. In the year that the 'leading sisters" began their ''far-off'' visits, the settlements, many of them "pioneered" in the early sixties, were still in the "first shelter" stage of building—log cabins, small adobe houses made of clay from nearby hills, dugouts in the hillsides. The story is told that once, in the sixties, when the apostle George A. Smith was traveling by twilight to a "southern settlement," suddenly he saw the head of a man appear out of the ground in front of the carriage, and the man called out in an excited voice: "Stop! Stop! Don't drive over my house!"' So, into the villages bordering the streams, into the small hamlets perched precariously on the hillsides, into the habitations that were only clusters of cabins, even to the "smallest places that could be counted," President Eliza R. Snow and the "leading sisters" traveled—wherever and whenever there was a way for travel, by wagon, in carriages, horseback, sometimes part of the way afoot, the organizers of Relief Society journeyed for the accomplishment of their assignment. President Eliza R. Snow was sixty-four years old in 1868. She 649 September 1967 had been a member of the Church since 1835. Devoted and generous, she contributed from her personal inheritance "'a very considerable amount" for the building of the Kirtland Temple. At an early age, her knowledge of the Bible was exceptional, and her "literary labors," had achieved distinction even before she became a schoolteacher, a governess, and a spiritual-minded leader of women in Nauvoo. During the exodus, sue learned to drive an ox team, and "labored unceasingly in the camps of Zion." In 1856, her first book of poems was published in Liverpool, England. Her magnificent doctrinal hymn, "O My Father" was a favorite with President Brigham Young, and he often requested it to be sung in the congregations of the saints. With President Eliza R. Snow, during most of her "'organizational travels' to the settlements, were her beloved Counselors Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney. Zina, who was born in 1821, and joined the Church in 1835, followed with her father's family the early migrations of the Church. A woman of remarkable spiritual insight, and great energy, she directed many special assignments for Relief Society. In 1868, twenty years were to elapse before Zina D. H. Young would become the third General President of Relief Society. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, an early member of the Church, born in 1800, was the eldest of the three sisters in the presidency in 1868. She had been second counselor in Nauvoo—one of the most devoted of the "founding sisters," knowing the needs of women and the ways to comfort and inspire, 650 as she said, '"'the beautiful ones on the earthly road to eternity." Another of the "ten leading sisters," who traveled the length and breadth of Deseret to organize and supervise Relief Societies, was Bathsheba W. Smith, the youngest member present at the first meeting in Nauvoo, who was destined to outlive nearly all of the approximately 1300 women who became members before the exodus. Bathsheba became president of Relief Society in 1901 and served until her death in 1910. As these "illustrious"? Women journeyed to the settlements, organizing, encouraging, inspiring the teachers, the scenes at the gathering places and the living tableaus of the meetings were to be long remembered. One sister, residing in "the center of the Territory," reported an experience shared by hundreds as the days and the years of organization continued: I rode in from the field, following the path along the foothills, and when I came to the place where I could see the meetinghouse, there were buggies and wagons and riding ponies close together along the fence, and women walking through the sagebrush—all converging together. I had never seen anything like it since the days of Nauvoo—but that was in a green and rainy land—and this was a blossoming in the desert. A sister from Fillmore said: "I was lonely on the far frontier— but two events of beauty illuminated my life—one was the first blossoming of my lilac bush, and the other was the organization of Relief Society." By the time the "organizing sisters" reached Gunnison, in the valley of the Sanpitch, the sisters, under the direction of the bishop, had been organized for more than a year, iholding two meetings a month "one prayer and one working bee." In Fayette, a village on the Sevier River, the "sisters from Salt Lake" found the women already busy with handicrafts and the sharing of helpful household practices. "Clara Mellor Hill was an expert at making yeast, which she generously shared with everyone 'for a start,' "' and Polly Benson Bartholomew "was an artist at weaving beautiful rugs, carpets, and bedspreads." Testimony meetings were a joy to the visitors and a time of gratitude and reflection for the sisters who felt that their heritage had been restored. One sister said that she had been so occupied learning the ways of the land — the late and early coming of the snow, the direction of winds, the availability of water for the garden, the innumerable tasks within her home, that she had almost forgotten Relief Society. To her the organization was a restoration of the handclasp and the unity—the "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star' strength and beauty of the sisterhood—an opportunity to learn the precepts of the gospel more fully, and to train her hands in household arts and crafts of usefulness. The years following 1868, were more than a time of restoration of the beginnings in Nauvoo and a spreading of the patterns already established—more than a time of enlarging the boundaries—they were in spirit and accomplishment a foretelling of this present time, when the sisters of many lands have found the answer to their yearnings for companionship, for comfort, for learning, for inspiration, for direction in the work of their hands, for guidance in their ministrations, for enlightenment in their homes, and for light along the pathway to eternal life. Like the women of 1842, the women of 1967 are truly inheritors of that which the Prophet Joseph Smith promised to the sisterhood: "Tf you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingr AUTUMN GIFTS Hannah C. Ashby Fresh decked in autumn glory, calm, content, The wooded hillsides, near the canyon stream, Display their gaudy robes of merriment In golden flashes of the day's bright beam. Bounteous nature, happy with each change, Sees apples, corn, and pumpkins in the bin; dom." eS The sheep and cattle home from mountain range, The threshing done, the harvest garnered in. The warmth and welcome of the hearthstone fire, A sense of gladness and of comfort bring, As nature fills life's promise and desire, With gifts and treasure that would please a king. Eternal mountains with majestic mien, Declare the Master Maker of the scene. 651 A Mother's Point of View Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future a Marilyn N. Hull « There was the fourteen-yearold girl who ran up to my husband after Church, to shake his hand as firmly as a missionary, to welcome him to her home town as the new Seminary teacher; there was the boy with a bitter feeling toward life, until his teacher took him rabbit hunting in the snow; there was the only 652 boy my husband expelled from class for misconduct, who later wrote the prize-winning poem in a Seminary writing contest. These were a part of the sudden flood of individuals and experiences that faced us that first year of my husband's teaching in the Seminary system. We were recently such mere specks among the world's conglomeration of students ourselves, we were practically stunned, attending service that first Sunday, when people referred to us as Brother and Sister Hull. (I must admit, I felt as pleased as a girl on her first date.) Were our experiences different, or were those students' experiences unique among teenage Seminary students? I don't know of a year in my husband's teaching, both on the high school and college level, that such experiences haven't occurred almost weekly; and I know that other Seminary and Institute of Religion teachers have nearly all known similar experiences. My husband and I were probably quite average as a young married couple that first teaching year, so why did the girl who wanted an ideal marriage make so much of ours? Was this a clue? Was it because of her need for us to be more ideal? (And this did cause me to think seriously.) Teenage boys and girls want standards, and they want people with whom they can identify and look to each day of their lives— not just on Sunday. The home is, or should be, the most important place for this to occur. But we know, too, that at this teen age, where young people strive for independence, they Seminary and Institute in Your Child's Future must have experiences that are different, and with other adults than those whom they find at home. They identify with their peer group, too, and it becomes important to them to be on the same path with their friends. The environment and _ teachings that they find in Seminary and Institute are important to their development. The daily home experience is the anchor, but they cannot harbor at home always; they feel a healthy surge for adventure and finding new horizons; they must launch out on their own—well, not completely alone, for they will stay close to their teachings of home and the Church. The week-day religious education program re-enforces the teachings of the home during the Seminary years. Then, later, when they want to seek advanced learning, not only in secular fields but in the gospel, too, and when they want social contact with people of their own age and religion, those are the Institute years. As parents, how can we be sure, in this world of increasing corruption, that among the dazzling, bright trinkets of life,-there:-will -. Also be in our children' s daily experiences a standard of righteousness? 'Teenagers feel a need to identify with some adults outside of the home circle. In some cases they are testing to see if the world is as solid as the home, and sometimes they are searching for "footing" that is more secure than that they have at home. The Seminary and Institute environments help young people to form a proper sense of values. Teachers know it is important to recognize each student by name and to have as much personal contact with that student as possible; they do enlistment work outside their regular duties; and they prepare daily, in order that the lessons may have a "freshness" and meaning for that very day in the student's life. The teacher feels a dependence on prayer for assistance in helping the student to feel the spirit of God in his own bosom—for God is, after all, the anchor and guide. As a Seminary student and later as an Institute student, and still later as a Seminary and Institute teacher's wife, I have been influenced by the Church's religious education system for more than half my life. Aad, as a mother, I feel the same concern all mothers feel for their children's learning, association, and experience. J am concerned that my children become more exposed to the scholarly aspects of our religious history and doctrine than there is time for in once-a-week Sunday lessons; and I want them to have student-centered lessons on how to live every day. We be- _lieve in eternal progression—not.. Only-in the idea, but in acre < participating in it. The high school I attended was fun and it was busy—but some-. Times it was so fun and so busy. That one didn't always stop to evaluate. The hour each day I took Seminary, which began with devotionals and ended with lessons of eternal truths, gave me the opportunity to get hold of myself. There were dates and other "fun" times in which I could clearly see a choice coming my way, that I must make, between 653 September 1967 proper and improper conduct. Almost always, along with my parents' eyes making a picture in my mind, were the eyes and the sound of my Seminary teacher's voice reinforcing the teachings of my parents. This helped me make the proper decisions. Another factor was that I sat in Seminary class surrounded by my classmates and friends. It was as though they were a second witness that what I was learning was right, and I could not let them down, nor let myself down in their eyes. Later, I remember being greatly pleased at my Seminary graduation, because the teachers cared enough to make the event a beautifully prepared highlight of memories. And then came higher learning and being away from home. I attended college where I felt I must clearly make a choice of what I would do with my life. I found that at the Institute of Religion, in the student organizations, there were social life and friends of the very type that I wanted. And there were the counsel and evidence of the faculty members and their wives. It is true that students do identify with their elder leaders, and some impressions are lifelong. I also found opportunities to develop and to use my talents at the Institute: teaching dances, directing a roadshow, giving talks or readings in Sunday meetings. There were numerous opportunities for those who were musically inclined. Too, ranging from guitar solos to singing in the choir. I found good friends, and, when I was lonely, I liked to go there because I felt at home and at peace. It is good, too, when we evaluate, to realize that this week-day religious education program is continually being improved by the dedication and insight of men who care. Care for what? They care for your son and your daughter. Once when I heard Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of the Seventy, in talking in behalf of the International Latter-day Saint Student's Association, fervently proclaim, "I would gladly give my life if it would help a boy or a girl!"" my own heart reverberated, ""He means what he says." This is the type of concern and leadership awaiting young Zion, members of a Church destined to fill the whole earth. Let us envision within our hearts and realize that the Seminary and Institute cause is also our cause, and that it is there to assist us in doing that which is best for our families — to bring them into personal joy, satisfac- 7 DRIFTWOOD Maude O. Cook It is not the seconds the clock ticks off, Nor the days as they come and go, That determines our course on the stream of life, But whether we drift or row. Tion, and eternal life. 4 654 ~ 5 ae Throw Down 1, e U rl rat rea 4 ra ie on f U Chapter 1 Janet W. Breeze ¢ Nancy placed a dinner plate upside down on a large piece of orange-colored construction paper and carefully traced a circle, which she then cut with the scissors. Today she had reached the summit of five years' work — or was it a life's work? When she had been a child, and everyone would ask, "What are you going to be when you grow up?" Nancy knew. "A dancing teacher like Mama," she would always say. "And I'm going to wear my hair in a bun and tap a long stick on the floor." Now Nancy's hair was short and curled. But she had been tapping that long stick on the floor for seven years—two years at the university, and five years in her own studio. Dancing was her life. At the age of two, she had sat on top of the piano while her older sister played and her mother directed the students. At the age of three, she had joined the beginner class. Right from the start, dancing had been more than just. One-hour-a-week thing with Nancy. She had practiced daily —with no coaxing from anyone. As long as she could remember, her bedroom, while she was growing up, had been decorated with colored prints of the Dégas ballerinas. And the day she first wore a romantic costume "en pointe" was the day she first felt like a woman. It was at an MIA dance festival that she and Grant nad first noticed each other. And their first project after their marriage had been to pool their savings for the minimum down payment on an old Victorian house with a timeworn lean-to which had been used as a dancing studio in years past. Grant had always willingly supported her whenever she mentioned dancing. And right from the beginning, she had scheduled as many lessons a day as she pos- 655 September 1967 sibly could handle in order to make enough money to have the useful old room _ transformed. Now it was done. Now she had the beautiful, mirrored studio she had dreamed of as a child. "This is it!" she said to Grant. "The final touch to our new dancing studio." She tiptoed across the glossy hardwood floor and taped the orange-colored circle on the wall. "Not," she laughed, "that 'ocusing their little five-year-old eyes on an orange-colored spot is going to straighten out all of my spinning ballerinas—but at least it makes me feel as though I've tried!" Then she swiftly pirouetted back across the room and threw her arms enthusiastically around her husband's neck. "Oh, Grant," she said. "I'm so happy! Just think! Five years and it's finally happened!" Then she giggled. "Of course, that's not how long we thought it would take to remodel this wreck when we bought it. Remember, Mr. Jackson? We were going to rebuild completely and redecorate both the house and studio the first year we lived here." "That was before Amy was born, and Skipper," Grant reminded her. "Right! But now it's finished. Oh, honey, doesn't it give you a feeling of accomplishment? I mean—yjust as if every eighteen inches along these walls there is a little-bit of you nailed in?" Grant held Nancy close and twisted a lock of her hair around his finger. "Come on, now," he said. "I didn't hit my thumb with the 656 hammer that many times, did 1?" "Silly! You know what I mean. It's no longer someone else's old house and studio. Now it's a part of us. It's really ours!" "Nan?" Grant held her at arm's length and looked into her eyes. "Huh?" He turned and pulled her toward the couch. "Come sit down." "Sit!" she exclaimed. "When I feel like dancing my little red shoes off?" But then she looked at him again and she felt that he was pleading with her for something she couldn't understand. ""What's the matter, Grant?" ""Nan—have you ever heard of Micronesia?" She sat down and thought a moment. ''Well—sure." Her face brightened. "One of my friends told me once that she went to this party. They played a game where each person had to use a certain word in a sentence. And her word was Micronesia. Well, she didn't know what it was, so she told them that before she was married, she had a pet crow. And her boy friend was so slow in proposing to her, that finally she said, 'Please marry me—my crow needs ya!" In Nancy's holiday mood, she laughed heartily at her own humor. "That's not exactly what I had in mind," Grant said, his expression growing stern. She sighed and gave him a puzzled look. "All right, Grant. So I don't know what Micronesia is. Maybe it's a long-lost relative of Poly- nesia. Anyway—I don't see what this has to do with reopening our dancing studio. We're supposed to be celebrating!" Grant's expression remained serious and intent. "Micronesia means 'little islands, Nancy. They're in the Western Pacific. And they have everything to do with opening the studio again. Nan—TI guess I should have told you before this. Well, I tried. I mean—maybe I should have said something before I checked into it so thoroughly— but I want to go there." Nancy cocked her preoccupied head. "That's, nice dear. We'll probably be able to save enough money by the time you retire." Grant jumped to his feet and gestured with his outstretched hands. "Nancy, please! Will you listen to me! I know how wrapped up you are in teaching ballet! But the Department of the Interior is recruiting teachers to work in the Trust Territory of the Pacific. And I want to apply." He impulsively took a brochure out of his pocket and placed it in her hand. On the cover was a heart-tugging picture of wideeyed, brown-skinned children sit- "Sy mats and Then he ting on Pandanus begging to be taught. Handed her an application blank. "The Government calls that a Form 57," he said, his voice taking on the tone of an apology. Throw Down the Gauntlet Nancy's eyes began to blur as she tried to understand the words: "Held by the United States under trusteeship from the United Nations—three million square miles (mostly water)." "You're serious!" her voice came as a squeaky whisper. "Oh, Nancy. I'm not just saying this to try to hurt you, believe me." He sat back down and enveloped her firmly in his arms. "But, honey, don't you remember those two crazy college kids? The ones who used to sit parked in a car planning—daydreaming about setting the world on fire—while Mama kept flipping the front porch light off and on?" "Oh, come on, Grant," she pulled away from his grasp. "That was six years and two-anda-third babies ago!" "But I haven't forgotten that dream, Nancy. Nor the girl who wanted to share it with me. Remember? We talked about what an education it would be to get out and see the world. You were interested in writing that book on folk dancing. And I was going to do field research on _littleknown plant life." "That was just talk. You were right the first time. Those words were uttered by two crazy college kids—not the parents of preschoolers." "We made other plans in those wee small hours, too—our goals in life. Or have you forgotten?" He got up and walked slowly across the room and turned off the air conditioner. Then Amy burst through the door. "Mama! Look at the new book Grandma gave me. Read it!"' "Not now!" Nancy snapped, 657 September 1967 trying desperately to hold back her tears. "Can't you tell that Daddy and I are busy talking?" Amy turned away and _halfheartedly left the room. "There's the biggest reason of all why we should go, Nancy," Grant said. "What do you mean?" "You're tired. I can tell. You always cut the children and me short when you've been driving yourself too hard. When some women are pregnant, they feel sleepy or get sick. But not Nancy Jackson. She makes drapes and goes to six A. M. Road show practices six days a week." "Now, Grant. You know that's the only time we can get the boys and girls together during the summer—and we're going to win —I just know it! They're getting polished to absolute perfection! And, as for the drapes, you know I wanted the house and studio finished so I could get a good two-months' teaching in before Sally comes to substitute for me." "That's my Nancy-doll. Everything polished. Everything perfection. And what will the children and I have left when you've burned yourself out?" Nancy slumped down deeper into the sofa. "Turn the air conditioner back on, will you?" she said. "It's stifling in here." "T love you, Nancy. I want you to take better care of yourself." She reopened the brochure. "Can you choose where you want to go?" "Tentatively. I'd like to go to Saipan, mainly because of the large American colony they have there. It's Trust Territory Head- 658 quarters. It would be the best place for you and the children." "Have you given any thought to the Church?" "A great deal of thought, Nancy. And some correspondence." os And?" Grant was right. Suddenly Nancy felt extremely tired. ~ "Well, there's a small branch of the Church on Guam—mostly military personnel." '"'Where's that?' Nancy asked. "In the Mariana Islands, and nearly 1500 miles southeast of Tokyo." "And Guam's as close as the Church is—100 wet miles?" "Well—not exactly." Now his voice began to accelerate with enthusiasm. '"There's one other Latter-day Saint family on Saipan!" "One other?" "Well, what I mean is, if we went." "All right," she said, "'let's see their letter." Dear Brother & Sister Jackson: We were so thrilled to receive your letter of the eighth. It's not often we hear from any of the saints directly. We go to Guam and attend the meetings once every six months, but aside from that, our only contact with the Church is the monthly publications we subscribe to by mail and receive two months late. We have dreamed often of having company in our little LDS meetings, and would enthusiastically welcome you to Saipan. However, I must be honest with you. Having been active in a large ward, you would miss the Church terribly. People who can "rub shoulders" with their brothers and sisters in the gospel don't really know what a treasure they have. Sometimes I long so just to sit in a real chapel—in a congregation—that I weep thinking about it. But Charles is dedicated to his work, and I wholeheartedly support him in it. Teaching is his life. He-considers it a great and rewarding task to take these eager young Micronesian minds and teach them not just about the three R's, but about democracy. For, truly, the sole purpose of the United States here in the Trust Territory is to train the new generation to govern themselves. Free agency is useless unless individuals know how to channel it for a better society. This is the great challenge now in Micronesia. And someday, we hope this race will be receptive to even greater teachings. Sincerely, your sister, Francine Mortensen P. S. If you decide to come, let us know. Perhaps we can advise you on what not to bring. Nancy looked up from the letter. She had never thought of it before—that maybe teaching was Grant's life, and she had been. Thinking about her own career and her goals, which he had seemed to share. "How long is a contract?" she asked. "Two years." Throw Down the Gauntlet Nancy looked around her—at the new ice-blue drapes she had made the week before, at the roster of students, and at the orange "spot" she had just taped to the wall. "Oh, Grant. It's just too much to give up. After all our work. After all your work so late at night. Five years!" "They've been a good five years, Nancy. We've learned a lot. We have a family. The years haven't been wasted." "But...." "Look, honey, keep the letter from Sister Mortensen. Read it again. I know it would be hard on you. Particularly with having the baby. But before you tum the idea down cold, think about it, for me." Nancy put the letter down on her desk. At the side of it lay a record of Alfred Gilbert's Ballet Techniques. This was one decision that was going to require more than just thinking. (To be continued) SEPTEMBER COURAGE Kathryn Kay September is the time of mellowing, of realizing summer's shine is past, the time when April green is yellowing to rusty gold. Which leaf will be the last? Now dew and early frost are interchanging; chaff is discarded, saving future seed. September is a month for rearranging the dreams that | shall keep for winter need. Like mountains, strong for constant weathering, 1, too, can face the lashing of the storm, the tawny cliffs and |, togethering, - will last. Wrapped in my dreams | shall be warm. In this, a month of joy-remembering, 1 can be brave in knowing Junes must fade, for faith and | have been Septembering so many autumns | am not afraid. In fall new hope is found to make hearts sing, in its own way, September can be spring! 659 EDITORIAL Volume 54 September 1967 Number 9 Belle S. Spafford, President Wi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Hi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor W@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Miidred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd 660 Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous "Hold Up Your Light" ¢« About 2500 years ago, Lehi, in describing his vision of the tree, wrote ''there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even an exceeding great mist of darkness,"' and he told of those who had ''wandered off and were lost'' (I Nephi, 8:23). Mists of darkness today blind those who are heedless and who put their trust in the things of this world. The mists of darkness cover the widespread immorality, the evils of tobacco and alcohol, the use of destructive drugs, the disregard for the laws of the land. Pernicious influences reach into the very homes to tempt the young, from their childhood days. Latter-day Saints have been warned since 1833, and were given this warning '"'in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days."' The influence of these men is exemplified by the revealing remark of one mother who, on learning that her son was smoking, confided, ''Well, terrible as it is, I'm grateful it was tobacco and not drugs.'' She knew, however, that often one leads to the other. Mothers must be on the alert everlastingly, and the surest way is to be with their children to guide them in righteousness and observe their activities. It is not enough to gather a family together once or twice a week. Either the father or the mother should be in the home and know where the children go, know when they go, and when they return. It is heartwarming for a; mother always to hear a child call, ''Mother where are you?'' as he enters the home with the certainty that she will answer, and then to have every child feel the security of the expected presence of at least one of the parents in the evenings. As teenagers go about their daily activities, the way to destruction stretches on every side, broad and wide before them. A wise mother will instruct her children of the warning of the Savior, ''for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be who go in thereat' (3 Nephi, 14:13). To the teenager this broad way may beckon alluringly, with darkened sidepaths. A disregard for Christ's teachings is commonplace today. Sports and recreation so favorably viewed, invite breaking the Sabbath. The cars give a license for teenagers to pursue their own desires. Opportunities for experimenting with destructive substances are thrust upon the youth. The pursuit of earning money for worthwhile endeavors is changed to earning money to keep a car running. False values guide too many choices in spite of parental teachings; moreover, many ways which seem not too far apart from the straight way in the beginning, diverge widely as they are pursued, and safety lies only in turning back at once. President George Albert Smith warned Church members always to stay on the Lord's side of the line and never to step over into the devil's territory. '"'For where 'your treasure is, there will your heart be also' (Mait. 6:21). Mothers need to discern what is the treasure of each child. A mother whose daughter had lost her virtue said, ''But she is a good girl, she always goes to Sunday School."" Teachings need to be internalized. Only as this is realized will a child set a straight course when removed from the home influence. Away from the wide and broad way to destruction is that straight gate and narrow way which leads unto life, of which is written ''few there be that find it'' (3 Nephi, 14:14). Teenagers need to know that the narrow way requires earnest and persistent struggle to keep on it, but they may know, too, that an iron rod will guide them if they will cling to it. Today is the time for mothers to open their eyes to the pitfalls lying in wait for their children and to exert the influence of a righteous mother. President McKay, our prophet today, says that the noblest calling in the world is that of a mother. The Lord said to all, ''Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the world. Behold | am the light which ye shall hold up—that which ye have seen me do"' (3 Nephi, 18:24). Parents who hold up their lights have entered the strait gate and are persisting along the narrow way which is the best way to light their children along it. —M. C. S. 661 IN MEMORIAM a ALTA HANSEN TAYLOR December 17, 1905 — July 6, 1967 Alta Hansen Taylor, wife of Henry D. Taylor, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away July 6, 1967, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Anders K. And Amelia Heppler Hansen, and was born in Richfield, Utah. Sister Taylor was a graduate of Brigham Young University, in English. She married Elder Taylor in the Salt Lake Temple on December 26, 1929. They have four sons.: While her husband served as president of the California Mission from 1955 to 1958, Sister Taylor directed Relief Society work, managed the mission home, and assisted her husband. Sister Taylor has given valued service to Relief Society over the years in ward and stake positions and in the mission field. Her gracious spirit has endeared her to the Relief Society women with whom she has served. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Taylor and the family members. May the beautiful life and blessed memory of Alta Hansen Taylor be a continuing blessing to them. ( > SWAN SONG Elizabeth Simon | mourn for no dry willow Or sea of browned-off grass— Regret no broken fences, Dried ponds—decaying mass Where summer's expectations Still rim the crinkled shore, But calmly watch the autumn Come once more! But! Will leave the trampled trail And hide, lest someone see What swans in V-formation, Departing, do to me. 1 will stand tall and stop my breath, Then hush the whimpering grass— Severely frown the milkweed down, And sorrow as they pass! L y 662 TEACHING AID PACKET FOR SOCIAL RELATIONS LESSONS A teaching aid packet has been prepared for use with the 1967-68 social relations lessons. It is available, on order, from the Deseret Book Store, only, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84110, at a cost of $1.25, postpaid regular mail. Those desiring the teaching aid packet to be sent via air mail should include the cost for air mail, for 12 ounces. CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEXTBOOK AND TEACHING AID PACKET Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with the cultural refinement lessons for 1967-68, is available from the Deseret Book Company, only, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84110, at a cost of $2.95, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the June and September color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 4, 6, and 7, as designated. It will also contain a 12" 333 rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons 1, 3, 5, and 7. The kit is available from the Department of Educational Media Services, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601, at a cost of $3.50 postpaid. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges. AND ALL THE LOVE BETWEEN Alda L. Brown Her aged steps fit well into his toddling ones, As hand-in-hand "'to grandma's house" they tread.... He, with only a few short years behind... And she, with only a few brief years ahead.... 663 Vivian Yen, who holds a Master's Degree from Columbia University (New York), operates the Tai Yuen Textile Company, which turns out twenty per cent of Taiwan's textiles. Mrs. Yen also assists her husband Tyjingling Yen, in his many projects for the industrial and cultural development of Taiwan, including the manufacture and exporting of handcrafted goods native to Taiwan. Dr. Ethel Percy Andrus was founder and president of the American Association of Retired Persons, organized in 1958. The association sponsors a number of programs to aid '"'retirees'' to live fuller, more purposeful lives, by means of providing opportunities for social service, for employment, for hobbies, recreation, and cultural development. Dr. Andrus recently passed away. Ann Sexton, of the United States, has won the 1967 Pulitzer Prize for poetry, with the publication of her book ''Live or Die,'' a collection of poems varied in subject material and reflecting much of the perplexity of present-day events which impinge upon the individual and alter his life. Mrs. Lee Tapley is Women's Patrol Leader of the National (United States) Outdoor Leadership School presently located in the rugged and remote Wind River Mountains of Wyoming. Most of the area is accessible only to hikers and horseback riders, and the training includes mountain climbing, wilderness tracking, first aid, swimming, hunting, camp cooking, nature study, exploration, and skiing. 664 Ramona W. Cannon Miss Velma Linford, Star Valley, Wyoming, a former Utahn, is a special assistant to the associate director of Volunteers in Service to America. (VISTA). Among the projects sponsored by the organization are special fields of education and civic orientation for the mentally handicapped, the physically disabled, the isolated, and the lonely people. Among the workers are Dr. Jane Sterling, seventy, a specialist in tuberculosis who helps to rehabilitate the children of various areas of the Navajo Indian Reservation; and Dr. Catherine Nutterville, who has a Ph. D. In education and works with mentally retarded teen-agers in Washington, D. C. Cathy Leroy, twenty-two, formerly of Paris, France, is one of the most successful photographers for the Associated Press in Viet Nam. She spends more time at the front, about three weeks out of every month, than any other woman in the Saigon press corps. Suzanne Farrell, a young dancer associated with George Balanchine's New York City Ballet, recently performed brilliantly in a classical presentation entitled '"'Diamonds,"' set to the score of Tchaikovsky's Symphony Number 3. Her interpretation, according to eminent critics of the dance, ''had an austere purity and grandeur." Marianne Moore, seventy-nine, noted American poet, in April, was awarded the Gold Medal for Distinguished Achievement by the Poetry Society of America. Many critics have pronounced Miss Moore ''the best woman poet presently writing in the English language." Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 8 (Conclusion) ¢ It was a simple thing that caused Nora to begin to take a serious interest in the Church. It was Bishop Shepherd's promise that she would learn to enjoy cold milk for breakfast, made that morning when she first arrived in Banner. She hadn't really given it much thought while she had lived with his family. She had simply respected their belief about bringing coffee into their home, but now she was reminded of the promise each time she milked her cow or each time she took a drink of the milk, sweet to her taste, from the bucket she placed in her spring. The day the bishop came to drive her to the little store in the village for groceries, brought her face to face with the situation. He stood beside Nora, ready to carry the articles she needed: sugar, flour, salt. She would not need eggs. She could get those from Ben. Then her eyes went to the coffee shelf, and paused. She felt the bishop watching. Now, in her own home, there was nothing to prevent her buying it, if she chose to do so. But, strangely enough, and the thought came with startling suddenness, she no longer wanted it. She thought of the milk from Old Brin, cool and. Sweet in her spring, and made a movement with her hand toward the shelf, rejecting it and its contents. The bishop saw the gesture and smiled, but he said nothing. His words came to Nora with vivid remembrance, "I promise you that if you'll try it, the time will come when you will prefer milk for breakfast." And Trudy—little Trudy. She remembered her words, too. "Heavenly Father doesn't want 665 September 1967 you to drink it. I can't drink it because I'm accountable for my sins." Then, surely, I'm accountable, too, thought Nora, and it's time I was acting accordingly. Nora realized that Trudy had been the reason in another way that her own faith had begun to grow. It had been at the little girl's funeral that Nora first heard about temple work for the dead and families being sealed together for eternity. Now that she was able to admit a growing interest in becoming a member, her desire to have this work done for her parents and be sealed to them, became a driving force. Now that she had made up her mind, she lost no time in putting her desires into action. She walked over to the Oliver farm that afternoon where she found Ben and Free hoeing weeds out of the potato patch. "Did you come to help, Miss Blake?" Ben asked, grinning as he wiped his forehead on_ his sleeve. "No, not exactly,'"? Nora answered. "I've come to ask a favor. I want to borrow a horse." "Now, that's a coincidence," said Ben. "Coincidence?" "Yes. I was just telling Grandfather. Yesterday was the day to open another of Jed's letters. It said that I was to take Duke over to you so you'd have a horse when you wanted one. I intended to bring him over, soon as I got these weeds out." His mention of the letters brought to Nora's mind the one with her name on it. Her name 33 666 and When. When. When? She had tried saying the word in various ways, but it still held no meaning for her. When. When what? She had asked herself this over and over. Surely Ben must know. But she could not, would not ask him. For the present she must wait. "Are you going somewhere special, Miss Blake," Ben asked, "'or just riding?". "Yes," said Nora. "I'm going somewhere very special, and for a very special reason." She paused a moment, looking directly into Old Free's eyes. "I'm going to ride over to the Shepherd's and ask the bishop to baptize me. I want it done tomorrow and I want you both to be there." The old man understood Nora's look. He drew his hand slowly down over his beard. "I'm waiting for Jed," he said. The bishop did not seem at all surprised. "T knew it," he said. "That day in the store I knew all you needed was a little more time. We can go up here to the canal. It's full of irrigation water this time of year." "T was hoping the little stream that runs through my place would do. I'd like very much to be baptized there." "Well, now, I hadn't thought of that, but I'm sure it will do." "Oh, Nora!" exclaimed Mrs. Shepherd, hugging her. "I'm so happy about it. 'J] cook up some chicken and we'll have a picnic afterward at your place." The next morning Nora was up early. She cleaned the little cabin scrupulously shining. Then she baked a big pan of biscuits and made a cake, singing as she worked, enjoying each task, each minute of this most important day. She thought of it over and over. She, Nora Blake, was about to be baptized and become a member of the only true Church on the face of the earth. She wished Jed were here. How she would like to tell him of her decision. She tried to imagine what his reaction would be when he did hear the news. Her feeling of happiness, of well-being, persisted, and as the bishop led her gently from the water, she felt the greatest peace she had ever known. She had taken the first step. Soon, now, very soon, she would have the links completed in her own golden chain, that chain Jed had spoken of at Trudy's funeral. L. Was a joyous group that gathered in the little grove behind Nora's cabin. "Wow! This chicken tastes good!" said Ben, reaching for his third piece. "Ben misses Jed when it comes to cooking," said Free, smiling. "He doesn't think I do quite such a good job." "You do fine, Grandfather," said Ben. "Even Jed can't fry chicken like this. But I do miss him." "We all do," said the bishop. "I wish particularly that he could be with us today." He looked at Nora. "Jed will be mighty happy about what has happened," he said. Nora's eyes fell under his glance but her heart pounded. Ben waited until the others had taken their leave before giving her the letter. "It's from Jed,"' he said. "'He The Golden Chain wrote it first of all, but told me to keep it until the day you were baptized." When she joined the Church! Of course! How could she have failed to grasp his meaning at once? She marveled that Jed had written When and not If. He had known better than she had known herself. As Ben followed Free toward home, she opened the letter eagerly. Dear Nora, This will be the one day of all my mission when I shall be wishing I could be back in Banner. I will not know which day it happens, until it is over, but this much I feel certain of—that it will happen. It seems that I have known this, almost from the moment I met you, that sometime you would see your way clear to join the Church. I could not speak, hcwever, until you did so. And now, my Dear, my very Dear Nora, that you have, will you marry me? I realize I am asking a great deal of you, to wait for me for such a long time. Only the fact that I have reasons to believe that you feel as I do gives me the courage to ask. I can only hope and pray that this is true. Write to me, Nora. Write to me and tell me what I am waiting so anxiously to hear. All my love, Jed Oliver Nora -read the letter through three times. It occurred to her that she was learning more than the letter actually said. She was learning that although she had accused him otherwise, there had always been one thing that had meant more to Jed than his land 667 September 1967 —his testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And she was learning that, under no conditions, would he ever have married outside his Church. At that moment she knew that had she failed to accept the truth, Jed Oliver would have remained silent. He never would have spoken of his love. It was like Jed to leave the decision entirely in her hands, hoping that by so doing, her own conviction would be as strong as his own, Nora concluded. When the day came that Ben brought the first letter from Jed, with his address in England on it, Nora had her reply all written and ready to mail. She re-read it before sealing the envelope. Dear Jed, I have answered your letter many times in my thoughts while waiting for your address to arrive. And now that it has come, all I can think to say is Yes! Oh, yes, Jed! I will wait this year and the next year, and as long as it takes for you to finish your work and come home. I would have liked to have had you baptize me, but I could not wait as your Grandfather is determined to do. I have so much to learn and so much service I must give, as you are doing, that I, too, may grow in the gospel. There will be so much you must teach me when you return, but I am making a beginning by teaching a Sunday School class. The students ail know more than I do, but I am trying, and studying very hard, and making progress I am sure. Love, always Nora She kept the letter short purposely, limiting it largely to the pledge that was now given between the two of them. She cherished the thought, held it close to her, unready yet to share her secret with anyone else. 668 Nora spent a good many hours tramping the woods on and near her place, collecting, always collecting things which held promise of added interest for her school program. By autumn, she had a varied and large assortment of moths and butterflies, having to dig into her science book to identify many of them. She found a large beaver log, showing not only the teeth marks of the beaver where he had cut the tree, looking so very much like the work of an expert with an axe, but also showing where he had attempted to cut the log into lengths he could handle before something or someone had frightened him away. She found a variety of empty bird nests and then, on days when she rode Duke to the nearby hills, she came back loaded with rocks and fossils. The week before school started she and Bishop and Sister Shepherd boarded the train for a trip to Salt Lake City. Nora was excitedly happy. "T've wanted to see Salt Lake," she said, as the train moved into Utah, through the fields filled with harvest workers, ''ever since I came West. And to swim in the lake if we can find the time." They found the time, and time also to see "Richard III." The year's school went quickly for Nora. True, it had been measured out day by day, as Jed once said he liked his days to be, but when summer came again, and she looked back at her second year of teaching, the days had welded themselves into one continuous pleasant experience. When she next wrote to Jed, Nora was fairly glowing with happiness. The very best part, however, she saved until the last of her letter. How wonderful it was to receive my blessings in the temple. Surely nothing on earth could be nearer to heaven than that beautiful place. I reminded myself that you, also, had been where I was, and that one day we would both return, together. Bishop Shepherd did the work for my father, as did his wife for my mother. As I heard myself being sealed, at last, to my parents, I thought my heart would burst with happiness. Nora had added a ninth grade in order to keep working with Ben and Ed and Joe. There was a movement underway to get a high school in the valley, but it would take time to get it going. The boys' attitude had been quite different from the previous year. Nora mentioned this to Free on her first day back at her cabin. "They really wanted to learn this year," she said. 'They seemed to have found out something about the satisfaction that comes from achieving, and I'm convinced that it was the wood carving that started it all." Free looked pleased with her praise, sitting in her little rocker. Nora felt a kinship with the old man and, suddenly, on an impulse said, "I just want you to know how much I appreciate what you did—Grandfather." The old man stared at her. "Grandfather?" he asked finally. "Well, you aren't really, of course. Not yet. But when Jed comes home, I... We... We're going to be married." The Golden Chain Free drew a long breath and through his beard Nora could see his biggest smile. —'Nothing, no nothing in this wide world could please me more than to hear that."" He smoothed the long white beard with his fingers, as he did when he was pleased or thoughtful. "And don't you forget." He shook a bony finger in her direction. "From now on, I'm not just 'Old Free.' I really am Grandfather." It wasn't like him to visit every day, but on the following afternoon he was back, bringing Nora his half of the gold piece. "I guess Jed already told you the story about this?" he asked. "Yes," said Nora. 'He has." "He took his piece with him, of course, but I would like you to have mine." Nora removed the locket that had been her mother's from the chain around her neck, and slipped in its place the small piece of gold. She looked at it, gleaming against her dress. "Oh, thank you, Grandfather," she said. '"Thank you." And so the days passed. And the weeks. And the months. And two years were gone. And Jed was coming home. In her very last letter she changed from her usually serious attitude to one of joking with him, suggesting that perhaps, after all, the reason he had asked her to marry him was so he could get the piece of land, the piece he had wanted so very much at the time. But in his last letter to her, he did not see the situation in a humorous light. 669 September 1967 My Dearest Nora, Don't ever suggest, even in fun, that a piece of ground could have any im- « portance for me, compared to your love. When I get home I shall spend the rest of my life trying to convince you that this is so. Seriously, Nora, about the land. Ben has worked a good many years for me. One of these days he will be coming home from his own mission. When he does, he will have my piece of homestead land waiting for him. You might decide to do the same with yours. I know he means as much to you as he does to me. You will have to make tne decision yourself, of course. But this much I do know. I have enough land on my own place. How much land a man has isn't important, Nora. It's how he feels about it, what he does with it, and what the land does to him, that counts. My land isn't going to make me a slave to it. I have so much to learn when I get back, and so very much I must do for my Church. Yes, I have land enough. On the day of his arrival, Nora chose not to go to the station, 4 <, wishing instead to meet him at ' ¥ her own little cabin. She saw him coming as he vaulted the gate and | ran toward the house. She threw «7 4 open the door and rushed out. — % "Nora! Nora!" he breathed, and all her lonely hours faded as he gathered her into his arms. ~*7 " yn a > Se ¥ ey Fy 4 (q Just Desserts? Ruth G. Rothe Lo, these many years I've scorned those words, When on occasion they were said to me; Today, my son spoke them to his new wife, "Your pie isn't like my mother's used to be!!"' 670 ¢ Hs SA Ni Ay zs RO A. Ge y The Crafts of Mexico Claire Noall @ Mexico's remarkable heritage from the past plays an important part in her current development of the crafts. More than a million and a half artisans are inevitably linked to the tradition that prevailed five hundred years ago, when objects of strange and magnificent worth were sent from Mexico to Spain. Such works were fashioned by people of peculiar skill, themselves inheritors of a still more ancient craftsmanship in gold, silver, feathers, textiles, pottery, and stone. In what is now Southern Mexico, stone carvings, with a system to denote numbers as part of the decor in bas-relief, appeared before the time of Christ. Still, certain motifs from various cultures even then sounded a tonic chord, elusive yet dominant, relating one area to another and furnishing a music of the heart that cast far-reaching echoes. Many of the twenty-four branches of officially listed crafts today reflect in one way or another the ancient trends of calendar stone, feathered headdress, plumed serpent, geometrical design, and the rounded human figures of the unique reliefs of the South. Yet certain productions, such as the handsome silverwork at Taxco are completely modern. Achievement quite often depends upon the availability of materials. Silver is mined at Taxco. Gems, both precious and semiprecious, are dug at Querétaro and Guanajuato, where fine jewelry, interestingly patterned, is easily available. Cholula, near Mexico City, and Oaxaca, near the isthmus, produce splendid tiles and pottery from local clays. Cattle roam the northern plains and, consequently, Monterrey features leather goods. However, good leather-work may be bought in almost any city. This overlapping of distribution in contrast to purely local displays brings us naturally to the subject of bazaars — a pageantry that remains for the visitor as a color picture of the inner eye. My first experience was at Mazatlan. Then, at Guadalajara, I roamed other markets in more vastly covered areas. I laughed in Tlaquepaque, the small neighboring village whose pottery, glass, and copper goods are strange in design but enchanting. Then, again, I idled among purely open-air stalls and booths. Had it not been for a guide at Morelia, I should definitely have missed a shop behind some seemingly closed doors in a solid wall of residential houses. Here lacquer trays, plaques, woolen stoles, blouses omamented with drawn work and embroidery, besides guitars, tambourines, and cross-stitched linen cloths were attractively displayed and priced Despite the various methods of distribution and production, the industry as a whole is of tremendous importance to the national economy and social development. But before glancing at the mechanics of the trade, let us enjoy seeing it in operation. 671 September 1967 My husband and I entered Mexico at Nogales, in our own car, and thus realized the excitement of self-directed discovery. We loved the strange sights and sounds so near our home, yet so far away from one who will not venture forth. At Mazatlan I could hardly contain myself for the unexpected joy of finding great crowds of people swarming into the market with their wares, and as purchasers. The whole town came alive for the mercado. Tubs of spicy carnations decorated the sidewalk. Suddenly all this was forgotten. My eyes focused on a middle-aged Indian woman's beauty of countenance. Round-faced, gray-haired, with braids falling over brightly shawled shoulders, she could have been a painting. She watched her flowers as she sat on the ground, selling as she could. For the covered market let ls go to Guadalajara, although some of the display there was not handcrafted by native people, still I found a generous supply when I sought it out: quaint ducks of rough pottery, jugs, leather purses for my small granddaughters, and a rough straw hat to guard me from the sun. In Guadalajara's underground market, which opens beyond the foot of a sidewalk stairway, I found trays of semiprecious stones for my artist cousin, and I later purchased jewels of finer quality near Querétaro. Fortunately, I had been directed to visit the craft center at Santa Clara, near Lake Patzcuaro. Otherwise, I might have left this exquisite area after seeing the boatmen with their butterfly nets — two-winged, gracefully curved snares for catching fish near the island. I might have been satisfied with the linen-like towels, ornamented with drawn work, handmade, which I bought from two peasant women on the street. I had heard of the craft center. I found it typical of the entire industry as plied on a national level. It is a teaching center where young girls serve as apprentices. They beam with happiness, for they enjoy the social improvement that learning a craft affords. Their hands are supple and their understanding deepened through the language arts taught in connection with the trade. In the display room I found some of the finest handwork in all Mexico—exquisite trays decorated with a kind of revived exactness. The paints and lacquers applied to a wooden base are safe against stain and corrosion. Pure gold is used in fine lines and delicate patterns. Dyes are made from iron-saturated clays and rocks of the lake country. Stylized desert flowers and exotic birds are related to, yet different from the archeological patterns, and furnish new excitement. At a roadside table in the Valley of Mexico, I purchased a luncheon cloth of maguey "linen." As from flax comes the damask of Ireland;- and from the pineapple plant and certain grasses, Philippine linen; just so, in Mexico, the thread of the maguey cactus is woven into an attractive fabric. My white cloth is trimmed with a border of coppercolored ducks, whose threads are dyed with local agents: flowers, leaves, clays. At Pejiefiel, a glorified spa, I found pink onyx beads, as later I came across mother-of-pearl jewelry at Monterrey. But to refer again to 672 Mexico's remarkable heritage from the past plays an important part in the current development of crafts. Oaxaca. I saw in the museum there ancient ornaments of gold, taken from a tomb at nearby Monte Alban. They represent a culture whose complete story still eludes us. And at Mitla, thirty miles east of Oaxaca, exquisitely arranged geometrical patterns of wrought stone lie open to the sun. A whole series of palace walls is decorated with these small blocks, shaped with special stone implements. The roofs are gone, but much of the intricate design remains to enrich the national heritage. Fine featherwork is no longer attempted, because the birds of the brilliant plumage of the past have mainly disappeared. The costumes for the Folklorica Ballet which represent ancient and magnificent headdresses and breastplates now use painted feathers. Gone, also, are the mosaics of butterfly wings, and the lace that was so fine it cannot be profitably produced at today's wages. Still, the industry, though intended to help both workmen and nation, also fosters some traditional customs. The boy at the potter's wheel in Oaxaca turns out jars and urns which are later glazed with the remarkably beautiful black finish for which Oaxaca is famous. And the Saturday market on the public square of this once grandly colonial city still follows its ancient pattern. All this is in sharp contrast to the sophisticated shops of Taxco. Come with me up the sidewalk-road that spirals almost vertically over an ore-rich slope. The stores level off along the climb in steps, at 673 (i ¢ Pal. = < - ce OF ak, gy N has eo) a N, - ' ae o: / a a _—— ry ae ae = » oO ap O and po and gold DIO O a a O Oda ) / A Heritage in Color—the Market at Mazatlan. Transparencies by the author any of which we long to stop. Jewelry, gems, and silverware, handsomely produced, are displayed on every side. Both the Federal and State governments sponsor teaching centers in various cities. Well-paid occupations result from the apprenticeships. Colleges are urged by the Government to encourage students to cultivate worth and lasting beauty in design and workmanship. Supervised distribution is practiced on a national and an international level. Mexican handcrafts compete favorably with products of many countries. Interestingly, one may find marked talent among the peasants, mostly unrecognized, insufficiently remunerated. I brought nothing home from Mexico I cherish more than a small hand-molded "corn goddess," apparently designed from an artifact. It was thrust through the open window of our car, along with a dozen objects in which I could see no value. Intuitively, I selected the piece I now appreciate for its mark of the genuine, and for its echoes. Unheralded, unlisted, it has a mysterious beauty of its own, this small, sun-dried mother figure. The national talent must surely feed upon such strains, spontaneous as they are. Although some of them appear among the uneducated, they may eventually produce works of genius, such as the tiled mosaics of University City, and the frescoed murals of international fame. The warmth of the people, the characteristic excitement of the crafts call for a return visit to beautiful Mexico. Pasadena Stake (California) Spring Fashion Show "April In Paris" Upper picture: Trudy Thody, Secretary-Treasurer, serves at the punch bowl; lower picture: Cheryl Dee Young, Terry Lee Young, and Daryl Young model ''look-alike'' costumes. Jasmine Ballard is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. $ 2 is Sigh: * wis Nae Sa Sl at SA Free Lance Photographers Guild Farm House at Copeau, Chamonix, France. Mont Blanc in the background. WIDE AUTUMN Dorothy J. Roberts Autumn stretches the landscape wide; The valleys spread, the hills retreat And stand in silence, blue and far. The golden trees repeat, repeat. There never was this width before — The tiers of mountains to the west, The circle of horizons spread — So much of harvest here compressed. Oh, spring is intimate and close And summer stops the eye with green, This layered splendor in between. The gold of stubble brightens all. Vision stretches miles to touch The bright periphery of fall. 677 | Winter blinds — but there is now Wide and long the meadows reach; { | Standing at the left, second row: Verena B. Easton, holding decorative plaque; Bette McDonough, work meeting leader. LUMINOUS GOLD LEAFING Betty McDonough Work Meeting Leader Verena B. Easton, President Whittier Stake (California) Materials needed: Bringing the ''Midas touch"' into your home will give many hours in the creative pleasure of gold leafing, and will provide original and distinctiive gifts for relatives and friends. Use your imagination in selectng objects for gold leafing — fruits, flowers, figurines, wall plaques, vases, and many other decorative motifs. Gold leafing may be applied to glass, ceramics, plaster, china, metal, leather, or paper articles. Clear enamel or plastic spray for sealing porous objects, sucn aS wood or piaster of Paris. (Glass or porous objects do not require sealing.) Brushes (one 14"' brush for adhesive and glazing; one 2'' soft brush for gold leaf- 1. 2. Orange or red fast-drying enamel. 3. Adhesive (gold sizing) 4. Gold leafing (''Dutch Metal'' imitation gold, or gold leafing) 5. Burnt umber (in tube) 6. Glaze (clear enamel or plastic for final coat) 7. Ing; one small, soft brush for gold leafing) 8. Felt for base of object. Method or Basic Steps 1. Select clean, dry object, and, if necessary, seal with clear enamel or plastic; allow to dry. 2. Apply orange or red paint and allow to dry. 678 J. M. Heslop Gold leaf articles displayed at Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1966 Apply adhesive and wait one to ten hours for thorough drying. Apply gold leaf and wipe off excess. Seal with a good even coat of clear varnish or plastic. Dry. Mix tube of burnt umber and 14 pint glaze. Apply with brush and wipe of excess with paper towels. Dry thoroughly. Spray or paint with coat of clear varnish or plastic for protection. Apply felt to bottom, for professional touch. Helpful Hints for Success 1. 2. 3. 4. 5 Always hold objects upside down first when painting or glazing, finishing right side up. Cover thoroughly with the first coat of paint. Give two or three coats, if necessary, to very porous surfaces. Let dry completely. When applying adhesive, work in for about five minutes after covering. Adhesive will disappear from sight when ''tacky'' — about one hour is right. Pick up gold leaf sheets and apply one at a time. Sheets will tear, but that is all right. Smooth with a soft brush and fingers. Work into small places with a small brush. Patch spots with small pieces. Let a certain amount of the red show through, as it gtves that ''old world' look. Don't apply the gold leaf in a draft. Brush off excess. After sealing the gold leaf, let article dry completely. Do your glazing outdoors or in the garage. The amount of glaze you leave on depends on how you want the object to look. Rub harder in some spots to "'high-light'' the area. Always wash the adhesive brush with water immediately. Clean the glaze brush with paint thinner. Lf some spots do not take gold leaf, apply more adhesive to these and do over, between steps 4 and 5. 679 Spanish-American Branch Relief Society, Utah Stake, Provo, Utah Sisters modeling clothing made in homemaking meeting, left to right: Coy Guedes (Brazil); Sheryl Martineau (U. S. A.), Secretary-Treasurer; Lupe Flores (San Salvador); Estela McWhorter (San Salvador); Alicia Romney (Argentina), organist; Enriqueta Gomez (Mexico), President; Lupe Flores (San Salvador). Julia Panepucci de Mangum directed the sewing project. Clarice Sumpter is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. Caroline Hepworth, Gridley, California, Makes 239 Quilts Sister Hepworth is eighty-seven years old and still active as a member of Gridley Second Ward Relief Society. She has served as counselor to three ward presidents. Only a sampling of her quilts, colorful and intricate in design, can be illustrated in one picture. CHICKEN "LABSCOVS"' LUNCHEON Linnie F. Robinson | have heard this word and tasted this dish all my life. Since talking to my cousins all over the country, | find they are fond of this dish, but each has some slightly different version of it. The recipe_I-give, using chicken, is one mother made most often, but any meat could be cubstituted — beefsteak, beef cubes, lamb, mutton, veal, or lean pork. Transparency by; Dorothy J. Roberts Model Bonnie Christensen Chicken ''Labscovs'' 3 'tb. Frying chicken 8 ounces canned mushrooms 1 large onion, cut in small pieces (or stewed fresh mushrooms) or ground 1 package chicken bouillon cubes 2 gts. Water 34 cube butter (3 ounces) Y% tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Flour Simmer chicken with onion, in salt water, 114 hours. Pour off stock and keep for later use. Cool chicken, bone the meat, and cut into bitesize pieces. Drain the mushrooms, reserving the juice, and sauté in part of the butter for a few (Continued on page 692) 681 A CARDIGAN FROM SCRAPS OF WOOL Olive W. Burt @ Oh, those scraps of yarn! How they do accumulate when anyone does much knitting or crocheting. It is possible to use up larger amounts in some patterns. | made an attractive cardigan with wide stripes of white, and narrower stripes of leftover tan and aqua. Another time, | used leftover orange and navy blue to make a checked sweater. Or, if there's enough, the yarn may be knit or crocheted into caps, bedroom slippers, or handbags. But these things do not use up the very small amounts, which are usually just thrown away. They need not be, however. When | was in Nassau with my daughter, we saw a cardigan imported from London selling for $95. My daughter drew a picture of it, and when we returned home, she collected all our small leftover yarns and reproduced the expensive model. (Continued on page 694) back Transparency by Hal Rumel Model Cora Bos front sleeve FABULOUS PAPER MACHE RaNae Gledhill Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts @ The art of paper maché is becoming very Materials fancy prices in the art, jewelry, and gift departtypes of paper maché, the ments of stores and variety shops in many smooth and the rough. The countries. It is only natural that Relief Society smooth type is made by - and design their own jewelry and paper maché together with a white glue, by mixing tiny bits of shredded paper (maché), water, and glue to form a paste. Paper miaché already shredded may be purchased under a variety of trade names., Both types of maché may be used in jewelry making. The smooth type is generally preferred for making lapel pins, earrings, | and some bracelets. In making pins, trace the patterns on several layers of newspaper which have been giued together. Cut: 6 ¢ 6 it out and form the pattern into the desired shape. As the glue hardens, the items become easier to work with. Procedure After the glue is dry, the maché must be sealed so the newsprint will not show through the paint. To do this, brush the surface with a white, acrylic paint called gesso, available at most hobby stores. Let dry about (Continued on page 694) Dorothy J. Roberts 683 popular. We are finding hundreds of_itetns at sisters interested in handicrafts should create gluing layers of newspaper items at a fraction of the cost. Basically, there are two | and the rough type is made BRILLIANT BORDERS DECORATE THE GARDEN Blossomed borders can be planned in any season. In many tropical lands flowers bloom throughout the year, and planting can be any time. In the temperate zones those who love a constant blossoming rely upon the hardy perennials and ever-reliable bulbs— tulips, hyacinths, crocuses, irises, lilies, and the small creeping denizens of the rock garden. Experimental gardeners in temperate zones have found that autumn plantings of annuals will give a blaze of springtime blossoming. Among the most cooperative flowers for this procedure are Canterbury bells, carnations, Centaurea, Siberian wallflowers, scabiosa, larkspur, and pansies. June Krambule _— ' ed &, 4 ere 4 - 4. - aad Gladys H. Burnham a.. Es: —— —> - ——. Bi erode Se — a;. ' wy Garden in New Orleans, Louisiana Mark C. McMullin home, Bountiful, Utah. Geraniums, chrysanthemums, roses, make a colorful border for a long season of growing. Rr RE & Ey 684 * Eric M. Sanford "Basket of gold," petunias, and zinnias make a border of brilliant beauty Transparency by Camera Clix "LE BENEDICITE" (Saying Grace) by Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779) Louvre Museum, Paris, France Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 7 ''Charity Out of a Pure Heart.' J. M. Heslop "TO THEM OF THE LAST WAGON" By Lynn Fausett (American), Brigham Young University Library, Provo, Utah Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 4 ''Obedience, the Mother of Success." J. M. Heslop "LIFE FROM DEATH" by Floyd E. Breinholt (American) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 6 '"'The Substance of Faith." 688 "Le Benedicite'"' by Jean Baptiste Simeon Chardin (1699-1779) (Louvre Museum, Paris, France). Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 7 "Charity Out of a Pure Heart'"' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ The artist Chardin lived in France at a time when a number of artists were changing the subject matter in art from the painting of the nobility, the pomp and gaiety of the court, and its extravagance, to the quaint homely scenes of everyday life. Paintings small enough and with subject matter fitting to a more humble setting were becoming more desirable. Chardin insisted on painting the everyday things of life and is said to have become more popular than the great artists who painted the nobility. His paintings told a story that the common people, the middle classes, could understand and identify with. This painting "Le Bénédicité" is such a work. His purpose may have been to say that to be grateful is to be wise. A wise man discovers his own true relationship and place in the pattern of life. He discovers that gratitude is prerequisite to learning to love. As in Timothy, "the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." To illustrate this noble idea, Chardin shows a small child in the attitude of giving thanks with an implied faith in those who taught her, and a simple faith in a divine providence. Thus portraying, through gratitude, love out of a pure heart. The story is told with astonishing naturalness and dignity. He had no use for tinsel or artificiality, but expressed himself in an unassuming and straightforward manner. This was unusual in his day, but his paintings influenced subsequent art. When the color in his work was being criticized by another artist, he said, "And who told you, Sir, that one paints with color? One makes use of colors, but one paints with emotions." In Chardin's paintings we seem to be looking through a window, watching people live their private lives, always with a feeling of love and understanding. There are those who would call this painting sentimental. The writer Ventura says, "A painting to be art must have feeling. But genuine feeling is a living approach to reality while sentimentality is a will to convince through sentiment, and a mistake in taste. And a will to sentiment destroys natural feeling." We leave the reader to decide whether sentiment is used in this case to convince, or whether the honest feeling of the artist thus expressed is paramount. "To Them of the Last Wagon" By Lynn Fausett, American (Brigham Young University Library, Provo, Utah) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 4 "Obedience, the Mother of Success" Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ Some of the factors which help us to enjoy and appreciate works of art are dependent upon our intuitive feelings, our cultural background, and our perceptive ability. Three factors which broaden our concepts and also lead to 689 September 1967 greater enjoyment of art are: first, a knowledge of what the artist is saying— the content or the message; second, an understanding of how he did it—his technique, his materials, and procedure; third, something about the artist himself—who he was. Let us look at these three—what, how, and who in relation to this painting. Just as a portrait painter is obliged to reproduce in his painting a certain likeness to the sitter, so an artist who illustrates an event is bound somewhat by the event itself. Near the close of Utah's Centennial Year, 1947, during his conference address, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said in words what the artist Lynn Fausett has created in paint—"So through the dust and dirt, dirt and dust, during the long hours, the longer days—that grew into weeks and then into months they crept along till, passing down through its portals, the valley welcomed them to rest and home." As we so justly honor the leaders of the great trek West, so, too, those who followed—even to the last wagon—were equally worthy of praise because of their obedience to the directions of the Lord. Look at the painting and read the first four verses of Edward L. Hart's poem "To Utah." The churchman, the poet, and the artist tell the same story, each in his own way. When Brother Fausett was asked to describe how this painting came to be, he submitted the following statement: "The painting, "To Them of the Last Wagon,' was commissioned by President Clark's son-in-law, Ivor Sharp, for a gift on President Clark's eightieth birthday. The occasion was celebrated and the painting presented at a large dinner at Camp Williams, where many of President Clark's friends and associates were guests. The painting was presented by one of his granddaughters. I felt highly honored not only to be selected as the artist to paint this story, but also to speak. I tried to explain how our artists give an added living reality to our history, beliefs, and testimonies, just as the old masters did to the Bible and early Christian story. I said that I was convinced that while criticizing the truth they projected, but still giving them artistic freedom, our Latter-day Saint artists could evolve an art tradition that could do for our Church what the old masters did for the early Christian Church, if only we would use them and give them opportunities." Prior to painting a picture, an artist likely finds it necessary to do some careful research so that the subject matter shown will be authentic. These sketches, then, could be arranged and composed according to the sensitivity of the artist in harmony with the understanding of the elements and principles of design and his thorough knowledge of his craft. Mr. Fausett generally uses what is often referred to as "'the old master technique" of painting. On a toned panel, usually a warm brown, the darks are painted in a darker brown. When dry, white pigment is used to build up the lights, and care is taken to scumble some overall areas. At this stage, the painting appears as though one were viewing a monochrome picture through a white veil. It is allowed to dry, and then transparent colors in medium are glazed over it. The objects still maintain their form, but now have color. Successive glazes may be repeated over the same areas after preceding glazes dry. Dark details are then painted and, finally, highlights are placed in with opaque pigment. This kind of painting usually results in a smooth, glossy surface and the light, being reflected through the successive layers of glaze, gives a certain luminosity which cannot be attained in any other way. This luminous quality is often lost to a great degree in reproduction. Lynn Fausett, of Salt Lake City, is a Westerner, a native of Price, Utah, where he became acquainted at first hand with the subject matter found in many of his paintings and murals. He went East to study at the Art Students League of New York and later became president of that institution. He did numerous murals in the East and the West. Among his best known are the ones in the Chrysler Building in New York and at the "This Is the Place" monument in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Fausett, perhaps his best critic, designs and finishes the beautiful frames which enhance his easel paintings. 690 "Life From Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt, American Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 6 "The Substance of Faith'' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University @ Art is concerned with the expression of personal aesthetic or spiritual experiences. It is an attempt to make concrete some rather intangible truth discovered by the artist. Because each artist is different, his interpretation will be unique. In the search, discovery, and organization of this truth into perceptible form, man discovers joy—a feeling of well-being, of inner peace—that for which all men search. Joy is a result of the creative process. Perhaps the greatest joy one can receive in this life is to be a co-partner with God in the creation of another human soul. The experience of joy is accompanied by a feeling of gratitude. Gratitude fosters faith—faith in oneself, faith in others, and faith in God. Art often becomes a hymn of praise or a prayer of gratitude. I receive much joy from my work in art and as a teacher, and am grateful to the sisters of the General Board of the Relief Society for asking me to present one of my paintings here and to write this brief note. Perhaps a description of how this painting came to be will be of interest. On each of our painting vacations to the Teton National Park, in Wyoming, over the past years, my family and I would drive by a large tree stump just off the highway near Jenny Lake. We finally stopped to look closer. The beautiful grays and soft textures of the old wood were fascinating. As we walked around it, we discovered a young tree growing from the decayed roots of the old one, and I decided to make a sketch and some color notes. Drawing forced me to look closer (drawing does this). The grains in the wood twisted and formed patterns around places where the branches had been. Some areas were bleached by the sun, and others, mellowed by decay, had become brilliant ochres and browns. As the sketch progressed, I was impressed with the strength of the old tree and how, even in death, it was sheltering, protecting, and nourishing the young one. Almost unconsciously I gradually began to dramatize this idea. By placing the horizon low and allowing the lone tree to project high into a stormy sky, it created a feeling of power, dimension, and mood. Later, while working on this painting in my studio, I once again experienced the same feeling of awe and gratitude I often have when alone in the mountains, deserts, or ghost towns—a feeling difficult to describe. It isn't really loneliness, but one of identification with something greater than myself—calm and peaceful. I wanted to be able to express what Harrison R. Merrill says in the first stanza of his poem, which I have tacked to the wall of my studio: Oh, God, let this be heaven... I do not ask for golden streets Or long for jasper walls, Nor do I sigh for pearly shores Where twilight never falls; Just leave me here beside these peaks, In this rough western land. I love this dear old world of thine.. Dear God, you understand. (Reprinted by permission of The Improvement Era) 691 'i Beauty Is For Every Home Tasma P. Dansie @ One evening just at twilight, as I was returning home, I passed by the open door of an apartment, and my eyes caught sight of a beautifully appointed table, which I shall never forget. The light of sunset was pouring in through the two windows, fairly lighting up the room but, especially, falling on the round table covered with an exquisite lace cloth gracefully touching the floor! A vase of white rosebuds centered the table, with lighted candles at each of the two places throwing a glow on the elegant pieces of silver and beautiful china. The lovely picture is still in my mind's vision and will never leave me. It gave me much food for thought. It was apparent that the table was beautifully prepared, as if some honored guest was expected to dine that evening. After reaching home and starting to prepare my own evening meal, I felt as if I could not take the dishes of food out of my refrigerator and place them on the kitchen table to eat. The very thought revolted me. So I decided, why not set my own table beautifully, even if I was alone? I had linens and silverware and pretty dishes. If I did not set a beautiful table, I would be admitting, at least to myself, that I was not equally as nice nor as important as the guest my friend was expecting. I then remembered my own lovely mother's teaching—that anything worth doing, was worth doing well. I also recalled a fine talk given to my Gleaner class years ago by a granddaughter of Brigham Young, who told us that she never remembered her family ever sitting down to a dinner when a lovely clean tablecloth, sparkling crystal, silverware, and beautiful china did not adorn the table. And always with a lovely centerpiece of some kind. She told use how shocked she was whenever her friends invited her to lunch, where paper was used instead of linens, and never napkins. Her many interesting stories and experiences made a lasting impression on me, and I must admit that no matter how good the food is, it seems to taste better when served with thought and care in a lovely way. It adds charm, character, and dignity to us, as well as to the food. CHICKEN "LABSCOVS" LUNCHEON (Continued from page 681) minutes. Pour the liquid back on the mushrooms and cook for a few minutes. Add the chicken bouillon cubes and 1 cup chicken stock. Add cubed chicken and place mixture in a casserole baking dish. Cover with spiced potatoes, place lid on casserole, and bake for 35 minutes at 325°. Use the remainder of the chicken stock for gravy, thickening it with the flour, and adding the remainder of the butter. Spiced Potatoes 2 tbsp. Flour 2 tbsp. Onions, finely minced (or 2 eggs 1 tbsp. Minced dried onions) 3 tbsp. Melted butter 21% c. Cooked mashed potatoes 2 tbsp. Chives, cut in very small pieces Beat the flour into the eggs and add butter, chives, and onions. Stir mixture into the potatoes and beat until light. Spread over the chicken-mushroom mixture and bake. Serves about 12. Asparagus (can be served cold or hot) Clean about 60 stocks of asparagus and cut off the tough part of the bottoms of the stocks. Stand asparagus upright in kettle and add enough water (salted to taste) to cover four or five inches of the bottom of the kettle. Cook until the stalks are tender, but not overdone. Pour off liquid and arrange asparagus carefully on a platter, so as not to break the stalks. Place the stalks in five or six bunches and pour sauce into or over the middle of the arrangement, so that it will look like a trimming or a ribbon. 692 Asparagus Sauce 1 c. Chili sauce 6 egg yolks, cooked and rubbed 1% c. Red vinegar through a sieve 14 c. Salad oil Mix. Well together, and serve. Serves 12.-—— Paprika Biscuits With Cheese 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 tbsp. Shortening 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Grated sharp cheese 3 tbsp. Sugar 1% c. Milk 2 c. Flour 2 eggs, beaten slightly Sift baking powder, salt, and sugar into the flour. Cut the shortening into the mixture lightly and add the grated cheese. Stir milk into the eggs and fold lightly into the first mixture. Pat the dough out on a board, cut, and place in baking pan. Sprinkle generously with paprika. Bake in a preheated oven at 350° for 15 to 20 minutes. Serve immediately. Serves 12. Strawberry Ribbon Salad 4 packages strawberry jello (3 oz. Each package) 1 10-ounce package fresh frozen strawberries or 1 cup sweetened fresh strawberries 1 pint carton creamed cottage cheese 14, pint cream, whipped and sweetened Make jello according to directions on package, add strawberries. Pour into glass dish and let the mixture thicken slightly. Stir the cottage cheese into the jello mixture in a thin line — in rows, if the glass container is oblong, or in circles if the container is round. Then stir the cream in between the rows of cottage cheese and allow the setting to become complete before serving. If the salad is to be decorated, more cream and more strawberries will be needed for this purpose. Serves 10-12. Mint-Pineapple Slushies 14 gallon lemonade 14 gallon pineapple juice 4 gallon orange juice mint flavoring, as desired Juices may be reconstructed from frozen concentrates. Mix together and sweeten to taste. Freeze. Take out of freezer four or five hours before time to serve. Just before serving, mash with a potato masher. Add about 2 quarts of preferred flavor of soda water. Serve at once. Serves 12. Flower-Basket Ice Cream Ingredients for 12 meringue baskets 14 tsp. Cream of tartar 4 egg whites 1% tsp. Lemon flavoring 1 c. Sugar Beat egg whites until stiff. Add sugar a little at a time, beating constantly. Add cream of tartar and beat until thoroughly mixed, but no longer. Add lemon flavoring. Thoroughly grease a baking sheet. Cover with well greased waxed paper. Using half the recipe, make twelve circles of the meringue and, with a wet spoon, hollow out the centers of the circles so that when they are baked they will look like baskets. Bake at 125° for 20 to 25 minutes. For the handles of the baskets, use half of each of the above ingredients and proceed as for the baskets, except that the meringue for the handles is formed in 12 half circles. Baskets and handles must be removed from the waxed paper with great care. They can be baked in advance and stored for several weeks without refrigeration. When ready for serving, place a scoop of ice cream in the center of each basket and push the ends of the handles down into each side of the ice cream. The syrup topping for the ice cream is made by boiling 8 ounces of crushed pineapple with 1 c. Of sugar for about ten minutes. Add a few drops of red coloring and cool. 693 September 1967 A CARDIGAN FROM SCRAPS OF WOOL (Continued from page 682) The cardigan requires 67 four-inch squares of plain, stockingette knitting. Any colors may be used, but the yarn should all be the same weight. She used four-ply knitting worsted. She knit each square exactly four by four inches. These were put together in this way: 25 squares for the back, five across and five down. Nine squares made each front—two across and four down, with one extra for the shoulder. Each sleeve took 12 squares—three for the length, four around. For each section, the squares were sewed together with a backhand stitch. Then the sections were assembled. A lining of flesh-colored china silk gave a neat finish and hid the seams, but the cardigan may be left unlined. A crocheted edge of pale beige around neck, bottom, front, and cuffs gave a neat finish to the garment. Of course, anyone with imagination could vary this procedure and probably produce a more stunning garment. Various different stitches could be used in making the squares, or the stockingette squares could be used with a different effect: alternate squares with the stitches running up and down between squares with the stitches running crosswise. Such a garment provides fun for the maker and for the wearer, and is always a conversation-starter. Best of all, it makes good use of something that might have been thought worthless. FABULOUS PAPER MACHE (Continued from page 683) thirty minutes. Paint the jewelry with any kind of paint available (poster paint, spray paint, enamel, or water colors). Keep in mind that enamel takes a long time to dry and the others will dry in a few minutes. After the paint is dry, the jewelry must be glazed. Use a clear, non-firing glaze. Let dry and glue to a pin or earring back. There you have a lovely addition to your own jewelry collection or a handmade gift for a lucky friend. Bracelets Bracelets are easy to make and are nearly always fashionable. You may make your own bracelet form out of newspaper strips glued together, or you may purchase a cardboard bracelet form at a very reasonable price. The forms can be covered with the shredded paper maché, giving a rounded shape to the bracelet. All jewelry must be coated with gesso, painted, and glazed. In fact, several coats of glaze will add a more professional touch to jewelry. Another type of bracelet is made by coating the bracelet form with gesso and then covering with variegated tissue paper for the coloring. The tissue paper is cut twice the width of the bracelet and glued on to cover the entire bracelet. Delicate designs may be painted or outlined on the bracelet before it is glazed. Vases and Christmas Figurines — However, paper maché is not restricted to jewelry. It is fashionable to use pre-Columbian type vases in our homes now. These are made by gluing several interesting bottles and jars together, covering shredded paper m@ché paste over the entire surface and finishing in the same way as suggested for jewelry. Christmas angels and Wise Men are easily made out of styrofoam cones and coated with paper maché. An excellent finish for this type of work is a wood stain. Apply the stain after the paint, and rub off as much as possible. The. Best paint colors to use are orange, yellow, and light green. Paper maché night lights add a touch of gaiety to a room. Ordinary food containers become delightful art objects when decorated with paper mache. Large ice-cream cartons make attractive wastepaper baskets. Paper maché is being used to cover lamp bases, tables, boxes, bottles, and picture frames for a primitive look which is now popular for interior decorating. 694 at ra * 3 be a all qestore Hee Ore ome ee 2a: SUAw RT ae A "MANY-RIBBONED" LADY Mabel Trone Robison, Fillmore, Millard County, Utah, has seventeen blue (first prize) and seventeen red (second prize) ribbons for her handwork at Utah State Fairs; fifty-four blue ribbons and thirty-seven red ribbons from Summit County Fairs; and nine blue and ten red ribbons at Millard County Fairs. She also received a Grand Champion ribbon in Millard County. This ribbon may be seen pinned to the poinsettia quilt in the picture. Sister Robison is holding a scrapbook in whch she keeps her many award ribbons.: Sister Robison also sings, plays the harmonica and ukulele, and she learned to play the piano after the age of forty-six. She has made many dresses and aprons and hundreds of quilt tops. Tatting, crocheting, embroidery work, afghans, woven rugs, and many other items of handicraft have been given to her friends and to Relief Society. Her skill as a seamstress helped her in the support of her family after she was widowed. She has reared two families—eight children of her own and four children belonging to her husband at the time of their marriage. Altogether, she has twenty-two grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren. 695 rata All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For détails regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities Columbia River Stake (Oregon) Singing Mothers Present Spring Musicale, March 4, 1967 Front row, left to right: Carol Price, organist; Jackie Jensen, Counselor; Beth Peabody, Counselor; Fern Greenhalgh, President; Jacquelyn Hancock, chorister; other board members: Nedra Bell and Evelyn Radden. Sister Greenhalgh reports: "This group of singers from eight wards in the stake presented the spring musicale 'Let All My Life Be Music.' The musicale was adapted and planned around the script written by Norene Clark of Cassia Stake. Seven members of our stake board participated, and seven ward officers participated. This was our second annual musicale, and we received support from all the sisters of the stake. The sisters appreciate the opportunity to sing and mingle with one another. It was a beautiful occasion, enjoyed by an appreciative audience. Much spiritual and cultural growth has come to the sisters through the presentation of special programs." East Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Inkom Ward Observes The Birthday of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Hilda Anderson and Lola Leslie. Back row, standing, left to right: Vera Damron and Phebe Tripp. Veneta Bollschweiler, President, East Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Seventeenth of March Birthday Celebration was carried out according to instructions from the stake Relief Society president. Everyone in the community was invited to attend a lovely dinner. Over 400 were in attendance. The dramatization 'The Gift' was presented. The sisters in the picture took the parts of the first Relief Society presidency in the Church. Officers of Inkom Ward Relief Society are: Geneva Whitworth, Wilma Hemandollar, Jennie Blair, and Della Wilson." Weiser Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidents Front row, seated, left to right: Edith H. Brown (1938-43); Erma B. Chadwick (1943-46); Naomi M. Chandler (1946-51). Standing, left to right: Della W. Alder (1951-54); Dorothy R. Zaugg (1954- 57); Irene H. Baxter (1960-62); Femina H. Thornock (1962- ). Inset: Afton G. Anderson (1957-60). Sister Thornock reports: "Weiser Stake was organized in 1938. Our first stake president was Scott B. Brown, brother of President Hugh B. Brown. His wife Edith H. Brown was called to be the first stake Relief Society president. Sister Anderson was in South America when the picture was taken. Her husband was called to the Church building program." 696 we ag. A LAG Wands - 8% Eonar tate ES ERE SORIA AONE SHOT September 1967 Young Stake (New Mexico), Lamanite Branch Relief Society Bazaar December 1966 Left, Grace Tallbird of Gallup, New Mexico, and Flora Tsosie, SecretaryTreasurer of Tetah Branch Relief Society. Rhea S. Beckstead, President, Young Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that our Lamanite Relief Society bazaar was very successful this year. The two women in the picture were among the many Lamanite people who participated in the dancing at the bazaar, held jointly by the three Lamanite branches: Alma, Tetah, and Nephi, of Young Stake. The bazaar was held in the Alma Branch chapel, Fruitland, New Mexico. Two hundred and fifty people were present for a chili bean and fried bread supper and dance held in connection with the bazaar. Many tribes were represented, all in beautiful costumes— Navajo, Cheyenne, Kiewa, Ute, Apache, Pawnee, Arapahoe, and Oklahoma. Music was provided by eight Lamanite men, including Brother Tallbird, who sat around a large drum in the middle of the floor. The hall was decorated in holiday colors, and each of the three branches had prepared beautifully decorated booths filled with lovely handmade articles and baked goods." Whittier Stake (California) Presents a Kaleidoscopic View of Relief Society, March 17, 1967 Front row, seated, left to right: Clara Hutchinson, who has served for sixtynine years in Relief Society; Flora Jenkins; Mary Siderakis; Agnes Mott; Phebe Ida Miles; Etta Walker; Lucille Taylor. Back row, standing, left to right: Effie Schwinderson; Louisa Gwynn; Eliza Stoddard; Grace D. McCruder; Agnes H. Heath; Jennie R. Hawley; Theodosia Bowman; Lillian Roberts, who was a member of the General Board of Relief Society, 1916-1923. Verena B. Easton, President, Whittier Stake Relief Society reports: "These sisters were our honored guests for the evening, for having served fifty years or more in Relief Society. Each sister was presented a Relief Society pin by her president, and following the program, the sisters were escorted into the cultural hall by their bishops. It was an enjoyable evening for more than 500 husbands and wives who viewed the dramatization 'The Gift,' hearing the Singing Mothers, and viewing the six-feet high Relief Society birthday cake, decorated with 125 lights. For added interest, each of the seven wards presented a demonstration. Each ward had prepared display tables for presenting articles made in the homemaking meetings and each stake board member had a special table representing her department. Refreshments were served." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert "Let All My Life Be Music," March 31, 1967 Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: " Let All My Life Be Music' was the theme of the Box Elder Stake Relief Society Singing Mother's Spring Concert, held in the historic Brigham City Tabernacle, March 31, 1967. The appearance was the first for Box Elder Stake, and more than 150 participated, including thirty girls from the Intermountain Branch Relief Society. Popular, semi-classical, and religious numbers were sung by the individual ward groups, and the full combined chorus, under the direction of Ethel Poulter, stake chorister, and Pat Davies, stake organist, with Naome Godfrey as accompanist. Leslie Epperson was narrator for the beautiful script written by Renie Littlewood. (These sisters are seen standing in the center of the picture, next to the top row.) "Spring flowers adorned the building, and the theme, printed by Marion Hyde, decked with garlands of lilacs, set the scene for the musical event. It was a very successful and inspirational program, climaxed by the closing number by the combined chorus 'We Pray for Peace.' "' 698 September 1967 Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 27, 1967 Standing, center front (in dark dress): Dantzel Nelson, chorister; at her left: Zora Jeppson, accompanist; at Sister Nelson's right: Isabelle Peterson, accompanist. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The evening of April 27, 1967, was a 'red-letter' date for the Singing Mothers of Bonneville Stake. They had been invited for the second consecutive year by the stake high priests to present a concert at their social. Over one hundred Singing Mothers presented the concert 'Walk Through Eternity,' the story portraying a girl and a boy from birth until marriageable age, and the concern of each mother that her child would grow to maturity sweet and clean, and be married, for time and eternity, in a temple. The Singing Mothers of each ward presented an individual part of the program, in addition to singing in the combined chorus. At the conclusion of the concert, each of the ten wards tempted the guests with a table of delectable home-baked food, the proceeds from the sale being contributed to the stake Relief Society fund. The affair was so successful that the Singing Mothers have been invited by the stake Priesthood to prepare for another concert to be presented April 25, 1968." Orem Stake (Utah) Relief Society Members Receive Instruction In First Aid Second from the right, front row, Bertha T. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society; next to her: Police Officer Gerald Nielsen who instructed the first aid classes. Sister Kirk reports: " "To care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate, and to render service....' Motivated by these purposes, the Orem Stake Relief Society 'sponsored a first aid course, under the direction of the Orem Police Department. Officers Gerald Nielsen instructed over sixty-five sisters, fifty-eight of whom completed the course and received certificates. The sisters learned how to prevent accidents in their homes, and how to care for themselves and their families, as well as their neighbors, when accidents or sudden illnesses occur. The program was received with such enthusiasm that several of the brethren participated and received certificates also. Our appreciation goes to Officer Neilsen who gave so freely of many hours of time to give instruction and make the program a success." South Ogden Stake (Utah) Relief Society Observes Anniversary Day March 29, 1967 Left to right: Elma B. Ross, former President, South Ogden Stake Relief Society, pins a Relief Society pin on LaRee Holt Whitney, while Adele VanDrimmelin, Verda Burgie, and Lavern Carter look on. Sister Ross reports: "The anniversary of Relief Society was observed on a stake basis, with the presentation of "The Gift.' In connection with this, LaRee Holt Whitney was honored and given a beautiful orchid, a Relief Society pin, and a copy of a tribute which was read at the meeting, honoring Sister Whitney - as having received 'The Gift,' and giving it to others, thus being an ideal instrument of the purposes of Relief Society. A polio victim in 1954, paralyzed from the shoulders down, she accepted the position of social science class leader in the stake in 1956. The presidency at that time—Verda Burgie, Adele VanDrimmelin, and Lavern Carter recognized the need for one of their sisters to find increased joy and purpose for her life. Even though it would be necessary for one of them to push her wheelchair from her home to the chapel, they cheerfully accepted the challenge, as did all succeeding presidencies. Sister Whitney has continued to be a class leader since that time, and is presently teaching the spiritual living lessons." Lila M. Evertson is the new president of South Ogden Stake Relief Society. 700 September 1967 Salt Lake Stake (Utah), Seventeenth Ward Relief Society February 22, 1967 Officers of the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, beginning seventh from the left: Nora Bullock, First Counselor; Hazel Oliverson, President; Erma Gunnell, Second Counselor; Marie Vreekin, Secretary-Treasurer. Standing at the left in the second row: Norma Anderson, member Salt Lake Stake Relief Society board. Majorie M. Ward, former president, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "There are eighty-two sisters in the picture, and there were 104 present at the meeting. It was reported that the Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, before it was divided, was the largest in the Church, with a membership of 225. The present membership is 176, perhaps still the largest. The first meeting of the Relief Society in the Seventeenth Ward was held in the old building at 137 West First North, across the street from the new chapel, in the year 1875. This building was also used as a school until the chapel was finished alongside the old school building. The meetinghouse cornerstone was laid in 1905, and it was dedicated March 31, 1907." Bertha B. Welling is the new President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. Riverside Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Receive Special Honors At Convention, April 20, 1967 Front row, left to right: Jane Sorensen, eighty-four, sixty years as a visiting teacher; Minnie James (blind), twenty years; Janet Purdy, eighty-nine, fortyfour years as a visiting teacher; Susan Earnshaw, eighty-five, forty years; Hillevi Daniels, eighty, thirty-eight years; Ida Facer, eighty-three, fifty-four years. Back row, left to right: Esther Maples, sixty-four, twenty-five years as a visiting teacher; Olive Christensen, seventy-five, seventeen years; Helen Baldwin, seventy-two, forty-five years; Eva Gledhill, seventy-seven, fifty-seven years; Florence Unsworth, eighty-four, forty-three years; Ellis Jacobsen, seventy-three, twenty years; Lavina Earl, seventy-two, forty years; Beatrice Freeman, seventyeight, thirty-five years; Colleen Jones, twenty-four, one year of visiting teaching; Belva B. Ashton, member, General Board of Relief Society. Zella W. Nesbitt, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: '""These sisters received special honors at the visiting teacher convention. Each of the eight wards was asked to choose about two sisters to receive special honor. Our speaker was Belva B. Ashton, and the music was furnished by the Singing Mothers. Erma Haslam, stake visiting teacher leader, paid tribute to the work of visiting teaching and presented a gift to each of the honored sisters. The book 'History of Relief Society' was presented to the Sixteenth Ward for having the largest percentage of visiting teachers present. The combined years of service of seventeen honored sisters (some of them not in the picture) total 643 years. About 250 sisters attended the convention. Refreshments were served." Covina Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention March 30, 1967 Left to right: Anna Christensen; Maybell Dodge; Ardella Hackford; Emma Price. Donetta MacKay, Covina Stake Relief Society President, reports: "The stake Relief Society president and the stake presidency greeted the 225 sisters who attended at the door. Music, inspirational talks, and the visiting teacher film 'Unto the Least of These' highlighted the program. "Four sisters were honored for the faithful service they have rendered as visiting teachers. They were Anna Christensen, 42 years; Maybell Dodge, 44 years; Emma Price, 40 years; and Ardella Hackford, 54 years. Each of them was presented with the book History of Relief Society. Visiting teachers who had served for fifteen years or longer were also recognized." 702 ie. TS Nw? = P we eae NS ~ cn Cee al \ Ny aT oF Vvyyt } -V- SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 83—The General Authorities Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns of the Lord's organization of the General Authorities of his Church and recognizes the INTRODUCTION One of the evidences to support the divinity of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is its organization. With the restoration of the true Church there came into existence a Church that included the officers and callings mentioned in the New Testament. (For example: Eph. 4:11; Philip. 1:1.) Of the great many Christian churches that were in existence when the gospel was restored, none had the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church. The Prophet Joseph 704 inspiration that guides them. Smith did not copy from the New Testament, but the Lord revealed to him the structure of the Church. Before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord revealed that there would be Twelve Apostles in his Church. (D&C 18:27.) At that time the Lord said that they would be known by these two qualifications: (1) the desire to take upon themselves the Savior's name with full purpose of heart and, (2) by their works. (Jbid., 18:27-28, 38.) Class Discussion Discuss the evidence you have as a sister in Relief Society that the organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints attests to its divinity. PRIESTHOOD In the Church there are two Priesthoods, the Melchizedek and the Aaronic, the latter being an appendage to the former. (Jbid., 107:1.) The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency; that is, the authority to preside in all matters pertaining to the Church on the earth. (Ibid., v. 9.) It is not the office that gives power to the Priesthood, but the Priesthood that gives power and authority to the office. (Ibid., v. 5; Joseph F. Smith, Conference Report, October 1903, page 87; DHC Il:477.) Class Discussion Discuss why you think the Priesthood gives power to the office rather than the office giving power to the Priesthood. POWER OF PRESIDENCY Included in the right of presidency held by the Melchizedek Priesthood is the power to administer in "spiritual things" (D&C 107:8). The keys of this power are explained in the revelation as the privilege to: (1) receive the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven; (2) to have the "heavens opened unto them" to receive revelation; and (3) receive the presence of God and his Son Jesus Christ. (Ibid., vs 18-19.) Since the Melchizedek Priesthood holds the keys to spiritual blessings, spiritual influences are available from the heavens through the administration of Lesson Department that Priesthood. Elders may call upon these powers to bless members of their families as they approach major events in their lives, such as school, missions, military service, marriage, etc.; and to bless the sick; and to perform other ordinances of the gospel. While the Melchizedek Priesthood is upon the earth and operating in the lives of the members of the Church, its powers are for the benefit of both man and woman. By right of confirmation in the Church, all have the right to enjoy the gifts of the Holy Ghost; to some it is given by the Holy Ghost to know that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that he was crucified for the sins of the world. (D&C 46:13.) This same information was: stated by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows:. No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a revelator (DHC VI: 58). THE FIRST PRESIDENCY In March 1832, three years before Section 107 was received, the Lord revealed that the First Presidency of the Church should be organized. To Frederick G. Williams, who was to be a Counselor in that Presidency, the Lord said that Joseph Smith had received the "keys of the kingdom, which belong always unto the Presidency of the High Priesthood" (D&C 81:2). Keys constitute the presiding or directing powers of the Priesthood. He who holds the "keys of the kingdom" controls or governs all operations of the Church throughout the world. Unto Joseph Smith, who held these keys, the Lord said that he was "'to preside in council, 705 September 1967 and set in order all the affairs of this Church and kingdom"? (Jbid., 90:16). When the First Presidency of the Church was organized, on March 18, 1833, these powers were then held by that Presidency composed of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and Frederick G. Williams. (Ibid., 90:6.) THE PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH ND The Lord revealed that there should be a First Presidency that are to be "upheld by the confidence, faith, and prayer of the Church" (Jbid., 107:22). Over the years those who have occupied positions in the First Presidency have had the faith, confidence, and the prayers of the Church. Each President of the Church has come to his calling, prepared of the Lord, to lead the saints in the temporal and spiritual phases of their lives. He is chosen by the Quorum of Twelve Apostles, sustained by the body of the Church, and set apart by the Twelve Apostles. Class Discussion Discuss why we sustain the President of the Church. Over the years, members of the Church have recognized the inspiration which has led the President of the Church. As firm believers that revelation continues to lead the Church, they believe with President Wilford Woodruff, who said:... This is one thing I want to say to my friends and to the Saints of God, that without the Holy Ghost, without direct revelation and the inspiration of God continually, Brigham Young could not lead this people 706 twenty-four hours. He could not lead them at all. Joseph could not have done it, neither could any man. This power is in the bosom of Almighty God, and he imparts it to his servants the prophets as they stand in need of it day to day to build up Zion (Journal of Discourses, 1956 edition, XITV:33). On the day the Church was organized, the Lord revealed that the entire Church should uphold the Prophet Joseph Smith and receive his word as the word of the Lord, and, if this was done, the gates of hell would not prevail against the members individually. (D&C 21:4-6.) THE APOSTLE The apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ receives at his ordination all of the keys, powers, and privileges of a prophet, seer, and revelator (D&C 13; 27:12-13; 110:11-16; Journal of Discourses, 1956 edition, 9:87). The apostle differs from all other offices in the Church in being a special witness for Christ in all the world. (D&C 107:23.) His calling is that of a prophet, seer, and revelator. (DHC II: 417.) Although the President of the Church is the only one who may receive revelation for the Church, the responsibility of a prophet, seer, and revelator is explained in D&C 107:33: The Twelve are a Traveling Presiding High Council, to officiate in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agreeable to the institution of heaven; to build up the Church, and regulate all the affairs of the same in all nations, first unto the Gentiles and secondly unto the Jews. The apostle has a special right to receive the inspiration to explain scripture, to instruct, and to counsel the saints. (D&C 28:1-6; 68:2-5.) Class Discussion Unto the Twelve Apostles is given the charge to open the door to the preaching of the gospel in all nations. (Ibid., 107:33, 35, 112:21.) In e%l of their responsibilities, the Twelve are under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency (Ibid., 107:33; 112:19-20). ASSISTANTS TO THE TWELVE In recent years the First Presidency has called worthy High Priests to assist the Council of the Twelve in their manifold duties. These brethren are not ordained apostles, but, in their calling, they have the necessary authority to represent the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles when called upon. They attend stake conferences, tour missions of the Church, and, under direction, they serve in many capacities to further the work of the Church. In their official calling, they carry out the assignments given to them. When the first assistants were called in 1941, the First Presidency made this announcement: In the past history of the Church, especially in President Brigham Young's time, it was found necessary for the First Presidency or the Twelve, or both, to call brethren, frequently designated as Counselors, to help carry on their assigned work in the Church. The rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new Wards and Stakes, the ever widening geographical area covered by Wards and Stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing our missions in numbers and efficiency that the Gospel may be brought to all men, the continual multiplying of church interests and activities calling for more rigid and frequent observation, supervision, and direction, Lesson Department —all have built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude. The First Presidency and Twelve feel that to meet adequately their great responsibilities and to carry on efficiently this service for the Lord, they should have some help. Accordingly it has been decided to appoint Assistants to the Twelve, who shall be High Priests, who shall be set apart to act under the direction of the Twelve in the performance of such work as the First Presidency and the Twelve may place upon them. There will be no fixed number of these Assistants. Their number will be increased or otherwise from time to time as the necessity of carrying on the Lord's work seems to dictate to be wise (Conference Report, April 1941, pp. 94-95). THE FIRST COUNCIL OF SEVENTY The revelation informs us that there were to be Seventy who would be called ''to preach the gospel, and to be special witnesses unto the Gentiles and in all the world" (D&C 107:25). The first Quorum of Seventy had its beginning on February 28, 1835. (DHC IT:201.) Not long after this date other Quorums of Seventy were organized. All of these quorums were under the direction of the presidents of the First Quorum. On October 8, 1844, there were seventy men in the First Quorum of Seventy who were appointed presidents in the organization of other quorums of Seventy. Today, among the General Authorities there are seven men forming the First Council of Seventy who supervise the Seventy Quorums in the Church. (Ivins, Antoine R., "The Calling of the Seventy," The Instructor, March 1960, pp. 76-77.) EQUAL IN AUTHORITY It is revealed that the Seventy, 707 September 1967 when fully organized as the First Quorum of Seventy, form a quorum equal in authority to the Twelve, as the Twelve Apostles are also equal in authority with the First Presidency. (D&C 107: 24, 26.) This authority pertains only to the possibility, though improbable, that if the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles would no longer exist, then the First Quorum of Seventy, when fully organized, would then be equal in authority to those who preside over them. (Joseph Fielding Smith, "The Twelve Apostles," The Improvement Era, November 1956, p. 788.) THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Matters relating to the office of bishop are given in this revelation. (D&C.107:68-76.) The Presiding Bishopric constitutes the presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood holding the keys of jurisdiction over the Aaronic Priesthood. (Ibid., 107:15-17; 124:141.) As revealed, however, all officers in the Church function under the First Presidency and the Quorum of the Twelve. PATRIARCH TO THE CHURCH One of the responsibilities of the Council of the Twelve is to "ordain evangelical ministers, as they shall be designated unto them by revelation" (D&C 107:- 39). Joseph Smith said that evangelical ministers are patriarchs (DHC III:381). They give patriarchal blessings to worthy members of the Church who live in missions, or others who may be recommended to them by their respective proper authorities. 708 STAKE PATRIARCHS When a vacancy occurs in the office of patriarch in a stake, the new patriarchs are selected under the direction of a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. In the stakes of Zion, stake members are to receive their blessings from the stake patriarchs, when recommended by their bishops. THE LAW OF UNANIMITY The members of the Relief Society have learned that the General Authorities are inspired as they have listened to or read their counsel in stake and general conferences. They recognize that one reason for inspired decisions in counsel comes from the manner in which decisions are made. The General Authorities have only the interests of the membership at heart and a dedicated desire to build Zion upon the earth. They exemplify the virtues which are the foundation of making true decisions. (D&C 107:30-31.) IMPLEMENTATION The Latter-day Saint woman respects those who bear the Priest-. Hood, -believing that there is no — salvation in this life nor in the life to come without that authority. She realizes that those who preside over her and her family are representatives of the Lord. It is her knowledge that the organization of the Church provides for General Authorities who are dedicated to a lifetime of service for her and her fellow Church members. She believes that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has the only true Church organization because she has seen the perfect manner in which it operates, and has a tes- timony of its divinity. Over the years she has learned and, if observant, she has seen the influence of the Holy Ghost as a revelator guiding the decisions of the leadership of the Church. It is her conviction that the principle of Lesson Department continuous revelation operates daily in leading, directing, and guiding the kingdom of God on the earth. All of these things are known to her by the still, small voice of inspiration which convinces and testifies of the truth. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 3—Loving Oneself and Others Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: Understanding and loving oneself is an integral part of Donald Keith Basher killed two women while he robbed their apartments. For these crimes he was executed. Before he died, in a tape recorded interview. With a newspaper man, which was later broadcast, he was asked why he killed the women. Donald answered, "I don't know." A mother spanked her child in hot anger when he mistakenly broke a dish. An adolescent ran away from home even though his parents said that they "had given him everything." An unwed girl became pregnant and came in panic to a counselor. A despairing teen-ager threatened suicide. A young man drove his car too fast, killing his best friend in the ensuing accident. Each one, when asked the question, '""Why did you do it?" answered, "I don't know." How could they live well with others when they were unaware of the reasons for their own emounderstanding and loving others. Tions and actions? Is it possible that these actions reflected a dislike of and unhappiness with themselves? If one cannot understand oneself, how can he know if he loves or if what he calls love is really another emotion in disguise? Is it love when a parent forces a child into a lucrative occupation or one carrying much prestige for which the child is poorly suited, doing it "for the child's own good''? Is it love when a mother keeps her children so busy at home that they never have time to play because "the neighbor's children have germs'? Is it love when a mother makes her child into a musical virtuoso only so that she can bask in reflected glory? Is it love when a woman nags her husband and children because they'll "never amount to anything if I don't"? Long ago Socrates, one of the 709 September 1967 world's great philosophers, advised, "Know thyself." Christ taught "... Know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32), and "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 19:19). To us, through Joseph Smith, the Lord said, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D&C 131:6). How can a child know what a loving person is and follow his or her example, if he does not live with one? How can we be free to understand and love others, if we do not understand and love ourselves? How and where can we find the necessary knowledge? By studying God's teachings; by studying good books written by dedicated, interested, and knowledgeable authors (libraries have many); by learmming about different cultures, values, social classes, and traditions; by understanding the social-emotional needs common to all men; by prayer and meditation; by much self-examination (not rationalization and justification); and by much practice, one can grow to understand and love himself and others.; HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 3—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show how Christmas food, fun, and finance can be combined to make a happy family holiday. INTRODUCTION Christmas can and should be the happiest, most joyful time of all the year. Yet for many it is a time of confusion, drudgery, and financial depression. For some, the real spirit of Christmas has little meaning. They are trapped in a maze of commercial materialism, and the spirit of love, of mercy, and of spiritual uplift is forgotten. One woman who apparently had every reason to be 710 happy was heard to remark, "T'll be glad when Christmas is over. For me it's a time of confusion and financial burden." Don't let this happen to you. You can have the happiest, merriest, easiest Christmas you've ever had by following some of the simple rules of wise planning, wise management, and _ wise spending. The most surprising and most satisfying part of it is that everything pertaining to Christ- mas can be fun from the food right down to the finance. CHRISTMAS FOOD PREPARATION No woman wants to spend all or even part of Christmas day in the kitchen cooking and preparing food. How can some of this be avoided?' One solution, which works well for some families, is to have the big holiday dinner on Christmas Eve. "But, that's our busiest day getting ready for Christmas," you say. It needn't be. Following is a list of suggestions which can take most, if not all, of the drudgery out of Christmas food preparation. Prepare as many of your traditional holiday foods as far in advance as you can: A. Christmas fruit cakes and plum (carrot) pudding can be made months in advance. They are wonderful to have for pre-holiday entertaining as well as for Christmas. B. All Christmas breads—plain and sweet rolls, bread sticks, nut and fruit breads, and pies can be made days ahead carefully wrapped and properly stored. C. Cranberry sauce, jellies, and relishes can be prepared far in advance. D. Where salads are used, they can be set or frozen at least twenty-four hours ahead. Ingredients for fruit or vegetable salads can be prepared the day before. E. Dressing for the fowl improves in flavor if prepared at least a day ahead. The bread, the onions, and the seasonings, can all be mixed and stored until ready for use. (Cauticn: The bird must not be stuffed until just before placing in the oven to bake.) F. Candies, cookies, spiced nuts, and other goodies can be made and stored as far in advance as needful. G. If the group is composed of several families who are coming "home" for Christmas, the load can be lightened by having each family prepare Lesson Department and bring some portion of the Christmas dinner. H. The silver can be polished and the dishes, glassware, and linens can be in readiness several days ahead. PREPARING FOR CHRISTMAS FUN Happiness abounds during the Christmas season, especially if early preparation is made for it. What could be confusion and chaos—with children underfoot and adults getting in each other's way—can be just the opposite with a little foresight and planning. A wise mother or grandmother will know that if children have something to do they will cause little trouble. She will have available those things which will keep the children busy and happy— crayons, coloring books, storybooks, and games. The decorating of the house and the tree is always fun and everyone can have a part in it. Family members have an opportunity here to give expression to their creative abilities and talents. The entire family can enjoy visiting together in close and happy family communion. Singing Christmas carols, reading the Christmas story from the scriptures, reminiscing and visiting together, are some of the activities which the family can enjoy here in the warmth and peace of the family circle, and they remain happy memories through all the years to come. WHAT ABOUT CHRISTMAS FINANCE? How can we enjoy all the fun and festivities of Christmas without overextending ourselves financially? This is a vital question which touches all of us, and unless we find an answer we will not 711 September 1967 enjoy the happiness and peace which are inherent in the true spirit of Christmas. To be sure, there is no simple solution which will work for all of us, but there are some suggestions which might help us to find our own solutions to this problem. 1. Family gift giving can be simplified by having the adult members— possibly excluding the grandparents— draw each other's names, and by doing the same with the children. In this way, every member receives' one family gift. The approximate price of both the adult and the children's gift is predetermined by the family group. Gifts created: and developed through the skills and talents of the individual family members are appreciated and are usually less costly. 2. Gifts between neighbors and friends can be simple, inexpensive ones from the kitchen, such as baked goods, homemade candies, cookies, or fruits attractively boxed or wrapped. 3. The wise homemaker will buy needed food ingredients, as well as gift items, periodically when sales occur, rather than crowd her financial budget all at once. For Discussion What methods do you use which can minimize the work load and the financial burden at Christmas time? A monthly savings plan, early planning, shopping, sales buying, handmade items, or other methods? How can all family members be involved in preparing for the holiday season? CONCLUSION By planning well in advance, by buying wisely and spending judiciously, and by cultivating a happy attitude toward Christmas, you will be rewarded with a family holiday which has successfully combined Christmas food, fun, and finance. [— CHILD IN A DOORWAY Ethel Jacobson A darker shadow in the shadowed hall You stand, withdrawn but peering From darkness wrapped about you like a shawl, Hoping... Or fearing.... What? That a splendid stranger might come by? A stray cat nuzzle your hand? A leaf dance down? Careless playmates cry To have you join their band?! Smile. Dark eyes in deeper shade immersed, You waver, then duck from view Into familiar shadows. But first, oh, first You smiled back.... Didn't you? ~ 712 SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 3—As a City on a Hill Alberta H. Christensen eeeence: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1967 Objective: Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 "Ye are the light: of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid" (Matt. 5:14). The Latter-day Saint woman may know the joy of being ''a light unto the world." INTRODUCTION Since, this lesson will be given in the month of December in the Northern Hemisphere, some aspects of the message of Christmas are incorporated. From definite scripture reference, directly revealed truth, and through a rational understanding of the gospel, we know that Christ is the Light of the World, the central figure in the plan of salvation. The Savior stated: "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness" (John 8:12). AS A CITY ON A HILL The Savior taught the principles of his gospel in language his listeners could understand. He focused their thinking upon the familiar surroundings of their everyday life—the commonplace and the tangible. Then, with impressive simile and metaphor, he led them through parable or the more obvious story to the core of a principle he wished to. Instill into their minds and hearts. (See The Relief Society Magazine, July 1966, Social Relations Lesson 6 (18 in Series), pp. 550-551.) A city built upon a hill—with spires and roofs in silhouette against a noonday sky, its lighted windows a beacon in the night— is easily visible from lower elevations. A candle placed upon a candlestick, giving light to all that are in the house—how commonplace, how part of the familiar scene! From such as these, however, the Savior projected'an impressive image, indicating how the belief and the example of one individual life might influence other lives. We are far removed in time from that day in Galilee, perhaps in the year 28 A. D. (Clark, J. Reuben Jr., Our Lord of the Gospels, page 209), when Jesus uttered the words which form the crux of this lesson: Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house (Matt. 5:14, 15). All Christendom is grateful for Matthew's record of the Sermon on the Mount—that divine blueprint for spiritual growth and rewarding human relationships. 713 September 1967 Portions of its important teaching were, obviously, directed to the chosen disciples, for they must receive sufficient understanding of his gospel and the application of its principles to qualify them to be a light unto all who walked in darkness. To those dedicated believers, the Savior gave the commission to be such a light. For what purpose were they to be as a light unto the world, as a lighted candle, as a city on a hill? Jesus answers in these words: Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven (Matt. 5:16). Class Involvement 1. Why do you believe that the Savior's admonition applies to our day as well as to the meridian of time? 2. Do you think individuals making important contributions to mankind, besides those of a religious nature, are included in the following words: "that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven"? If so, why? Name a few instances. RESPONSIBILITY AND JOY Fundamental in the plan of the gospel is the concept of joy; the joy of knowing truth, of banishing error, of triumphing over sin, of experiencing love and _ personal spiritual growth. The quest for joy is the eternal quest, for "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). Mortal man cannot fully comprehend the joy which our Heavenly Father experiences when his children respond so completely to the light of his commandments that they progress rapidly toward their ultimate potential. We, his 714 children, may also experience joy, in a limited but like manner, when we are the means of bringing the light of understanding into the lives of others. In order to do so, we ourselves must possess that understanding, for we cannot give what we do not have to give. The Latter-day Saints have been given much light and truth. Questions 1. Do you believe Latter-day Saints have a greater responsibility to be as a light unto the world, than other people? Discuss briefly. 2. How may a Latter-day Saint woman, whose sphere of influence appears to be limited to her immediate family and neighborhood, be as a light unto the world? For Discussion Emphasize, by being specific, the joy of being a motivator for good in the following situations: 1 The teacher or Relief Society class leader who sees members of her class increase in mental alertness, and evidence intellectual growth. 2. The mother who sees her efforts to implant basic life values in her children, reflected in their lives. 8. The grandmother or great-grandmother who sees specific family standards and ideals being passed from generation to generation of her family, who may think with pride, 'This is what we believe and do in our family." 4. The woman who initiates a service program or other worthy activity and observes it being perpetuated in the neighborhood or community. Do these relate to the joy of being a light unto the world? (To class leader: The joy of performing vicarious work for the dead and the joy of doing missionary service have been discussed in previous lessons.) RECURRENT STAR OF LIGHT The birth of the Savior was announced to the world by a mani- festation of heavenly light — the special star above the shepherds' fields. Here, in the pastoral scene of Bethlehem of Judaea, Jesus began his earthly phase of being— "the Light of the World."' Prophecy had foreclaimed him to be such, and such he was and is, everlastingly. Each year' the theme of the Christ Child, who was born in a manger, of the giftbearing Magi, and of the heavenly choir and the guiding star of light, blesses the Christian world. It seems appropriate that aspects of the memorial Christmas theme be part of this lesson discussion. TIME FOR APPRAISAL Many traditional observances of Christmas vary from country to country and family to family throughout the Christian world. These festive activities may brighten the home and_ bring cheer to its members, but they have meaning only if they retain the purpose of the observance, only if they acknowledge the essential truth that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Christ, the Light of the World; only if they lift to greater faith and greater love. The Latter-day Saint woman, believing this, well may use this season for an appraisal of her personal attitudes, the attitudes of her children, her relationship with close friends and social acquaintances. In considering her former Christmases, she may decide that certain traditional activities are rewarding, and wish to continue them; others she may feel should be discontinued or minimized. She may ask herself this question: Which of the following holiday season activities is most Lesson Department rewarding to me personally, to the family? (1) holiday social activities. (2) attractive house decor. (3) the exchange of gifts. (4) festive activities within the home, with family and relatives. (5) remembrance of friends through correspondence (Christmas cards). (6) religious discussion, selective reading of scripture or other writings relative to the meaning and spiritual aspects of life. (7) specific acts of compassionate service. Class Involvement Discuss, as time permits, the foregoing holiday activities. THEY CAST A LOVELY LIGHT Although the candle antedates the Christmas era by many centuries, its origin is obscure. It was the common source of indoor light in the Savior's time, often the only source, as it is today in some areas of the world. The mellow, golden flame is a symbol of comfort, of warmth, of home, bringing light into darkness. Seemingly as small as the flame of the candle, simple Christmas gifts may also cast a lovely light, enriching the Christmas scene and all human relations involved. They need not be costly, elaborate, beautiful, or large in size. They need only represent personal thoughtfulness, an inner desire to please another. Some simple gifts that have been fondly remembered are: (1) Several potatoes upon a baking tin, well scrubbed and oven ready. (2) Homemade jellies, fruit, or a home-baked loaf. (3) A promissory note to baby-sit, or to assist with ironing or other household activity (friend to friend). (4) An offer of transportation from friend or relative owning a car to one who does not or is unable to drive. 715 September 1967 (5) An original poem (child to parent).; Suggest others. It is of prime lmportance that some measure of love accompany the gift, for "The gift without the giver is bare' (James Russell Lowell: "Vision of Sir Launfal''). CONVERSATION OVERHEARD Following, is a pre-Christmas conversation. Speaking are: Jane, Alice, Myrtle, Florence, and Ruth: Jane: What are you women planning for Christmas this year, that's new or different from last year? Alice: I don't know about you, but I know what we're doing. We're being strictly practical. We spent too much money last year on frills. The children are past the toy and Santa Claus stage and so it's clothes for us. And no trimming up the house —believe me. The children can go to a movie in the afternoon if they want to. Myrtle: Alice, how could you! Not even a tree, and a wreath, and no garland on the stair, and no holly on the hearth? That's the main thing at our house. I've a dozen new decoration ideas, and our house will look simply luscious. The tree will be so beautiful the children won't even dare to touch it. Jane: Don't your children help trim the Christmas tree? Myrtle: They do not. Ours is not that kind of tree. They wouldn't know how. You know—special color scheme, lights and ornaments arranged just so. They just couldn't do it. Jane: Well ours do, even though it may look a bit haphazard. They love trimming the tree, and we let them put on anything they choose, from paper stars to painted bells, even real apples. I guess I'll have to admit we're pretty informal about Christmas. It's being together as a family that counts with us. Florence: No one has mentioned music. Last year we went through all our records and songbooks. In fact, Christmas week was almost one continuous carol. Jim said he felt like an oratorio; but he liked it. He used to come home after work whistling one of the tunes, probably the last 716 MEXICO Air: Leaves October 6; Returns 14 & 20 HAWAII October 13 November 17 December 28 TEMPLE TOUR October 23 NEW ENGLAND Fall Foliage September For all travel and ticketing arrangements ARET is ne My 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 326. 8981 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 CHRISTMAS CRAFTS Gifts and Decorations Ask about Free Classes and Demonstrations in All Handicrafts Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twenty-five Inexpensive Handicraft Projects" ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 one he had heard when he left in the morning. Jane: I know I'm going to do even more baking this year. I have two new recipes, and more sewing for the children. It saves so much money. But Ruth, you haven't said a word. Ruth: I'm listening. But 'm thinking also—remembering last Christmas and the resolution I made—late on Christmas night. Myrtle: Sounds exciting! Do tell—but youre so idealistic, and sentimental, and that's being impractical, these days. Ruth: Impractical! Idealism is the only practical thing there is. And needed, too. That's what I've decided. Well, if you really want to hear— All: We do! Ruth: We did a lot of planning last year—sort of followed all the rules. The children cooperated with trimming the tree and decorating the house. We didn't break the budget, though we spent enough. We baked delicious cookies and other things, sent the Christmas cards early. We didn't talk about the cost of gifts, the children didn't fuss, that is, not very much, and say they wish they had received more or different gifts. We invited all the family — even Aunt Suzy, and we had a wonderful time after dinner, family games and singing. Father even got in quite a bit about Bethlehem, and how the shepherds must have marvelled, seeing the star, hearing the heavenly choir. Then Father mentioned about how blessed we were, how very blessed, having security—our family I mean—a fine, warm home and everything. It was lovely. Still, when the day was over, Pat, she's our fifteen-year-old, said, "I wonder what Jennie's doing?" "Jennie, who's Jennie?" I asked. "Oh, she's a girl at school," she answered. "She lives in some little town, I don't know where, but too far away to go home for Christmas. Besides, she couldn't afford to go. She works on the side even to stay in school." "But didn't she have any place to go for Christmas? Not any relatives here?" Lesson Department BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6......... 90 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5 8 "No, not anyone," Pat said, "but I don't suppose she'd mind it much. She's sort of a loner—and a book worm. She probably read all day." I looked at father and he looked silently at me. Then he asked, "Patsy, have you had a good Christmas day?" "I certainly have. Its been a wonderful day for us all, and I know you're right, Dad, about us being so blessed. Thanks, too; for all you and Mom did for us—the gifts I mean." She waited a minute, "Only, I keep | thinking of Jennie." After she had gone to bed, Father said, "Well, Ruth, that would have been a road to Bethlehem. We didn't take it." "We didn't," I answered. 'We missed the most important part— just thinking so much about ourselves. I hope this won't ever happen again, to us." Myrtle: What a fascinating story. Ruth: (Not seeming to hear her comment) "Jennie is gone, back to her little town, working in a store, sharing the family burdens. But there 717 September 1967 are other Jennies, Pat has located three of them at school, who will spend Christmas Eve and the following day with us. A convert boy from South America will join us for Christmas dinner. Jane: How ever can you make room? Ruth: That's no problem. Small children love sleeping on the floor for special occasions. We have other plans, too. We are more excited about this Christmas than we have ever been. Idealistic? Call it what you like. Alice: Something NEW, Id say, for your neighborhood! Ruth: Well, it may not be a very bright one, but there's going to be a new star in our neighborhood, this Christmas. Class Question What is the road to Bethlehem? How may the mother help family members, including herself, find the road? THE AUTHENTIC VOICE OF LOVE This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you (John 15:12). We cannot know, cannot understand the fulness of God's love for us, although we recognize its blessing upon our daily lives. We know that love is the very heart and basis of the gospel of his Son, Jesus the Christ. We know that love is an indispensable factor in human happiness. We know that For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life (John 3:16). We know that Jesus, the Christ, so loved his Father and all mankind that he spent his earth life serving them, even to the giving of his life for them. To love is the first commandment; service to others is its authentic voice. For Discussion Questions that appear in the lesson, plus those which may arise. Develop most fully those areas of special interest to the group. FOR HOME DOING Be a light, by giving some measure of yourself to someone who needs your understanding and love. Let the refining and spiritual influence of music be a part of your home atmosphere this Christmas season, remembering that "the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" (D&C 25:12). Help the children to know that Christmas day is a day of days. Remind yourself and them that love, sharing, reverence, and gratitude are the important factors in a meaningful Christmas. (Note to Southern Hemisphere class leaders: Although this lesson will not be taught during the Christmas season in the Southern Hemisphere, it will allow time for evaluating plans to be made for the coming Christmas time.) CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 718 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-4 MESA VERDE and CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR Sept. 23-29 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Oct. 14-29 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec. 26-Jan. 2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 COOK ELECT RIC Pots and pans stay "'white glove"' clean. If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS... Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm _ record) Price complete. $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send _ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1! B.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Salt Lake City's Newest _ Handicraft Shop VIAN CRAFT & es NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper ma@ché jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, gold leafing, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 719 10 Mrs. Lucinda Pace Redd Monticello, Utah 10 Mrs. Margaret Dixie Pace Blackburn Berkeley, Catifornia Mrs. Meda Johnson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Della Cowley Gibson Orem, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson Richfield, Utah 9 Mrs. Annie Kennedy Corless Magrath, Alberta, Canada 97 Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsay Bennion Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah 96 Mrs. Ellen Crawford Springdale, Utah 9 Mrs. Josephine Broberg Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mae McBride Cooper Renner Burley, Idaho Mrs. Maria Theresa Buettner Stobbe Salt Lake City, Utah St. George, Utah Mrs. Laura Martina Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah 720 92 91 Mrs. Louie Burt Evans Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Julliette Etta Palmer Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Albertina A. Nimetz Oakland, California Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, California Mrs. Bertha Reidel Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Olive Biggs Draper, Utah Mrs. Nellie Gertrude Killian Gardner Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Gealta Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Daisy Burt Reeder Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Edith Oleson Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Burrows Ure Gardena, California Mrs. Alice Elizabeth Corbridge Allen Inglewood, California Mrs. Mary Adelaide Snow Killpack Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha A. Henline Glasscock 50 D Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Crooks Hendry Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Sarah Ellen Jones Henricksen Provo, Utah Mrs. May Elizabeth Walker Howard Roy, Utah Mrs. Emojean Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Jessie Mann Parkin Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Nellie Thompson Wanlass Lehi, Utah —E—EE— q Mrs. Anna Barfuss Rindlisbacher Dutson For every Reltef Society Member OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 (postage paid anywhere in world) The third volume of the series is themed to "intelligent family living." Selection from masterworks of prose and poetry have been carefully chosen to delight and inform the reader. Text for the Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course 67/68. Note: Orders filled in sequence received — get your order in NOW! SOCIAL RELATIONS TEACHING AIDS PACKET $1.25 (postage paid) These full color pictures and other materials, including a chart, will prove extremely useful in preparing a dramatic and thoughtful presentation of the 1967/ 68 Relief Society Social Relations lessons. Oe DESERET BOOK COMPANY —_ = —— D eseret Book 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OE oe or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 92669 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Send me... Copies of OUT OF THE 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA "—S BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3. Send me...... SOCIAL RELATIONS TEACHINGS AIDS PACKETS. Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 34% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account......... Total $.............. NAME... Ce ene tenn ee en ene ence ete e tebe te ateenenepenenneunateenens AGUTOSS. Cn eee need ne nn eee ete cece e eps bbc ec tnt Gbttntntnnees GUY cc cece cee teeter eeteteeenaneSF) (ccZip........... SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [] (check here) Sept. R. S. 67 ' Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this recipe from Sugarplum Land to add an exciting flair to your summer entertaining. : Pade fh gti eg — e «® i The, Ua eSlief Society ~ ee Magazitig: eS. "OCTOBER. 19674. _ ano wd or -. A. So we. > "a ra S — rare ys; ne 4 ' £1 warn y POR | RENE LZ fy >t ' at st reg Ue: i wales * 7 7 ats Ke. <> 4 iT The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Hlustrations: AT HALF-PAST AUTUMN Peggy Tangren The year is measured by a shadow's length And now it is half-past autumn. Behind small weirs of sodden maple leaves Rain waters deepen into little lakes; The cradling nest has emptied To a sky wedge of swift wings. Two months ago this forest reeled And roared defiance In wars with storm and wind And held its roots. But now, at half-past autumn, A soughing fills the pauses in the woods' deep breathing. October, tremulous and slow, Descends the mountain Down from cliff and canyon To the drowsing hills, Then waits, as an aging patriarch Who, seeing beyond his sightless eyes, A vision of resurgence, and its keeping, Stands waiting with the waiting land. Sun and Shadow in Zion Canyon, Utah Transparency by Willard Luce Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Fish Lake on the High Plateau, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 721 | am twenty-one years of age and a student nurse. | have been a member of the Church for nine months and many times the Magazine has been a great encouragement in strengthening my faith. | love the stories and lessons, and the poetry has a special appeal. Margery Miller Dublin, lIretand | have had to ask to be released as Magazine representative for Baldwin Park Ward, West Covina Stake, as my eighty-two years have, perhaps, rebelled at all the running around | have so very much enjoyed doing. No doubt | will still ''guide'' some of the subscribers to our new representative, Sister Kole. Mabel C. Ridley Baldwin Park, California We are living in La Paz, Bolivia, where my husband is working as a cereal advisor with a contract team from Utah State University. We enjoy the Magazine possibly even more here than at home, where so much is taken for granted. The Magazine is more beautiful all the time. Jayne D. Van Epps La Paz, Bolivia The Magazine is a real source of spiritual nourishment to myself and family. (When my daughter, who is eighteen, left for work this morning, she took a Magazine with her for reading at lunch time.) | always read the Magazine from cover to cover, and have my own index on stories, poems, articles, recipes, gospel doctrine, etc. That | find pertinent to my needs and disposition. The poetry is especially lovely. It is usually delicate and sensitive—pastel colors of exquisite expression. Wanda F. Hilton Walnut Creek, California 722 2, VE ¢ | received the June 1967 issue of the Magazine today, and felt excited and happy to see the note on the From Near and Far page from Nita Olsen, as she has been my friend for more than twenty years. We once lived in the same branch in Australia, and we still correspond to this day. She married and settled in Ogden eight years ago and has two children. | am married to an Aussie and have four children. My husband and | were on a building mission to New Zealana for two years and our first two sons were born there. | learned to make over clothes for my family and attended Relief Society regularly. | am thankful for the good and uplifting messages in the Magazine—the stories and the lessons. | am enthused over the "'Mix-and-Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June Magazine. | love to learn and am grateful for the development one can obtain from Relief Society and from the Magazine. Elaine Troy Beal Wood North Parramatta N. S. W. Australia | love The Relief Society Magazine and can never throw any of the numbers away. | especially enjoy the poetry. "Wind Lullaby,'' by Beulah Huish Sadleir in the April issue is just right for this spring. | hope sometime to see one of her poems as a frontispiece. Maxine Lind Salt Lake City, Utah | am most grateful for The Relief Society Magazine, and also to be able to be a member of the Relief Society, the privilege of baptism, and becoming a member of the Church in 1966. ° Norma Gill Park Alhambra, California The Relief Society Magazine volume 54 October 1967 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family Mark E. Petersen 740 The Maguey Story Leanor J. Brown 742 The Finite View Helen Hinckley Jones 744 Within the Stillness Sylvia Probst Young Fiction 733 The One Who Waits Margaret Woods 750 Then Comes Tomorrow Marian Gardner Nielson 763 At the End of a Pilgrimage Marilyn McMeen Miller 768 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 2 Janet W. Breeze General Features 722 From Near and Far 745 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 746 Editorial—*'Honour Thy Father and Thy Mother' Vesta P. Crawford 748 In Memoriam—Nada Rich Brockbank 749 Notes to the Field—Unified Starting Time for Church Programs 772 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 757 Something Special for the Party Zola McGhie 758 Self-Imposed Mending Iris W. Schow 759 | Remember Mama _ Dorothy M. Owen 762 Creative Artist With Heart and Hands Lesson Department 780 Spiritual Living—Sustain the Brethren Roy W. Doxey 786 Visiting Teacher Message—A Loving Person Alice Colton Smith 787 Homemaking—The Kitchen—The Heart of the Home Celestia J. Taylor 789 Social Relations—What Will They Remember? Alberta H. Christensen 793 Cultural Refinement—''Patience and Forbearance' Robert K. Thomas Poetry At Half-Past Autumn, Peggy Tangren 721; In This Dark Hiatus, Alda L. Brown 732; Space the Days, Beulah Huish Sadlier 739; No Sacrifice, Linnie Fisher Robinson 748; Seagulls, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 755; Since Time Began, Mabel Jones Gabbott 756; A Prayer, Enid F. Woolley 761; Weapon, Lois M. Anderson 767; Burnished Field, Gladys Hesser Burnhanr 785; Anchorage at Home, Bertha A. Kleinman 799 Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided' for in section 1103, Act of Gc.' tober 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 723 Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference, Hyde Park Chapel, London, England, May 27, 1967) ¢ The Relief Society of the Church is spoken of as an auxiliary of the Priesthood. The more I have thought of Relief Society and the Priesthood together, the more I am convinced it is a great partnership even as husband and wife are a partnership. The Priesthood and Relief Society are a partnership, and together they are expected to carry forward the program, whereby the Almighty seeks to bring immortality and eternal life to all of us. Priesthood and Relief Society The great objective of both Relief Society and the Priesthood is the subject mentioned in the beautiful anthem just sung, '""My Peace I Give Unto You." It is peace not as the world gives it. The world does not understand true peace; but the true followers of Christ do, because it is that peace that passeth all understanding. And that peace, centered in the Savior of the world, rests to a large extent upon the homes and family life of Latter-day Saints. There again is the partnership of the Priesthood and Relief Society. We would hope that every woman in the Church be- 724 comes a member of Relief Society, and we would hope that every man in the Church would hold and honor the Priesthood. In the home father and mother—Priesthood and Relief Society are working together as a glorious partnership in developing a home life that will produce a new generation of humble, devoted Latterday Saints. The principal objective of the home is to produce good Latterday Saints. Relief Society — the mothers—cannot do this entirely by themselves. The Priesthood— the fathers—cannot do it entirely by themselves. Again, it is a situation whereby we need a complete, harmonious, understanding partnership between the men and the women of the Church. We need to build stronger homes, and in these homes we must see that the hearts of the fathers and the mothers are truly turned to the children, and that the children's hearts are truly tured to their parents. "The Hearts of the Children" We often quote the last two Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family verses of Malachi, wherein the prophet said, 'Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful. Day of the Lord... And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse." Generally, we relate this scripture to genealogical activity. It is properly so related, but must it be exclusively? I know of no scripture which says that this prophecy relates exclusively to the genealogical program. I am sure that under the inspiration of the Almighty, Malachi looked down through the ages and saw our time, when family life is breaking - up, wholesale, in almost every nation of the world. We, today, have lost sight—I speak of the world at large, not of the Church—of the real meaning of the family. They have lost sight of the importance of the relationship of parents to children and of children to parents. I think it is altogether fitting that the Almighty should send a prophet to the earth in the last days, as an angel of heaven, to turn the hearts of the parents to their responsibilities toward their children—their living children—and to turn the hearts—I mean the tender hearts—of children to their parents, so that children will really love their parents and be obedient to them, and so that parents will truly love their children and cherish them, and care for them all their lives, and never turn them out at fourteen or fifteen; and never do anything but develop and generate and preserve love and family harmony and unity and the closeness of the family. Responsibility of Parents Regardless of age, the hearts of the fathers must be turned to their children and the hearts of the children to their fathers, and I assure you that this means mothers also. The scriptures here use the word father in the broad sense that we use the word man. We speak of our forefathers and we mean foremothers, also, don't we? And when we speak in terms of man as being the human race, we certainly speak of all humans, male and female. When God said, "Let us make man in our image, male and female...," he meant exactly that. Where Malachi speaks of the hearts of the fathers, he is talking about the mothers, too. He is talking about parenthood. One of the great purposes of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ is to turn the hearts of the parents, in tenderness and love and in full responsibility, to their children. And one of the great purposes, likewise, is that we may so convert the children to the principles of the gospel that they will keep the great commandment which says, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee." It is a commandment of God that we honor our parents, and it is, likewise, a commandment of God that we honor our children and teach them the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Understanding Between Parents and Children Parents and children need to 725 October 1967 understand each other better. Often people living under the same roof suffer a lack of harmony, at times there is even bitterness because they are not understood. Young people today face many problems. At times, parents are a problem to their own children. It is surprising how many times we interview children who tell us what an obstacle their parents are: to belief in God, to observance of the commandments, keeping the Sabbath holy, or attending their meetings. It is, of course, true that children are often a problem to their parents. There is no doubt about that. Scholars in one of our great universities, not long ago, made a survey among a large number of families on the matter of juvenile delinquency. They studied not - only the parents, but also the children, and they called in many delinquent children to see if they could find out why they were delinquent—what was at the bottom of this problem. Eighty per cent of these delinquent children said that their parents did not have time for them and did not care what they did, so long as they did not disturb the routine of the parents. The same percentage reported that their parents did not care whom their children chose for friends. Seventy-five per cent of all these delinquent boys and girls said that there was no parental love in the home. Isn't that heartbreaking? That is why there is delinquency. There is one great reason for juvenile delinquency today and for all gangs and mobs—that is the breakdown of family love, harmony, and responsibility. 726 Religion in the Home Another very interesting thing was that the study showed that in homes of these delinquents there was little or no religion whatsoever. Many of these youngsters said that they would like to have some religion, but the parents wouldn't allow it in the home. What a commentary that was! We believe that if parents and children will endeavor to understand each other, that most of the problems existing in homes can be done away with, providing that all are willing to establish, in the home, an atmosphere where obedience to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ prevails. You know how peace comes. It is the peace of Christ, not as the world giveth. It is the spirit of Christ, which is the spirit of peace; and the only way we can have the spirit of Christ is to obey the gospel of Christ. It is obedience which brings about the sanctifying influence of the spirit of God into every family so that there can then be love at hom and peace. We believe that parents and children ought to sit down together and talk over their family matters on a basis of love and understanding. The most serious problem our young people are faced with today pertains to their personal conduct both in and out of the home. Parents are too often too busy with other things to talk these problems out with their children, and as a result, young people go elsewhere for their direction and are often misled. Back alley advice is never any good. Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family And certainly, at this critical point in their lives, parents should be willing to take whatever time is necessary, and give up any other activity, to spend the necessary time to counsel with and advise their children. Young people need to plan for the future. In this they need a guiding hand, but the parents must not be too busy or too disinterested to do this. How may we improve the situation in our own homes? How may parents win the confidence of their children? How may we develop juvenile decency instead of juvenile delinquency? A Family Council Meeting Each family might well hold, occasionally, a family council meeting. This could be held in connection with the Family Home Evening, and we do strongly recommend that every Latter-day Saint family have a Family Home Evening every week. Periodically, as part of that Family Home Evening, there could very well be held a family council, called and conducted by the parents and attended by all members of the family. Properly held, it can strengthen family ties, assure the children that they really belong, and convince them that their parents are interested in their welfare as well as in their problems. It can help to protect children against temptation. It can inspire parents to set the necessary examples of righteous living for their children. In such a meeting, parents can win the cooperation of children in attaining the objectives of good family living, inviting them to help plan for it, and making them feel a part both of the plan and of its operation. Children will respond if parents will take the ini- _tiative in righteous leadership. Again, in interviewing a great many young people, I have been amazed at the number who have told me that the principal disappointment they have with their parents is that the parents fail to provide leadership in the home and fail to make decisions. Righteous Decisions The parents ought to make righteous decisions. They ought not to be dictatorial in any sense, because that drives the children away. But, if parents will listen to their children and listen to the facts, and then go to Almighty God and pray for guidance, they will get the inspiration to which every Latter-day Saint,. Is entitled. You have the gift of the Holy Ghost. It has been conferred upon you by the laying on of the hands. As Paul said to Timothy, "Stir up the gift of God that is in thee." And if we will but stir up this gift of God that is in us, and listen to our children so that they will feel that they are a part of making the decisions, and then, if through prayer and inspiration of the Spirit, we render the proper decisions and provide the spiritual building and character building leadership, by all means we will save our children, and they will love it. They desire leadership on the part of the parents and they desire righteous decisions, but they also desire to be counseled with. We cannot rule them out of the counseling, we must not be dictators in our homes. We are the children of God; we should have harmony and love and under- 727 October 1967 standing, and we should have communication between parents and children, so that we may all sit down and talk together and reach a common understanding, a common decision, and then the children will support the decision. But this must be done in a family council meeting; we cannot do this just over the breakfast table. Often some of the family may not be present for breakfast, or even for dinner. We must choose a time when alli can attend. A few years ago in the Church we conducted a program called "Keep Faith With the Family." We prepared some material which was distributed throughout the Church in connection with this program. I would like to read to you some of the subjects which we recommend for these family council meetings. Mutual Respect One was to teach mutual respect for each other as family members. Next, eliminate selfishness; treat each other as real brothers and sisters; live the Golden Rule. This matter of eliminating selfishness is one of the most important of all things we can do. The worst enemy, the very worst enemy, of the human race is selfishness. The worst enemy of every home and every family is selfishness. You study every quarrel that you've had in your family and see if it doesn't rest on selfishness on somebody's part. One of the most important things we must learn to do is to apply the commandments of God in the home: "All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them." The Lord told us that 728 we were to love him with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. He said that was the first commandment, but the second was like unto it. And I suppose—my interpretation is—that "like unto it'? Means of like importance. We cannot love God with all our hearts if we do not fulfill the second great commandment, and the second is like unto it, ""Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself."" My closest neighbor is my wife; my next closest neighbors are my children. I must love them at least as well as I love myself. I should love them more, infinitely more. I should be willing to go far beyond any personal desires for myself for the good of my family. And we can never say that we love God if we have not love for our brothers and sisters and our fathers and mothers with whom we live. Love in the Home The love of God is vital. Remember that he said, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another as I have loved you.... By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another."' And love must include family love. It must be the love we have in our homes, resulting from proper Latter-day Saint living. To continue with this list—the next would be to teach family worship. At home we should have family prayer and blessings on the food. We should live the Word of Wisdom, be willing as a family to pay our tithing and fast offerings, and we should fast together. We should promote brotherly and sisterly kindness, honesty, patience, and understanding. And as a Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family family we should plan to meet together in our meetinghouses; go to our sacrament meetings and our Sunday Schools together as families. Let it be a family project. We should promote in the mind of each boy the ideal of going on a mission at the proper age. Your young men ought to go on missions just aS our young men should. This matter of sending missionaries to all the world is not an American project. It is a project of the Lord Jesus Christ, whose Church is world-wide! In our family evenings and family council meetings we should promote in the mind of each boy the ideal of going on a mission. Many families assist in this thinking by setting up a mission savings plan wherein both the parents and the boy save a little each week or month toward that goal. It forms a constant reminder throughout childhood to live to be worthy to go on a mission. Temple Marriage Then we should teach the importance of temple marriage. You can begin this as a family tradition while children are yet young. It may be a guide and protection to them during the teenage period. Teaching them to be worthy of entering the house of the Lord. Should be one of the major projects of every family. Parents should constantly be mindful of temple marriage. You sisters must be; some of you cannot obtain temple marriages at the moment. You may be married to nonmembers of the Church or to husbands who are not interested. We say to you, be faithful and patient and God will provide a way. But to those of you who can become eligible to go to the temple, do so by all means. Make yourself worthy to ask for a temple recommend. You, yourselves, constantly teach temple marriage in your home and to your children, and set the example yourselves. I was so impressed at one time in visiting a family in a city where I was for a stake conference. I was there for an extra day because I had some business to perform. So I had family prayer several times with this family in whose home I was staying. On Friday night one of the little girls in the home was called upon to offer the prayer. I think she was about ten or twelve years of age. I was startled at the end of the prayer, and it was a lovely prayer, to hear her say, "Father, help me and my sisters to be married in the temple."" And the next morning another family prayer was held, and this time another daughter—this time about sixteen—was voice. And at the close of her prayer, she asked, "Father, help me and my sisters that we might be married in the temple." And that evening the third daughter, eighteen, prayed and concluded, "Father, help me and my sisters that we might be married in thy temple." The next morning it was the mother's turn. As she led us in prayer, she said, among other things, "Father, bless our daughters that each one of them may be married in the temple." This was a theme of family prayer each time. And those of you who have been to the temple know that it is the gateway to exaltation. Sometime, every faithful person will be given the opportunity of temple marriage. 729 October 1967 Church Activity The importance of the entire family attending ward and stake and mission and branch events is all important. Families should go to Church together; they should worship together; as they should play together and work together to build up family unity. A child sent to Church by parents who remain at home can hardly be expected to maintain his interest. Most children want to do what their parents do, at least during the formative years. If parents go off on a holiday on the Sabbath, the children will probably wish to go along. On the other hand, if the parents go to Church, it is not difficult to bring the children along. When Church activity becomes a part of the family routine, when it is customary and the expected thing to do, most young children fall into this custom easily and without resistance. Soon it becomes a habit for them. When the home becomes an integral part of the Church and the Church becomes an integral part of the home, the two work together with team-like precision. The objectives of both are accomplished. Both parents and children are converted to the gospel principles. Mutual confidence and respect are established and the family is preserved, not only for this life, but for eternity as well. Achieving Family Standards and Ideals It is suggested that in these family council meetings that we review still some other things. If you happen to own an automobile and you have children in your 730 family who want to do the driving, come to an understanding about a definite set of rules pertaining to use of the car. Set up definite understandings. Let the children help you to make the decisions as to what time they come in at night when they go out for an evening. Chaperonage is absolutely essential if they are away from home over night or on certain types of dates. Let no Latter-day Saint young persons, boys or girls, go off together without proper chaperonage on a vacation. I know that it is a common thing in Europe these days, but let no Latter-day Saint participate in it. Obtain a willingness on the part of the children to discuss with the parents the type of companionship they choose. Urge them to introduce their friends to the parents so that the parents will know what kind of companions their children have. Build respect towards parents, school teachers, police, and all other types of authority. Reach an understanding about the proper choice of good 'reading, avoiding bad books and other publications. Provide in the home a proper type of reading material and avoid evil, disgusting television programs. Reach an understanding as to what types of amusement places must be visited, as to when to start dating, and with whom. Discuss with them the problems of dating too early and the terrible mistake of early teen marriage. Talk about maintaining decency at all times, avoiding petting and similar evils. Modesty in Dress—Chastity in Conduct Another point is that of proper Turning the Hearts of Family Members to the Family and modest dress. Is there any reason why Latter-day Saints, nearly three million strong, have to go around like sheep, following the disgusting fashions of the world? Why should Latter-day Saint women and girls expose themselves by immodest dress, either in short skirts or tight blouses or however else you want to mention it. I tell you, ladies, you are not made lovely by short skirts; when you stoop over or when you sit down, especially, are you not made lovely by short skirts. It is a very serious matter. Many a boy who has lost his virtue has confessed to me that short skirts and other exposures gave him the temptation that started him on his way down. No woman—certainly no Latter-day Saint woman —has the right to tempt any young man. You don't have the right; and if you tempt others by exposing yourself, God will hold you to account for it. Now Latter-day Saint women are supposed to be modest. We send our women and our men through the temple so that they will learn to wear modest clothing, and you all know what I am talking about. We ask you to be modest, so that you preserve chastity. Remember that when you lose your chastity you lose just about everything. One of the great covenants that we as Latter-day Saints make is that we covenant with the Almighty himself that we will be virtuous and chaste. We are told in no uncertain terms in The Book of Mormon that sex sin is next to murder in the category of crime. These are things that we need to talk about in our homes with our children, and we _ strongly recommend that as Latter-day Saints we keep faith with our families and preserve the ideals and the standards and the faith that the Lord has given us through the restoration of the gospel in these last days. Building the Kingdom We are expected to build the kingdom. I don't know how much you are frightened by this situation in Egypt at the present time. It scares me. Read the 38th and 39th chapters in Ezekiel. The final great war will break out in the Near East. That is where the great fight is going. To be, and that is where God will come when the armies of the world are assembled. He will pour out such destruction upon them from heaven that it will take seven months just to bury the dead. ~ I don't expect that this particular crisis will lead to that; there's too much else to be done. I merely call your attention to the fact that we are living in the last days, and that this is one of the signs of the times. We, the Latter-day Saints, are to prepare for the Second Coming of Christ, and we cannot prepare for the sanctification that will be required in tight blouses and short skirts. Now can we? And neither can we in quarreling in the home. Neither can we in in-. Dulging in irreligious practices. We must decide to be the covenant people of God and keep our covenants, which means that we shall have to live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. And that we may do this, I humbly pray. 731 "THE PRIDE OF IRELAND" Upper Killarney Lake framed by the rolling hills of County Kerry. Paul's Photos 732 IN THIS DARK HIATUS 7 Alda L. Brown October climbs the hills that summer climbed, And mourns the echoed footfall on beaten trails.... Bonfire laughter now has wafted to the skies, ' And sifted into winds where the lonely eagle sails. And | am steeped in solitude. Like the charred burn Upon these circled stones, | too have seen The sparkling flame of summer. | mourn small hands That picked wild jungle fern in mountain glen; lean Feet that waded icy stream for colored castle-stones. My loved ones... Now a thousand wingspan miles away, Not to return till forest glades have greened again.... And in this long hiatus that looms to that far day Autumn leaves fall with infinitesimal sound, And lie like teardrops on this endless-waiting ground.... The One Who Waits Margaret Woods Walsall, Staffordshire, England ¢ Crumpling the letter in her hand, Sandra thought, If only I were in Gail's shoes. She lay back luxuriously on the frilly pink pillows of her friend's guest room and drew the fresh smelling covers up under her chin. Closing her eyes, she wondered about Colin. Without doubt, he would be settling down for yet another day at the office, and perhaps remembering that she would have received his letter by now. She puckered her nose in distaste under the bedclothes. How irritatingly commonplace it all was! They had such an ordinary little existence. Admittedly, Colin was in direct line for a good promotion in his firm, and everyone, even Sandra's parents, said how reliable he was, and what a good husband he would make. She knew he meant to ask her to marry him, but Sandra wanted time to think. She wasn't sure. She was seriously considering marrying Colin, but he probably didn't have a glimmering of how she felt about digging themselves up and cutting adrift from the old routine. If she did decide to marry him, she would dream all winter of sun-bathed beaches, the Mediterranean, the Indian Ocean, the New York skyline, and then, more than likely, settle for a honeymoon on the Cornish Riviera or somewhere in Devon, which were, after all, so very, very beautiful and picturesque but.... The water in the shower was warm and comforting as it ran down her in rivers. What good sense Gail had had to marry a man like Martin. As an airline captain, he had a glamorous and exciting job that took him all over 733 October 1967 the world. Gail had all the clothes she wanted and a_ luxurious, though small, home, too. Their car was not exactly Sandra's idea of heaven although it was certainly big. Gail had two children, David and Claire, and they were dears. Returning to her room, Sandra slipped into a pleated skirt and a gay sweater. On the way downstairs, she met Martin. He had been to take the children to school. A nose-tickling odor was trickling through from the kitchen. Sandra was just in time to help serve the fried bacon and eggs. Gail was not in the best of moods, and Martin was quiet. Sandra chatted away happily through the meal. Eventually, Martin said, ""You'll be staying over the week end, Sandra?" Sandra put down her cup. "I expect so, if Gail can put up with me. Spending a few days' holiday amid all this cosiness is so much better than living alone in my chilly London flat. Besides, the children are such fun, and it's nice to have a good visit." She grinned at Gail. '"We can forget our inhibitions." "Well," said Martin, pushing back his chair, "if you're still here when I come back from my trip, young Sandra, I'll bring you something dazzling from New York." "Sounds really divine," Sandra breathed, closing her eyes and clasping her hands in mock adoration. Emphatically, she said, "Tl be here!" "Why not ask that boy friend of yours down for a couple of days,"' Martin went on. "'We're a bit cramped, but we can always 734 put up a camp bed or something, can't we, Gail?" "Perhaps I'll ask him," Sandra said, wondering if the enchanted atmosphere that floated around Martin might move Colin to do something madly daring. Gail suddenly spoke. "Tl be driving with Martin to the airport in about half an hour. Do you want to come, Sandra?" "Yes. [ll have to change, though. What about the washing up?" "Mrs. Jones will do that. She'll be here any time now," Gail called as she disappeared upstairs. Sandra hurried to her bedroom. She had been to see Martin off once or twice before, but it was always an exciting experience. After taking some pains over her appearance, she felt chic enough to meet with equality the cosmopolitan set that inhabited the airport. On her way back down the stairs, she paused slightly in passing the main bedroom. The door was ajar and she saw Martin, clad in his enchanting uniform, holding Gail in his arms. Overcome with mild envy, Sandra crept past and on down the stairs. Only hope my husband behaves like that when I've been married nearly ten years, she thought. When Martin came down, she asked brightly, '""How about introducing me to some handsome, eligible aeronaut?"' "You'll make out just as well by yourself, if I know anything about you," he grinned. Martin drove the car as far as the airport, but soon he had to leave the girls. He held up a finger in front of Sandra's face. "Be good," he warned in mock severity. "T promise," she said solemnly, imitating his line. Giving Gail a quick kiss, he was off with the words, "You know the drill, darling." *'Let's watch him take off," said Sandra. Soon they were looking out at the huge jet aircraft as it stood on the apron to take on the passengers. The luggage was loaded; the people went on board. Then the captain and crew appeared and took their positions. Martin had evidently spotted the girls, for he waved as he crossed the short distance to the aircraft. The various trucks had now disappeared, and the little man in overalls was waving his arms about in front. Then the enormous aeroplane taxied away up the runway. Sandra and Gail watched as its silver shape grew smaller. The aircraft turned a corner of the runway and came to a halt. Minutes passed. Then, with gathering momentum, the huge winged machine sped forward, the wheels disappearing under its streamlined length almost the second its dependence on the land was gone. Up it soared towards the sun and mist-swathed sky. "Gail! What a dynamic husband you've got," cried Sandra, as with tilted head she watched the airliner climb the steep invisible ladder to the heavens. Gail smiled. '"Hush," she whispered gently. Sandra watched until there was nothing more, not even a speck, to see of Martin's aircraft. Then, face aglow, she turned to her sober-faced friend. "What did Martin mean by 'You know the drill'? She inquired cheerfully. The One Who Waits Gail studied Sandra for a moment, then said, "Our goodbyes have to be said at home. There are always too many people about to say them here. So we have condensed words to fit our surroundings. What Martin was telling me was, 'I love you terribly and I'll be as lonesome as y ou.'" Sandra murmured, "I'm very thoughtless, dear. I should have realized it hurt you to see him off." Taking the older girl's arm, she looked at her with sudden shocking understanding. Now she could interpret the steady, quiet expression on Gail's face. Gail was one of the waiting, hoping wives, who suffered at the hand of that invisible magnet which draws some men to adventure, exploration, and danger. But the rest of the world did not see the loving sacrifice behind the glittering screen of glamor. Sandra fingered the crumpled letter in her pocket. One sentence which hadn't seemed particularly important when she read it earlier, now lit up in her mind. "Be kind to Gail," Colin had written. What deep. Understanding Colin had, after all—and she had never even noticed. How tolerant he had been of her own frivolous ambitions. "Let's go," Sandra said. "We can stay awhile," said Gail, "you'd enjoy that." "No." Sandra pulled the collar of her coat around her neck and squeezed Gail's arm, "Let's go." Clouds were creeping across the sky and the bright morning was giving way to more seasonal weather. The girls were quiet on 735 October 1967 the ride home. Gail called at the green grocer's shop to buy fresh Brussels sprouts to go with the lamb chops for lunch. The children had their dinners at school and would not be home until around four o'clock. Later, Sandra telephoned Colin at his office. He told her that a pea-souper fog was beginning to close down on the city and he probably wouldn't be able to come that evening. If not, he would drive over, early on Saturday morning. Gail sat knitting in an easy chair before the blazing coals in the open fire grate. "Mmm... I love December afternoons," said Sandra. She placed a cushion on the hearth rug and squatted down to gaze dreamily into the dancing flames. ""Makes me think of muffins dripping in creamy butter, slippers warming for that special someone, and Christmas." Then she bit her lip and dropped her glowing eyes. She must learn better tact. 'What are you doing for Christmas?" asked Gail, as if she hadn't noticed anything. "The usual boring round, I ex- 736 Saaenee e pect. Mostly with the family and Colin in tow. What about you?" "Can't say yet. Depends on Martin. Christmas is a busy time for airlines, you know. He either gets Christmas or New Year's off, but sometimes he's just a standin and so he can be at home. If he's needed because someone is ill, then he can be reached by telephone. If he's definitely away for several days, then I drive to the parents' on Christmas Eve with the children and Santa visits us there. The parents love it, but, of course, it's not quite the same. Not being members of the Church, either, they don't see things quite as we do. When we're at home with Martin, we have a lovely Christmas Eve. We do such simple, yet such lovely, heart-tingling things. But when he's away, it falls a bit flat. We try to make it up as best we can for all our sakes, but it's just one of those occasions that can't be postponed or held ahead of time. Christmas Eve is Christmas Eve and that's it." There was a rush of feet and banging of doors as the children came running in, pink-cheeked, their school uniforms damp from the foggy atmosphere outside. "The school bus nearly had to stop. It crawled like a snail all the way," they said impressively. All was noise and bustle, play, and argument until teatime, with hot buttered toast and Dundee cake. It was Friday night, with no school on Saturday, and so there was hilarity in the air, with the thought of staying up a little later than usual. But at eight-thirty, Gail had them bathed and in pajamas, ready to say family prayers. It was David's turn tonight, and it soon became evident that when Daddy was away, he considered himself to be the part-time protector of the family. Tears held themselves behind Sandra's closed eyelids as he matter-of-factly, though quite sincerely, prayed for his father's safety. Obviously, it was all in a day's round for Daddy to be away. Later, watching television, the two girls spoke little and Sandra found she was beginning to engage in a fair deal of introspection. Around nine o'clock the "'News" began, and Gail took the opportunity to check on the children in bed. Sandra was paying little attention to the announcer but suddenly, she sat up "... Just received news that the captain of a British airliner collapsed at the controls whilst landing at New York this afternoon...." Dry-tongued, and ears pricked, Sandra waited for more details, but there were none. The announcer was going on about fog in the center of London, and in most of the industrial Midlands. Could it be Martin? It must be. But he had seemed all right when he left. The One Who Waits Did they say he had died? She wasn't sure. There might be other British planes landing at New York, from other directions. How could she tell Gail? There was nothing certain, though. How long did the airline authorities take to notify next of kin? What should could she do? If only Colin would come! She do! What She tried to calm her feelings as Gail trotted in with glasses of warm milk and sandwiches. But Sandra couldn't eat and made a poor attempt at the milk. '""What's up? Too. Much at teatime or worrying about the waistline?" teased Gail. "Must watch it occasionally, you know." Sandra managed a sickly smile. "Do you want an early night?" "Don't mind. How about you?" "There's a film on the other channel." "O. K." There was a scuffling at the hall door and Claire came in with tear-spattered face, holding one side of her head. "Got earache," she wailed. Gail picked her up, gently hugging her, and placed her in front of the fire. "Sit with your ear next to the blaze while I fetch some warm drops to put in." Soon the whimpering little girl was cuddling into her mother's arms and then, asleep, was carried carefully back to bed. "Did she really have an earache? She fell asleep so quickly," Sandra asked. "In her mind it is an earache. 737 October 1967 But children's feelings react in odd ways sometimes." "Oh, I see." The film was dragging on. Sandra was not interested. Worry was taking precedence. Why hadn't the telephone rung? Colin wouldn't come now. The fog must have been too thick. Gail was nodding, falling asleep. The telephone! Ringing in the hall! Sandra was halfway to her feet, when Gail, startled, jumped up and hurried out. The door was ajar. Sandra could hear most of what was said. "Been trying all evening? Oh, must have been out of order. Perhaps it's the weather. Could be, I suppose.... News? No. Tell me, what is it?" Sandra cringed. Now what would Gail say when she knew that her friend had withheld the news from her? *<... A boy! Oh, congratulations. That's just what you wanted. I'm so glad.... Give Jenny all my love.... Bye." Sandra breathed with relief. Gail was coming back. "Some friends just had their first baby. He's so excited. Been trying to phone all night. It must have been out of order. Are you interested in the film, or shall we go to bed? I seem to have missed half of it." "Yes. Let's go to bed." It was dark in the bedroom. Thoughts were more vivid now. Was Martin lying ill or even.... Banish the thought. And Gail didn't know yet. There was time to tell her even now.... No. Better let her have some rest instead. Things always appeared better in the daylight. 738 Why not pray about it? Why hadn't she thought of that before? Quickly, kneeling beside the bed, she poured out her fears and worries. To voice them was a relief. She had scarcely finished when the sound of the front door chimes jangled into her newly aquired peace of mind. It would be the police! They always did that when very important messages had to be delivered —like sudden death. With the phone out of order all evening, that would be it. Unable to contain her feelings, Sandra rushed headlong across the landing, her feet scarcely touched each stair and then, more calmly, she unbolted the front door. It was Colin. "Hello. Sorry I'm late. Fog's beginning to lift now, though." Squinting at the sudden light, he took her hand and was about to kiss her, when he saw Gail standing at the head of the stairs. She called, "Hello, Colin. Had a bad journey?" "Pretty shocking. Worth the effort, though."" He smiled warmly as he looked down again at Sandra. "Look after him, Sandra. The camping things are all ready. He can fix himself up." Gail slipped back up to her room and closed the door. Sandra clung to Colin's arm. "T'm so glad to see you. I'm worried sick." "Well, you certainly seem upset. What's up?" Out came the story, tumbling word over word, and _ finally, "... So then I prayed about it and you came knocking at the door." "You certainly had a problem. Poor Sandy. How you must have worried." He took her hands and looked steadily into her eyes. 'There's one thing you've forgotten, and that is the fact that if anything had happened to Martin, Gail would have had news by now. Bad news travels fast, as they say, and even though the telephone has been out of order and everywhere blanketed in fog, it couldn't have made much difference. Your idea about the police was correct. I know there isn't much time gap, but don't you realize that very bad news would have reached Gail in this manner by now?" Sandra leaned her head against the back of the settee on which they sat. "I knew it would be all right if you came. If only you had come earlier!" "T wish I had been able to, but the fog was so thick." "Hold me close a little." "That better?" "Mmm.... Oh, Colin...." "Ves?" "Don't ever do anything crazy The One Who Waits like wanting to become an airline pilot or something." "Well, I don't suppose IJ'll do that. I enjoy my own career too much. But goodness, you of all people don't want me to lead a completely dull life, do you?" "Not completely. Only don't be too daring, will you, because I couldn't bear it. I think I'd die of fright and worry." He held her away and looked unbelievingly into her stricken face. "You mean.... It matters to you?" She nodded and he stroked her hair as he held her close again. "T always thought I wanted an exciting life and a husband with a glamorous occupation, but I've changed my mind. If we ever do anything dangerous, we'll do it together. I don't want to be the one who waits. I'd be a nervous wreck in no time. I want a husband with a _ nine-till-five job, who is never too far away when his work for the day is finished." "Like...?" He pointed to himself. - Slowly, she nodded. And that was enough. (— Her rich display. Until you left. SPACE THE DAYS Beulah Huish Sadlier Space the days—lest swift as running deer, October ends. Lf in heaven's sight, she spread a flame of sorrow On the hills, then only in pretense shall | confiscate How to extoll the opulence of apple And the clinging peach, the clustered grape, And burnished essence of aquatic dust Floating on the leaf-banked stream. It was October when we met— And days went swift as running deer a 739 The Maguey story Leanor J. Brown, Member, General Board of Relief Society ¢ Imagine my getting excited about a cactus! J grew up in Southern Arizona with cacti to the right of me and cacti to the left of me. Of course, the Easterners, out borrowing a little of our winter sunshine, always exclaimed about cacti, but they were foreigners and we didn't let them influence us too much. So you can imagine my feelings when, many years later—way down south of the border—lI discovered that one member of this ever-so-common family is a miracle child. Of course, this has happened to me before—not with plants, but with people. In my mind I have placed a family among the common variety, only to have something happen to make me realize that they were rather special. My assessment had been somewhat premature. If you have been to Mexico, I know you've seen maguey plants. They outline the farm lands of Mexico's hills and valleys from the north to the south. But what you probably didn't know was that you were looking at one of nature's wonders. The ancient Aztecs were so 740 awed by all the gifts of nature in this one remarkable plant, they called it the "sacred plant.' On what it alone supplied they could survive. It furnished them food, drink, clothing, shelter, paper, soap, and a needle and thread. The tough, thick branches, tied together, made a rather comfortable, temporary home. By peeling off the outside skin of its turgid leaf and rubbing the moist surface, a foamy substance is formed. This can be used for bleaching and cleaning. The inside layer of the spine-margined leaf peels off easily and resembles papyrus. Tourists enjoy the novelty of writing letters on it, but the Aztecs probably found smoke signals more useful. At the end of each leaf is a long, hard spine with a fine point. By cutting carefully around the base, the spine can be pulled out, with strong fibres attached, providing nature's needle and thread. The food supply comes from a shrimp-like worm that feeds on the roots of the maguey. Actually, the maguey worm doesn't appear quite as frightening as the shrimp in full dress. Near the Pyramids of Teotihuacan, at the colorful souvenir shops, enterprising shop owners keep employees busy demonstrating how the thick fleshy pulp is pounded off to get the tough fibre. Most of the markets carry attractive items, such as handbags, baskets, and hats made from this fiber. Woven with cotton material, it is used to make the gaily designed Mexican tablecloths. Few would argue that the most miraculous service of this plant of many uses is the liquid it sup- Courtesy William B. Smart Maguey plants near the Pyramid of the Sun at Teotichuacdn Central Mexico At the left may be seen tall cactus plants, interspersed with small desert flowers plies. The Mexican farmer cuts the center of the plant and, with a long, brown, hollow gourd draws off a liquid called "agua miel," or honey water. The average yield is about five quarts a day for as long as six months. When the honey water is first drawn out it is very nutritious, but it ferments rapidly and, after twenty-four hours, becomes alcoholic. After this takes place the liquid is called "'pulque"' —the drink that contributed to the destruction of the great Toltec Empire in the twelfth century A. D. It is a sad commentary on human nature that of all the things this unusual plant offers mankind, he seeks most the only one that lends itself to destructive use. I remember having several vivid impressions while watching the demonstration of the maguey plant. I thought how many different analogies could be drawn between this plant and our lives. As we were being enlightened on one after another of its uses, I found myself wondering how I would stand up under such scrutiny. If all eyes were suddenly turned in my direction, waiting to see what I had to offer, could I stand as erect as the majestic maguey, knowing I had developed the gifts within me? How will it be, I thought, when the Master of all looks at my offering? To pass by this plant—merely to look at it—one would never imagine it had so rich an offering. In like manner, we seldom know the richness of another's soul. We see only what is obvious to the eye. Tied to convention and the ritual of routine, we suppress the desire to step beyond the familiar pattern, and yet we live our years longing for "'a sense of oneness with our kind... Thirsting to know and understand." The story of the maguey plant is a story of life. The good and the bad are present in all men and in all nature. In us, as in the '"'sacred plant" of the Aztecs, are special gifts with which to build or destroy, but, unlike the maguey plant, we have the power to choose how these gifts are to be used. 741 Helen Hinckley Jones "Lah-lah me," Sean begs when he is bathed and in his sleepers. "TLah-lah me, Daddy." His father takes the tiny boy in his arms, holds him against his left shoulder, puts his cheek against the little head nestled in his neck, and dances and sings. There aren't words to this special vesper song — just lah-lah. After the song, there is a story, a prayer, and a goodnight kiss. The final sentence is spoken softly but firmly. "That's all. Good night, Sean." Craig, who is four, has been allowed to "visit with Momie," while two-year-old Sean is lahlahed. Now it is his turn with his father; the same loving arms, the same song, the same dance, a more complicated story, a prayer with which he doesn't need help, the same gentle kiss, and the same firm sentence, '"That's all. Good night, Craig." After this evening ceremony, there is no calling out for another drink, no hopping in and out of bed, no fussing around. These little boys have learned two things: that their father loves them, and that his word is their law. They know exactly what to expect of him at other hours, too. He often prepares their breakfast, since he goes to work early, and they are usually up and hungry before six. He is a master at preparing eggs and pancakes, but his specialty is cooked cereal, which he makes fascinating with cake 742 coloring—pink or yellow, green or blue. The first little boy who awakens arouses the other, and they go into their parents' room. "Blue mush, Daddy," Sean demands, and they stay close until their father shows signs of responding. If they sleep a little later, and he has already left, they say sadly to each other, "He's gone," and they go to Craig's room to play with their toys. It would be breaking a law to bother Momie so early. They know the hours their father can spend with them, the hours he must study or work in his basement shop or train the dog. They know when the family takes the dune-buggy to the desert on a sunny Saturday that each will have a chance to hold the steering wheel while sitting between his father's knees. He is their ideal, the center of their lives. (Not that they don't love Momie. She ranks first when Daddy isn't at home or when someone is sick or hurt.) His actions are completely predictable—that is, his actions in relation to them. But of the hours that he is away from them they know little. "Where is Daddy, Sean?" I ask. "Daddy works," he replies promptly. "What does Daddy do?" "Daddy drives a truck." At times he has stopped by home during his lunch break and he has been driving the telephone company truck. Besides, they know about trucks. They have a whole fleet of tiny ones that are go-everywhere toys. They know all about driving, too, since each has a pedal car which he can HAPPINESS IS BEING WITH DADDY Gary Gene Ballard-with his sons Craig Eugene and Sean Drew drive forward and backward and maneuver into the tiniest parking spaces. It is perfectly comprehensible that Daddy drives a truck. From the wisdom of two added years and a chance encounter with a telephone crew on the way from nursery school, Craig adds, "But sometimes he sits on a pole." Neither of the boys has any idea about what the man they know so well really does. Maintenance of telephone lines and cables is something that they couldn't understand, even if it were explained to them. They know their father as love and care and law, and they can't realize that his life and activities go far beyond their finite view. It isn't going to be too hard for hy, Sean and Craig to learn about their Heavenly Father. Because their earthly father is the person he is, they will understand about God's constant love, the security they can feel because he is close, the laws they must obey, because they are God's laws. The boys will grow in wisdom. Even before they are men, they will realize that their father was never limited to the facet of life they shared as his children. As they grow still more mature in faith and knowledge, they will realize, too, that man knows only the face of God that is turned toward him. Beyond that facet of God's life lie the infinite mysteries that we can understand only when we, ourselves, have become godlike. 743 » a ee Within the Stillness Sylvia Probst Young ¢ During the moon-bright hours of a summer night, we climbed the well-trodden trails of Timpanogos, and just as the sun blazed over the eastern hills below us, we reached the summit of the mountain and felt the great exhilaration that attaining the heights always brings. Resting on the ridge, we feasted our eyes upon a wide panorama of beauty—green, fertile valleys, shimmering lakes, winding rivers, and wooded mountains—a breathtaking sight in the fresh morning stillness. The sight brought to me a sense of wonder and humility, and to my mind came the words of a well-known scripture: "Be still and know that I am God" (Psalm 46:10). In the hurry, hurry, hurry of our daily living, with its frustrations and worries, many of us are often low-spirited and discouraged. Yet all around us is food for the soul, a kind of medication that has often proved better than prescribed pills, in the healing peace that can be found in God's great creations. From my kitchen window, I look out at Mt. Olympus; at twilight the snow on its crown is bathed in a violet pink beauty. And in that opalescent stillness, my heart is lifted, and I repeat with the psalmist: 'I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth" (Psalm 121:1-2). In stillness, there is a calming, strengthening power, and the wise Creator knew this, for he placed a stillness on so many lovely things —dawn, and the coming of night;. A play of clouds across the sky; the miraculous growth in a garden; creeping of frost along the ground, are but a few of them. In stillness comes peace. Walk along a forest trail where the silence is profound, and a sense of wonder and devotion fills the soul as in a holy place. Along a lonely coast, where only the rhythm of the ageless tide can be heard, care may be shed like a cloak, and a sense of well-being can warm the heart like a mantle. In the poem "Cares," attributed to Elizabeth Barrett Browning, "The foolish fears of what may happen," are cast away "Out in the fields with God." There is a need for quiet, solitary meditation in every life. A friend of mine has a meadow brook behind her house, and when the pressures of the day become too great, she steals off alone to stand beside the crystal stream for a few minutes, while her mind and heart catch the wonder of the ever-moving water. And when she returns, it is as if her cares had been washed away. Surely, there is a peace-giving, revitalizing power in stillness. Take a few moments of the day to find it. Make for yourself a quiet sanctum, whether a secluded garden nook, a hidden beach, a backyard bench, or a kitchen window, from where you can clear your vision, lift up your eyes to the stars, be still and know God. 744 Ye Mrs. Jeanette McKay Morrell, Ogden, Utah, sister of President David O. McKay, and wife of Dr. Joseph Morrell, is author of "Highlights in the Life of President David O. McKay'' (Deseret News Press). The book is an inspirational treasury of events in the life of the President, with a rich offering of his teachings and his fervent testimony of the gospel. Mrs. Morrell is a devoted and gifted worker in civic and Church organizations, and has long been a leader in art and literature groups. A series of articles "'Life of President David O. McKay" by Mrs. Morrell appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in 1953. Deanne Siemer, twenty-six, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, has been elected president of the Harvard Law School's Legal Aid Bureau, the first woman ever to head one of Harvard's three legal honor societies. She is a licensed pilot, an expert skier, and a brilliant lawyer. Ann Mallalieu, twenty-one, daughter of a British Board of Trade minister, has been elected president of the 151-yearold Cambridge Union Debating Society. Evelyn Mazuran, woman's editor of the Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, was one of four United States editors to address the Nationa! Federation of Pen Women at their summer meeting in Sun Valley, Idaho. Her subject was "The World of Women in a Daily Newspaper.'' She is the daughter of former Governor of Utah, Henry H. Blood and wife of a Salt Lake City businessman. "a, Woman's. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Martha Elizabeth Peterson, who grew up on a farm near Salina, Kansas, is the new president of Barnard College, New York. She succeeds Rosemary Park (Anastos) who has been appointed vicepresident for educational planning at the University of California, Los Angeles. Miss Peterson is leaving the University of Wisconsin, where she was dean of student affairs. She has a doctorate in educational psychology and a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Kansas. Elizabeth Allen, eighty-three, Kent, England, is a maker of ''quilt-pictures,'' which have been exhibited by Crane Kalman in his London galleries. Her small, neat, mystical designs, made of scraps of silk and satin, have been compared in luminosity to the paintings of Klee and Picasso. Others have compared her to ''Grandma Moses," yet, instead of being happy pastoral recollections of childhood scenes, such as Grandma Moses presented, the work of Elizabeth Allen is imaginative and portrays events and scenes evanescent and unreal. Dorothy McGinnis is executive secretary of the American Association of School Librarians. She is responsible for keeping up-to-date and selecting books for school libraries. Nurses are now more than ever needed in many posts of service throughout the world. In the United States at least 62,000 more registered nurses are needed. 745 and Thy Mother" Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Exodus 20:12). Like all great commandments, the fifth commandment is as glorious and far-reaching in its implications today as it was in that time when Moses came down from Sinai ''and builded an altar... And the Lord said unto Moses... | will give thee tablets of stone, and a law, and commandments... That thou mayest teach them... And the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai..." In all the time of man during the eras of the gospel, the ''patriarchal commandment," as it is sometimes called, has strengthened the generations which have observed obedience to its requirements. On the hill of Calvary, Jesus remembered his mother and honored her. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother.... When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman behold thy son! Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her into his own home (John 19:25-27). Counsel regarding the relationship of parents and children is abundantly given in The Book of Mormon, in the Doctrine and Covenants, and in the words of present-day prophets. If parents would be honored as their children pass through the various stages of reaching emotional and spiritual maturity, they will need to begin early to train their children in habits of industry, responsibility, and generosity. Often the most permissive parents reap the greatest indifference, rebellion, and disobedience from their children. An early realization that one must be able and willing to give as well as to receive is essential training for a child. (\ Volume 54 October 1967 Number 10 M@ Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ME Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor M@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer 746 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. WilkinsonIrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous EDITORIAL "Honour Thy Father How can the grownup children, those in homes of their own, honor their living parents? By helping to fulfill the needs of older parents— whether the needs be financial, emotional, or spiritual. Many grandparents wish to have a '"'share'"' in the grandchildren who are carrying into a new generation the heritage-and ideals of the family. The sharing may consist of visits, letters, small and intimate gifts of remembrance. Much more than a span of earth life is pertinent to the commandment—''Honour thy father and thy mother,'' for the precept includes the families through time and eternity. Books of Remembrance, genealogical work, family records, are all a part of family love and union, and, most certainly, a way of honoring the fathers and mothers—back through the previous eras upon the earth—and a way of protecting the beloved family circle into the eternities. A young man thought of this eternal blessing while serving a mission in England. Once, as he traveled to a district conference, he was privileged to visit the ancestral cottage of his great-grandfather. His thoughts were profound, and they became a part of his later life: Here | am in Harlow, Essex, in this lovely land. These ancient hedges my ancestor trimmed; he walked these stone paths; he loved this green and rainy land. Because of him and his spiritual yearnings, | was born under the gospel covenant, for he heard the message of the restored gospel in this village. Our fathers and mothers, near to us and more distant in the generations, can be honored by our remembrance of their precepts. The teachings that made them strong and valiant can help us to meet with wisdom and courage our own ever-present problems. Let us glean also from their journals, their letters, their family records—from the memory of their spoken words. A dear grandmother whose footsteps faltered and whose hands were crippled and weak, realizing that her earth-life was near its end, wrote a farewell letter to a sixteen-year-old granddaughter who lived far away, offering words of love and wisdom. Be patient, honest, endure, remember the eyes of the Heavenly Father are upon you—live nobly, and await the glorious eternities. Then she added a few lines of poetry: When my aged head is laid to rest, And my girl is a woman grown— And the worries of life surround her, May the Grandmother's prayers be known.... That letter is still like a banner before the eyes of the granddaughter —who remembers. Thus may the fathers and the mothers—and all of those of the tree of life be honored throughout the generations. What person anywhere can achieve his greatest possibility without a legacy from the knowledge and wisdom proved over the ages? The family tree has roots and branches and twigs and a bowery of singing leaves. Where is the tree which can grow without roots—what tree can blossom without its lovely branches? —V. P. C. 747 IN MEMORIAM NADA RICH BROCKBANK Nada Rich Brockbank, wife of Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 2, 1967, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Jesse Pomeroy and Louise Rogers Rich, and was born September 13, 1913, in Paris, Idaho. Sister Brockbank received a teacher's certificate from Utah State Agriculture College, now Utah State University. In 1934 she was married to Elder Brockbank in Washington D. C. The marriage was solemnized in the Salt Lake Temple in 1937. They have five sons and one daughter. Elder Brockbank became the first president of the North British Mission in 1960. Sister Brockbank assisted him by making the mission home a place of welcome to the elders. She supervised Relief Society activities in the mission until Elder Brockbank was called from the North British Mission to pioneer the Scottish-Irish Mission late that same year. Once again she was truly an inspiration both to the elders and to the Relief Society sisters in the mission. Sister Brockbank has given valued service as a Relief Society teacher in her ward. When Elder Brockbank was director of the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair in New York, Sister Brockbank missed no opportunity to welcome visitors and share her testimony of the gospel. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Brockbank and their family members. May the beautiful life and blessed memory of Nada Rich Brockbank be a continuing blessing to them. (- ~ NO SACRIFICE Linnie Fisher Robinson | made a promise in my early youth To sacrifice for thee, dear Lord, above; To learn thy sovereign will, thy every word, And serve my fellows with unstinting love. And | have served in myriad ways And shared with those | found in need; But, oh, the sweetness that came back to me, Repaid so many times each single deed. So never once in all these years, Has there been aught of sacrifice from me; Accept my good desires, through rueful tears,: | have but gained the while and better see. OD 748 UNIFIED STARTING TIME FOR CHURCH PROGRAMS As has been announced previously, all Church curriculum programs, both Priesthood and auxiliary, will begin their year's work on Sept 1, 1967, in the Northern Hemisphere, and March 1, 1968, in the Southern Hemisphere. The new Relief Society stake and ward record books have been adjusted to the new schedules for both the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The following reasons for recommending that all Church programs Should have a uniform starting time 2. Should start with the school year will be of interest to mothers: 1. It is recommended that a uniform starting time for all the programs of the Church be adopted for the following reasons: A. C. All organizations dealing with a given age group would be able to correlate their efforts more easily and effectively in such areas as: (1) the preparation of age-group lesson materials, (2) the development of activity programs which would grow naturally and logically out of the correlated instructional program, (3) the development of a meaningful correlated leadership program and teacher training program. If the young people are associated together in the same age groups in all the Church organizations, and if the programs of these groups all begin at the same time, (1) the members of these organizations could be advanced (move together from one class to another) at the same time, (2) the leadership of each age group could function more efficiently and develop a closer relationship with each other. Calendars for all events and activities on all levels of Church government could be developed and carried out more easily. It is recommended that all the programs of the Church begin at the same time as the school year for the following reasons: A. The Southern Hemisphere school year begins about six months later than the Northern Hemisphere school year. This interim period (1) would allow time for needed materials to be received from the United States by regular mail, and (2) would allow time for materials to be translated. It is desirable to keep young people together in social groups. If members of Church organizations were advanced at the same time as school groups, the Church members could move ahead and associate in their Church functions with their social groups (school associates). The printing and mailing of manuals for all Church groups could be completed before the Christmas rush. Also, these manuals and other materials could be packaged and mailed together, eliminating several mailings during the year. 749 Marian Gardner Nielson ¢ Esther lovingly traced the intricate appliquéd flowers on the taut quilt. Her fingers lingered on the rows of tiny, almost invisible, stitches which breathed life into the feather design. She smiled at the rainbow-colored pieces arranged in her own wildflower pattern. The quilt was as beautiful as she had envisioned it years ago when her first grandson, Jamie, had been born—shades of coral, delphinium blue, lavender, and sage green, with accents of delicate yellows and gold. The sprays of shaded wild roses, the white and purple columbines, the tiny blue forget-me-nots were set off by a fragile border of fern fronds and _ pink-lavender cliff flowers looped with trailing greenleafed vines. "It's beautiful,'' she breathed. Since she had put the quilt on the frames two weeks ago, she had hurried out of bed at dawn in 750 order to get at the quilting. It was a slow work, each stitch having to be placed just so, each flower having to be carefully etched with the tiny stitches in order to make it puff out. But she had plenty of time before she needed it. Jamie wouldn't be married for another month. If she worked on it for a few hours each day, she could finish the quilt and even have plenty of time to bind it by hand. This was one quilt she wanted to do alone. True, Mattie had come over and helped her put it on. They had carefully stretched the pale green back and tacked it onto the frames. They had taken special pains to smooth the batt; they had been most particular in getting the top stretched taut and straight before they pinned it to the bottom. "It's too tight, Esther. It will be hard to quilt,' Mattie had objected. "T like it that way, Mattie, you know that.' Esther was adamant. Mattie shrugged, but said admiringly, 'This is the most beautiful one you have done, Esther. The colors, and that wildflower design.... How long did it take you? When did you find time? I've never seen you working on it." Esther laughed. "Well, I'll admit it has taken me a couple of years. But a first grandson getting married is something special—especially one named after his grandfather." Her eyes misted. "James Parsons McBride!" How proud Jim would have been of him—serving as a foreign missionary, three years in the army—then college. And now, marrying Nancy. "Nancy will make Jamie a good wife, Esther." Esther put her hand on the quilt. '"He's always been so thoughtful of me. He told Jim that last day, 'Grandpa, I'll take care of Granny. Don't you worry.' " Esther stopped talking, still tenderly touching the white quilt with its lovely flowers. "This is for Jamie and Nancy on their wedding day. It's a_ surprise, Mattie. None of the family knows about it. That's the way I want it. I want to see Jamie's eyes light up and hear him say again, 'Why Granny, what have you been up to now!' " This was a quilt of her own making. She chose as a design the wildflowers she and Jamie had gathered years ago in Monument Valley, on the Bears' Ears, and at the foot of White Mesa. She - wouldn't even let Mattie help quilt it, let alone the Relief Soci-? Then Comes Tomorrow ety. She wanted Jamie to know how she loved him, how she appreciated his thoughtfulness and kindness. Yes, and his teasing, too! Bout the news got around that Granny McBride had another of her fancy quilts on, and the neighbors began to drop in to see it. Jenny Benton was first, openly envying the minute stitches; Grandma Paige came and {fingered the delicate sego lilies, rejoicing in the ivory and lavender of her favorite flower; Billie Sue, the new convert from Kentucky hills, came with her slow-speaking husband and wanted to sit right down and go to work. Mary Jane brought the baby when she came, and almost wept at the sheer beauty of the quilt. "Granny, you know I'm a good quilter. You taught me. Why don't you...?" "Now, Mary Jane, don't ask me. If I wanted anyone to help, you'd be the first one I'd ask. But can't you see? I want to do this one alone."' "Oh, Granny," Mary Jane wailed, and the baby started to cry, "you can't get it done on time. Our quilting club could come. We're all extra good quilters. Don't you remember you told me you were afraid the art of quilting was dying out and you got us to come once a week that summer?" Esther gazed fondly at her serious, brown-eyed granddaughter. She could still see the eight earnest little girls sitting around the pieced baby quilt, trying to take small stitches. Tongues were still as the girls tried and tried again to please the perky little 751 October 1967 woman who had inveigled them with hot scones, red currant jelly, and rich cold milk to come and 'learn to quilt!"? And they'd all learned, too. Well, except for Martha, who couldn't keep her mind on anything but Tom Smith, even then. So when Martha and Tom were married, the quality quilters had pieced and quilted a Swedish wedding ring quilt that was as well done as if Esther had done it herself. She patted Mary Jane's baby, kissed the top of Mary's head. "I know you can quilt. You're nearly as good as I am—but let me do it alone." So it was with all the offers. Nobody insisted. Everybody in the small town knew Granny McBride and her love for young Jamie. When the phone rang, Esther was just ready to roll both sides. She hated to go and answer it, but her conscience got the better of her. It was probably just about the bake sale for the scouts, Saturday, anyway. But it wasn't about the bake sale. As Esther listened, she clutched the phone harder, and her face grew still and white. Cg ~~ "How badly is she injured?" she inquired. Although she relaxed a bit at the reply, when she hung up the receiver five minutes later she was still pale and shaken. She sat, unmoving, at the 752 phone, making plans and discarding them, making others. Finally, she arose. If she hurried, she could get the six o'clock bus and be at her daughter Liza's before morning. It was no job to pack her small suitcase. She took the perishables from the refrigerator next door to Connie, who needed the extra food anyway. She called Mary Jane. "Tiza's been in a car accident and is in the hospital. They don't know the full extent of her injuries yet. What?... I don't know the details, but I am going to the children. I don't know how long I'll be gone, Mary Jane.... The quilt? I'd almost forgotten it. Well, I'll cover it and lock up. It will be all right until I get back. I might even let you help me if I can't get it finished!.... No, I'm all ready. Just look in once in a while. Will you take me to the bus?.... Thank you, dear. Goodbye." Esther hadn't forgotten the quilt at all. She stood over it savoring every stitch, every vibrant blossom, every nuance of radiant color. She just had to have it finished for Jamie's wedding. It was a dream—a dream of love and joy and tears. She had promised herself when Jamie was in Viet Nam, that when he got married, she would have it ready —now maybe she wouldn't. She thrust the thought aside. Of course, she'd get back and finish it. She'd even wrap it in pink net and tie it with a big bow of satin ribbon. It would look very bridey. Liza would be fine in a few days. Hadn't Harry assured her of that? She was just putting a sheet over the quilt, when she heard Mattie at the kitchen door. "Well, Mattie," she said, almost crossly, to, cover up the tears in her voice, "now you're here we might as well roll." As the two close friends carefully and tenderly rolled the two sides, Esther explained about Liza and the necessary trip. "Oh, Esther! Can I do anything to help you? What about the quilt?" The quilt again. Esther forced herself to speak gently. "I'll be back in a few days, and I know I'll have time to finish it then. With the two sides rolled once and the ends done, it won't take me long." The two women tightened the last clamp and straightened up. Maitie looked it over proudly. "That design sure does stand out. Can't say as I've ever seen a prettier quilt."" She paused a minute, "Nor one with more style, either." From Mattie that was the ultimate compliment. "Tl take care of your flower garden. I'll water it at the same time you do," she said dryly, "at five o'clock am. Now, that's friendship for you, watering a flower garden at dawn!" Esther knew everything would be taken care of. Mattie would see to that. The night bus trip seemed long. Air-conditioning helped, but a fretful Navajo baby in the seat back of her was restless and kept her awake with his whimpering. She slept fitfully, and Liza's accident loomed large in her mind. Even the problem of getting the quilt finished for Jamie's wedding hovered over her, way out of proportion. She was glad when she could see the Ute Mountain silhouetted against the brightening Then Comes Tomorrow sky. When the bus finally arrived at her destination, she was her old serene self, emanating sympathy and. Love to Liza's worried family. Liza wasn't so well, she was told. It might be she would have to stay in the hospital longer. Nothing that couldn't be taken care of, though. Was Granny sure she could stay? "You need help, don't you? All right, ''m going to help. What are grandmothers for? I can still make cookies. Didn't I teach your mother how? I might even try a batch of salt-rising bread. Now, how would you like that?" Harry put his strong arms around her and hugged her gratefully. The three little girls clung to her hands and chattered happily. The two teenagers, Bob and Joan, pretending they weren't listening, sauntered along in front. "Oh, Mother!" was all Liza said when Esther bent over her bed at the hospital, but there was a world of love and thankfulness in her voice. Tears slipped out of her eyes. Tenderness painted Esther's words with the comfort which only she could give. "Dear Liza, you must just get well. I'll take care of the family. You know I will love that. We all love you very much. I'm so glad I can be here when you need me." Liza looked as if she wanted to say something, but her mother stopped her. "No, Liza, no talking. Rest now. Rest now." As Liza closed her eyes, Esther turned and followed Harry out of the room, her heartbreak mirrored in her face. By the time she rejoined the children, her smile was 753 October 1967 back and her voice had its usual lilt. The days that followed were full of rich experiences and of discouragement. It seemed that the meals were at all hours, that there was no system to their living. The mending basket was piled higher each day; the ironing was never finished. There was no time for salt-rising bread; in fact, there was no time to get her regular bread mixed. One day she had to send Bob to the corner grocery for bread. That did it! She set up a routine for living. Using charts on the kitchen blackboard and written reminders in the bedrooms, she got the children organized to get their tasks done quickly. By the end of the second week, things were looking up. The house looked spic-andspan; the pile of mending was almost gone; a fresh batch of saltrising bread was cooling on the rack. The children were happy with the results. Too, Liza might come home any day. Bout the days scurried by, and the doctor did not release his patient. Esther relayed to Liza only the pleasant things that happened at home: the three little girls had learned how to crochet; Bob had cut his long hair and looked almost human again; Harry was supervising the building of a barbecue in the back yard; and Joan had a regular baby-sitting job. She kept herself busy—mending, cooking, cleaning, and keeping up the lagging spirits of the family. She never mentioned the quilt to anyone, for, at last, she had given up getting it done in time for Jamie's wedding. She 754 had wept when she had first made her decision, and a little of the sprightliness left her. Even with a great deal of help, it would be impossible, now, to get it done. She tried not to think of Jamie's pride in her accomplishments and his '"What have you been up to now, Granny?' She knew he would understand; she had had a short note from him full of love and concern. She would send his wedding quilt after she had completed it. ' Liza had been home three days when Mary Jane called Esther about the final reception plans. "Granny, we'll meet the bus day after tomorrow. You'll get home just in time to change and get to the reception." "But, Mary Jane...." "Jamie and Nancy will meet you at the hall. Don't worry, Granny." _ Then Mary Jane talked to Harry at some length. When he finally hung up, he looked up quizzically and stated, ""We'll get you on that bus, Granny!"' And he did. When Esther got off that evening, Mary Jane's husband whisked her away. ""You're to come to our place to change. Your pink dress is ready for you there, and you can go right with us to the hall." Excited, tired, upset about the unfinished quilt, Esther did not insist on going to her own home. Efficient little Mary Jane had her showered, dressed, hair combed and almost relaxed, before she knew what had happened. "Do you think Jamie will understand about the quilt, Mary Jane? It seems I can hardly face him without a wedding present." Her lips trembled. Mary Jane kissed the _ soft cheek, held her close for a moment. "Jamie will understand. Your being there will be better than any wedding present anyone could give him. You'll see." "Yes, but I wanted to have it ready, and—I haven't." "Oh, Granny," and her granddaughter steered her gently out of the house into the car. The cultural hall was ablaze with lights and tall baskets of pink and white gladioli when Esther came in. Jamie's young arms enfolded her as he said against her softly waved white hair, "Oh, Granny, now everything is perfect! Come along with us." With Jamie's arm _ tightly around her, and Nancy's hand, cool and comforting, in hers, Esther was led to the front of the hall. The chattering stopped, the fiddler broke into "That Old Sweetheart of Mine," as they came to a halt. "Look up, Granny—there, over on the wall." Hanging in the place of honor against the pale blue background was her quilt. Each fragile wild flower and each green frond stood out in relief against the azure background. Esther had not dreamed it could be half so delicate, half so beautiful. Then Comes Tomorrow She turned to Jamie. "I didn't do it all myself, Jamie." "It's the most beautiful quilt in the world, Granny," Jamie interrupted, huskily. Nancy spoke to her tenderly. "Mary Jane told us all about it, Granny, and that makes it more beautiful than ever to us. Those girls loved you enough to spend days finishing the quilting—binding as fastidiously as you yourself would. Aunt Mattie scrutinized every stitch. It is truly a work of art. We'll cherish it always and our children and grandchildren will treasure it, too." Only then did Esther look around the hall, at Mary Jane and the eight little grownup "Quality Quilters"; at Mattie trying to look severe and uninterested, and not succeeding; at all her friends who loved her enough to help make this dream come true. They wanted to give their talents, their love, along with hers. Why, they wanted to share her love for Jamie! Suddenly everything was all right. She took a deep breath, and surreptitiously wiped her eyes. She would thank everyone later, but not now. This night belonged to Jamie and Nancy. Her time would come tomorrow, and the next day and the next, to share her life with these dear neighbors and friends... And Mattie. R Whiter Of gulls. \ SEAGULLS Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Than flying spray When breakers crash against The coral sand are sunlit wings _. Y, 755 SINCE Mabel J Ev hile her hand Or Iding clean, bree tumb g through the young hild; or wisi 3 dancing with yc ad s. The son who f i 8 Q a 5 Ve nu. 1, m for the Party y (\ Zola McGhie W) (a) Member, General Board of Relief Society \) + <0 tt +t? —_— _ —_-—t_ ~~ —t-—~ Gaaaaaaaaa\ }} "<< a a a> a a a a <— «<< Se | >. A aa OAHU FRAPPE 14 c. Sugar 1 c. Orange juice 14 c. Syrup (white or brown) 2 c. Pineapple juice 14 c. Water gingerale, as desired grated rind of 1 orange Simmer sugar, syrup, water, and grated orange rind for 5 minutes. Cool and add orange juice and pineapple juice. Freeze to mush. Fill glasses three-fourths full. Add gingerale. POPCORN BALLS 1 pkg. Jello (any flavor desired) 1 c. White syrup 1 c. Sugar Mix well and bring to boiling point slowly. Cook just until sugar is dissolved. Pour over 6 quarts popped corn. Shape into balls. RHUBARB AND PINEAPPLE PUNCH 1 Ib. Rhubarb 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1% c. Sugar gingerale, as desired 1 c. Water 1 c. Chilled pineapple Cut rhubarb into small pieces and cook with water until tender (10 minutes). Strain through a fine sieve or cloth. Return to heat and add sugar. Bring to a boil. Cool. Add lemon juice. Before serving, add chilled gingerale. The mixture may also be made into a fruit cup by pouring it over crushed pineapple or fresh diced pineapple. RASPBERRY PUNCH 14 c. Sugar 2/4 c. Raspberry juice 14 c. Water 14 c. Whole raspberries, 2 c. Water canned, frozen, or fresh 1/6 c. Lemon juice 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind 1% c. Orange juice grated rind of 14 orange ' Boil sugar and 114 cups water for 3 minutes. Cool. Add rest of ingredients. Chill and serve. FROSTED PINK LEMONADE 1 c. Sugar red food coloring 1 c. Water water juice from 6 oranges chopped peppermint stick candy juice from 6 Jemons powdered sugar 1 qt. Gingerale, chilled 757 SSS SSSNN oom "tase "ae Seuss "eae "ees "aun "aoe "oe "een "om "es ' VJ October 1967 Combine sugar and water and boil for five minutes. Cool and add the orange juice and lemon juice. Chill. Just before serving, add chilled gingerale and a few drops of red coloring. Frost glasses by dipping rims in water, then in finely chopped peppermint stick candy, then in powdered sugar. Place in refrigerator to chill. SUNSET PUNCH 2 pkgs. Lemon sherbet mix 3 pts. Cranberry juice 2 no. 2 cans (5 c.) grapefruit juice juice of 3 limes 2 12 oz. Cans frozen orange juice red food coloring (dilute as directed) 2 qts. Dry gingerale Prepare and freeze sherbet as directed on package. Combine chilled juices. Add gingerale and lemon sherbet. Tint to desired color. Pour in punch bowl or glasses. May use hollowed-out watermelon for punch bowl. SUGGESTIONS Make punch extra festive by freezing ice into star shapes and floating them in the punch bowl. Use small candy canes as stir sticks in hot punch. Ca Self-Imposed Mending Iris W. Schow I was a teen-ager, just through the tenth grade, when my only sister was born. Grandma stayed with us during Mother's absence, so the excellent cooking to which we were accustomed went right on, except for a few dessert disasters concocted by me. But three lively younger brothers had many needs, and Grandma was lame. Our tall farmhouse, with its hallways and pantry, demanded much housekeeping. The cream separator had thirty-five numbered disks to be washed separately twice daily. Altogether, I had plenty to do. Besides, I had two important projects: to finish Mother's interrupted house cleaning, and to complete my pink dress, the unfinished masterpiece of my school sewing course. Grandma's discovery of Mother's cache of all the materials for a pretty patchwork quilt, set together with sky-blue sateen, must have stirred some memory of things she had done without while rearing her own ten children. She promptly resolved to finish the quilt before Mother's return. So up went the quilting frames, and we were off, regardless of my teenage resentment at the delay to my own plans. One day when Grandma asked for the embroidery scissors, I slid them across that quilt so violently that their points pierced right through the blue sateen, making a nasty little hole. Grandma gave me an inquiring look, but said nothing. Getting Mother's sewing basket, I compared cotton embroidery flosses until the blue sateen was matched perfectly. I put my heart into my-mending. It had to be good. That hole was a product of temper. The mending had to be so good that nobody could say it was anything but good. As I worked, I kept thinking. Losing one's temper always necessitates mending, including apology and restitution. While I tried in my mind various wordings for an apology, I made an important decision. I resolved to remember this experience throughout the future, for I preferred spending my time making something new, rather than doing self-imposed mending. I 758 eastern North Carolina is a time of green meadows, with the landscape adorned with a multitude of colorful wild flowers. As the season advances, the night air becomes cool. The morning sunshine brings warmth, but not the sweltering heat of midsummer. Altogether, this is a most beautiful and pleasant time of the year. In this setting and season, November 7, 1880, Mama came into the world. Being reared in a strict, puritanical home, she acquired those traits of character. Mama grew from childhood into a beautiful young woman. She was neat in appearance and conservative in dress. She met Papa and fell in love. Since they lived a ¢ Autumn in considerable distance apart, their courtship was carried on mostly by correspondence. Mama treasured the letters she received from Papa. Mama had a large cedar chest. No one was allowed to open it, except under her instructions. It was a real treat for us children to gather around and watch Mama as she rearranged things in her cedar chest. We all watched with eager eyes. Our attention was especially focused on a little white box tied with a red ribbon. "What is in the little white box?" "Oh, that contains the letters Papa wrote to Mama," came the answer from my elder sister. "May we see them?" "No," said Mama, as she carefully put the little white box back into the cedar chest. Our hearts were filled with excitement and glee when sometimes Mama would lift out the little white box and let us hold it for just a few moments. To her, these letters were sacred. It was not until I was a grown woman 759 October 1967 that Mama gave me the privilege of reading the treasured letters. To all of us children, the letters in the little white box were a symbol of the love and devotion Mama and Papa had for each other. Never at any time in all our lives did we doubt for a moment but that Mama was the top lady in Papa's life and that Papa was the top man in her life. Avcross the meadow from our home lived my Uncle Sanders, whom we loved to visit. One day, when I was about five years of age, while playing in the sand in his yard, I found a beautiful sparkling button. Feeling that it was of no value to him, and since it was so lovely, I took it home with me. Laying it upon the table, as I removed my _ sweater, Mama kindly asked, "Where did you get the button?" "T found it in Uncle Sander's yard," I replied. "Then it doesn't belong to you. Put on your sweater and take it to your Uncle Sanders and tell him where you found it." Falteringly I retraced my steps to Uncle Sanders. Oh, how I dreaded those last few steps before reaching his home. I knocked lightly, hoping he wouldn't be there. As the door opened, I was greeted by a smiling Uncle Sanders. "Well, has my little girl come back to see me?" He took me up in his arms. I opened my hand, showing him the button, and said, "I found this pretty button in your yard, and I thought that you had thrown it away so I took it home. 760 Mama said that it was not mine and that I must bring it back to you, so here it is." "You may have the button and welcome, little one, it is of no value to me." His gracious gift was beautiful to me, but Mama's word overpowered his kindness so I could not accept it. I sadly put the button in his hand. Mama had taught me an enduring principle of honesty. An organized schedule was arranged by Mama, and each child was assigned specific duties, which varied each week. Each one soon learned his schedule, and knew he was responsible for doing the job. One washed breakfast dishes, another dinner dishes, another made beds, another swept the floor. If one had to be away and could not attend to the job, he arranged for another of the children to exchange assignments for the day. Very seldom did anyone have to be reminded of his job. Mama taught each to be responsible. Mama's unselfishness was an outstanding quality of her character. There was truly always room for one more at our house. The walls seemed to bulge at times, from an overflow of company. As long as there was floor space, she piled quilts until there was a bed of fair comfort. The eating was no problem, for the children waited until the first group had been served their dinner. Then the table was reset for the children. I will admit, at times, the company seemed to eat for a long time, or so it seemed to us hungry youngsters. 4 We lived near the highway, and often people came to the door, asking for food or shelter. They were never turned away. Mama cooked a good meal for them and a place was prepared for them to _ sleep, if they so desired. However, the children were never asked to give up their beds for these strangers. We had a nice warm barn. Hay was spread out, and Mama let Papa use her less beautiful quilts on the hay for the wayfarers. The quilts were not used again until they had been washed and hung in the sun to dry. Mama and Papa were converts to the Church and both were staunch members. It was many miles between the members' homes, and the missionaries walked the distance, many times reaching our home during the night. Mama would arise quickly and prepare hot biscuits, ham and eggs, and canned fruit, to make a typical, quick meal for them. Papa cut the choicest slices of ham for the Lord's servants. Mama had a strong faith and testimony of the gospel and our Mama was a dressmaker by trade. She made all of the girls' clothes, and I especially felt pride when I was a young lady in my teens. When I shopped around I carried a pencil and scratch-pad in my purse. If I found a dress which I liked, I quickly sketched the design on paper. Sometimes I changed it a bit to suit me better. When I described to Mama how the dress looked, she would duplicate the pattern for me. My dresses fit well and I was proud of Mama. Crocheting was also one of the hobbies in which she excelled. As I sat down today to write, these images of Mama _ passed through my mind. Truly, her life and example have been a great blessing to all of those with whom Church attendance was very she came in contact, especially A PRAYER ES Enid F. Woolley Australia Father, forgive the times of doubting, Of never being sure If what | do is right or wrong. And give me wisdom pure, That when two paths are there before me And one | needs must tread, Let me know without a doubt, A worry or a dread, That the path | take is right, And meant for me to use. Father forgive my indecision; And teach me how to choose. Y 761 regular and punctual. Her family. I love her! 'yy very vert? MeV EHEV NT ESET! Wey yTT vvere wyy"" CREATIVE ARTIST WITH HEART AND HANDS Lucy Belle Teeples Gjettrup, Idaho Falls, Idaho, brings much happiness to her friends and relatives, and pleasure to herself from her many hobbies. Belle, as she is known to all, has kept her hands busy all her life with embroidery, crocheting, knitting, tatting, making rugs, clothing, baby clothes, afghans, and many other handiwork items. Her lovely gifts of handiwork are greatly appreciated by those who receive them, and many bazaars have reaped benefits from her contributions. To add to her talents, Sister Gjettrup took up painting when she was eighty years old, and paints lovely landscapes on fishing and hunting trips which she still loves to take with her husband. Sister Gjettrup is the mother of seven children and grandmother to sixteen. She has forty-four great-grandchildren and two great-great grandchildren. Her devoted Church service includes many years of teaching and executive work in the auxiliary organizations. Her activities in Relief Society include spiritual living, theology, and cultural refinement (literature) class leader, secretary, and more than fifty-five years as a visiting teacher, which she is still doing. She is proud of the fact that she has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since the first issue. As a '"'Pink Lady" in the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Idaho Falls, she has accumulated more than 1335 hours of volunteer service. 762 Tf At the End of a Pilgrimage Marilyn McMeen Miller ¢ The motion of the car rocked the babies to sleep. Catching myself in a periodic doze, I gripped the steering wheel hard and glared at the ribbon of gray that sped beneath me. I could not remember ever wanting so much for a road to end—and it seemed that it never would. Then the rain came. It poured in a thick curtain across the empty highway, and trickled from the metal top of the Chevrolet. I watched the dark sky tremble with flashes of gold. The gray clouds became heavy and black and sank into the hills ahead. "We'll be at Green River by six.' My mother-in-law's voice was level and delicate, her head bent over a map. Suddenly, a flash of lightning in the sky lit her white hair into a fleécy crown of silver. "It looks like a heavy rain, Marcia. We'd better stay somewhere for the night. We won't be able to finish our journey today...." Finish our journey—how desperately I wanted to finish our journey. On this road I had imagined myself as a pioneer, and wearily prayed for the end of our journey: the end I had been anticipating impatiently for years. My eagerness was contrasted only by the sweet silence of my mother-in-law who sat quietly watching the gray hills spin past her window. But I thought to myself that she could not really understand my waiting. I had waited to feel one with my husband, until I could somehow gain a testimony of his wonderful gospel. Then I had waited impatiently someday to reach Salt Lake City, where we could be married in the temple for time and eternity. At last we had seen a way to get a transfer in Paul's business so that we could live in the valley. It was beyond my grandest dreams. He 763 ' October 1967 had come to Salt Lake to work with his company and find us a home. Then I had waited restlessly for him to give us the signal that we could follow him. We had sped along the highway for two days. I wanted to reach Salt Lake that very evening. I stepped on the gas and pulled the automobile doggedly through the curtain of rain. "Tf the storm continues, we should stop in Green River," Mother repeated softly. Her words cut me. I did not want to stop. We were so close. Didn't she understand? But I glanced at her small head set on the thin shoulders. Perhaps I was underestimating her awareness of my impatience. She must have known how I had been so eager to follow Paul to this valley. She, too, had her reasons for wanting to come. She, too, could have been impatient. But she was stronger than any of us. Paul's father had been dead twenty-five years, and since I had known this sweet woman, I had never heard her utter a word of complaint. It was no wonder that her visit at the birth of our third child had been one of the greatest influences in converting me to the Church. She was one of the dearest people I had ever known. No one questioned her firm, religious grasp on her family of seven, all married in the temple, except for Paul. Paul's union with an outsider had been the only harsh thorn of her long and successful life, and at the twilight of her years, she had set about earnestly to rectify it. With my own mother's death some time ago, I had been more than grateful to have ". 764 her come to help me with my third birth. I had wanted someday to be able to have a testimony of Paul's church, but it was not until her kind teachings penetrated our home that I had really learned to accept. There was an important end to this journey for her, too, as well as for me. Perhaps I did not understand her own eagerness to see the end of this pilgrimage. Suddenly, the steering wheel jerked out of my hands and the automobile careened to the right of the road. It was a flat tire. I tried to control the wild motion of the car, but it was very difficult. I put my foot on the brake and forced it to a rugged stop on a soft sloping shoulder. "Are you all right, Mother?" I whispered. ""OQh—what was it?" she asked, thrown toward the dashboard in surprise. "Yes, I'm all right." I looked into the back seat. The children had tumbled forward, but seemed to have weathered the sudden stop. All three of them began crying. "It's nothing. Be patient, now." Mother took the baby out of the bed we had fixed between the seats and caressed him. "Quiet. Quiet." I heard her still voice as I got out onto the highway in the pouring rain. The sky roared down around me, heavy with blackness. It would not have been long until we would have driven out of it, but it was our bad luck to have a mishap here. Opening the trunk in the cold wetness, my bare fingers began to numb. The screws on the spare came off with difficulty. Then the jack would not a get a good hold in the soft sand. I placed it beneath the car in several places. A soft question rose up behind me. "Can I help you, Marcia?" "You'd better get in out of the cold, Mother," I half pleaded. "Come, come, ye saints."" While repairing that spare tire, the most acute feeling of what the early pioneers must have suffered in the wilderness struck me. It was almost no different now. We, too, wanted to reach the end—our destination, and in that process we had our own difficulties. The tire was heavy, and the rain drenched me, until finally I got into the car to drive it out of the mud but it slithered around. Another stroke of lightning illuminated the whole sky. The children were crying. "Relax, Marcia dear. It'll be all right. Perhaps we're too heavy. Let me get out. And we can use some newspaper—or if we haven't any, the map, to put in the mud in front of the rear wheel." I almost laughed at the notion that if my mother-in-law got out, the car would be lighter. I noticed the back of her coat was soaked through. "Don't get out, Mother. Please don't get out. You're already wet, and you'll catch a terrible cold." But I really did not know what else to do. The map did pull us out of the mud. Back on the highway, I pulled the car to a stop. My mother-in-law got inside. Her hair was drenched and stringing around her face. "T had to use my scarf, too," she said simply. That evening we had to stop At the End of a Pilgrimage at Green River. I accepted it. At least we did not have to set up camp and build fires. The motel room we took at seven o'clock was equipped with running water and heat. I was more than grateful to shed my wet clothing and take a warm shower. The children finally sank into sleep, and Mother and I listened to the lull of the rain far into the evening. "Marcia, I am so glad you decided to come to Zion. It is where you belong. We'll reach Paul tomorrow, and as the song says, 'All is well!'"? She smiled and reached for her handkerchief. A slight case of sniffles had caught her in this afternoon's episode. Sleep was more than precious to me. In the morning, I felt renewed, and as if I needed to take life a little more easily all along. I saw the sun rise on a dim, yet fresh world, and I felt ashamed that I had been in such a hurry for the future without looking about me and noticing the beauty of life along the way. In the quiet hush of dawn, I looked at the small face of my mother-in-law, delicate on the pillow. I regretted having counted the days and hours I was to have been in the valley with Paul again when I could have more eagerly lived each moment I had been with his mother, learning from her wisdom. When the children were awake, and we had breakfasted, we set out again on the highway, relaxed and eager to reach the destination which now, in reality, lay just ahead of us. We talked about the temple, the organiza- 765 October 1967 tion of the Church, the Relief Society. "It's all something which I have been very blessed to share with others all my life,' Mother said. She had begun to cough. I was afraid she had caught cold, and told her to bundle up more carefully. We turned up the heat in the car. "Oh, don't worry about me. 'm all right," she said over and over again. I cannot explain my feeling at seeing the spires of the temple rise up in the city. Truly, I had reached the end of my journey. I trembled with excitement. Paul had given me the address of his new office. We were earlier than he expected, so we would surprise him. In the rush of afternoon traffic, we could find only a small parking spot on a side street. Pioneer women had never had this problem to contend with, I murmured, as I swung the steering wheel from one extreme to the other, trying to fit the big car into the small space. I finally succeeded. My mother-in-law and I gathered the children and walked up to the office. It was an old building, remodeled luxuriously. I was so proud of Paul, my heart was nearly bursting. '"He's not here at this moment, Ma'am, but I'm sure he'll be back shortly, if you would like to wait a while," a dark-haired girl at the desk told us. We could have gone to Uncle Fred's where Paul was staying now, but I. Did not want to rush in on their busy family at this time. And, besides, I was too impatient to see my husband. So 766 we decided to wait. We waited for two solid hours until Paul returned from looking at some prospective property. "Marcia!" he exclaimed, amazed to see us so soon. He had not expected that we could make the trip so hard and fast. "Paul!" I cried, rushing at him. I must have looked weary beneath my stringy, straight hair. But Paul was happy to see me. "You must have driven like wildfire!" he said. "TI didn't want to stop at all. I missed you." I nearly choked on the words. Paul looked at his mother. She stifled a cough, and her eyes were twinkling, yet calm. "You've got a cold, Mother. We'd better take care of that." Then, taking the children, he led the way out of the office as it was now past closing time. "I'm really so glad to see all of you. I hope you got here safely without any accidents." He had chosen a house for us, but the tenants would not be out of it for two days. "It was the best deal our office had going," he said excitedly. When we drove by it, I thought it looked like a dream home. It was my Zion. I had come, safely, to the end of my journey. We were warmly welcomed at Uncle Fred's house, and we talked eagerly about going to the temple. We planned to go the next morning with Uncle Fred and his wife Etty. I felt such a thrill of gratitude. By the next morning, however, Mother registered a high fever. Her forehead was flushed and hot and she did not feel like getting out of bed. So we had to leave her. She urged us to go and we said morning prayers at her bedside before we left. As we drove along through the morning traffic we discussed the great growth of the magnificent city which was built on the dreams of a few hardy people. Tall buildings were etched against the blue sky. The pioneers had found their destination here— their resting place—the end of their journey, as I had found it. I felt a peace. At last I had completed my journey. I could say "All is well!" Our marriage in the temple was something too beautiful to try to describe in words. The peace and patience of the Lord descended into our lives from that moment as we had never before felt it. This, even more than reaching the city, I knew, completed my pilgrimage. That night when we returned to Uncle Fred's, we heard a choking cough in the back bedroom. Mother was very ill. We rushed in to her, but she seemed calm and very still. *You're married in the temple, now, Paul." She smiled weakly at us and groped for my hand. "I am so happy." As one looked behind the glazed eyes and the weak voice one could tell of her great happiness. Truly, she had finished her life's missions. At the End of a Pilgrimage We called the doctor and the elders of the Church immediately. The doctor was very kind, but he turned to us gravely and shook his head. She had pneumonia. We took her to the hospital, but it was too late. Before she died she said something I shall never forget." "I've reached the end of my journey," she said softly. "But it is really only the beginning of a new one." The perfect pioneer! There was never an end... Always a new challenge. Suddenly, I knew I had seen my ideal... I wanted to be like her. When Paul and I walked out into the cool street' and caught the glint of the temple lights far in the distance, a surge of sadness mingled with warmth welled up inside of me. I thought of my discussions with Mother about Relief Society, temple work, ward activities, rearing my own children in the Church and seeing them go on missions and marry in the temple. I clutched Paul's arm. "You know... I've been foolish, darling, for so many years, I have thought of this destination as anend... The end of a long road, a long journey." I paused to savor the sweet air and watch the bright stars in the sky through my tears. "But Mother has taught me that the end of this life is really only the beginning." WEAPON Lois M. Anderson Love is the only weapon to date, That can silence the guns Of human hate! 767 i nrow Down the § Gauntlet _/ Janet W. Breeze Chapter 2 Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, a_ ballet dance instructor and mother of two children, is opening a new studio in her remodeled home, when her husband, Grant, tells her that he wants to accept a teaching assignment on the island of Saipan. @ Nancy hadn't realized that getting ready to go 7,000 miles from home would be such a production. When world travelers had their pictures on the newspaper society page, they always looked so happy! And calm. But Nancy wasn't calm. She had tried coordinating lists of things to do, but even being organized wouldn't make the phone stop ringing. Most of the calls were from loving friends who excitedly wanted to hear "all about it."" And Nancy had finally sold herself on the idea so completely that she eagerly answered every enthusiastic inquiry. 768 Some of the telephone calls, however, dampened Nancy's enthusiasm. Like the friend who told her she was an unfit mother for taking her children away and exposing them to malaria — and the responsibility of having them killed in a typhoon. And then there was the woman who said, "You can see the whole island in a week—and then what will you do?" Nancy tried not to let people upset her—but they did. The only things that kept her from really doubting her convictions were the other phone calls: so-and-so's aunt, who had a cousin on Guam, who loved it—absolutely loved it! These were the well-wishers Nancy enjoyed talking to, in spite of the packing still undone. There was another well-wisher Nancy consulted frequently. She now had two 'letters from Sister Mortensen—the first one, which Grant had insisted she read again, and the second—a long one— which she had received as an answer to her own inquiry. Whenever she began to feel herself filling with doubt, she would read and reread the two letters—and the "Acceptance" from "Hicott."' "High Commissioner of the Trust Territory! Now there's an impressive title,' Nancy said to her mother. Grace Hauser didn't care much for this big new decision of Nancy's and Grant's, but she hadn't told them so. In fact, when Nancy had first told her mother about the application Grant wanted to file, all Grace had said was, "Why ask me what you should do? You've already made up your mind." Nancy knew her mother was dreading the separation, but she agreed that the most important thing was for Nancy to support Grant as breadwinner for the family. Now the vague possibility of their going off to find their "'island paradise" was becoming a reality. "Read the cable again," Grace said. "Oh, Mother! Now youre getting as bad as I am! I'll bet you've read it five times already in the last week." Grace began picking up Nancy's living room bric-a-brac and wrapping each piece in tissue paper. "T'll put these in the closet of your old room," she said, '"'and then they'll be sure not to get broken. No one ever gets into that closet any more. Now what about these scrapbooks?" Throw Down the Gauntlet ""Well—I guess I'd better store my Treasures of Truth books and our wedding album—but I'll take the baby books. Grant said I could take them all, they mean so much to me." Nancy had a faraway look on her face as she ran her hand lovingly across the raised viny] of the yellowed books. "TI mean—#if there should be a typhoon or something." "Come on, now, Nancy!" Grace said, cheerfully. "Let's not think of this exciting new adventure in terms of disaster!" Nancy picked up the books and clutched them in her arms. "Oh, Mother, if only I were sure it's the right thing. We've prayed about it. And when I read the letters from Sister Mortensen—and when I talk to Grant—I really feel as if it's the greatest opportunity in the world. And I have such a good feeling about it. But...." "But what?" Grace folded the lid flaps on the box she was packing and took the books from Nancy. "Well—like one lady. Mother, I didn't even know who she was. She came up to me in the grocery store when I had Amy and Skipper with me. And she shook her finger at me and said, 'You have a lot of nerve—taking those poor little babies clear out of civilization.' " Grace laughed. "Really, Nancy. How can you let a thing like that get you down? She doesn't even know where youre going." "I know. But then there was this man in the doctor's office. We were sitting there waiting to get our typhoid shots, and the re- 769 October 1967 ceptionist said, 'Oh, Mrs. Jackson! How do you feel about going to Saipan?' I replied that we were really quite excited about it— when this man across the room growled at me. 'I wouldn't be excited! I have been there!' "' "Well, he was obviously there during the war, Nancy. I'm sure things are much, much different now." Grace sat down on the couch and slipped her shoes off. "When we did see the doctor," Nancy went on, "he did his level best to talk me out of going. He said I wouldn't like having a baby on Saipan, and that I should stay here until it comes!" Grace reached up and took Nancy's hand. "Oh, my, what a mood you're in," she said. "Time to throw down the gauntlet!" "What's that supposed _ to mean?" "It's an old knighthood expression," Grace said. "A knight used to take off one of his gloves and throw it down in the face of his opponent to defy him or challenge him. When I was a young girl and thought the worst was about to happen, your grandfather would always tell me to 'throw down the gauntlet!' Now it's your turn, Nancy. You—Grant—and the children—are facing a _ strange new kind of life. You're bound to meet adversity. But defy it. Challenge it! Never let discouragement or bitterness reign as victors in your life. Nancy, you've seen people who grovel in their misery and drag everyone around them down. And then you've seen others—like your bishop's wife—who bounce back and never admit that life has been anything but rich and happy." 770 She gave Nancy's hand a gentle squeeze. "Now, what kind of wife and mother is my girl going to be?" Nancy smiled. "Armored all the way, I guess." "That's what I like to hear! Now, tell me. What did Sally and Tom decide about the dance studio?" "Tom thinks it's a great idea! But you know Sally. Coming to substitute for me while I had the baby was one thing, but taking it over on a full-time scale—well, you know your baby daughter. It sounds too confining! But they'll probably give up their apartment and do it anyway." Grace laughed. "Be patient with her, Nancy. She'll grow up." Then Grace looked around at the clutter of packing. "Couldn't you put some of this off a little?" she asked. ''At least until you know when you're going?" "Oh, Mother, I'd rather get it over with now and not have to worry about it. Besides, the cable accepting Grant said a letter would follow. And a large brown envelope came in this morning's mail. So that's probably the travel authorization." "You mean you didn't open it?" 'Well, I'm sure that's what it is —so why should I spoil Grant's fun? Besides, wasn't it you who taught me not to open other people's mail?" "But this concerns both of you, Nancy." "Oh, Grant'll be home pretty soon. Come upstairs now and help me sort out my linens, will you? T'll store the tablecloths that Grandma gave me, but some of the others I'll have to take. Sister Mortensen wrote that Saipan social life consists almost exclusively of reciprocal dinners for anywhere from eight to sixteen people. Can you imagine it? I've never had twelve people to dinner at one time yet—and now it looks as if I may find myself four short in the china department. Oh, well, you read her letter. I just can't picture myself in the social whirl she describes. I've never dreamed of getting involved in anything like it. She said they reminded her of the amateur shows we went to when we were kids. I'm not so sure that will be my favorite sport!" They both laughed, with the anticipation of an exciting adventure. Heirloom linens were sorted into one pile to be stored. Best linens were sorted into a second pile to go in the surface shipment, and still a third pile of sheets and pillowcases was set aside to go air freight. "Actually, I have five divisions," Nancy said, "air—surface — storage — give-away — and throw-away. I lie awake half of every night sorting things into piles in my head." Grace looked at Nancy seriously. "As much as I dread your leaving, I will be glad when you are on your way—for your sake." "Come on downstairs," Nancy said, "and we can see what the big brown envelope has to say! Grant is home." Nancy stopped short when she saw the look on Grant's face. "What's the matter?" He held out the envelope from Trust Territory Headquarters. "You didn't open this?" "And then seal it again? Of course not!" Throw Down the Gauntlet "Here. Read the second paragraph of this letter," he said. It is urgent that we have additional qualified teaching personnel in Truk District. Although you asked specifically for a position on Saipan, you were aware that applications were being considered for the entire Trust Territory; and we assume you will concur in being sent to Truk for your first contract. "TY don't understand," Nancy said. "It's very simple. We're not going to Saipan." "But, Grant! The packing's half done. I—I've given so many things away! Grant — we've made such a big thing about telling everyone we were going to Saipan. And after all the parties. Now what do we say?" Grace picked up the brown envelope and began' thumbing through the papers. "What is all this?" she asked Grant. "Travel authorization — that means the Government has already contacted the mover and the airline for us; medical forms; allegiance forms; more information on things to bring." "And everything gives the location as Truk?" Grace asked. "Well, I won't go!" Nancy gestured. "If there's only one family of Latter-day Saints at headquarters—what do you _ think there would be on Truk—or whatever it is? We just can't go! They can't make us do that. Not after all our plans...." "They also sent the contract," Grant said, his voice dropping to a hush, as if he himself didn't even want to hear the words he was saying. "They would like it signed and back by return mail." (To be continued) 771 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Relief Society Activities Southern Far East Mission Relief Society Grows Upper picture, (Bangkok Branch Relief Society) first row, seated: Barbara Fletcher, Second Counselor; Charlotte White, First Counselor; Virginia Lewis, President; Arizona Flammer, Secretary-treasurer. Lower picture, Hong Kong Branch Relief Society. (No identification available.) Marilyn J. Garner, Supervisor, Southern Far East Mission Relief Society, reports: ''We have dedicated sisters among the members all over this mission and are grateful for their love and devotion to the work. We are growing in numbers and experience. "The Bangkok Branch organized a Relief Society in January 1966. In June 1966, the group was organized into a district by President Garner. This is typical of the growth throughout the mission." East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Visiting Teacher Convention April 1, 1967 Front row, left to right: LaVella Brown, Secretary; Fern Rhodes, Homemaking Counselor; Beth Brown, President; Renee Graham, Education Counselor. Second row, left to right: Florence Monson, stake visiting teacher message leader; Vera Sperry, ward president; Mary Ferguson, ward secretary; Isabelle Goff, ward visiting teacher message leader; Reva Finn, ward secretary; Mame Smith and Rachel Gallup, visiting teachers, each having served fifty-three years. Sister Brown reports: "The theme for our convention was 'You Are Emissaries of Relief Society.' Several speakers and the Ririe First Ward Singing Mothers highlighted the program. An original skit presenting the true life experiences and problems of our stake was performed; and the lovely film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. "The Shelton Ward was presented the book, History of Relief Society for | having the highest percentage in attendance at the convention. Special honors and a book were presented to two sisters for having served as visiting teachers for fifty-three years. A ward president, two secretaries, and a ward visiting teacher message leader were also cited for long years of service in their respective callings." 772 ee BF POSES « October 1967 North Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Social April 29, 1967 Sister Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports that a highly successful visiting teacher social was held to honor the ladies who had served so faithfully. "There were over 200 in attendance," she writes. '""Lunch was served by the stake board and was followed by a fashion show. Each ward had models showing what mothers can do to stretch their clothing budget. The cost of the articles displayed' was compared with their counterparts in stores. Sisters were encouraged to avail themselves of a sewing program to be carried on during the summer. "Honors were given for various attainments, among which Sister Nellie Hansen, eighty-one, was honored as being the eldest teacher, teaching for over fifty years. "The Bear River Ward received a lovely picture of the Relief Society General Presidency for being the ward with the highest percentage of visiting teachers at Relief Society meetings during the past season." > Alameda Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Program For Anniversary Day, March 15, 1967 Hazel Farnes, President, Alameda Stake Relief Society, reports: "To celebrate our Relief Society's 125th birthday, we presented a lovely musical program 'The Mothers Sing,' and the dramatization "The Gift' by Luacine C. Fox. The program was arranged under the leadership of President Farnes and her Counselors Dorothy Bosquet and Lena Henderson, and music directors La Dawn Jackman and Carol Furniss. Wilma Anderson was narrator of "The Gift, and wrote the script for the concert. The Singing Mothers chorus, composed of singers from each of the seven wards, consisted of 110 members. Each ward presented a solo number, then the combined chorus sang hymns and Relief Society songs. It was truly a spiritual experience for those taking part and also for the audience. Each sister in the chorus was presented with a beautiful red carnation corsage." Palomar Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert For Relief Society Anniversary Observance, March 17, 1967 Front row: Mary E. Stewart, director (in white dress); second row, at the right: Mary Stucki, pianist; Mary Jo Lund, organist. Phyllis F. Fox, President, Palomar Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Palomar Stake Relief Society presented the first Singing Mothers concert ever to be presented in the stake in commemoration of the 125th Anniversary. Seven out of the nine wards were represented, making a total of thirty-nine Singing Mothers. Fourteen selections, both sacred and secular, were presented, along with a narration written and read by Eleanor Diener, stake cultural refinement leader. Guest artists presented a flute and string ensemble. Approximately 600 people, including many nonmembers, attended. The comments received were very gratifying, and a standing ovation was given the sisters at the conclusion of the program. Many hours of practice went into preparation for the concert, and the sisters are to be commended. Refreshments in the form of a beautiful three-tiered cake, baked and decorated by the stake homemaking leader, Carol Christensen, and punch were served. Displays depicting the full Relief Society program were set up around the hall for viewing." 774 October 1967 Las Vegas (Nevada) Stake Encourages Magazine Sales ' Left to right: Mary Ann Sorenson; Dee Snickle; Donna Brinkerhoff; Sharon Rather; Fannie Bloxham, stake Magazine representative; Adaline McDonald; Afton Allsop; Ann Smith; Kay Rogers; Norma Bowman. Sister Ileann W. Peterson, President, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Through their dedicated effort, this group of ward and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives has earned the Las Vegas Stake seventh place among the stakes of the Church in Magazine sales. We are very proud of this fine record. To encourage the Magazine representatives to increase their sales, the beautiful picture 'The Gleaners' was presented to the ward with the largest number of Magazines sold. The Ninth Ward received this painting to hang in their Relief Society room. Sister Adaline McDonald, Magazine representative of the Ninth Ward, sold 170 Magazines, which was seventy-four over her quota. She achieved 177 per cent." Boise Stake (Idaho) Presents "'Listen, My Fair Lady'' March 13, 1966 Shown welcoming the "'postlady'' Genevieve Cresswell, who is delivering The Relief Society Magazines, are, left to right, front row: Clara Anderson; Arvilla Sorenson; back row, left to right: Rachel Rich; Violet Hadley; Ethel Simpson; Lola (Realizin I. DoLittle) Harris; and Lucille Parker. President Lucille Johnson, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "The original skit 'Listen, My Fair Lady' was presented in our leadership meeting by our magazine department. It was written by Wyleen Fotheringham and presented in Relief Society General Conference in 1966. "Our audience was captivated by the neighbors of Realizin I. DoLittle, who represents all Magazine representatives. They gathered on 'The Street Where You Live' and demonstrated how life is changed through the magic of The Relief Society Magazine. An enchanting setting, a worthwhile message, and an excellent performance made the 'Magazine Musical' a highlight of our leadership year." Mount Logan Stake (Utah) Commemorates the Birth of Relief Society March 17, 1967 Pictured is a handmade gold leaf plaque of the Relief Society seal. It was made by Zeruah Thomson, stake Homemaking Counselor, who is standing at left. Center is President Relda Jorgensen; right, Counselor Lucille Campbell. Sister Jorgensen reports: ""The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, now known as the Relief Society, was organized on March 17, 1842 in Nauvoo, Illinois. "On March 17, 1967, we celebrated the 125th birthday of the organization. Typical of the crafts in the homemaking department is this handmade plaque mounted on blue velvet. It was made in memory of Sister Thomson's grandmother who served as Relief Society President for twenty-five years, and to her mother, who was a stake board member, as well as to those first eighteen women who organized the Relief Society. To commemorate the birthday of the Relief Society, Sister Thompson presented this plaque to the Mt. Logan Stake Relief Society." 776 October 1967 Farr West Stake (Utah) Presents ''Leadership Through the Years' March 18, 1967 Seated, left to right: former Farr West Stake Relief Society presidents: Nellie W. Neal; Geneva J. Garfield; Geneva Law; standing: Ada J. Taylor and current President Saidie H. Parker. Sister Parker reports: "In our stake Relief Society leadership meetings for the past two years, each ward, in turn, has featured the life of one of our past stake Relief Society presidents. "A life-sized book entitled 'Leadership Through the Years' was opened by two attendants to reveal the 'president' in retrospect. A sketch of her personality and activities was given; as well as lovely music befitting the program. The sister representing the president bore her testimony and told of the many cherished and inspiring experiences which highlighted her term in office." East Idaho Falis Stake Cultural Fair April 7, 1967 Rita Haws, chairman of the flower arrangements, pictured with the display tables. Glen Sargent, President, East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held our cultural fair as a means of raising money for the stake to operate on. Although the fair was held during April Conference which prevented the attendance of some of the bishops and the stake presidency, we had a large turnout during the day and in the evening. We awarded prize ribbons for many of the entries. "The program, we felt, was outstanding. We had the winning poetry and stories from our literature contest read, and original music was performed, of which two were sacred numbers. We printed a booklet of all entries in the literature contest. "The evening program was based on the theme 'Time For Culture,' and featured various fields of culture. There was a great deal of enthusiasm created, and we have had requests for a similar affair next year." Smithfield Stake (Utah) Holds Closing Social April 24, 1967 Left to right, ward Relief Society presidents: Evelyn H. Hansen, Amalga; Laura C. Hensen, Second; Deanna H. Godfrey, Clarkston; Kathryn T. Rasmussen, Newton; Joy J. Pitcher, First; Reta C. Cantell, Fifth; Evelyn D. Follett, Fourth; Rae J. Meyer, Third. Sister Selena Gregory Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "The closing social was held in conjunction with the regular leadership meeting. The theme, 'Everyone Remembered' was used to emphasize the efforts made to involve every sister in some phase of Relief Society. Working women and young mothers took part. In a lovely, inspiring presentation. A beautiful homemaking display from the Amalga and Second Wards was presented. Recipes from The Relief Society Magazine were used for the delicious luncheon, with reference to each recipe on the printed programs. An exquisite table decoration was arranged by Sister Edna Berg, Smithfield Third Ward." 778 SPIRITUAL LIVING—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 84—Sustain the Brethren Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 108) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is blessed as she observes her vows and sustains the Brethren in authority. INTRODUCTION From the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. Many lessons are learned from the experience of early members of the Church. May we assume that instructions given to an individual at that time apply to members of the Church many decades later? When the Lord reveals a principle of salvation to one or to many, the same principle applies to all of us, provided he has not placed that law in abeyance. (D&C 93: 49.) Important instructions for the benefit of Lyman Sherman are recorded in Section 108. These truths are so essential to every member of the Church that exal- 780 tation in the celestial kingdom is impossible without obedience to them. RESISTING THE VOICE OF THE LORD Lyman Sherman resisted the voice of the Lord by failing to observe the vows he had made with the Lord. (Ibid., 108:3.) Wherein do Latter-day Sainis resist the Lord's voice? It may be, as it was with Brother Sherman, that the still, small voice is resisted when it brings assurance that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God's organization on the earth. It may be resisted when the Spirit whispers, when a choice must be made between other activities and at- tending to one's responsibilities in the Church (attendance at appointed meetings, performance of Church activities when scheduled), that one should place the kingdom of God first. It may be resisted when one's inclination to observe the various laws of the gospel, such as the Word of Wisdom, tithing, honesty, and so forth, are ignored in favor of spending the Lord's money for some pleasure, or lying in order to gain some advantage. There are numerous ways in which one may resist the voice of the Lord. REPENTANCE In Brother Sherman's case we have an example of the Lord's concern for the repentant. This principle requires that the individual who has repented of his sins should be prepared to keep the covenants he has made with the Lord. Forgiveness comes from the Lord, as it did to Brother Sherman. (Jbid., v. 1.) It is certain that when the Lord said to him ''be more careful henceforth in observing your vows" (Jbid., v. 3), this same counsel could be said to every member of the Church. Class Discussion Why do you believe that you might profitably accept the counsel to Brother Sherman to be more careful in observing his vows? YOUR VOWS The word "vow" or "vows" as used in the Doctrine and Covenants follows the dictionary definition. A "vow" is a solemn promise or pledge, especially one made to God in which the person dedicates himself to service or a way of life. Lesson Department The word is used in association with words having similar meanings, such as covenants, contracts, bonds, obligations, oaths, and performances. It can be rightly said that every person who has accepted membership into the Church has made vows whereby he will abide by the laws of that kingdom. (Ibid., 41:5.) These covenants are to be observed 'in righteousness on all days and at all times" (Ibid., 59:11). PREMORTAL VOWS In the Great Council convened in the heavens before the earth was formed, the plan of salvation was presented to the spirit sons and daughters of God: Those who accepted the plan were permitted to receive a mortal body on the earth where they would "work out their salvation."' When we accepted the plan of salvation in the pre-earth life, we committed ourselves to abide by its laws and ordinances. (John A. Widtsoe, Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1934, p. 289.) Class Discussion Believing with all your heart that you lived premortally and that you made covenants there to perform certain services on the earth, how do you feel about fulfilling these covenants? VOWS OF THE KINGDOM Latter-day Saints begin their contract obligations at baptism. This vow includes the determination that the member will serve the Lord and show this by his works. (D&C 20:37.) The privilege of partaking of the sacrament to renew the covenants made in baptism is for the member of the Church. (3 Nephi 781 October 1967 18:5, 11.) These covenants include the following three things: (1) to take upon oneself the name of Christ; (2) always to remember him; and (3) to keep his commandments. (D&C 20:77-79.) In order to fulfill these vows the Lord said: And the members shall manifest before the church, and also before the elders, by a godly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be works and faith agreeable to the holy scriptures—walking in holiness before the Lord (Jbid., 20:69). Those who receive the Melchizedek Priesthood make an "oath and covenant" (Ibid., 84:40) that they will honor that Priesthood. (Ibid., 84:33-41.) Class Discussion What is your responsibility as a Latter-day Saint woman to encourage those holding the Priesthood? In the House of the Lord members of the Church have an additional privilege to make sacred covenants with him. President Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church, in these words mentions some of these vows and the importance of observing them: We enter into covenants with the Lord that we will keep ourselves pure and unspotted from the world. We have agreed before God, angels and witnesses, in sacred places, that we will not commit adultery, will not lie, that we will not steal or bear false witness against our neighbor, or take advantage of the weak, that we will help and sustain our fellow men in the right, and take such a course as will prove effectual in helping the weak to overcome their weaknesses and bring themselves into subjection to the requirements of heaven. We cannot neglect, slight, or depart from the spirit, 782 meaning, intent and purpose, of these covenants and agreements, that we have entered into with our Father in Heaven, without shearing ourselves of our glory, strength, right and title to his blessings, and to the gifts and manifestations of his Spirit (Improvement Era 9:818). IMPORTANCE OF VOWS The Lord has declared by revelation that only those ordinances performed by his Priesthood at the time the recipients make vows, contracts, and covenants, remain in force when men are dead. All others "are of no efficacy, virtue, or force in and after the resurrection from the dead" (D&C 132:7). The person who turns away. From the vow which he has made with the Lord will find not only a loss of the promised blessings but cursings. (D&C 41:1; 124:48.) It is man who turns from the covenant, not the Lord. Class Discussion Why do you think that breaking a covenant with the Lord is a serious matter? STRENGTHEN YOUR BRETHREN On one occasion when the Israelites were brought out of Egyptian bondage, they were obliged to fight against Amalek. Moses commanded Joshua and some men to fight Amalek. When Moses held up his hands, Israel prevailed, when his hands came down, Amalek prevailed. Victory came to Israel because Moses was insistent in keeping his hands up until Israel won the victory. But Moses' hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun (Exodus 17:12). And so it has always been. When the Lord's anointed has been supported by the people, the people, also, progress. When a bearer of the Priesthood acts in his calling to further the kingdom of God on the earth, he is performing service as though the Lord were doing it. (D&C 84:35- 38.) Symbolically, the saints covenant to support their leaders when they raise their hands to the square to sustain them. When a member of the Church refuses to accept the counsel of the First Presidency of the Church, he lays the foundation for insecurity. Such a person in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith was criticized in a revela-— tion for rejecting such counsel. ([bid., 124:84.) What does a person lose in his rebellion against the Lord's servants? President Joseph F. Smith answers by saying that the person "cuts himself off from the privileges and blessings of the Priesthood and Church, and severs himself from the people of God" (Journal of Discourses 24:193). COUNSEL TO ALL If a person enjoys the Spirit of the Lord, it will keep him from losing his faith and _ turning against the servants of the Lord. Some people, as President Joseph F. Smith said, will become critical because they "consider the small, mostly unintentionally committed errors of its officers, rather than the broader and more important labors" performed by them. (Gospel Doctrine, p. 254.) Lesson Department There are some specific things which members may do in sustaining those who preside over them. The Lord refers to these ways in the revelation to Elder Sherman, as follows: Therefore, strengthen your brethren in all your conversation, in all your prayers, in all your exhortations, and in all your doings (D&C 108:7). IN ALL YOUR CONVERSATIONS True loyalty to our friends and to our leaders is put to the test when we are not with them; when we have the opportunity to express our feelings to others about them. In all our conversations we are admonished to sustain those who preside over us. To speak falsehoods or rumors about someone is contrary to the principle of _ love of neighbor, a commandment under which we are placed. Surely one is not following this second great commandment if he is telling anything which would hurt another's character. (Matt. 22: 36-40; John 13:34-35.) In fact, James said that if one did not bridle his tongue, his religion was vain. (James 1:26.) It is believed by some that because something is true about a person, this thing can be told. Nothing could be further from the truth than to believe that one is justified in speaking the truth about a person regardless of the harm which may come to him because of it. Who knows but what that person has repented of that fault? The gospel teaches us that if we expect to receive forgiveness for sins we must also forgive others. (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, pp. 110-111.) We have no right to discredit a person before others. If the Lord has ac- '783 October 1967 cepted one's repentance, who has the right to mention one's faults to someone else? (D&C 58:42; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 263.) When we speak well of our leaders we increase their usefulness. An obligation rests upon the member of the Church to defend the character of an officer when assailed by someone. We cannot undo the wrong of bearing false witness against someone. (George F. Richards, Conference Report, April 1947, pp. 24, 26.) Parents who speak adversely against those in authority do harm to their children. Elder Mark E. Petersen related the case of parents who spoke against the bishop regularly in the home with consequent loss of respect for Church authorities by the children and which resulted in their being inactive. (Conference Report, October 1952, p. 30.) Two questions might well be asked by the person who is about to speak against another. First, what good will it do me to speak this thought? Second, what harm will what I say do to the person about whom I am about to speak? Class Discussion Explain how you can sustain the brethren in your conversations. IN ALL YOUR PRAYERS The person who has received the testimony that prayers are fulfilled, is anxious that the Lord will prosper the leaders of the Church. True love of those who preside in the Church is shown when there is a sincere desire for their physical well-being, their power to accomplish their calling, and for protection against harm. 784 This desire arises out of one's knowledge that the Lord has appointed the leaders and that the kingdom of God will prosper through these divinely appointed servants. With these solicitous feelings, the member of the Church prays that the Lord will bless the leaders. In a revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith prayed that the Lord would remember the Presidents of the Church, that they might be exalted before the people, even that their names would be perpetuated through generations of time by what they would be able to accomplish. (D&C 109:71.) If a member of the Church does not sustain the brethren by praying for them, it would seem that he lacks the welfare of Zion in his heart. On the other hand, by this practice he builds in his own heart a further desire to accomplish his own responsibilities in the Church. The faithful member of the Church knows that the Lord will answer his prayers in behalf of his servants. IN ALL YOUR EXHORTATIONS Among the ways in which a member of the Church may show that he sustains those over him, is to show his loyalty in public. There are occasions when the Latter-day Saint has the opportunity to make such expressions, such as the testimony meeting, or when called upon to teach a class, or when speaking in the various meetings. In addition to counseling others to sustain the leadership of the Church, appreciation may be expressed for their diligent service. Although men and women must occupy positions of leadership in directing the work of the Lord, it should be remembered that one also honors the position or calling rather than the individual only. (Spencer W. Kimball, Conference Report, October 1958, p. 57.) When one remembers that the person appointed to office has not sought the position, but the Lord through his servants has appointed him, it should be evident that when respect is not shown to the leader, there is a disregard for the Priesthood of God. (Matt. 12: 30.) Class Discussion What value accrues to the presiding officer in the Church through the prayers of the saints and also in their exhortations? What value comes to the member of the Church when he prays for those over him and also when he sustains them publicly? IN ALL YOUR DOINGS In order that Elder Sherman and all other members of the Church might understand the extent to which one should sustain Lesson Department the brethren over them, the Lord said that this should be done "in all your doings" (D&C 108:7). _ Probably one of the additional ways in which this can be done is to accept the calls made upon the member by those in authority. CONCLUSION The Lord has said that only those who sustain his servants will find the blessings of the gospel. And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place. But if they will not hearken to my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them (D&C 124: 45- 46). The member of the Church who sustains all of the officers of his ward, stake, and the General Authorities finds rich blessings. R BURNISHED FIELD Gladys Hesser Burnham When ripening grain waves softly in the breeze Rippling over hill and swale, it leaves An undulating swell like ocean waves In constant movement. Warming sunshine cleaves To golden stems and burnished fields await The combine. Circling furrows spin As heat waves shimmer, and the only noise A smokey drift of seagulls wheeling in To search out fallen grains. They glide and poise, Squalling a discord to a pleasant scene. > 785 October 1967 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 4—A Loving Person Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To become a! Oving person requires desire, study, and practice. One mellow summer evening in the Café Mozart around the corner from Vienna's Opera House, an Austrian woman sociologist explained why the terrors of two world wars had caused many Viennese to grow fearful. '""No one has been admitted to my intimate friendship circle since childhood. I have many acquaintances, but few friends. I don't want more friends. I'd be afraid of them." Did she reflect the uneasiness many people feel, due, perhaps, not to war but to unhappy expe riences with others? Do we want friends? Do we want to love others? She who becomes a friend must_want-—to-_love. The expression of love requires skill. It can be learned. Jesus and all the prophets to the present day have taught_this skill. To excel in love, as in all great attainments, requires training. Historians, modern scientists, men of learning in other areas have insights for us. We should be selective _as we study, so that our growing knowledge will be in harmony with the gospel. We have many opportunities to practice and to help others grow into a loving relationship with us. 786 ve A woman discovered a neighbor's child pulling up her flowers. She asked him why he did this. He said, "Mommie loves pretty flowers. I am taking her these." The woman talked with the child about a flower's needs. She told him that flowers needed to be picked, not pulled, showing him how this was done. She asked him to come to her next time and together they would decide which ones. Were ready to be picked. She told him that she was glad he loved flowers. Gradually they developed a common interest in flowers and became good friends. He became as protective of her garden as she. A loquacious and complaining woman alienated most. Of-her family: and _ friends. One woman, understanding her loneliness and insecurity, listened to her and found they had many common interests. Focusing on these, she helped the woman, at least temporarily, to forget her problems. It took only a few hours a month to help this troubled sister. Love makes.. Demands. It calls for continual growth and development. To become a loving person a woman learns to admit_freely when she is wrong. She learns to discuss s misunderstandings without anger. She acquires skill in correcting others so that they are not wounded. She encourages excellence in others and is patient as she waits for them to develop. Lesson Department A friend in trouble is sustained without being judged. When something does not work in her relationship with others, she tries repeatedly until she finds a good solution. It takes a dedicated. EfHOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 4—The Kitchen—The Heart of the Home Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To show that the kitchen can be the heart of the home, where human needs are satisfied. Great riches other rooms adorn But in a kitchen, home is born. INTRODUCTION One of the clearest indications of a happy family relationship is the warmth and happiness which emanates from the home itself. It is not a new concept that the kitchen is "the heart of the home." Since fire was first brought inside as a means of providing warmth and of cooking food, the kitchen has been a warm, welcoming place. It is even more than that. It has become the center of most of the homemaking activities, and women probably spend more time there than in any other room. In the humblest of homes, as well as the most modern, the kitchen can and should be a delightful place to linger. A woman who cares about the welfare of her family will make her kitchen a place where everything works together to bring the warmth and inviting quality so necessary to this important center of the home where her family dwells. WHAT MAKES A GOOD KITCHEN? There are certain fundamental requirements for any kitchen regardless of its size or its cost, and regardless of where it may be if it is successfully to fulfill its func-" tion as the heart of the home. 1. It should be clean. Cleanliness is of the utmost importance in the kitchen, not only because it is requisite to the health of the family, but also because it is basic to all the laws and virtues of good living. Without cleanliness, there can be neither order nor efficiency, both of which are essential to all patterns of life both within the home and outside of it. In this enlightened modern age, no woman needs to be without a knowledge of the means and methods of applying proper sanitation in her home—especially in her kitchen. After the basic rules of sanitation have been complied with, it is surprising how easily her other cleaning problems can be solved and her work load lightened with a few simple preliminary preparations. 787 October 1967 For Discussion Discuss methods and examples of how cleaning problems may be solved. 2. It should be well-lighted. Since the kitchen is essentially a woman's workshop, adequate lighting is as necessary to her there as it is to any technician in his laboratory. No homemaker can function at her best in gloom and shadow.. It should be well-ventilated. Most kitchens, especially modern ones, are open to adjoining areas; therefore, care should be taken to keep odors of cooking where they belong. Vents, fans, open windows and doors and other air-conditioning devices should be a part of every kitchen. (Penetrating cooking odors can be reduced by adding a few celery tops or outside leaves of lettuce to the pan. The chlorophyll in the green leaves accomplishes this.). It should be convenient. Whether the kitchen area is large or small, it should be well-organized through the relationship of appliances, work areas, and storage space. Frequently used items should be stored so that they are easily seen and easily reached, and those seldom used stored elsewhere or discarded. Cabinets and drawers cluttered with unnecessary utensils are a waste of time and effort to keep in order.. It should be well-equipped. A homemaker, like any other artist or craftsman, should have the best tools she can afford. Markets all over the world carry equipment for those whose budget is limited or for those to whom money is no object. Some of the humblest kitchens have the most interesting and practical equipment and accessories. It should be attractive and inviting. The kitchen has an obligation to be a visual, as well as a practical asset, to the home. The combination of color, texture, and pattern are fun to work out and a joy to the beholder. Who among us does not enjoy the warm shine of copper and brass or the cool gleam of pewter? The idea of beauty in the kitchen is not new. That our grandmothers and our great-grandmothers before 788 them were aware of the need for beauty was evident in their flowering plants, their hanging flower boxes, and their flowering window sills. To neighbors on all sides we are indebted for the contributions which they have made to the beauty and culture which we have adapted to our own situations: To England for its leaded panes, its solid rough-hewn beams, its inviting open hearths; to the sunny countries of the Mediterranean for their white-plastered walls and ceilings and their varicolored tiles; to Mexico for her embossed tin and tooled leather and her decorative garlands of dried gourds, fruits, and vegetables; to France and Switzerland for colorful and picturesque toiles and other decorative accessories; to the Netherlands for their quaint Dutch doors and their exquisite lace window curtains; to Germany, Scandinavia, the Islands of the seas, and the countries of the Far East for their untold treasures of beauty—to all of these, and others, we are indebted for much of the beauty in the heart of our own homes. CONCLUSION A kitchen which is clean, orderly, and efficient helps to establish the atmosphere for happy home living. If, along with these indispensable qualities, it is enhanced in beauty with the things which the family loves to live with, the kitchen can truly be called the heart of the home. To Discuss (If desired, these suggestions could precede the conclusion.) 1. A 3. How can we apply these desired qualities to our own kitchens? Can we achieve these ends and still live within our budget? Discuss how an efficient kitchen can lessen rather than add to the work load of the homemaker. Give examples showing how cleanliness and beauty in the kitchen are conducive to the well-being of the family. Lesson Department SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 4—What Will They Remember? Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes her responsibility to represent the standards of the Church in all aspects of personal deportment. INTRODUCTION Two questions are correlated and discussed in this lesson, (1) Can the Latter-day Saint woman retain her religious identity and still be an active participant in social or civic groups whose membership are of different faiths? (2) How does being attractively dressed relate to the standard of modesty? These questions are of interest and special importance to the Latter-day Saint woman in today's world. Whether she lives in a small community or in a metropolis, she may encounter activities and clothing styles which are not in harmony with standards which she has set for herself or which have been established by the Church. How she reacts to these situations may depend upon her sensitivity to the standards of good taste and her courage in holding fast to her personal religious convictions. (To class leaders: It will be well for class leaders to discuss both questions, developing more fully those areas of greater interest and application to their particular Relief Society group.) PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY Each individual woman represents someone other than herself. She represents her family, her friends, her community, her Church, her nation, and, were it possible for a woman to have no living relative and no pointable affiliation, she is still a child of God and therefore represents humanity. Because she does not stand alone, and, therefore, is not a law unto herself, her actions reflect favorably or unfavorably upon those whom she represents. Intelligent representation of any group can come only if the members are familiar with the objectives and standards of that group. The Latter-day Saint woman who, through enthusiastic choice or by persuasion, affiliates with a non-Church group, needs to become familiar with the purposes and standards of that group. She also will need to review in her mind what the standards of the Church are on particular issues, if she is to represent the Church fairly, thus retaining her Church identity. She may wish to ask herself, "What does the Church 789 October 1967 teach?" In the Articles of Faith we read, "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men...." Question Would these qualities constitute a good standard for judging a woman's personal performance? Discuss. Following are some organized groups having different specific objectives and which may have varying standards of personal conduct. 1. The strictly social group (objective being to enjoy leisure-time activities). 2. The culture club (objective being to enlarge one's appreciation for the cultural arts). 3. The civic organization (objective being to study or promote community programs and projects). 4. The scholastic club (objective being to study education problems and to promote programs for school betterment). The political organization (objective being to inform or motivate interest in local or national political issues and voting procedures). An This list is only suggestive of innumerahle group affiliations. Others may be suggested. Our concern in this lesson is whether or not a Latter-day Saint woman can enjoy membership and participation in a non-religious organization and neither compromise her standards nor unfavorably represent the Church. For discussion of this important question we turn to some individuals who have and are thus affiliating. Consider their comments, in response to specific questions put to them: Question: Mrs. B., you are active in community affairs and interested in civic legislation. How do you feel about your affiliation? Mrs. B.: Community activities need interested and dependable men and women. I enjoy my civic affiliations 790 and am delighted when individuals not of our faith ask about the Church. I am proud to tell them what we believe. Y Question: Has the Word of Wisdom created any problem for you, in mingling with non-Church individuals? Mrs. B.: Never. Perhaps it is my home training, plus the fact that I have lived in different cities where there were very few members of the Church. I do not feel that I am being courageous. Believing firmly in the right of individual choice, I find it very easy to say, 'No, thank you, I don't smoke," or "No, thanks, I don't drink." It's as simple as that. Question: Mrs. E., you are affiliating with non-Church cultural groups. What has been your experience? - Mrs. E.: For me it has been more difficult, especially was it so at first. It has required courage. Perhaps this is because I had not established in my own mind the importance of certain Church standards. I had to find out what the Church recommends. The fact, however, that I am known to be a Latter-day Saint woman and thus represent the Church, has kept me from compromising some standards of conduct that I might otherwise have done. Question: Mrs. H., how do you feel about this? Mrs. H.: In the cultural and social non-Church groups with which I am associated, I have found that people of high quality accept you for what you are and represent, rather than whether or not you are going to conform to their beliefs. But, they expect you to be what you profess to be. I find that consistent living of one's own beliefs, not forcing them on others, makes for congenial and satisfying relationships. I have never needed to relinquish my beliefs or lower my standards. Question: Mrs. C., you are an active member of a small creative writing group. Its members represent several different religions. What is your experience? Mrs. C.: This affiliation is one of the rewarding associations of my life. Each of us respects the religious beliefs of all others. Our common bond is that of creatively interpreting life as we see it. I have found in these women of other faiths great integrity and, often, a compassion for others which has been an inspiration to me. I hope that my own feeling of moral responsibility and religious insight are of like benefit to them. REMEMBERED BEHAVIOR The woman who thinks that infraction or compromise of a standard has only immediate effect, is not being realistic. She is not acknowledging the influence of memory. Very often the memory influence is more significant than the immediate reaction. Note the following comments, representing both favorable and unfavorable memories. Class Involvement Comment #1. It was once my professional assignment to hire mature females for our business. We found so much dependability and a strict adherence to the standards of morality in the Latter-day Saint women whom we had employed, that membership in their Church, alone, became almost an automatic recommendation for other Latter-day Saint women seeking employment with us. Comment #2. Years ago when we were summer touring, we became involved in a rather serious automobile accident. I shall never forget the kindness of a Mormon woman and her family to us. If her home is representative of her Church, it truly has much to recommend it. Comment #3. It had been my impression for years that the Latter-day Saints conformed to a certain code of behavior. I was so disappointed when a Latter-day Saint woman behaved contrary to her professed beliefs. It has lessened my esteem for her and I am wondering about the efficacy of the teachings of her Church. Question Do you believe this statement, "'NeiLesson Department ther the individual nor the Church can benefit when one of its members violates a behavior standard of the Church"? Why? Class Involvement In light of the foregoing individual comments, discuss the following questions: 1. How best may a Latter-day Saint woman project the ideals and standards of the Church into a nonChurch group' without giving offense? 2. In what ways does it reflect upon the Church when a Latter-day Saint woman compromises a Church standard before a non-Church group? 3. Is greater harm done if the violation occurs before a non-Church group than before a group of her Church friends? If so, why? 4, What motives are most apt to cause a Latter-day Saint woman to apologize or to make even slightly unfavorable statements about the Church before a group of nonLatter-day Saints? 5. Need a Latter-day Saint woman ever be embarrassed to uphold Latter-day Saint standards before the world? 6. Is a Latter-day Saint woman apt to regain the esteem of a nonChurch group if once she has violated Church standards, even though she ceases a continuance of that violation? THE GOOD EXAMPLE OF THOSE WHO LEAD The examples of outstanding Latter-day Saint women who hold positions of honor and responsibility in organizations of nonChurch membership and who at all times honor and uphold Church standards, are respected and influential among women of other religious faiths. GUIDANCE IN DRESS The clothing one wears may 791 October 1967 and frequently does influence one's social behavior. It is, therefore, relevant 'tnat feminine clothing be considered in this lesson which deals with personal standards. We read with curious interest of the apparel, ornament, and devices employed by women throughout the ages in an attempt to enhance their physical appearance. Fashions in female dress have varied from age to age, culture to culture, country to country as they do even today. The prophet Isaiah spoke in denunciation of excess in female ornamentation, referring specifically to the tinkling ornaments, chains, bracelets, mufflers, ornaments of the legs, headbands, earrings, nose jewels, changeable suits of apparel, wimples, hoods and the vails, and crisping pins. (Isaiah 3:13- 23.) Latter-day prophets and Church leaders likewise have given counsel to Latter-day Saint women as to their wearing apparel. They stress the importance of modesty in dress as a virtue related to chastity. Elder Mark E. Petersen speaks of the responsibility of mothers in guiding their daughters toward standards of dress which are in keeping with the teachings of the Church. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1963, pp. 7-11.) The booklet "For the Strength of Youth' (published by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Utah, Second Edition 1966) lays down guidelines. Questions Discuss briefly: 1. Do you think mothers need this counsel as well as the daughters? 2. Do you think the statement that 792 mothers often encourage their daughters to wear strapless party gowns is true? FADS VERSUS CONSERVATISM The woman of today may find herself in a net of feminine allurements unless she is wise. Women's clothes, extremely styled and unbelievably costly are displayed in shop windows. Exotic and beautiful color combinations, attractive trim, and unusual design are praised in the daily papers. Too often a woman does not resist buying clothing which is too costly for the family budget and wholly unsuited to either her age or her figure. Instead of enhancing, such clothes may detract materially from her personality. Fashions in women's clothes vary from one extreme to another, but there are fundamental rules of proportion and design which are basic to good taste. The Latter-day Saint woman knows that good taste, modesty, and conservatism go hand in hand and that extreme fashions violate the basic rules of modesty and good taste. Class Involvement What, in your opinion, constitutes an attractively dressed, well-groomed, woman? WHAT WILL THEY REMEMBER? A number of women, interviewed for this lesson, were asked what they remembered most about their mother's grooming. Some of their answers follow. Discuss as time will permit. 1. I remember my mother's beautiful hair, always neatly and attractively dressed, even before breakfast. 2. My mother emphasized cleanliness more than any personal appearance quality. Whether in house dress or Sunday dress, she always looked immaculately clean. 3. My mother emphasized economy in clothing. An expert seamstress, she was proud of clothing her six children attractively on a fraction of what the purchased articles would have cost. 4. I remember my mother's shiny shoes. We were rather poor when I was young, but my mother insisted on neatness. 'Most everyone," she said, "can keep his shoes neat and clean." 5. My mother always looked very feminine. "Femininity," she said, "Gs the birthright of a woman. Don't sell it for a mess of potage." CONCLUSION Latter-day Saint women have a dual responsibility, through their living, to project the truth and soundness of gospel teachings Lesson Department to others. They owe this standard of performance to themselves and to the Church. This responsibility embraces more than what they say, or even what they do as a social action. It embraces, also, their standard of dress. The intelligent and wise Latter-day Saint woman will consider modesty, appropriateness, and conservatism as essential to good taste in dress, essential to being a womanly woman. FOR HOME-DOING Check your non-Church affiliations to see if you are being fair to yourself and to the Church. If not, grasp every opportunity to do so. Help your children and your friends by your example to see that modesty is a factor in a standard of good taste in dress. Ask yourself, what will my children likely remember about me? CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Lesson 3—''Patience and Forbearance" Elder Robert K. Thomas "In your patience possess ye your souls.''-—New Testament (Luke 21:19) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show that a woman who lets patience turn into resignation is substituting endurance for forbearance. (Note to Class Leader: This lesson will include the musical selection Brahms, Symphony No. 1, 2d Movement, from the Relief Society teaching aid kit.) INTRODUCTION It is appropriate that a section concerning patience should follow the two preceding lessons discussing cheerfulness and honesty, for patience often carries needlessly bleak connotations and, occasionally, is surrounded by illusions. When Henry David Thoreau insisted that resignation was "confirmed desperation," he was 793 October 1967 hoping to jar his readers into an awareness that some of the accepted Christian virtues were in danger of being weakened by alignment with their slightly more passive counterparts. For example, determination may become mere doggedness. Prudence turns into caution; and patience becomes resignation. The distinctions here may seem minor, hardly recognized by the dictionary, but, in practice, they have made an immense difference. For they have led many people to accept a less demanding standard under the impression that one was the equivalent of another. When resignation, for instance, is used as a synonym for patience, active effort does not seem to be quite so rigorously demanded. There is a suggestion of merely "hanging-on" in resignation. Patience should not be confused with such a state. The stereotype of the patient man is Job. Afflicted with boils, derided by many of his associates, he sits among ashes in tormented, passive resignation to the apparent will of God. The first two chapters of the book of Job suggest such a picture, but, beginning with chapter three, we have thirty-nine chapters which should deepen our understanding of Job's special difficulty and the general problem of patience. He is not resigned to his state, and in dialogue with the friends who come to comfort him, he tries his best to understand what has happened. It is the so-called comforters who exhort him simply to accept. Lest we assume that this is what the Lord wants in this case, we need to remember his explicit statement to the comforters 794 in the final chapter:.. My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath (Job 42:7). SONNET 19 "ON H! S BLINDNESS" BY JOHN MILTON Milton's celebrated sonnet on his blindness makes just the right discriminations: When I consider how my light is spent Ere half my days in this dark world and wide, And that one talent which is death to hide Lodged with me useless, though my soul more bent To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account, lest He returning chide; "Doth God exact day-labor, light denied?" I fondly ask. But patience, to prevent That murmur, soon replies, "God doth not need. Either man's work or his own gifts. Who best Bear his mild yoke, they serve him best. His state Is kingly: thousands at his bidding speed, And post o'er land and ocean without rest; They also serve who only stand and wait." This poem helps establish perspective. The Lord doesn't depend on the work of man, and the most frustrating part of our devotion to him may well stem from the fact that some of the obvious ways to serve may be denied us. "Day-labor"' is easy to understand and easy to give. The parable of the talents which is here referred to appears to support this idea of active effort. It needs to be remembered that the final line does not refute the concept of work as Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT ~ CLASS LEADERS.. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces.- Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12', 33Y3 rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send_ international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 Ib.) Produced and distributed by DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION MEDIA SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH 84601 ALSO AVAILABLE FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY AND B. Y. U. ADULT EDUCATION CENTERS Tour-ific! MEXICO Monthly HAWAII October 13 November 17 December 28 TEMPLE TOUR October 23 ROSE PARADE For all travel and ticketing arrangements ARET liad ney 110 East 2nd South _ Salt Lake City, Utah ].. 2h 571-03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245.6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Lesson Department service; it only suggests that we are not always allowed to set the conditions under which we serve. As we prepare ourselves to receive counsel at the Lord's hand, the result is dynamic. Waiting is not an end in itself but the prelude to something we have yet to envision. Few poems are more successful than this in establishing a fresh look at patience. The problem is not whether one can endure calamity; the real test is whether one can persist and grow. Although there has been some discussion by critics concerning the precise date of this poem, it is generally agreed that it was probably written between 1652 and 1655 while Milton was Secretary for Foreign Tongues to the Council of State. Apparently he was totally blind by 1652 at the age of forty-four, although the exact cause of his blindness has never been discovered. There is no question but that Milton was overwhelmed by his loss, and his usual self-confidence appears to have been dealt a crushing blow. But there is little justification in citing this poem as one of total abnegation, for Milton has made peace with his fate. He is saying that his own deeds and genius are of less value than personal integrity. He is prepared to receive counsel at the-Lord's hand. For Discussion What danger is there in using the final line of Sonnet 19 without seeing it in its poetic context? "AND NOW TO LIVE AGAIN" We see a very courageous young woman persist and grow in Betsey Barton's And Now to Live Again. Confined to a wheelchair 795 October 1967 from her youth as the result of an automobile accident, Miss Barton lets us see her beginning despondency and final triumph. When she finally sets down an account of her private Gethsemane, however, she has been able to transmute pain and despair into insight and understanding. In so doing she details the process by which we may all turn from the apparently hopeless to the clearly hopeful. Not the least of Miss Barton's accomplishment is persuading her readers that expectation of recovery need not underlie patience. In fact, the full meaning of patience is lost on the person who finds in it only the discipline of waiting for his pain to cease or his difficulties to vanish. In reading Miss Barton's account we begin to appreciate the statement of the apostle Paul. In 2 Corinthians 12: 7-10, he tells us that he "'besought the Lord thrice" that his "thorn in the flesh" might be taken from him. When it was not, he learned not only to accept it but to glory "in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities." Such a positive approach rescues patience from its too easy identification with mere endurance. For Discussion To be patient usually suggests waiting for a positive result after a period of distress. Why is patience still meaningful to someone in Miss Barton's condition? POEMS BY WANG WEI! Besides being a major poet, Wang Wei (699-759) was a fine painter and musician. In addition he was known as a _ physician. When he was in his early thirties, 796 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper maché jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, gold leafing, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Phone 486-1017 THINKING ABOUT GE NE. LoGy? LET US HELP YOU! Competent Professional Research at prices You can afford VAIL RESEARCH FOUNDATION Box 581 Salt Lake City, Utah MEXICO WHERE THE SUNSHINE AND FLOWERS SPEND THE WINTER FIESTA TOUR February 3-18 Fully Escorted ONLY $250 (double occupancy) Includes all Ist class hotels, transportation, sightseeing, 12 meals VISIT ELEVEN ARCHEOLOGICAL SITES Leaving from and returning to El Paso, Texas, by train—first class, immaculate private bedrooms, club car and diner ERMA WHITE 15 years experience taking tours to Mexico Call: 484-9752 Write: 1795 East 3170 South Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 SPACE LIMITED! Make reservations immediately Mountain West's first an printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inzine is in a mee y bound cover. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound struction of each month's Relief Society Mages The finest bindery and to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5. Yearly Index Included 25 Advance payment must accompony all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... Zone 3...........60 Zone 7.......-..51. Zone 4...........65 Zone 8..........1. Zone 5 80 Lesson Department his wife died, and he retired from government activity to devote himself to poetry and religion. As a young man, Wang Wei had become a proficient narrative poet, but the poems we remember him best for today are the short, intuitive lyrics which catch the essence of his Taoist-Buddhist devotion. The poetry of Wang Wei introduces us to Oriental serenity. Such serenity may appear to be unusually attractive when contrasted with Western activity. Thousands of years and myriad lives seem to support the quiet passivity of these Chinese lyrics. The mood of calm acceptance in such work lays a gentle hand on the merely frenetic. Even the most specific references do not compromise the universal quality of these poems. Note how the following lines transcend their local setting: At the little dock by the willow trees people are embarking on journeys— I know that the boatman will bring you safe to your destination. When the fresh colors of Spring return I will think of you, Whether you travel South or North, my thoughts will follow you. This little poem escapes the stultifying lassitude which characterizes much Oriental poetry. Consider the following poem which suggests that if we set too long a perspective, all individual effort seems futile: There are many new houses in Nanshu; Old trees are gone but the willows remain. One does not know who of the coming generation will visit here. No matter—in the same way did the last generation conjecture. 797 October 1967 If the unending cycle of life and death is given such emphasis here that the reflections of a single person seem of little moment, a final poem by Wang Wei catches just the right combination of graceful adaptation to the inevitable: Daily man grows old without the hope of youth's return, Though Springtime yearly fades to reappear again. Therefore drink with tranquil hearts, And grieve not for the falling petals of Spring flowers. For Discussion Is the kind of life we glimpse in the poetry of Wang Wei possible today? MEDITATIONS OF MARCUS AURELIUS If the stoicism of Marcus Aurelius is not quite so passive (at least in practice) as the Taoist position of Wang Wei, yet there is more than a superficial resemblance between these philosophies. Both stress a world order which is set. Man must find his place in such an order, and any attempt to make a place rather than find it can only result in frustration and unhappiness. The following excerpt from Book III of the Meditations is typical: III, 16. If many qualities are held in common, there remains that which is peculiar to the good man. His distinction lies in being pleased and content with what happens, and with the thread that is spun for him.... And if all men refuse to believe that he lives a simple, modest, and contented life, he is neither angry with any of them, nor does he deviate from the way which leads to the end of life, to which a man ought to come pure, tranquil, ready to depart, and perfectly reconciled to his fate. 798 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 841711 Dept. R. M. HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 14-29 e ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco December 26 through January 2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 As attractive as this sounds, the Roman Stoic too often became so preoccupied with self-discipline that he lost touch with humanity, divesting himself of responsibility toward his fellow men. Patience and forbearance may be lonely states, but they are not meaningfully achieved by isolation from the world. For Discussion What are the special difficulties of using a Stoic philosophy to direct a nation? What is least attractive about the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius? A NOISELESS, PATIENT SPIDER The final selection for this month, is Walt Whitman's "A Noiseless, Patient Spider," one of his most successful efforts: A noiseless, patient spider, I mark'd where, on a little promontory, it stood, isolated; Mark'd how, to explore the vacant, vast surrounding, It launch'd forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself; Ever unreeling them—ever tirelessly speeding them. Lesson Department And you, O my soul, where you stand, Surrounded, surrounded, in measureless oceans of space, Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throw- —ing,—seeking the spheres, to connect them; Till the bridge you will need, be form'd —till the ductile anchor hold; Till the gossamer thread you fling, catch somewhere, O my soul. In this lovely poem all human and divine aspirations are effectively caught. We must reach outside ourselves for both temporal and spiritual satisfaction. Without fanfare but in untiring persistence, we must attempt to establish the realities of our life. The final line carries just the right tone. It is not if "the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere," but "till." Patience is finally rewarded. For Discussion Why is a spider spinning a good image for man's attempt to find reality? After checking its dictionary meaning, why is "ductile" such a good choice in the next-to-last line in "A Noiseless, Patient Spider'? A ANCHORAGE AT HOME Bertha A. Kleinman What have | done to make my day complete, When comes the night to close my tired eyes? Who—the appraiser of my balance sheet, Who to indite to seal and notarize? What have! Said of banter or of praise That someone shali be glad | came his way? What song of mine has lilted through the haze Of cringing doubt to shatter its dismay? What must | be for those who look to me To set my sails whatever be the tide, Not flotsom drifting on a troubled sea, But pulling shoreward where the waves subside? Not mine a convoy churning through the foam, But just a bark with anchorage at home. > 799 97 Mrs. Jane Lang Milford, Utah 96 Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Layton, Utah Mrs. Amelia Heppler Hansen Richfield, Utah Miss Florence Pearl Young Salt Lake City, Utah 95 Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines Logan, Utah 93 Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Ann Haight Esplin Cedar City, Utah Miss Mary Jane Thackeray Salt Lake City, Utah 92 Mrs. Rosena Blickenstorfer Gubler Blake St. George, Utah Mrs. Nancy Knipe Bowlin Loveland, Colorado Mrs. Martha-Amanda Barron Norton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nellie C. Ross Robinson Provo, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen Burns Taytor Magna, Utah Mrs. Martha Coffin Torgeson Ogden, Utah 91 Miss Addeliza Cowley St. George, Utah Mrs. Ellen Percy Gladwell Roy, Utah Mrs. Mary G. McNeill Bluewater, New Mexico Mrs. Hilda Kjelberg Olsen Portland, Oregon 90 Mrs. Mabel Avery Manchester, New Hampshire Mrs. Bertha Emanuelsen Bergsjo Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Story Berry Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sarah Baker Hill Fayette, Utah Mrs. Anna Marie Johnson Howell Provo, Utah Mrs. Zina Goulding Johnson Cannonville, Utah Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Jennie Ackerman Sudweeks Springville, Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or, 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 4 ae: z ea aS seret Book 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD.. OGDEN 777 SO MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA F Sonal N:: N % y Send me copies of MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF. Send me copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 Send me Social Relations Teaching Aids Packets Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 3%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 5% sales tax for California resi- _ Gents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account [] Total $ SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT (Check here) [J Oct. R. S. 67 Second Class Postage oe at Salt Lake City, Uta Relief Society AUTUMN LEAVES Linnie Fisher, Robinson: So many. Times in-yeats gone. By, When' 'autumn: leaves. Were sailing high, We~ children: ran across the grass 'Nor dreamed. How. Fast the seasons. Pass But thouent our days would "alll repeat. Today, as-leaves in winds. Blow wild, {wish aL were a little child. To" go to bed without a*care Save. That: a said. My. Evening prayer, And kissed my: 'Marents-life was sweet. Oh, leaves, that-in 'the winds must. Play, My' 'autumn, too, has come this day; So, have. My" spring"and summer flown And "al" my? Ties. More loosely grown—_ The éycle'n moves and. Itvis: fleet. ) The cycler moves" anh it-is sweet— Soon, soon I 80 on leat, blown' a The Cover: Lights at Temple Gate, Salt Lake City, Utah Transparency by J. M. Heslop Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Pattern of Leaves, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel - Art Layout: Dick Scopes IWlustrations:™ Mary Scopes 801 | have enjoyed very much receiving The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Now } am sure of having a Magazine that educates so much and is guided by our Lord. | have been a member of the Church about twenty years, and these years have brought me knowledge and experience—every counsel and teaching comes from heaven through our living prophet. Ninfa B. Torres Houston, Texas | enjoy the poems, stories, and everything else in the Magazine. | am especially interested in the sketch of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967, by Emma Rae McKay Ashton). As a widow, | wish my thirtyone years of marriage and fifty years of friendship had gone on and on. - Mrs. Sophia Jane Pearson Cleobury Mortimer Shropshire, England The story '"'Trapped'' in the July issue of the Magazine, by Gail A. Jorgensen, caught my sole attention, while reading in the subway, and | was so spellbound that | almost missed my station. The story was intense and hair-raising. Anyone who can write a story that keeps people fascinated surely deserves recognition. Mary Wittorf Astoria, New York The Magazine is such a source of inspiration to all who receive it. Our branch is composed mostly of military personnel, and we strive to place the Magazine in each home. My husband, a recent convert, is quite impressed with the great variety of articles in the Magazine. Whoever greets the postman first gets first opportunity to read the Magazine. Margaret Perry Junction City, Kansas 802 | want to thank you for the excellent article ''Mix and Match Wardrobes" (by Ethelynn Keiser) in the June 1967 issue of the Magazine. This came just in time to make my daughter a wardrobe for college. It was so much simpler and inexpensive to make than outfits not coordinated. Bernice Kentner North Platte, Nebraska The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish is a great help to me in every sense. ] have acquired a great deal of knowledge through it. Its inspired articles sustain me and encourage me to appreciate the beautiful things in life, which at the same time are so simple and accessible to all. All the poems and stories are choice and beautiful. Odilia J. De Simon San Jose, Uruguay Many times | have gone to The Relief ' Society Magazine for comfort, and have found the thoughts of the sisters comforting and stimulating. Thanks for the guidance and inspiration contained in the Magazine and delivered in our meetings. Chery! Barney San Diego, California Thanks to Mary Scopes for the IIlustration for my story '"'Home Again' (August 1965). | wonder if she comes as close with all her drawings. My tenyear-old said, 'Say, Mom, how did the artist know you are 'pleasingly plump'?" which is the way we discreetly refer to my appearance around here. | am particularly enjoying the serial ''The Golden Chain," by Hazel M. Thompson (concluded in September 1967). The story of the life of Emma Ray Riggs McKay (June and July 1967) was especially inspiring. Fae P. Thomas Orangeville, Utah The Relief SOCICty Magazine Volume 54 November 1967 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford ~ Special Features 804 Those Who Endureth to the End Belle S. Spafford 810 Security Amid Change Marianne C. Sharp 813 "The Heart and Willing Mind'' Louise W. Madsen 816 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 823 The Golden Bowl Alice Sabin 832 There's More to Christmas Helen H. Trutton 838 A Miracle at Christmas Louise Harmon 846 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 3 Janet W. Breeze General Features 802 From Near and Far 829 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 830 Editorial: Gifts of a Mother Marianne C. Sharp 851 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 841 Refreshments for the Holiday Season Zola McGhie 842 Simple Addition to a School Wardrobe Shirley Thulin 843 November Alda L. Brown 844 Grandmother Said Evelyn Fjeldsted 845 A Multi-Talented Worker Lesson Department 859 Spiritual Living—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer) Roy W. Doxey 865 Visiting Teacher Message—Take Time to Show Love Alice Colton Smith 866 Homemaking—The Living Room—Your Design for Living Celestia J. Taylor 868 Social Relations—Do 1 Live What! Say? Alberta H. Christensen 872 Cultural Refinement—''Obedience, the Mother of Success'' Bruce B. Clark Poetry 801 Autumn Leaves' Linnie Fisher Robinson The Sisters Gathered, Gillian G. Brown-Lee 809; With Chivalry, Iris W. Schow 812; Steadfast, Gilean Douglas 815; To "Give For,'' Elizabeth Cottam Walker 822; Heritage, Lois M. Anderson 828; A Dream Come True, Della Adams Leitner 837; Sisters, Connie Chapoose 840; Bleak Autumn, Christie Lund Coles 844. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 'Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts wilt not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. * Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. BI Nae ree TN as rs wenrerrwnssepremmmerseeereret a ey eller, eae Those Who Endureth to the End. ¢What may well be called an adage is this statement of truth: "The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, but to him that endureth to the end." To endure is to maintain the capability of holding out, of lasting, of continuing in the same state without weakening or perishing. It is the power to continue under pain, hardship, discouragement, suffering, without being overcome. History is replete with goals that have been realized and battles that have been won, not by those who made a brilliant beginning or an impressive first stand, but by those who had the power to remain firm, patiently to overcome obstacles, to be constant in their efforts. The scriptures offer a priceless blessing to those who accept the scriptures make reference to this, General Session of the Relief: i keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the 804. President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] gospel of Christ and who endure to the end. Not only once do the but a number of times. One of 'hits OE) passages dealing Wa th this admonition and its blessing reads as follows: "And, if you greatest of all the gifts of God" (D&C 14:7). Eternal life is a gift every Latter-day Saint worthy of the name desires to obtain. Yet in this complex world of trouble and testing, and handicapped as we are with human weaknesses and imperfections, it is not always easy to endure throughout life. To do so requires firm faith, strong convictions, sterling character. Failure often comes to us due to our insensitiveness to the fact that faulty attitudes have developed, and behavior counter to the will of God has gradually been adopted. Then, we tend to justify these without being aware that they are adversely affecting our lives. May I relate an interesting experience. Authorization, as many of you know, has been given by the Brethren for Relief Societies, under specified circumstances, to be organized in nursing or residential homes for older sisters. One day I visited such a Relief Society. The members were between seventy-five and ninety years of age. They were ambulatory, bright of mind, and enthusiastic over their Society. The lesson was from the Doctrine and Covenants and was followed by testimony bearing. The sisters contributed intelligently to the lesson discussions. Their offerings reflected a knowledge of Church doctrine and familiarity with the teachings of the gospel, as well as rich life experiences. It was a delightful meeting. Then came the testimony period. Each sister who spoke, one by one, prayed that she would endure to the end. As I contemplated their intelligent understanding of the gospel as demonstrated in the lesson disThose Who Endureth to the End cussion, and as I considered how late in life it was for most of them, I thought, why would they pray that they might endure to the end? Surely they have already proved themselves. ——~Later, however, in private conversation with some of them, I was made aware that they were not entirely above reproach; that they had a tendency to excuse themselves for failures to comply with the laws of the gospel because of age and the circumstances of their lives. These are a few interesting comments made by these sisters as I talked with them: One sister said, ""We have sacrament meeting here at the home, as well as Relief Society, but I never go to sacrament meeting. I am too old to be preached to." I inquired, "Don't you feel a need to partake of the sacrament?" "No," the sister indifferently replied, "I don't think it matters at my age." Another sister said, "I want to move to a little better home, I have enough money to do so. I have no one on whom to spend my money but myself. My family does not need it, and I am no longer interested in doing things for others that cost money. I don't even pay tithing. I don't think the Lord expects it of one my age." Still another sister, who was drinking tea as I called, said, "I almost live on tea. As a younger woman, you couldn't have hired me to drink a cup of tea, but I don't think it will be held against me now." Yet another said, as we heard footsteps near the door, "I hope 805 November 1967 that's not my daughter. She only comes because she fears criticism if she doesn't do so. She has very little love for me, and I have very little for her." One more comment: "I seem to be growing weaker every day, suffering as I do with pain. I used to have the elders administer to me, but I don't believe in it anymore." 'Attendance at sacrament meeting, partaking of the sacrament, renewing one's covenants, the payment of tithing, observance of the Word of Wisdom, love of family, Priesthood administration —all basic laws of the gospel— had been abandoned by one or the other of these sisters with a feeling of justification; yet each had earnestly prayed that she might endure to the end. Sympathetic as we may be toward these sisters and toward their circumstances, and understanding as we may be of their actions, yet we must recognize that with clear minds they were justifying the nonobservance of God's laws. I am led to ask also, "Has the Lord ever set a retirement age with regard to keeping his commandments?" Nor is it during the later years of life only that people grow careless. During the younger years there are those who violate their covenants, weaken in defense of right, disobey commandments which they know to be important, and rationalize with regard to their non-allegiance to Church teachings. Social pressures, the enticements of fashion, the desire to be like others whom one would cultivate but who do not have the same light to guide them, adver- 806 sity, unfulfilled expectations, disappointment—all of these sometimes press hard upon one and break him down at a weak point, opening the door for Satan to step in. Sometimes we engage in behavior counter to the teachings of the Church with the feeling, "I know it's not right, but I don't intend to make a practice of this. Once or twice won't hurt." The once or twice, however, soon become more frequent until the behavior develops into a habit. Also, as one weakens at one point, it becomes easy to weaken at another. I ask, "Wouldn't it be easy for one who discontinues regular attendance at sacrament meetings to lose sight of the importance of keeping the Sabbath day holy?" I fear that it would. Thus, error subtly creeps into our lives, and the promised blessings for those who endure to the end are in jeopardy. How, then, may we avoid the pitfalls which lead us away from the straight and narrow path? How may we muster the strength that will enable us to endure to the end? First, I would suggest continuous Church activity to the full measure of one's opportunities and capacities. I would recommend a study of the scriptures with meditation upon the promised blessings of obedience to the respective commandments. What is to be more desired than the blessings promised by the Lord in section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants for obedience to the Word of Wisdom: And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them (D&C 89: 18-21). Consider the promise to the tithe payer found in Malachi: Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it (Malachi 3:10). For those who must be convinced through personal experience, let them heed the words of Alma: But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea, even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my words (Alma 32:27). I remind you that spiritual strength comes through worthily partaking of the sacrament. This we do as we attend the meeting required of us by the Lord—the sacrament meeting. Would it not be well occasionally to let our minds dwell upon the blessings rather than upon the adversities of our lives? Let us consider the countless times our prayers have been answered against the few times when the Lord in his wisdom may have given a negative answer. Those Who Endureth to the End Let us avoid the tendency to justify disobedience to God's commandments because of untoward personal circumstances just as we would avoid a plague. It may be useful, also, to remember that strength grows with practice and that the Lord helps those who earnestly seek his help through fasting and prayer. Regardless of the adversities of life and the difficulties encountered in striving faithfully to endure, success can be achieved; people can overcome obstacles, and they can be constant in their faith and in their obedience to the laws of the Father. The Bible gives us an impressive example in the account of Joseph, son of Jacob. Joseph was born when his loving father was in his old age. He found himself, through the chicanery of his brothers, finally living in Egypt in the court of Potiphar. Imagine this boy sent by his father on a mission to his brothers, advancing toward them in all the unsuspecting openness of brotherly affection, finding them to be his unnatural assailants, consumed with hatred toward him and determined to rid themselves of him. A Bible commentary says, It is impossible that mere envy... Or the doting partiality of their common father could have goaded them on to such a pitch of frenzied resentment.... Their hatred of Joseph must have been produced by a dislike... Of his excellencies which made his character and conduct a constant censure upon theirs.... In the Egyptian household, the household of an idolator, the boy had to contend with strange conditions. Though separated from 807 November 1967 his father, Jacob, he was not separated from his Heavenly Father. He faithfully and zealously served God and kept his commandments. This sometimes brought him earthly advantages. At other times, however, it brought him extreme suffering—even imprisonment. (Genesis 41:14). But the Lord blessed Joseph all the days of his life because of his faithfulness, and through him he blessed his father's household as well. Joseph's words in remonstrance to Potiphar's wife when she made the most infamous advance a woman can make toward a man, was characteristic of his response to every evil that beset his path; 'How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?" (Genesis 39:9). Joseph lived eighty years after his elevation to the Chief Power of Egypt, giving continuous proof of his faith and the assurance of the promise of the Lord to those who keep his commandments. His entire life was characterized by righteous professions supported by conscientious and righteous conduct. In the New Testament we learn of Paul—first a persecutor of the Christians, then a devoted follower of Christ, a teacher, a missionary, an apostle—who at the close of life could say with confidence: I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith; Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing (II Timothy 4:7-8). The Book of Mormon gives us many striking examples of men 808 who kept the faith and endured to the end. Lehi, Jacob, Mormon, Enos—with whom the Lord made a covenant in behalf of the Lamanite people because of his faithfulness—Abinadi, and others. May I refresh your minds with regard to Abinadi. Abinadi was a Nephite prophet whom the Lord raised up in the land of NephiLehi to reprove the wicked people of King Noah for their sins. His bold denunciations of their abominations ended in his being cast into prison. The evil priests clamored. To slay him, And they stood forth and attempted to lay their hands on him; but he withstood them, and said unto them: Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for TI have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to deliver... Therefore, God shall not suffer that I shall be destroyed at this time (Mosiah 13: 2-3). The scripture tells us further they had no power to slay him because he was protected by divine power. In his humility, Abinadi reveals his complete surrender to the work of the Lord in these words: But I finish my message; and then it matters not whether I go, if it so be that I am saved (Mosiah 13:9). Faithful unto martyrdom, surely the promise of salvation made to those who endure to the end would be the blessing of Abinadi. This dispensation, too, offers many examples of those who have had the strength to endure in the face of great trials and suffering. To each of our minds there come examples of women, as well as men, some of them simple, unpretentious souls; others, those hold- ing places of prominence and trust. Let us keep these faithful souls in remembrance as an ensample to us at all times. They were not fictitious characters from an imaginary past. They were human beings living in the world of reality, just as are we. Let each of us strive to be among those who remain faithful. True, it is hard to resist temptations, to rise above trouble and keep our faith strong. It is easy to succumb to those evils that temporarily comfort the flesh, particularly in our declining Those Who Endureth to the End years; it is not always easy to remain constant and to avoid the human weakness of justifying the error of our ways. But this, we can and must do if we would enjoy the blessings promised by the Lord to those who endure to the end. How wonderful it would be, what a good world this would be if each one of us would so live as to be able to say at the close of life as did Paul, "I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." That we may earnestly work toward this end, I sincerely pray. Va THE SISTERS GATHERED Gillian G. Brown-Lee Worcester Branch, Central British Mission [Written in honor of the Relief Society Conferences held in Britain, May 20-28, 1967] No flowers, no gems, nor richest wonders rare, Could shed more beauty than the sisters there. No royal gathering of ancient rhyme, Was more enriched than this, of modern time. Humbly the sisters gathered, widely called, To listen to great teaching—quiet, enthralled, Then thrilled, as truly glorious voices sang In chorus—bell-like, hauntingly they rang. A strange, compelling spirit filled the air, A feeling most miraculous and rare, A sheen of almost brimming tears was found In many searching eyes the room around. A tide of loving feeling flowed their way As leading sisters stood to speak that day, And firm direction, like a challenging sword, Was heard from an apostle of the Lord. | know these things are so, for | was there— | testify to all the world, that here In precious England, on this lovely day The Spirit of the Lord held forceful sway. Then, as the sisters left to tend and cheer Their loving husbands and their children dear, The spirit of their meeting would remain. The sisters gathered—we will come again. » Z 809 November 1967 Security Amid Change Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] 810 «A few weeks ago I carried the newspaper in to my husband. On the way I glanced at the headlines. I said to him, "The only thing that seems right in the world is the Church." Accidents, earthquakes, wars, raids, riots, strikes, robberies—they were all there to be seen at a glance. The same feeling comes over me when I read the so-called women's magazines. Everywhere are articles on unhappy marriages, birth control, abortions, drugs, and the personal lives of glamorous divorcees and their latest marriages. We have even had women write us and ask why the fiction in The Relief Society Magazine doesn't mirror these conditions in the world. In this so-called changing world, men would have us believe that basic laws change, that what was. Considered moral in our grandparents' day is no longer in force, that changing conditions have changed the need for chastity and honesty, that the virtues are outmoded. Indicative of the prophecy that the wisdom of the wise should perish, is the statement attributed to a learned professor at Dartmouth who characterized the divinely inspired Constitution as 'a mudbank left by the receding tides of history" and said that it was left from the "era of the ox-drawn sledge." A Latter-day Saint knows that divine laws never change, the only change is the conduct of God's children toward the laws, their disobedience to God's laws. Edicts against promiscuity, the use of certain substances, and civil disobedience, among others, have been and will always be in force. As mothers, we need. To bulwark our children against these prevalent, loose and _ wicked thoughts and actions. We must be on the watchtower in our homes twenty-four hours a day. We must constantly pray for guidance and seek the counsel of the Priesthood in our efforts. With all that a mother must do, it would seem that each child should feel accepted and loved and secure in the love that his parents feel for each other and for him. It is an arduous task for a mother to maintain a loving attitude in spite of irritations and worries which come inevitably. One mother preserves her loving calmness through snatching just a few minutes to read a few verses of scripture. She says there is nothing which calms her feelings and changes her attitudes so quickly as this does. As the children have grown older and noticed her reading, it has caused the scriptures to take on greater significance in their daily living. President George Albert Smith once said in a talk, ""There is no happiness worthy of the name that does not come as a result of obedience to a loving Father who has said to us 'This is the pathway, walk ye in it....' There is Security Amid Change safety for us only on the Lord's side of the line" (The Handbook of the Restoration, page 601). A child reared in a loving home easily learns that Heavenly Father loves him even more than his —earthly parents do, and accepts the fact that the Father's laws have only his eternal happiness in view. All too frequently are blazoned the results of disobedience for one who stepped over into Satan's territory, on his side of the line. This comparison has meaning in the child's world. It helps also for a mother to confide about an example in her own life when she nearly became disobedient and almost stepped into the devil's territory, and how thankful she is that she resisted. Of the time when she wanted to go to a movie at night 'and rebelliously stayed home only to learn the next morning that the roof had collapsed from the weight of snow and killed most of the audience. A testimony that Jesus is the Christ is the supreme gift a mother would strive, above all, to have her child possess. From the time he is a babe in arms she can sing to him of Jesus and train him while a lisping child to kneel at her side and pray to him. The love the child will feel for the Savior will be a potent force in helping her to teach him the meaning of repentance for his childish misdeeds. The knowledge of Jesus' love and joy when the child does right, will help him to tell the truth and be honest. As a child approaches baptism, a mother should have taught him the meaning of it and the great gift he will receive of the Holy Ghost. When he becomes a teen- 811 November 1967 ager and, later, when he may leave the home entirely, the realization of the possession of the Holy Spirit will comfort and bless him. He may recall his mother's teachings of the preservation of Wilford Woodruff's life many times through his instant obedience to the promptings of the Spirit. The man, the woman will have learned to obey the still, small voice which says, "Do this; do that'—"'Don't do that." This training of a child presupposes that a mother will have managed, in some way or another, if her family is large, to have received the confidences of each child alone each day. This will keep open the communication between them. Today, it may be what the schoolteacher said to the child before recess. In the years ahead it may be how a friend stole in a store, or began to smoke. Often having a child pray alone with the mother over a difficult situation may bring about a needed softened attitude. And with it all, must be set an example for work, both mental and physical with the child working along with the mother. "Thou shalt not be idle" is a dictum of the Lord as is "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread.' Work is the great blessing and even in times of dire distress it will bring comfort and satisfaction. As we read The Book of Mormon, we discover the feeling of hopelessness the righteous felt as wickedness prevailed. The Prophet Mormon, when only fifteen, was leading the Nephite armies, but unsuccessfully, because of their degradation and wickedness. He wrote, "But behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord would not always suffer them to take happiness in sin'"' (Mormon 2:18). As mothers today, we must not feel discouraged nor hopeless. We have been told that this gospel will not be given to another people, and we know that great spirits have been reserved to come forth in this day. Recently, a modern day prophet said that while conditions in the world grew worse, the Church would continue to carry on its work at the same time. Instead, the mothers of the Church must rejoice, rejoice to be alive in these great last days, rejoice in the goodness of their sons and daughters whom they have reared in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. May we all be that kind of a mother whose children have the only gift of security there is—the Va "a WITH CHIVALRY Iris W. Schow When bird and sun are moving south once more, And equinoctial storms have come and gone, The trees, like Raleigh, doff their brilliant coats And lay them down for us to walk upon. Church, I pray. 4 812 Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967] Two things the Lord requires if one is to obtain the fullness of his blessings. "Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind" (D&C 64:34). The heart, according to the un- —derstanding received from studying the words of Christ, his prophets and apostles, is the repository of that which is good, the storehouse of those thoughts which bring the deepest meditation. Those things which are heard but not fully understood are stored in the heart to ponder, as did Mary. When the events leading to the birth of the Son were unfolded she "pondered them in her heart"? (Luke 2:19). The pure heart is the dwelling place of the Holy Ghost. "Yea, behold, I will tell you in your mind and in your heart, by the Holy Ghost, which shall come upon you and which shall dwell in your heart" (D&C 8:2). This is the promise given to those who ask in faith, with an honest heart, believing that knowledge will be received. The heart is not only a repository and a storehouse but it is a motive power. "With my whole heart I have sought thee; O let me not wander from thy commandments," the Psalmist sings (Psalms 119:10). Love, which is described as the greatest thing in the world, the basis of the first and greatest commandment, is centered in the heart. "I have you in my heart" (Phil. 1:7), Paul writes to his beloved people, the Philippians. Compassion, the desire to express love by serving others, springs from the heart. The heart rejoices in righteousness or is saddened by unrighteousness. It is the heart which 813 November 1967 guides the soul to repentance, the sorrowing heart which seeks ex- -piation for sin. It is the heart filled to overflowing which leads to expressions of gratitude. The heart is the seat of courage, of nobleness. It is in its chambers the spirit of forgiveness is found. The heart reacts to the appeal of the gospel; it feels the warmth of God's word and the joy of his work. Faith is believing with the heart. Conversely, sadly, the opposite can be true. Sometimes the heart is filled with evil, crowding out the good, the clean, the joyous, the right. Only the Lord knows what is actually in the heart. "But the Lord said unto Samuel," as he sought to find a successor to Saul, 'Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (I Sam. 16:7). Migis: then, is the heart the Lord requires, the pure, humble, reverent, compassionate, forgiving, loving heart; the repository of his words, the storehouse of truths for meditations, the motivator of righteous action. "Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer," we may pray as did David (Psalms 19:14). A willing mind the Lord also requires; willing to accept his teachings, to cast out doubt, to do his work. A teachable mind, open, ready, desiring to learn, is mandatory. A strong mind, filled with the strength of knowing the 814 truth, and one which does not "weary of well doing" (D&C 64: 32) is necessary. A tireless mind which accepts the commandment, "Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today" (D&C 64:25), is required. A mind with vision, ready to receive the life-enriching gospel, able to see with clarity the wisdom of dedication to the will of the Lord, will respond to the whispering of the "still, small voice," the burning within the breast, and the urging of the spirit. The heart and willing mind signify obedience. That which is required by the Lord of us living inthese latter days is whole-hearted, whole-souled, whole-minded obedience. Perhaps the greatest willingness the Lord requires is willingness to be obedient. One shows his devotion and dedication by obedience. The element of sacrifice enters into a contemplation of obedience, a willingness to sacrifice immediate pleasures and desires for ultimate blessings. The grace of submission to divine will, to authority, is gained when one can say, "Lord, what wilt thou have me do?" (Acts 9:6). His chosen people are the obedient, chosen because of their willingness to obey. Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts; if thou seek him he will be found of thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever (I Chron. 98:9). This admonition should be our guide. This the Lord requires. _ STEADFAST. -Gilean Dope REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967.] It is with deep appreciation for the devoted efforts of Relief Society leaders and members alike, and with thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for his blessings, that I bring to you today a brief report of the growth and general accomplishments of Relief Society during the calendar year 1966, together with a few instructions, recommendations, and cautions from the General Board. Practically all aspects of the work of the Society during the last calendar year showed gratifying gains. In the few instances where decreases were recorded, they may be explained by changing circumstances or changes in procedures. For example, the number of visits made to families in need by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of the respective bishops decreased by more than 10,000. Undoubtedly this was due to the fact that emphasis is now being placed by the General Priesthood Welfare Commit- 816 tee on the initial visit being made by the bishops themselves, with only follow-up visits being made by Relief Society presidents. MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE At the close of 1966, there were 301,248 sisters enrolled in the Society, an increase of 14,428, each of whom may grow in testimony, be strengthened in service to her family, her sisters, her Church, and her community, through her participation in the program of the Society. In spite of the demands made upon the time of women today, particularly women who are employed outside their homes, and regardless of the enticements that would draw the sisters away from Relief Society, the average attendance at regular Relief Society meetings increased by over 5,000. Second session Relief Societies, no doubt, were an important factor in the increase. SECOND SESSION RELIEF SOCIETIES Sisters, the growing number of wards holding second session Relief Societies leads us to offer a few suggestions with regard to them. They should be undertaken only with the bishop's full approval following his being fully apprised of all that is involved; i. E., the use of the meetinghouse; the additional requirements that must be made of the regular Relief Society officers; the number of women who would benefit and who otherwise would be unable to attend Relief Society meetings. Second session Relief Societies are no longer an experiment. They have proved successful in countless wards. Evening sessions should be regularly scheduled as to day and time of meeting, with the convenience of the sisters who will attend being kept in mind. The frequency of these sessions, if not held weekly, would be determined by the Relief Society presidency in consultation with the bishop. LEADERSHIP IN RELIEF SOCIETY Throughout the Church, there is today a total of 6,809 organized Relief Society units—stake, mission, mission district, ward, and branch Societies. This represents an increase of 147. There are 196,259 women holding leadership positions in these organizations. This is almost two-thirds of the total number of members. The latter part of May, the Relief Society Presidency and two other members of the General Board conducted three regional conferences in Great Britian under the direction of Elder Mark Report and Official Instructions E. Petersen, as a special assignment. The leadership ability of the sisters evidenced at these conferences was impressive. They were poised, well-informed, gifted in their powers of expression, humble, and gracious. If this may be regarded as an index of Relief Society leadership strength—and I believe it may be so regarded— certainly our leadership training efforts are bearing good fruit. Leadership training, however, is a continuing matter in Relief Society since new members are continually coming into the Society. VISITING TEACHING The visiting teaching program continues to grow in size, to increase in importance, and to improve in quality. There were over 130,000 visiting teachers who made a total of 607,201 visits during 1966, over 100,000 visits in excess of one-half million. Of this number of visits, 8,875 were made to non-Latter-day Saint families at their request or as directed by the bishop. This indicates the appreciation which is felt for the visits of these sisters. In the stakes, an average of nine visits was made during the year to each family. Church-wide, the average was eight visits per family. If the program were fully functioning, there would have been twelve visits per family. We know, however, that circumstances over which we have no control make twelve visits annually per family extremely difficult, if not impossible of realization. We commend presidencies and visiting teachers alike for their excellent record. Letters from Relief Society presidents and comments from Priesthood leaders indicate that visiting 817 November 1967 teacher reports submitted by ward Relief Society presidents to bishops are growing more meaningful and helpful to bishops as they direct home teachers with regard to bringing families into activity in the Church. Visiting teacher meetings, of which approximately 40,000 were held during 1966—an increase of more than 1,000—are the main place to train women in quality teaching and significant reporting. We urge you to consider this with ward presidents in the presidents department of a forthcoming leadership meeting. EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM The educational courses continue as class involvement discussions dealing with a central gospel principle or truth, with amplifying material approved by the Church Correlation Committee. Approximately 24,000 women are serving as class leaders and doing highly commendable work. Education materials have been prepared and are available to accompany the 1967-68 courses of study. You have been advised regarding these in correspondence from the General Board. The booklet, "Special Lessons for Relief Society," Volume 4, for those requiring simplified lessons, is now available at a cost of $1.75. It will contain a continuation of the two courses, Lessons From the Book of Mormon, and Latterday Saint Church History only. The homemaking discussions, visiting teacher messages, and social relations lessons will be those printed in the Relief Society Magazine for the current year's education work. Volume 1 'Lessons for Indian -Relief Societies," 818 ($1.25), and Volume 2 ($1.75) and Volume 3 ($2.00) of "Special Lessons for Relief Society," continue to be available. HOMEMAKING PROGRAM The homemaking discussions for the forthcoming season entitled, 'Development Through Homemaking Education," offer variety and interest for the woman who would maintain a financially well protected family and a happy home. Once again, the homemaking meeting continues as the second best attended meeting. The output of these meetings reflects the resourcefulness of homemaking leaders and the diligence of the sisters. There was a total of 1,362,000 articles completed in the homemaking meetings during 1966. Of this number, 828,000 were sewed articles, including quilts, clothing for men, women, and children, and household furnishings. There were 534,- 000 non-sewed articles made to add charm, beauty, and convenience to the home. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Relief Society Magazine now published in English and Spanish, has a present circulation of 260,000 in the English edition and nearly 6,000 in the Spanish edition. The Relief Society Magazine is the official publication of the Society, but it should be in the home of every Latter-day Saint woman regardless of whether or not she is an enrolled member of Relief Society. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES The compassionate services continue to engage the time and energies of Relief Society sisters. For the first time in several years, the number of days of bedside nursing care increased. Approximately 2,000 eight-hour days of service were given over the previous year, bringing the total number of days care to 31,120. Figures for other types of compassionate service are equally gratifying.; ' It is suggested that in assigning a Relief Society sister to bedside nursing care of a sick person or in arranging for such nursing care on a paid basis, that Relief Society presidents make sure the sister is qualified for the service required. We suggest that presidents make use of the nurse lists in this connection. Where a patient requires lifting, we should make sure the sister assigned to the service has the necessary strength and skill to render the service without harm to herself or the patient. We would carefully consider the general health of a sister assigned to give bedside nursing care. We respond to bedside nursing needs in the spirit of willing service and loving sisterhood. At the same time, we safeguard, to the best of our abilities, the patient and the sister assigned to render the service by being informed with regard to the patient's needs, and also as to the qualifications and health condition of the sister to whom we assign the service. At no time would we deny bedside watchcare to the sick, for which most Relief Society sisters are qualified, but where actual handling of the patient is required and other special ministrations such as the giving of medications, we must recognize the importance of assigning the service to qualiReport and Official Instructions fied sisters. The homemaking discussion course outlined for the coming four summer meetings deals with ~ home nursing, and will be helpful to you in preparing the sisters to care for the sick in the homes. SINGING MOTHERS PROGRAM The Singing Mothers program is moving forward with a high degree of success. We now have 3,601 choruses—an increase of 376, with over 50,000 sisters participating—an increase of 349. We are pleased to announce that an invitation has been extended by the National Broadcasting Company for the Singing Mothers from the New York-New Jersey area to provide a special Christ-_ mas Eve program for the "Voices of Christmas" radio series. Keep this in mind and tune in to hear our Relief Society sisters sing under the leadership of Sister Ellen N. Barnes, a member of the General Board. SOCIAL ACTIVITIES The social activities of Relief Society are holding the interest of Relief Society members, and on the whole, are providing not only relaxation and delightful entertainment for the members, but are also providing development and utilization of their talents. This is as it should be. The General Beard jooks with apprehension upon what appears to be a growing tendency on the part of Relief Society officers, to use paid entertainers who independently prepare and present their own programs at Relief Society social functions. Regardless of the nature and quality of such programs, paid entertainment is 819 November 1967 scarcely in keeping with the purposes or character of Relief Society, and such _ presentations wrest from the Relief Society president full control of what is presented. In addition, it needlessly reduces the Relief Society funds which are acquired through the labors of the members who themselves are entitled to the development incident to a Relief Society program. —-~ BOOK REVIEWS AND LECTURE COURSES We also caution presidents with regard to book reviews as entertainment at social functions. The Cultural Refinement course offers monthly to the members the very best in literature, together with music and art. If upon occasion, however, a presidency feels that a book review would be enjoyed and the sisters would benefit from it at a social function, they must bear in mind that, as administrative officers, they have the responsibility to know the contents of the book, to jointly evaluate its possible acceptance by the members, and its possible influence upon them. Presidencies, in arranging for book reviews, must accept responsibility for knowing that the book does not present viewpoints or advocate action contrary to the standards of Relief Society and the teachings of the Church. We further call to the attention of Relief Society presidencies the ruling that Relief Society does not sponsor lectures or lecture courses, whether they be based on books or other subject matter, except as approved by the General Board and the Correlation Committee. Recent re- 820 ports reaching the General Board indicate that currently popular books on womanhood and related subjects and lecture courses based on such books are being sponsored by some Relief Societies counter to the General Board ruling. We are advised that the teachings in some of these books have proved very disturbing to some Relief Society members. We, therefore, admonish you to abide strictly by the General Board ruling. FINANCING STAKE BOARDS We commend Relief Society presidencies for the sound financial management of the respective Societies. In this connection, we mention particularly the resourcefulness and __ intelligence with which stake boards have adjusted to the plan whereby garment earnings no longer go into the Relief Society treasuries. This change, made two years ago, posed a challenge for stake Relief Society presidencies—a challenge that has been well and appropriately met. Occasionally, the question is asked as to whether a stake Relief Society may assess ward Relief Societies for financial help. In reply to this question, wards may help a stake financially by supporting a stake board sponsored fund-raising program (and I remind you that where this is expected of the wards, it is wise to involve the wards in the planning and presentation of the activity). The General Board sees a number of reasons why stake boards should not assess wards in order to meet their financial needs. For example, ward officers and members might not be amenable to such action, and this could interfere with the harmonious relationship between stake and ward officers; it would be difficult to assess all wards equitably, since all do not have the same size treasuries or earning capacities; it could bring criticism of stake board expenditures by ward workers who might disapprove of the manner in which the money was being spent by the stake and which they regard as actually being ward money. The General Board, therefore, advises against ward assessments. The financing of stake boards on college campuses is governed by the Priesthood leaders. CAMPUS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERSHIP Referring to campus branch Relief Societies, we are delighted with the acceptance of Relief Society by the young college women. Their understanding of the work, the quality of their efforts, and their intelligent lcadership are very promising for Relief Society. When they leave college and reside in your wards or branches, make use of their enthusiasm and abilities by bringing them into immediate activity. You will find the rewards to be great. PARTICIPATION IN SATURDAY EVENING SESSION - 1967 QUARTERLY CONFERENCES We wish at this time to commend the stake Relief Societies for the excellence of their participation in the Saturday evening session of the stake quarterly conferences during this year. The brethren visiting the conferences have brought to the General Report and Official Instructions Board excellent commendatory reports. NEW RECORDING AND REPORTING FORMS We remind you that the Relief Society year, together with other units of the Church, is now from September 1 to August 31, with reports being prepared accordingly. The only exception in Relief Society is the Magazine Honor Roll which will remain on a calendar year. The annual report for January 1 through August 31, 1967, was due in the General Board office September 20 from stakes and October 1 from missions. New ward and stake record books and visiting teacher report books providing for changes have been issued in fourteen languages, adapted to the needs of Societies in both Northern and Southern Hemispheres. We call your attention to changes in policies and record keeping procedures ircorporated in these books, and particularly those related to the new procedures of the Church for the preparation and presentation of permanent historical information. Extra copies of the instructions for both ward and stake record books are prepared in separate pamphlet form for the use of ward and stake Relief Society presidents. These may be ordered from the General Board Office for twenty-five cents each. Monthly reports are now required by Priesthood authorities from all Priesthood and auxiliary organizations, including Relief Society. All of these matters are already in effect and will be explained in the Secretary-Treasurers Department of this Conference. 821 November 1967 "HISTORY OF RELIEF SOCIETY" NOW AVAILABLE We hope you are already familiar with, enjoying, and making use of the new book, The History of Relief Society, available at the General Board office for $4. Per copy, postpaid. We urge every Relief Society to obtain a copy of this valuable history for organization use. Individual members will find this history valuable for their home libraries. RELIEF SOCIETY A YEAR-ROUND PROGRAM Sisters, let us dispel the concept of Relief Society being an the summer months. Relief Society is a year-round, continuous program of service, activity, and education, and it is day-by-day watchcare over our people. Visiting teaching, compassionate services, work on Church welfare projects, homemaking meetings, social activities, Singing Mothers activities, the garment distribution program, are not geared to a set number of consecutive months. They are year-round programs. Ours is a well-rounded program, designed to meet the needs of the sisters, the Church, and our people, generally, on a continuing basis. Let us keep it thus that the blessings of the Lord may abide eight-month program, with only with us continuously in our one meeting each month during labors. TO "GIVE FOR" Elizabeth Cottam Walker Always | had heard it said "Forgive,'' and it had been a word my tongue spoke, my ear heard, But this word my heart rejected. Oh,! Had thought that | forgave, but then in an unguarded hour forgotten angers assailed my power to forget, awakening old resentments. Why had | failed? Forgetting is not forgiving — no one forgives who can recall an injury; forgiveness is an all possessing love, forgetfulness of self. | must realize it is another's right to be forgiven. How great the grief the unforgiven carry; denying relief binds the unforgiving one forever. This | know, and this must | do —! Must "give for'' to "'forgive''; give love for hatred, for to live with love is the Master's way of life. 822 e "Are you sure you don't want the package gift wrapped?" the clerk asked. We shook our heads. "'We want to wrap it ourselves,"' Virginia said, and I blurted, "because we want to look inside some more." The clerk chuckled and wrapped the gilded box in plain paper. We put our change on the counter, including the show ticket money Uncle Tim had given us, then took turns carrying our package home. We got it past the family and into our room without being noticed. Virginia set it on our bed and I started to untie the string. "Fillie, be careful. Pll unwrap it," Virginia said. She's two years older than I and thinks she's grown up. I sat on the edge of the bed. The Golden Bowl _ Alice Sabin eer od wi Lapergeitoe _ Onan ee eet we een Nene a" " 2 an ev oe' Ve ""You're sitting too close, Ellie," she said, so I moved a couple of inches. When the package was opened, she folded back the crisp tissue paper, and there they were, gleaming at us—two_ golden bowls! In wonderment, I lifted one out of the box and Virginia picked up the other. They were a set of flower bowls. Mine 'had a fluted edge that turned out like petunia petals, and Virginia's had a scalloped edge that cupped in like a half-closed water lily. I held mine up to the light and it sparkled like yellow sapphire. "Oooh," I exclaimed, sucking in my breath. "Oooh," was all I could say, for how could anything have the gleam of pure gold and yet be so crystal clear? They were of cut glass, radiat- 823 November 1967 ing jets of reflected light like jewels. I was transported with joy. "Pretty, pretty, pretty," I whispered and danced around the room, holding the bowl high above my head. ""Mama will love, love, love our Christmas gift." Then I tripped on the rug and the bow] flew out of my hands. Virginia groaned, and I shut my eyes tight, waiting for the crash, but there was none. Then I looked. The bowl] had landed on my pillow. "Ellie, how could you!" Virginia scolded. ''Even if there were one hundred more bowls like that, we couldn't buy another one, for we don't have the money." Weakly I sat down. We had planned and saved all summer to buy these for Mama. She had two little tables across the room from each other. There had to be two bowls. One wouldn't do. "T'm_ sorry,' I said, then laughed, '"'no, I'm glad, because everything is all right." Virginia gave me a look that silenced me. I tucked my gift back in the box and she put hers beside it. '"We'll put them away while they're still whole,' she said, climbing onto a chair. She slid the box onto the top shelf in our closet. She was content to leave the package hidden until Christmas, but I had to take a look every day. Whenever I was sure of not being intruded upon, I'd climb after the box and then stand dazzled at what was inside. One day I thought I heard someone coming. I jumped, tipping the chair over and smashing the box against the foot of the bed. One of the bowls had spilled out and 824 lay glittering in a dozen broken pieces on the rug. My heart fell kerplunk, like a rock, to the pit of my stomach. I felt horrible. Through shimmering tears, I gathered the broken bits into an empty shoe box, vainly wishing that by some magic quirk the pieces would go back together again. The family was unusually gay at supper that night, especially Virginia. She bubbled. She had been like that ever since we bought the presents for Mama. Putting her lips to my ear she whispered, "We have a secret, haven't we!" My eyes smarted and. I ducked my head. Daddy looked up. "What! Cornmeal muffins, and you're not eating?" My chin quivered and I knew I'd better get out of there. "Excuse me. I forgot to wash my hands," I said, sliding back my chair. Locking myself in the bathroom, I buried my face in a towel and howled. Mama knocked on the door and I had to let her in. She took one look at me, then drew me into her arms. "Why Ellie honey, what's the matter?" "T don't feel so well," I sobbed. "Lots at school have sore throats." She got a little flat stick from the medicine cabinet. '""Open your mouth," she said, turning me to the light. She flattened my tongue under the stick and I gagged. "Your throat isn't red at all," she observed, "but I'll swab it just for good luck." And she did. I spit and spit. "Where else do you feel bad?" she asked. "All over," I said truthfully. She gave me an aspirin and put me to bed. The next morning I assured her I was better and raced off to— school. After school I hurried to the Arrowhead department store, though I didn't know why. I couldn't have bought so much as a penny pencil. Hopefully, I cater nin E looked in the crystal and china department. There was a flower bowl, not nearly so nice as the one I had broken, and a dollar cheaper, but it would be better than nothing. It was a pale orange. I felt desperate, for Christmas was only one week away. Thoughtfully I walked home, kicking little rocks ahead of me. At Sister Simpson's gate I hesitated. Maybe I could earn money running errands for her, I thought, so I knocked on her door. "Come in, Ellie. How nice to see you," she greeted. "T came to help you," I said. "Do you have errands to run?" "Bless you. I was just wishing for a little chick to run this book over to Grandma Bates for me." I raced with the book and got back in time to help her burn trash in her incinerator, then I The Golden Bow! Knew I must hurry home. She gave me three fat raisin-filled cookies and a big hug. "Filie, you're a darling for helping me," she said. I simply couldn't tell her I needed to earn money. I would have to think of something else. The next day I stopped at Turners. Mary Lou has three babies, and I thought she might need help. "Ellie, you're an absolute blessing," she said. "If you'll play with the youngsters while I hang out clothes it will be a great help." So I kept the twins from dragging the baby out of the bassinet until she came in, then she gave me three cookies and asked me to come again. I could see that all I'd ever earn for Christmas would be cookies. I was worried about Virginia, too. She might discover anytime what had happened. I wanted to tell her the whole miserable truth, but didn't have the courage. When I got home, Virginia pulled me excitedly into our room. "Look, Ellie, what Aunt Janet gave us!"' She held up a shiny sheet of green foil paper and a white ribbon bow, with peppermint stripes of green. Her eyes danced. "'We can wrap the package now." Again my heart dropped like a rock to the pit of my stomach. Just then mama called, ''Virginia, there is someone to see you." Whew! Saved for a few minutes anyway. Slipping into my coat I ran to Sister Simpson's house, knocking loudly on her door. Opening it, she exclaimed, "My land child, you're winded," and drew me inside. 825 November 1967 "Sister Simpson, I need help quick," I panted. She sat me down and IJ tried to talk but my voice choked. All I could do was sit dumbly with tears running down my face. But she was patient and finally I poured out my woeful tale. "Golden glass is it!" she said thoughtfully, staring off into space. Then she took hold of my shoulders. "Ellie, is it really goldcolored glass?" I nodded and she hugged me. "Do you suppose you could stay for supper tonight?" She had a mysterious air that made my hopes zoom. "Oh, yes," I said. So she telephoned, and mama said it would be all right. ""While I set the table, Ellie, you run home and get the broken bowl." We lived only a few houses from her. When I burst into our room, there sat Virginia, weeping and holding pieces of the broken bowl in her hands. I felt awful. "Oh, Ellie, Ellie, how could you!" she sobbed. "I wanted to tell you, but I couldn't." My eyes started to blur so I rubbed them on my coat sleeve. Taking the pieces from her I put them in the box. "Don't feel bad. I can fix it." "You can never, never fix it. It is broken in too many pieces." She burst into a fresh torrent of weeping. "Oh, yes I can. Sister Simpson is going to help me." I hurried out with the box before she could say more. Eating with Sister Simpson was an event. Her brocaded lunch cloth was snowy white. She put on a bowl of fresh holly and got out her green drinking glasses, es- 826 pecially for me. From her tiny toaster oven she served hot rolls with a fluffy cheese omelet and jelly. After the last dish was dried and put away, she opened the shoe box and picked up a piece of glass. "Just what we need. Ellie, we can make something special for your mother from this glass, but you will have to come every day until Christmas. Can you do that?" "You mean we can't fix the bowl?" I asked in disappointment. "No, dear, but we can fix something your mother will love." She went into another room and brought out a cloth-covered tray. "Lift the cloth, Ellie." i was unprepared for what met my eyes. "Oooh!" I exclaimed. If, in the glass flower bowl I saw yellow sapphires, I now saw all of the other precious gems—diamonds, emeralds, blue sapphires, and rubies. "This is a gift ''m making for my daughter, but I need one more color to finish it."' "You need gold-colored glass?" "Yes. Mary Lou and I have been making our gifts together, and we were stalled for a particular color of glass. We've looked in every junk shop and dump and were about to give up. Ellie, if I help you with your gift, will you trade us a piece of your flower bowl? We have lots of colors to give you in return." I sat right down and laughed. Who ever heard of anyone, especially grownups, swapping chunks of broken dishes! "Sister Simpson, if I can make a gift like yours, I'll be as happy as a mouse in a wheat bin," I said. Then she laughed. "You can, Ellie, I promise. I'll teach you." I was so excited that I skipped' all the way home. Virginia was a problem, for she' asked too many questions. Finally I said, "Everything will be all right. Just you wait and see." My helping Mrs. Simpson was all right with mama, but Virginia never stopped prying me with questions. "Ellie, you are not really fixing that bowl together, are you?" she asked one night. "No," I confessed as I tumbled into bed. "Will what you're doing look nice on the other table?" "Of course," I snapped, then stopped dead still. It wouldn't go on a table at all! I hadn't thought of that. I pretended to sleep, but I was worried. Virginia would be disappointed. Oh, well, I finally thought, Mama will probably put a bowl of apples on the other table anyway, and I dozed off. The day before Christmas the tree was trimmed and the house smelled of evergreens and spices. Mama stood surveying the living room. Her brows were drawn in deep study. Finally she pointed. "That table," she said ''has got to go. Having two alike in this room is ridiculous." "T've a perfect place for it in Jimmy's room," Daddy said, and hustled it away before she changed her mind. Virginia looked like she was having a heart attack and I wanted to shout hallelujah! Daddy came back. "Now, my dear—I suppose you want something else moved into that vacant spot." With a twinkle, Mama said, The Golden Bowl "No, my dear, I like it the way it is." Dusk was gathering and colored lights began blinking from the houses down the street. "Put your coat on, Ellie, and take this package to Sister Simpson,' Mama said. Now was the time for me to spirit my own package home. The first pale stars were appearing overhead. A little breeze rustled the crisp brown leaves that still clung to the apple tree by the gate. From the loud speakers at the market place came the strains of "Little Town of Bethlehem." The air was soft and warm. Daddy had said we would have a warm Christmas. Sister Simpson was expecting me. I put the package from Mama under her tree and she handed me my treasure, beautifully wrapped. Breathlessly I held it, then I looked up at her. All at once she looked like a Christmas angel to me. I set my package down and threw my arms around her. She bent and kissed me. I wanted to tell her how much I loved her, but didn't know how. I only said, "You will have a good Christmas, won't you," and her laughter was merry as a silver bell. "That I will, Ellie. My children are coming home tonight." Now I was really happy, for she wouldn't be alone. I thanked her and skipped home. When I opened the door, the family had already gathered around the fireplace. There wasn't a chance to sneak my gift behind the tree, so I gaily called, "Ho, ho, ho. Here comes Santa Claus. Everybody shut your eyes." And everyone did, except Virginia. I'm sure she peeked when I hid my 827 November 1967 package behind the tree. Christmas morning, Mama opened Virginia's package first. The flower bowl looked more exquisite than I had remembered it, and for a moment a feeling of sadness came over me, remembering the one I had broken. In one glance, Virginia and I looked where the other table and bowl were meant to be. In their place sat Daddy, lounging in the new easy chair Santa had brought him. Mama kissed Virginia and said, "This is beautiful," then picked up my package. Fingering the tag she read, "Merry Christmas to Mama from Ellie." Then she opened it. "Oooh, Ellie, how did you do it?" Her eyes were like stars. "Sister Simpson helped me," I said. She got up and put the sparkling flower bowl on the table and leaned the picture I had given her, against the wall behind it. The picture repeated the color of the flower bowl, in long graceful sprays of goldenrod, made of cracked glass, accentuated by daisies and_ babies'-breath in apricot and blue glass. The leaves were a mossy green. "How did you ever find glass for the goldenrods that so perfectly matched Virginia's flower bowl?" Mama asked. I was momentarily chagrined and then my bursting pride took over. "It was a happy accident," I said. A HERITAGE Lois M. Anderson Alone | walked in the somber dusk, Resigned to my burden of grief; Feeling akin to the winter trees And the end of a life, too brief. Stark were their branches against the gray sky, Stripped by the north wind's sweep; No awakening forces arose to transcend Their heritage of sleep. Then a shaft of sunlight pierced the clouds Like a curtain parted at night, Tinting the bare boughs above my head With a luminous, golden light; And | suddenly visioned each cycle of life Impelled in a seasonal swing; When each in its autumn succumbed to the cold— It awaited another spring! Now, beneath the snow, each golden leaf Must moulder into dust— But, oh, | will remember the glory and the green These cold limbs hold in trust! ~ 828 Ramona W. Cannon Princess Margrethe of Denmark, heir to the throne, was married in June to Count Henri de Monpezat, French diplomat, in Copenhagen's ancient Holmes Church. The bride is twentyseven, the groom thirty-two. Catherine Lacoste, of French birth, won the United States Women's Open Golf Tournament in July. She immediately telephoned her father in Paris, and thanked him for the encouragement he had given her. Forty years ago, the father, Rene Lacoste, was the world's premier tennis player. Jeannine Hensley has compiled and edited ''The Works of Anne Bradstreet, Puritan Poet'? (Harvard Press). A highspirited girl, Anne was eighteen when she came to Boston in 1630. She was truly "one of the first female voices in literature to speak up intimately and directly in her own behalf."' Mrs. Margaret D. Shepherd, photograph librarian at the Utah State Historical Society for the past ten years, was recently awarded, in national competition, a special scholarship by the American Association for State and Local History. The scholarship consists, among other educational and cultural opportunities, free attendance, in Portland, Oregon, at a seminar on administration of historical agencies and museums. Billie Jean King, Long Beach, California, housewife, in July, won the title of World's Number One Woman Tennis Player at Wimbledon in England. A packed gallery of 17,000 gave the twenty-three-year-old American woman a standing ovation. Louise Bogan, poet and critic, was the only woman among "'five distinguished senior American writers'' to receive one of the $10,000 individual awards from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1967. Miss Bogan has been rated by many critics as the best contemporary American lyric poet. Elva Bean of Blanchard, lowa, has served fifty-five years as a meter reader for the Missouri Power Company, and is still making her rounds at the age of seventy-seven. She also delivers papers. "All this walking,'' Miss Blanchard says, "keeps my joints from creaking and getting stiff."' Phyllis Curtain, Metropolitan Opera star (dramatic soprano), wife and mother, loves to cook. Among her relatives and friends, she is famous for a_ special soup. Born in Virginia, the singer specializes in Southern cooking, including many kinds of rolls and bread. Susanne K. Langer, who has already written two books on the nature of art, has now published a third, ''Mind: an Essay on Human Feeling' (Johns Hopkins). She says that we learn from a true artist ''what an emotional reality of greatest stretch can be," as in ''Medea,'"' ''King Lear,'' Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony," Michelangelo's "Moses." Kate Simon has written three readable, informative, and evocative guidebooks on New York, Mexico, and Paris. The last, 'Paris Places and Pleasures'' (Putman), is the best. All stir nostalgic delight in rereading after visiting these fascinating places. Mrs. Clydia Mae Richardson, who has been Chief of Presidential Commissions since 1943, was born and reared on a cattle ranch in South Dakota. She stamps State documents with the Great Seal of the United States. Adopted in 1782, the design of the seal is also on dollar bills. 829 EDITORIAL Gifts of a Wiother « (( We: ——— jf (( 4 Ay ''And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh." Most precious worldly treasures were presented to the Christ Child by those who were also rich in wisdom, and who journeyed to Bethlehem. They came worshiping but did not know that the gift requested of them in the future by the Christ would not be worldly treasures but a broken heart and a contrite spirit. Volume 54 830 November 1967 Number 11 = Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Eltiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner {rene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia!. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola }. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous As the birthday season of the Christ Child approaches, there seems to be a spirit of good will which laves the atmosphere of the Christmas world. The very air seems to breathe the promise of the angels 'and on earth peace, good will toward men,' in spite of wars and troublous times. This is felt by all who open their minds and hearts to the significance of Christmas. A mother wishes to be able to give to her children those material gifts which they desire, but far beyond that she wishes for them the gifts of the spirit which will enrich their lives eternally. In the month before Christmas, before the rush begins, a mother may sit down with pencil and paper, if desired, and list gifts she would bestow as she: evaluates where she stands in their giving. They will not be gifts for which the children clamor, in all probability, in fact, they will not realize their need for these gifts, but from the knowledge of each child which a mother possesses, she will select varying priceless gifts to bestow upon them. To one she may need to show more patient conduct, to another a sterner attitude for accomplishing work, to a third more understanding and tolerance, to a fourth more attention to childish confidences. The list may be long and it will require close attention as the year passes to meet the differing needs in each child's development. The greatest creativity is needed by a mother in thus analyzing and motivating herself. These are gifts which a mother bestows on her children through her own self-discipline. Another outpouring of gifts which she gives them is the tender training to enable them to improve themselves, to overcome their weaknesses—to see that Mary treats her sister Jane better, that Jim realizes the importance of telling the truth, that Helen keeps her room clean. A mother in relating her Christmas memories of childhood in the long ago reminisced: As | watch the tiny sparks [of an old Franklin stove] fly upward, | realize my childish love and eager desire for gifts have vanished with the sparks. But there remains with me the memory of the walks when | grudgingly took my basket and trudged through the deep snow to those humble cottages where lived those forgotten souls who were the last links in their family circles. | hear again their "God bless you, my dear, for the happiness you have brought to us this day.'' 1 feel to say, ''God bless those who implanted in my heart this true spirit of Christmas."' So one who is a child today, may, in his mature years, likewise evaluate the gifts of grace bestowed on him by his mother in implanting in him the true spirit of Christmas, and find as a result he has completed his own journey to Bethlehem and can present his gift to the Savior of a broken heart and a contrite spirit. —M. C. S. 831 There's More to Christmas «Sarah surveyed the stack of gaily wrapped Christmas gifts lying on the davenport beside her. Why, she thought, do we mortals go to so much expense when it puts such a strain on the budget? Wouldn't it be better to exchange simple gifts, and then dwell more on the true meaning of Christmas? She sighed. The family wouldn't agree with her — probably, not even the adults, let alone the children. She was simply exhausted from the days and days spent in shopping for just the right gift for Aunt Sue, and her sister Jane, who had everything already. Her two children Davey and Debbie gave her particular instructions as to the type of gift she should buy them, without regard to cost. She could go on and on. 832 Helen H. Trutton Then there had been the task of housecleaning, the polishing of the tarnished silver, and the baking of goodies for the feast tomorrow. Dale's sister, Camille, had thought it best for Sarah to have the family gathering at her place this year, even though it wasn't Sarah's turn. She wasn't sure they were right. After Dale's death last June, she had soon learned that she could be lonely in a crowded room, or on a busy street. But one thing they were right about, she had been kept busy the past few weeks. Sarah stood up. They still had to go to the mountains to get a Christmas tree. When Dale was living, going to the beautiful forest of whispering pines was fun, especially for the children. The two of them would run through the white sparkling snow, squealing with joy at the beauty about them, picking first a lush green tree, only to find that just beyond was an even more magnificient one. Finally, she or Dale would settle on a tree, or the quest would go on without end. Sarah dreaded the trip today, but she must not disappoint the children —the outing had become traditional with them. The kitchen door swung open, and Davey stood grinning at her. "Say, Mom," he said. "'Shouldn't we be on our way to the mountains? We have to be at Aunt Camille's place at seven for the Christmas party, and opening presents and stuff." "The tree should be all up and decorated," she said. "I've simply been too busy. Maybe since we're so late in going to the mountains...." Davey interrupted her. "Oh, Mom, let's go and get our tree like always. Can't we?" She sat back down on the davenport. ""We may not be able to manage alone—without your father." He came over to her side, and draped his arm around her shoulders. "I'm twelve, Mom. I can cut down a tree real easy. See my muscles," he said, exposing his arm. "Of course you can," she smiled back at him. "All right, but bundle up, and tell your sister to get ready." "Thanks," he called at the hall entrance. "Be back in a minute." She moved from the davenport to the closet, and took her heaviest coat from the rack. It would be cold in the hills. The first snows had already come to the high peaks. In fact, from the window she could see the entire mountains were blanketed in white, breathtaking beauty. "Ts something wrong, Mother?" Debbie suddenly appeared beside her. "No, dear," she answered. "I was just admiring the winter wonderland." "Just think, we'll be up there in about an hour," Debbie said, looking up at the mountains. "We'll find the most beautiful Christmas tree in the whole forest." "With my help," Davey said, walking into the room. 'Cutting down a tree is a man's job." "Supposing we all count on helping," Sarah cut in. "Here, let me check you both." She moved back as Davey and Debbie stood ready for inspection as they had done in years past. "I've got my red boots on, heavy pants, and my warm mackinaw jacket,"' Davey recited rapidly, 'and my stocking cap. How's that, Mom?" "You pass." "And look at me,'' Debbie said. Sarah slipped her arms around the two of them. "I think we are prepared for the North Pole," she laughed. "Shall we go?" There was no traffic on the road. Either everyone had already made the trek to the woods in search of just the right tree, or they had purchased one at the many spots in town where they were being offered for sale. As they came near to the foothills, the murky sky began to spit snowflakes spasmodically. She had nothing to worry about, the cabin where they always stopped 833 November 1967 was located on a good road. She would insist that they stay near the cabin—there were plenty of choice trees close by. Davey finally broke into her thoughts. "See that big tree up on the hill,'"' he pointed off across country. "That's the one I'm going to chop down." "May we, Mother?" asked. "No, it's too large for our house, and this year, we'll find one near the cabin where we park every year." "Aw, Mom." Davey pulled a face. "Mom's right," Debbie agreed. "We haven't much time if we get to Aunt Camille's on time." "Yeah, I know," he said. "We can't be late, no matter what. I can hardly wait to open my presents.". "Is that more important than hunting for the very right tree?" Debbie asked. "Sure," he answered. "Look," Sarah said, motioning to an old farmhouse not far from the road. "Someone still lives there. See the smoke spiraling up from the chimney. Your father used to say we would stop by sometime—it seems so_ lonely there." "But not today," Davey added quickly. ""We'd be late." '"'And maybe the people aren't even friendly,' Debbie said. "'We should sometime, when we aren't in such a hurry." Sarah said. She couldn't help envying the family, or whoever lived in the old unpainted house, their exquisite surroundings. Red and golden bushes, painted by Jack Frost, were nodding gently as fresh-fallDebbie 834 en snowdrops bowed them toward the earth all along the road, and billows and billows of snowbanks stretched off into the distance. It was a beautiful sight! Some few miles farther, and the cabin came into sight. She had barely stopped the car before Davey and Debbie were out of the vehicle, axe in hand, laughing and talking, and running around like two wild Indians. "Oh, Mother," Debbie exclaimed. "It's hard to choose the best one. They're all so perfect." "Girls,'"' Davey chided. "They don't know a good tree when they see one." Sarah watched them stop to examine each tree, then hurry on to the next one, shouting in excited tones, words she could not quite make out because the wind hid their voices. "Remember, don't get out of sight of the cabin," she yelled. Debbie waved back. ""We won't, Mother." She looked about her. She loved the solitude of the hills. Somehow the hustle and bustle of her busy life, and the exhaustion she had felt earlier in the day slid into oblivion; she felt close to God. "Mom," Davey's strong voice reached her. "We found a real beauty." "Oh, Mom," Debbie's voice echoed his. "It's just perfect." When she reached them, Davey yanked off his mackinaw and held it out to her to hold. "Take the coat, Mom, J'll have this cut in a jiffy," he said. With the Christmas tree soon cut, she helped the youngsters load and tie it in the back of the vehicle. Then the three of them piled into the front seat of the car, and she turned on the ignition key and stepped on the starter. Nothing happened, so Sarah tried again. "We're out of gas," groaned. "No," she answered. "We had a full tank when we left home." "What then?" Debbie asked. "It's the battery—it's dead I'm afraid." "Wow, Mom!" Davey leaned across his sister. ""What are we going to do? We can't be late at Aunt Camille's." "Fix it," Debbie said confidently. "Silly," Davey answered her. "You don't just fix a battery— way up here in the mountains." "What do you do with them?" "You get them recharged, or a new one. What will we do, Mom?" "I know," Debbie said. 'We can spend Christmas Eve right here in the old cabin." She started to open the door of the car. "It would be fun." Davey "And miss Aunt Camille's party? I should say not." Sarah shuddered. "Well, we can't stay in the cabin. It hasn't been used for years." "Davey's right, we have to get to Aunt Camille's. It wouldn't be Christmas without getting lots of presents." "Children," Sarah said slowly, "vou know that old house back down the road?" "Tt's too far," Debbie grumbled. "Are you sure it's the battery, Mom?" Davey asked. "Yes, come on; we might as well start walking." Sarah glanced up often at the jagged white-capped peaks towering above them like monstrous giants as they trudged down the deserted road. The hills were still beautiful, mighty—and frightening. Supposing a blizzard struck suddenly, storms did come quickly in the mountains she knew. "How much farther?" Debbie whined. "My legs ache." "Hurry," Davey told her. "They won't wait for us at Auntie's." "I can't walk any farther," Debbie cried. "Are we about to that old house, Mother?" "T know," Sarah tried to sound enthusiastic. ""We can talk about the many things we are grateful for this Christmas season. There's more to Christmas than just presents." "Sure, Mom," Davey grumbled. "When you were little, you read every week to your blind aunt for her Christmas present, because you didn't have any money to buy her anything. But what have we got to be grateful for way out here? Supposing a bear comes out of the woods! What then?" 835 November 1967 "We'd miss Aunt Camille's Christmas Eve party forever. Oh, Mom—how much farther is it?" Debbie wailed. "Aunt Mabel really enjoyed that gift," Sarah said firmly. "We have so much—our comfortable home waiting for us. We have each other, and friends and relatives we love." Neither Davey nor Debbie answered as the three of them walked in single file as much as possible in the car tracks made earlier, with only the sound of crunching snow under their feet, and the cold whistling of the north wind in the pine trees. Dusk was creeping over the forest now; shadows appeared unexpectedly in their path. Several times Sarah had to hold her cold hands against her mouth to keep from screaming. Bears had been seen in the mountains —- maybe they weren't all in hibernation. Her legs were tired, and she was cold. "Are you all right?" she called frequently to Davey and Debbie. They barely spoke now—survival was utmost in their thoughts, she knew. And then she heard Debbie cry excitedly, '"There's the old house, Mom."; "Hurrah!"' Davey's cheer echoed in the cold stillness. "Now we can have them drive us to town and Aunt Camille's." A plain-looking woman answered the knock. At first she looked startled at seeing them standing on her porch. "You are almost frozen," she finally said, opening the door wide for them to enter. "Please come in." Sarah explained their predica- 836 ment as briefly as possible, then asked, "Do you have a telephone that I might call my brother-inlaw about our car?' The woman shook her head. "The lines are all down," she said. "But—but you can borrow our car if you will take my husband to the hospital. He's very ill." Sarah looked at the woman a moment. ''Why—yes," she said. "But don't you want to go with him? I could stay here if you'll take my two with you and leave them with their aunt." "T never learned to drive a car," she answered, ''and I couldn't ask so much, but please, please, take my husband to the hospital." Sarah looked at the woman's children. "Could we take them with us?" "Our little girl has a severe cold; I wouldn't dare expose her to the weather. My husband would never consent. But won't you...?" "Of course we'll take your husband," Sarah said kindly. The woman's face softened. "Thank you, thank you," she said over and over again. "I'll get him ready." And she hurriedly left the room. Sarah felt deep empathy for this woman whom she had never met before. If only there were a way that she could go with her husband to the hospital. They needed each other at a time like this. She thought about the day Dale became ill and was rushed to the hospital — if she couldn't have gone with him, been with him every possible moment? But what could she do? The woman couldn't drive a car, and she couldn't leave her children, so there was really nothing she could do. Nothing at all! A short time later the woman returned to the room with her husband leaning heavily on her." He stopped and smiled faintly at them. He was not wearing a coat. "Thank you," he said, "for your kindness. Take the car. Perhaps tomorrow I will be better." "No, no, you must go," his wife insisted. "Please." "But, dear," he said slowly, then stopped as if to regain his strength. "I can't leave...." At that moment, Davey moved unexpectedly to the man's side and said. ''Please, both of you go. T'll stay here." "So will I," Debbie added. "I'm thirteen and we'll take good care of them. Mom, tell them we can do it." For one brief instant, the woman's face brightened, then faded. "TY couldn't ruin your Christmas. But thank you." Sarah gasped. She hadn't even thought of that possibility. Even now she couldn't believe Davey and Debbie meant what they had just said. Miss the evening at Aunt Camille's? They wouldn't! Davey apparently saw the disbelief showing on Sarah's face, for he came quickly to her side and smiled self-consciously up at her. "Well, sure, Mom," he said seriously. "There's more to Christmas than presents." She couldn't speak, not right off, her heart was too full. She squeezed his hand tightly in hers as she fought desperately to hold back tears. Then, finally, she turned back to the woman, speaking in a barely audible voice. "I could drive you both to the hospital, and return here in a short time." The woman looked at her hopefully. "If you could just return until my sister can get here. Ill call her from town," she said. "She could be here in three hours." The man nodded. "Thank you for your kindness." Then to his wife he said, "Get my coat, dear." Sarah smiled proudly at Davey and Debbie as she put her arms around them. "Thank you, children,"' she whispered. "T'll hurry back." A DREAM COME TRUE Della Adams Leitner Sometimes among demanding tasks That fill our crowded days This dream floats in, a wistful A fleeting hour it stays— A dream of glad companionship With kindred souls that share Our deep-felt aims, our heart's desires— A longing that is prayer. Hope, And when—as if in answer—comes The dream fulfilled, we know A satisfaction so complete Our spirits are aglow; We are inspired, uplifted, thrilled To be with those who find Vast riches of the soul in thought The treasurers of the mind. 837 « Christmas was almost here! Joyfully I hopped behind the old yellow road grader as it slowly nudged soft, deep drifts. Great flakes had frosted our little Canadian town in marshmallow icing that glittered now in the sunlight like a tinseled fairyland. Just about as radiant as the wonderful tree at school today, I thought. Christmas trees were very dear to prairie people. Mama always said trees were hard to come by when you lived so far from the mountains. But never had I feasted my eyes on such a holiday sight. If only we had a tree like the one at school, but we 838 A Miracle at Christmas Louise Harmon would be lucky to get even a little one this year Daddy had said, and it seemed he was taking his time about getting it. I would have to remind Mama again when I got home. Home... And now Christmas at last... I flew over the last drifts and through our door into a kitchen warmly fragrant with gingerbread cookies. "Oh, Mama," I shouted, "'you should have seen that tree today! It touched the ceiling and there were hundreds of candles lighted and the teacher gave me some crayons at the party...." "And you're cold and wet," said Mama, "go change quickly and give me a hand with the cookies." "Are these to hang on our tree, Mama? Did Daddy get it today?" | Mama silently steered me into the bedroom. Later, as we finished the little fat cookie men, I reminded her again of our tree. _ "Well, sister, would you really mind this year if Daddy couldn't get one? Couldn't we have just as nice a time without one?" Not a tree! Why even the Coney's had theirs. Arguing did no good, so I decided to ask Daddy about it. When he came in that night he smiled and reassured me, saying, "We've never let you kiddies down yet, have we?" That was true, and enough to satisfy me, so I was content to wait. And besides, tonight we were putting up the homemade fireplace Daddy had built for our stockings. Such a thrill it was to see it resplendent in its firebrick paper and sparks almost ready to fly from its red tissue paper firebox. The time passed quickly, with all the cleaning to do, paper chains to hang, and decorations to make. Then Christmas Eve shadows began to gather us into the excitement of a hallowed night. Anxiously, our young eyes pried at the door until Daddy finally came home from work. But his big arms were empty... Not even a pine branch! Tears stung my eyes and disappointment overwhelmed me. It just couldn't be! Mama's playing "Jingle Bells" brought all my little brothers trooping into the living room for Home Evening. Slowly, I folA Miracle at Christmas lowed and longingly I looked at the empty corner. How could Daddy let us down? Didn't he know how much it mattered? Somehow the evening passed, the long brown stockings were hung, prayers softly said, and Mama tucked us into bed. Strains of "Silent Night" floated from the piano and flickering shadows from the red tapers lulled us. I sadly comforted myself thinking about Jesus and how he never had a tree. "Sleep in heavenly peace," sang Mama, and I did. Excited shouts from my little brothers suddenly awakened me. As I flew out of bed onto the cold, slick linoleum, I could hear them crying, "Oh, Weezie, come here quick! Look at our tree! We have a Christmas tree, and it's right on our table." I stood speechless with wonder and delight. There, indeed, stood a lovely tree, and presents were heaped under fragrant branches. Our Father had not let us down! Such joy and excitement as we gazed and marveled at the miracle. Little did we realize then that this miracle at Christmas was our father's own creation, fashioned with hands of love late on that Christmas Eve. One of the teachers, upon hearing of our indigent circumstances, had kindly offered him the branches trimmed from that tall tree at school. After drilling holes in a small pole, he had carefully fitted and nailed each branch into place, and a tree was born. That tree, when viewed through the eyes of love and faith, became the most beautiful, unforgettable tree in all this world to four small children on a prairie many years ago. 839 inside ando ay — € parents are the sa e not jus 9 share the sar hard to u'll know the at special s hat deed The sisters o To cherish, | But sister. Are sent fre Sisters are not al OSE NITES TES IER TRS IES TSS TES SOS ES SEATS SES SE REFRESHMENTS FOR THE HOLIDAY SEASON Zola McGhie Hot Cider 2 quarts cider 2 tsp. Whole cloves juice of 3 lemons 2 sticks cinnamon Simmer for 15 minutes, remove spices, and add: 4 cups unchilled gingerale 4 cups orange carbonated soda Serve hot and garnish with orange or lemon slices. Hot Spiced Cider (Old English) 1 gallon sweet cider 1 tbsp. Whole cloves 1144 pounds brown sugar 1 tbsp. Whole allspice 6 two-inch pieces cinnamon 14 tsp. Salt Mix in order given, and bring to the boiling point. Boil fifteen minutes and strain. Serve hot.. Punch for Twenty-Five Boil for 10 minutes: 1144 c. Water and 214 c. Sugar 2 c. Fruit syrup or fruit juice (preferReserve 14 c. Ably raspberry or Loganberry) 2 c. Orange juice 1 c. Maraschino cherries, with juice To the remainder add: 1 c. Lemon juice 2 c. White grape juice, pineapple juice, or crushed pineapple Stir. Let stand for 30 minutes or more. Drain and add ice water to make 2 gallons of liquid just before serving. Add reserved syrup if needed. Christmas Punch 1 quart pineapple juice 1 quart vanilla ice cream (well chilled) 1 quart lemon sherbet 1 quart gingerale grated nutmeg Place ice cream and sherbet in Jarge punch bowl. Add juice. When ice cream and sherbet begin to soften, beat until frothy. Pour in gingerale. Top with nutmeg. Makes four quarts. Christmas Wassail 84 c. Sugar 1 gallon cider 4 c. Water 5 or 6 tbsp. Candied ginger, chopped 2 tbsp. (about 25) whole cloves 4 quarts canned orange juice 25 cinnamon sticks 2 c. Lemon juice Combine sugar and water. Boil 10 minutes. Add spices and let mixture stand in warm place for 1 hour. Strain. Add orange juice, lemon juice, and cider. Bring to boil and serve. Yields 4 gallons. Serves 54 to 60. 841 @) & Simple Addition\toj a {School Wardrobe Shirley Thulin 0 a Make a school dress that is inexpensive and lots of fun. A beginning seamstress can even make it herself and feel the satisfaction of accomplishment, for this sewing project is simple, yet looks professional. You begin with a purchased ''poor-boy'' top—the kind many girls are wearing these days. They come in many pretty colors and launder very well. They make a good beginning for a new dress. Choose a plain color and then buy a piece of fabric in a print or plaid to match or contrast with the shirt. The amount of fabric to buy will vary according to the type of skirt you want to make. If you want to have pleats all around, you will need two yards of material. A straight skirt will require less. If the shirt fits snugly, you will need a long zipper, if it is loose and slips over the head, you will not have to use a zipper. This dress will be long-waisted, because the shirt fits down over the hips. To make: If you are going to use a zipper, it should be as long as the shirt is from the top of the neck to about an inch from the bottom hem. Cut the shirt down the back, straight at the center. Now make a 5% inch seam, using the longest machine stitch. Baste the closed zipper along the seam, centering the zipper. Now machine stitch along the baste stitches, and remove the seam (figure 2). If your skirt is going to be pleated, make sure the pleats are all even, by pinning them all in place before stitching to the skirt. Use a ruler to get them all the same depth (figure 1). Stitch the skirt to the shirt and hem. Now press the pleats. If the skirt is straight, just sew a length of material all around the shirt, leaving only a back seam. Have about a two-inch hem. Lf you would like a fashion note, place loops for a belt at each side, and one in the center back. 842 (figure 1) } | I l S GJ b— as MEASURE PLEATS WRONG SIDE (figure 2) NOVEMBER _ Alda L. Brown This is the waiting.... The bright leaf lost.... The gray span between scarlet and ermine.... This is the hunter's call. When footsteps stumble over frozen ground and when the first cold winds cut across the face. This is when deer and pheasant seek camouflage and wild geese turn a southward wing.... Now is the time to take a child down a country lane... To show him cat's-tails bursting into puff-balls; milkweeds opening their pods and spilling their silken tassels. To shell out gleaned wheat in the palm of one's hand and taste its earthy goodness. A time to gather a handful of rusted grape seeds and scatter them on the pathway; to chase a tumbleweed; to make baskets out of cockleburs and design their purple plumage. Now is the time to watch foxtail wave a last farewell, and glory in its golden, triumphant beauty. This is the last goodbye to summer.... The lonely hiatus. One day soon we will waken to a morning sparkling with white diamonds. We will light the fires of winter and the long-waiting candles of another Christmas. And we will turn once again to the warmth and welcome glow of our winter hearthside.... 843 November 1967 o 4 BLEAK AUTUMN Christie Lund Coles The tules are broken along the river, The milkweed pods are barren of seed; The water is a meandering sliver Through a border of rock and tumbleweed; The golden hills have faded to umber, The scene, in the distance, is stark, austere; Each bird seems wrapped in a songless slumber; There is a chilling silence far and near. The clouds are a host of black masts driven By relentless winds toward the somber night; Then, all of a sudden, the sky is riven And all the scars of earth are healed and white; Wonder replaces bleakness and sorrow, Crystalline beauty awaits us tomorrow. Grandmother Said Evelyn Fijeldsted Growing old is living with the calm assurance and anticipation of things yet to come. It is knowing that the hardships and sorrows of yesterday are in the past. It is the time of the after-years, when the sunlight never seemed so gently warm, the moon becomes a light from heaven, and a flower garden could be a white freesia blooming in the window. It is a time of wistful thinking, remembering all the sweet little incidents that were so wonderful and made life so worthwhile, and also wishing that some things could have been different, too. It is drifting in a realm of peace. The storms have largely come and gone, and life's drama is, for a little while, forgotten. It is a time of solid conviction that wrongs will be made right—sometime. It is finding a great love—a love that young people realize only by living through the years. Growing old should bring greater insight and understanding; a page has been turned and a new page is being learned. It is believing in God simply because he is there, and having faith in him is as natural as breathing, even though faith is sometimes a mystery to reason. It is a time when things that once seemed so important have almost lost their reality. It is the after-years that bring the inexpressible joy of work almost finished—a story that cannot be told. It is following a course toward a terminal where the homefolks are waiting with a glad welcome and where there will be a great reunion. 844 A MULTI-TALENTED WORKER Ida Noble, Denver Fifth Ward, Denver South Stake, Colorado, has done handiwork for many years. While knitting and quilting are her specialties, she is very adept at making pillows, crochet work, and aprons with outstanding appliqué features. Sister Noble has donated much of her time and talent toward making Relief Society bazaars a success. Among the accomplishments of which she is most proud, are the several dresses she has knitted. Sister Noble is seventy-nine years old and has enjoyed visiting teaching for more than twenty-five years. For the past five years she has served as homemaking leader in her ward. 845 Gauntlet Janet W. Breeze Chapter 3 SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, a dance instructor and mother of two children, is just opening a dance studio in her remodeled home, when her husband, Grant, tells her that he wants to accept a teaching assignment on the island of Saipan. Reluctantly, Nancy accepts her husband's decision and makes plans for the journey. An official letter arrives, changing the assignment to the island of Truk. ¢ Riding in the Trust Territory's DC-4 through cotton-puff clouds reminded Nancy of riding on a horse. If you went up and down when it did, you had it made. And if you didn't? Well—it couldn't last forever. "Nan?" Grant leaned across the aisle and whispered to her. "You feel all right?" "Do I have to answer that?" "No. It's a little different from the jetliners, isn't it?" "T felt all right until I saw that little red fire engine swing out to follow us down the runway, at the airport in Guam." "Routine." "Grant?" "H'm?" "Do you think it will be that hot in Truk? I mean, like Guam? When we first stepped off the plane, I couldn't even breathe. What will we do if it's that way in Truk?" 846 "T'm sure it won't be. Besides, any time you step from air conditioning into the heat, it sort of smothers you at first." Nancy stroked Amy's head and looked across the aisle to where Grant was holding Skipper. "We're lucky they have slept so well," she said. Grant nodded in agreement. Then a quizzical frown on his face led Nancy to look across the aisle at the seat back of him. He mouthed the words, trying not to let anyone hear what he said. Nancy giggled and held her hand up to the side of her mouth. "Live chickens," she whispered. "Routine." As the vintage engines roared above the painted blue of the Pacific, Nancy closed her eyes— sometimes dozing, sometimes thinking ahead. She wanted to feel that what they were doing was a step forward. But somehow she couldn't escape the feeling that they had just given up everything to go thirty years into the past. It wasn't riding on a well-worn plane with live chickens that made her feel this way. The idea had possessed her even when they Throw Down the Gauntlet had said goodbye to their family and friends at home. They had all been there—everyone who meant so_much to her. She had wanted ~ to smile and say goodbye with great confidence. But when the time came to walk through the concourse gate out onto the field, she hadn't been able to look back. She couldn't let them see her cry. She couldn't let them see how unsure she still was of the whole idea. Now a friendly Micronesian dressed in dark trousers and spotless white shirt stepped through the door at the front of the aisle. "Please to fasten your safety belts,' he said. "We landing soon." Soon it will all be over, Nancy thought. In another hour we'll stop existing in transit and start living again! And I will make the most of it. I will! Then, for the first time, as the plane banked sharply to the left, Nancy saw the distinct contrast of blue and green water. "Grant—how come the water is a different color?" "That's the lagoon." "Tt still looks like ocean to me. I always thought lagoons were sleepy little lakes." "Only in the movies. Look! Where the water does change color you can see the white surf banging against the reef table." "Grant! There's another one! On the landing strip!" "Another what?" "Toy fire engine. Don't they trust this thing at all?" Grant laughed. "Close your eyes, honey. You won't feel a thing." As the four of them stepped from the plane, a young "State- 847 November 1967 side" woman in a pink cotton dress appeared from nowhere and threw a lei of white Plumiera around Nancy's neck. "Hello," she shouted. I'm Susan Leonard—NMiss." Then she lassoed Grant with red Hibiscus. "Boy, are we glad you're here! Almost thought I was going to get stuck with teaching botany myself!" Grant laughed and shook her hand. "Go through that little gate over there and show your shot cards and I'll be getting your luggage!" She disappeared into a quiet lagoon of strange, inquisitive faces. "Do I look as conspicuous as I feel?" Grant whispered to Nancy. "Why should you? You're only head and shoulders taller than anyone else around." Nancy grinned. "And with that red necklace—well...." "Show the man your shot card." Susan rushed up again in a flurry. '"They're putting your bags in my car. Over this way!" She grabbed Amy and Skipper by the hands and they scrambled after her. Nancy and Grant followed their chauffeur obediently, and listened attentively to an endless trail of chatter that left the impression that Susan was starving for someone to talk to. "First time I ever went back to Guam after being here," she said, "it about scared me to death! All the cars, and people, I mean. I really prefer trees, myself. Now you take the flame trees—Poinciana. Most beautiful thing in all nature. See there? See the blossoms? Looks like the whole tree's on fire, doesn't it? Breathtaking!"' 848 It was but a brief ride before they emerged from their paved tunnel of greenery into a small clearing. "There she _ is!" claimed. "'Home!"' Nancy looked about her and hesitated, afraid to ask. "Yours —or ours?" "Yours! And believe me! It's the nicest quonset on the island!" Come on inside! I'll show you!" Nancy stepped cautiously from the car as she saw an old black bull eyeing her from behind a coconut palm. "Grant?" she said so Susan wouldn't hear. "I thought the houses were supposed to be concrete—and new?" "That was on Saipan," he said. '""Remember?" Amy and Skipper raced each other through the ankle-deep grass and into the corrugated steel dwelling which was to be their home. "Mama!" - Skipper "Come see! Bugs!" Nancy stepped through the door of the kitchen and followed her excited son. "Wookie!" "Ants! Grant, look! A whole parade! Ten feet long!" "Oh, you'll get used to them," Susan said, "and the _ cockroaches." Nancy was horrified. "Big cockroaches?" "You'll find saddles for them under the sink in the kitchen." Grant enjoyed Susan's humor, but Nancy's expression remained serious. "Come in here," Susan continued. "T'll show you the hot closets. See? Some of them have hot rods. Some have light globes. Susan exyelled, But they all do the same thing— keep the closets dry. Anything you don't want mildew on, just put it in there. The one in the kitchen is very good for keeping the salt and sugar dry and the crackers from getting soggy!" Amy and Skipper excitedly ran up and down the long hallway, exploring. "Sort of like living on a train," Nancy said, looking around, "all the little square windows. And the long narrow hall." "Which reminds me, the wind always blows from that direction." Susan pointed. "'So be sure to close the shutters whenever you leave home. Even though it doesn't look like rain, there may be a downpour any minute." Nancy seemed to panic at the thought of being closed up. "If you shut them it would be dark in here!"' "So turn the light on—or get wet. Take your choice! And while I'm at it, I might add, that you'll know if there's ever a typhoon due. The wind comes from the opposite direction. But don't worry about it. We have ample warnings. Actually, if there's a storm, you can't be in a better place than a quonset. No flying glass. And the whole building is cabled to the ground. You're really perfectly safe...." As the word safe fell from her lips, a piercing scream resonated up the hall. "Amy!" Nancy dropped her purse and ran toward the sound. "Amy! Where are you?" Skipper pointed to the bedroom closet. "In there." "Grant! The doors are warped! They won't slide! I can't get her out!" Amy's screaming grew more and more intense as Grant struggled to get the doors open. Then, as they gave way, Nancy pushed past Grant and grabbed Amy off the closet floor. "Oh, baby. It's all right, Amy. Mommie's got you." Susan pointed to a_ scarlet streak across the calf of Amy's leg. '"She's burned it on the hot rod. Better put her in some cold water. I'll fix an ice pack, and then we can take her to the hospital." "Oh, it doesn't look that bad," Grant said. "Let me tell you. In this climate, if you only scratch the top off a mosquito bite, you get something on it. If you don't—you'll have a spot the size of a quarter in twenty-four hours. We grow the healthiest bacteria in the world!" As Nancy stepped from Susan's car onto the crushed coral parking lot of the little hospital, she grabbed at Grant's arm to steady herself. "High heels aren't very practical around here," Susan said. 849 November 1967 "And once you take those nylons off, I can quarantee you'll never put them on again until you get Stateside." "They do feel a bit woolly and drippy."" Nancy laughed, as she tried to dry her stockings with a handkerchief. The air in the hospital waiting room hung heavy and antiseptic as one squeaky fan made a dedicated effort to move from side to side. For a moment, Nancy had the feeling that she was in the depot of a very small town, for the only available seats were row upon row of hard, wooden benches. Grant sat down with Amy on his lap and stretched her legs out over Nancy's knees. Across the aisle, an old Trukese woman grinned broadly at them, her teeth decayed from years of chewing betel nut. A small child at her side had legs covered with what must have been the scars of unattended mosquito bites. As Nancy continued looking at the child's riddled, brown legs and back again at Amy's, all of the day's events seemed to rush back and press tightly around her. As she labored to think clearly, the warm, moist air became more and more impossible to breathe, and her head fell backwards into darkness. As the blackness edged its way forward into gray, Nancy heard Grant's voice and felt him shaking her. "This is the doctor," Grant said, as her eyes focused on a second figure.: "What's he doing here?" she mumbled. The small, dark figure stood at the side of the examining table where Nancy lay. 850 "You been sleep, Missus." '"Where's Amy?" "She's fine, Nancy,' Grant said. "Susan took her and Skip for a walk. Her leg feels all right." "Your husband tell me it long time you see your doctor." "Well, we got so busy there at the last minute with getting ready to come, and...." "You have two baby, Missus?"' "Yes," Nancy smiled. "I have two babies. Amy and Skipper." "No, Missus. You going have two baby. You go back to Guam. Wait. Navy doctors take good care of you in big American hospital." "You must be mistaken!" She sat upright and tried to get off the table, but Grant gently settled her back down. "No, Nancy," he said. "I was so frightened when you fainted, I told him about the baby. He heard two distinct heartbeats. He's sure it's twins." "But why does he say I have to go to Guam?" "He says they have only one incubator here, Nancy. If the babies are small, it just wouldn't be safe. You'll have to go while you can still travel." "But how can you just up and leave a job you haven't even started? School starts in three days." "T can't, honey. T'll have to find someone to look after Amy and Skipper. And you'll have to go alone, sometime before November—while you can still travel." "Alone!" The Trukese man in white patted Nancy's hand and smiled. "You go," he said. "American lady very brave." (To be continued) — vee! All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. FROM THE FIELD — Relief Society Activities a tee ay 'ae Et ® - * bd i Addis Ababa (Ethiopia, French Mission) Relief Society Activities Left to right: Janice Cox; Mona Madsen, President, Addis Ababa Branch Relief Society; Barbara Jacobsen; Val Wilcox; Clara Jean Bills; Dr. Dorothy Candland. Sister Vera P. Hart, former supervisor, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "This little branch in Ethiopia operates independently of the mission, but is an inspiration to us all. Relief Society in the Addis Ababa Branch was organized in 1964. The members are wives of university professors, and meet in one another's homes. They take turns giving lessons, and each is an inspiration to the others. "They have no problems with inactivity. In March they held a dinner to commemorate the birth of Relief Society, and recently the Singing Mothers presented two songs in sacrament meeting. Even with such a small group, the program was lovely and inspirational. "While they all look forward to their return to the States, they feel that the choice experiences the Church provided in Africa can never be duplicated." Leola C. Anderson is the new supervisor of the French Mission Relief Society. 851 November 1967 Wilford Stake (Utah) May Festival May 1, 1967 "Come on, Mom, and dance," Earleen Gregory and Marie Mosteller encourage Una Nelson (Mom) in a scene from "A Home for Heidi." "Oh, no, I'm too old," the mother dramatizes in the skit which portrays the ideal home. Elna H. Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our annual May festival was held in the morning and the evening. Luncheon was served to about: 550 sisters in the morning, with 375 youngsters being tended in the nursery. About 350 young people and their parents attended the evening program.. "A fashion show was presented by the mothers in the morning and in the evening by the MIA Laurels. The theme for the event was 'Make Your Home a Heaven on Earth.' Displays, hobbies, and demonstrations were most effective. Special demonstrations were: quilt making, table setting, chocolate dipping, gold leafing, afghans, whole wheat bread-making, decorations for all occasions, and old fashioned spinning on a spinning wheel. "Our program was an original skit, 'A Home for Heidi,' a musical which portrayed the story of Heidi being given a choice of which home she would like to live in here on earth before returning to her Heavenly Father. Music was furnished by the Singing Mothers and special groups." Richland Stake (Washington) Kennewick Second Ward Closing Social May 1967 Left, Betty Hunsaker, Homemaking Counselor; right, Melba Woodhouse, transportation chairman. Foreground, hand-tooled tray, pedigree charts, and history of Kennewick Second Ward Relief Society. President Evelyn N. Binns, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Kennewick Second Ward held one of the most original and delightful closing socials I have ever attended. The theme for the event was "Talent Fair,' and talent was plentiful in the original poetry, songs, writing, and displays presented. The most outstanding feature was the table decoration at the potluck dinner which followed the program. It consisted of flower arrangements made from vegetables and grapefruit peel. There were roses, narcissus, dogwood blossoms, and calla lilies, all made from grapefruit peel, white and yellow turnips, carrots, parsley, and honeydew melons. "Outstanding displays in all departments showed the work of many talented sisters. The use of a transportation committee which makes certain that each sister has a ride and someone to enjoy the day with, helped to make the social most. Outstanding." Emigration Stake Relief Society Closing Social May 22, 1967 Second row, left to right: Hazel Young, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Dora Richens, Second Counselor; LaVonne Van Orden, director, Singing Mothers chorus. Top row: Cast for presentation of "Our Fair Lady": Mary Nielson; Ann Matthews; Erna Ericksen; Betty Jo Armstrong; Barbara Stoker; Sheila Wendell; Donna Smart; Helen Goates; Gayle Matheson. Remaining sisters are members of Singing Mothers. Sister Young reports: "A most delightful and entertaining musical, "Our Fair Lady,' written by Mary L. Bradford, was sponsored by the stake board for the enjoyment of the Relief Society members and their husbands. Delicious refreshments of lime slush and homemade cookies were served." 852 November 1967 Winder Stake (Salt Lake City), Winder Third Ward Visiting Teachers Honored May 31, 1967 Back row, standing at extreme right: Charlottie B. Poulton, visiting teacher with longest service; third from right, Darlene Casad, Second Counselor; Alice T. Hinkle, President, Winder Third Ward Relief Society; Bernice O. Ursenbach, First Counselor; Thelma B. Jones, Secretary; ninth from right, Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society; thirteenth from right, Rehan S. Dunnigan, visiting teacher message leader. Standing at the back, Hugh W. Pinnock, Bishop, Winder Third Ward. Sister Free reports: "The visiting teachers of the Winder Third Ward were honored for achieving twelve consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching. The entire group was first taken on a tour of Temple Square with their bishop as guide. They were then honored with a luncheon. "During the past year, President Alice T. Hinkle has stressed quality teaching and going the second mile. Going the extra mile required making calls at times convenient to the working sisters. It resulted in a greater appreciation of the visiting teacher program and was instrumental in activating many sisters and creating greater interest in the Relief Society program as a whole." Toronto Stake (Canada) Singing Mothers Concert June 10, 1967 Standing directly behind pulpit: Marjorie Innis, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society; to her left, Valerie Skelton, organist; Mona McMahen, stake chorister; beginning with gentleman in dark suit, left to right: Ralph Murfin, lighting technician; Alex Rosevear, master of ceremonies; Kathleen Keyes narrator; Anna Doyle, Second Counselor. Sister Innis reports: "Our Singing Mothers presented the first concert ever held in our stake, and it was an outstanding success. Prior to the concert, more than 300 sisters and their husbands and friends enjoyed dinner and entertainment. "In honor of Canada's centennial, the tables were decorated with Canadian and centennial flags. After dinner, the musical 'Let All My Life Be Music' was presented by the Singing Mothers, who looked charming in black and white, each wearing a pink rose. The sisters were diligent and faithful in coming to practices, some traveling long distances. Eight of the brethren helped out in the special numbers which contributed in making this evening so wonderful." New Zealand South Mission, Combined North Island Districts Singing Mothers Present Concert, April 15, 1967 Mission officers seated from fifth left, on second row: Louise Warren, chorister; Patricia M. Dawson, President; Marjorie C. Kjar, Supervisor, New Zealand South Mission Relief Society; Morris A. Kjar, Mission President; Howard H. Hodgkinson, First Counselor; Sister Hodgkinson; Yvonne L. Meiklen, Secretary; Pare Duncan, board member; Olive Gawler, Homemaking Counselor; Florence B. Dykes, Magazine representative; standing at extreme right, Awhitea Hiha, Education Counselor. Sister Kjar reports: "Many sisters traveled hundreds of miles to participate in the activities of a convention at which four districts and eighteen branch Relief Societies were represented. The program concluded with a Singing Mothers Concert. Nine combined choruses were conducted by Louise Warren. Several individual choruses rendered music conducted by their own choristers. "Participation in the convention activities has helped to create a greater interest in all aspects of Relief Society work and has brought much joy and spiritual growth'to the sisters throughout the mission." 854 November 1967 Cumorah Mission (New York), Binghamton Branch Bazaar April 1966 Left to right: Charlene Holstrom, homemaking leader; Jane Hales, bazaar chairman; Ruth Childson; Nina Cook, Secretary; Margaret Whittemore, social relations leader. Mary S. Bankhead, Supervisor. Cumorah Mission Relief Society, reports: "The 1966 Binghamton Branch Relief Society bazaar was held at a local shopping plaza in conjunction with several other charitable organizations. We felt that it would be a marvelous opportunity to expose the women in our area to the Church and to the quality of workmanship of our Latter-day Saint women. We hope to begin a reputation which will insure the success of future bazaars." Brigham Young University (Provo, Utah), Fifth Stake Chorus May 6, 1967 Second row on left, Karla Kofoed, accompanist; back row on left, Patricia Burgener, chorister. Irva Pratt Andrus, Brigham Young University Fifth Stake Relief Society President, reports: '""The sisters in the BYU Fifth Stake have responded eagerly to the call of Relief Society and enjoy the opportunity that organizing the stake chorus gives them to develop their talents. We have held well attended weekly practices and presented programs in the wards of our stake, as well as in other stakes on the campus. Although many of these sisters are not mothers, and most of them are students, they have made singing a very special part of the religious life on the campus. San Mateo Stake (California) Short Story Contest Winners April 13, 1967 Left to right: Jennie L. Richard, third place winner; Maureen Glew, first place winner; Thelma R. Curtis, President, San Mateo Stake Relief Society, making the presentations; Theresa Jackson, second place winner. Sister Curtis reports: '""The annual short story and poetry contest sponsored by the San Mateo Stake Relief Society gains in momentum each year. Under the direction of Inez Suhlsen, Education Counselor, and Naomi Manwaring, spiritual living class leader, the stake has encouraged the sisters to pursue selfexpression through creative writing, as well as in music and art. "Winners in the poetry division were: Margaret E. Reynolds, first place; Theresa Jackson, second place; and Edna Wheeiwright, third place." Ammon Stake (Idaho) Trousseau Luncheon and Bazaar April 15, 1967 Standing near a section of the table display are Ammon Stake Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Luana H. Mecham, Education Counselor; Virginia L. Garner, President; Jacqueline K. Catmull, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Garner reports: 'Colorful spring decorations of pink and lavendar set the mood for a typically bridal affair. A lovely luncheon was served to 200 sisters and a special program was presented. The eight wards and stake board contributed items which might be found in a bridal trousseau: linen, bedding, etc. Which were sold to those attending. An outstanding table display depicting events in a bride's life was prepared by the wards. The tables included the engagement announcement, bridal shower, wedding breakfast, first dinner party, baby shower, child's birthday party, silver anniversary, and golden anniversary. Another feature of the bazaar was a baked foods display and sale." 856 November 1967 East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Relief Society Aids Red Cross Left to right: Joan R. Benson, President, Phoenix Fifth Ward Relief Society; Counselors Eleanor M. Seaver and Gail M. Kleinman. Sister Lois Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society reports: "When the Red Cross requested help in making denim 'ditty bags' which would be filled and sent to Viet Nam to our servicemen, the sisters of the East Phoenix Stake responded eagerly. "With patriotic effort, nearly 500 bags were finished and returned to the Red Cross within a two weeks deadline. This was a rewarding task, noted by the local newspapers. But more important, it brought many tender thoughts of our American boys who are willing once again to stand for America, her ideals, strength, and blessed freedoms we all enjoy." 858 Coy SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 85—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the INTRODUCTION As early as 1832, the Lord commanded his people to build a temple in Kirtland, Ohio. (D&C 88:119-120.) A committee was appointed to obtain funds for the construction of the temple. The Lord had told his people that a purpose of this building was that the disciples might go forth to prune the vineyard for the last time. (Ibid., 95:4) In the circular sent out by the committee, it was said that this house would be the place where the elders might call a solemn assembly, and treasure up words of wisdom that they might go to the gentiles for the last time. (DHC 1:349.) THE KIRTLAND TEMPLE On March 27, 1836, the day of the dedication of the Kirtland temple, the structure, consisting of two stories and an attic, was finished except for the second story. The first and second stories Lord to assist her in her own praying. Each had two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four different compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next one, capable of seating three persons each. One set of the pulpits was for the Melchizedek Priesthood while the one at the other end of the room was for the Aaronic Priesthood. By means of curtains or veils hanging from the ceiling, each room could be divided into four compartments or classes. The doctrine of baptism for the dead had not been revealed at this time, consequently, there was no baptismal font in the building. The building was, however, constructed to suit and accomodate the various quorums of the Priesthood and worship of the Church at that time. In the attic, five rooms were built for the holding of school and the use of different quorums of the Priesthood. DEDICATORY SERVICE The dedicatory service con- 859 The Kirtland (Ohio) Temple, dedicated March 27, 1836, consists of two stories and an attic. It still stands today, although it is not presently owned by the Church. In the first and second stories were two pulpits, one at each end, consisting of four compartments, one arising above and a little behind the next, each seating three persons. Sy oe RS 4 & F ' mr {A 04 Chas. LEAL IAF AE sisted of praying, congregational singing, preaching, testimony bearing, and the dedication of the building by the reading of the prayer given by revelation. Following the prayer the congregation was led in the Hosanna Shout. An important part of the service was the approval of the General Authorities under the law of common consent. It was upon this occasion that the Prophet Joseph Smith asked the people to sustain the Twelve Apostles as Prophets, Seers, and Revelators. (DHC I11:410-428.) Many spiritual manifestations were observed during the day. SECTION 109 Section 109 of the Doctrine and Covenants, the dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple, was received by revelation. (DHC II: 420.) Although this prayer was given for a special purpose, there are many elements in it which may assist members of the Church to understand the two following aspects of prayer: (1) prayer form; and (2) prayer content. It is understood that prayer should be appropriate to the occasion, and it should come from the heart. Particularly where members of the Church are called upon to offer public prayers in behalf of those assembled in meetings, there is suggested the need to use language which expresses the purpose of the prayer. In a study of this dedicatory prayer, one should not consider that all things for which a person should pray are mentioned, because of the special purpose of this prayer. One can learn, however, many important points about prayer which may be beneLesson Department ficial. This revelation is the model for the dedication of temples and other structures in the Church. PRAYER CONTENT Some members of the Church are concerned as to how they can keep their daily prayers from becoming formal and trite. If one prays for individual needs only, there is a reason for reviewing the many possibilities for which one might sincerely pray. Section 109 gives many of these points. Some of these elements are as follows: (1) purpose; (2) expression of gratitude; (3) remembrance of others; (4) protection and assistance; (5) forgiveness of sin; (6) the Church and the gospel. Class Discussion What is the proper prayer language? PURPOSE Frequently members of the Church who represent a group or congregation in giving the invocation, mention the purpose for which the meeting is being held. Sometimes reference is made to the faith and diligence of those present. In the dedicatory prayer one reads a review of the events in the building of the Kirtland Temple. The fulfillment of the commandment to build the temple is mentioned (D&C 109:1-4) and the tribulations experienced amid poverty, "that the Son of Man might have a place to manifest himself to his people"' (Ibid., 109: 5). President Sidney Rigdon gave a two and one-half hour address during the service, the purpose of which was to compare the privations and hardships of the people in building the temple with that 861 November 1967 of the saints during the time of the Savior. (Life of Heber C. Kimball, p. 90.) The Prophet also prayed, as we do, for success in a calling, that the solemn assembly commanded to be held, might be acceptable. (Ibid., 109:6-13.) REMEMBER THE MISSIONARIES Those members of the Church who have had members of their families serve as missionaries, or who themselves have been on missions for the Church, or who may have been converted through the labors of missionaries, have a strong feeling for the success of those who labor in the mission field. All members of the Church who have a sincere desire for the growth of the Church are anxious to have the Lord's power with his servants. Many verses in the dedicatory prayer are devoted to this subject. The desire of the Prophet was that nothing which would thwart the progress of the Church would be successful. That those who lied or published slanderous material against the saints might be confounded, was a part of that petition. (Ibid., 109:24-33.) Before the saints had established Kirtland, Ohio, as a gathering place, the Lord promised that when his servants were endowed there would be a gathering to the bosom of the Church. (Ibid., 38:38.) This endowment would be such that they would be taught from on high to perform missionary work. (Ibid., 43:16.) With the temple built, the great missionary program would be inaugurated. Apparently the endowment referred to in reference to the Kirt- 862 land Temple was an outpouring of the Holy Ghost. The Prophet prayed for this blessing for those who would go forth to preach the gospel. (Ibid., 109:22-23, 35, 42.) Class Discussion How important is it that you pray for the missionaries in your daily prayers? REMEMBER THE SUFFERING SAINTS The Prophet prayed that the actions of wicked men against the saints would cease, and that their persecutors might repent of their wicked ways. (D&C 109:45-53.) The persecution suffered by the saints of the Missouri period consisted of both physical and mental persecution. Although the saints today do not receive persecution from arms or the loss of homes and a lack of the necessities of life, still, in some mission fields, there is possible loss of employment and some forms of ostracism. Latter-day Saints throughout the world may well pray for their fellow members that persecution may cease, but that if tribulations come, they may be able to withstand them. REMEMBER THE HEADS OF GOVERNMENTS Latter-day Saints are known as a peace-loving people. They wait for the day when there will be a permanent peace with the coming of the Savior. (Ibid., 101:26.) They have been commanded, also, to renounce war and to seek peace through the turning of the hearts of the children to the fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. (Ibid., 98:16-17.) This admonition to preach the gospel that peace may be generated in the hearts of men, is consistent with the truth that surcease from war and calamity are not promised for this dispensation. (Ibid., 1:35; 97:22-23.) Latter-day Saints have the opportunity to pray for the day when the Savior will come that a new day will dawn upon the world. They also may pray for the rulers of nations, as did the Prophet Joseph Smith, that their hearts and the hearts of their subjects may be softened that they may accept the servants of the Lord who will preach to them the gospel of peace. (Ibid., 109:54-58.) REMEMBER THE LEADERS OF THE CHURCH We learned in last month's lesson that Latter-day Saints should sustain those who preside over them, by their prayers. (Jbid., 108:7.) In the following words, President George Albert Smith encouraged the saints to do this:... 1 hope that we will be found in the lines of our duty, praying for and sustaining our present leaders, blessing them by our kindness and our love, and presenting them before our Heavenly Father in our daily prayers, asking him that he will give them the richness of his love and blessing (Conference Report October 1934, p. 53). Not only did the Prophet Joseph Smith pray that the Lord would remember him, but also his family and relatives, together with the other leaders of the Church. (D&C 109:68-71.) REMEMBER THE POOR AND AFFLICTED A purpose of earth life is that man may experience pain, sorrow, and tribulation. (Jbid., 122:7-8.) Through these experiences a sympathetic understanding is develLesson Department oped toward others who suffer. The dedicatory prayer included the petition to remember the various families of the Church with their sick and afflicted, and also the poor and the meek of the earth. (Ibid., 109:72.) PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE Life is precious. We cling to life when sickness or accident threatens the taking of life. The prophecies are abundant that refer to the judgments of the last days, and we see that these predictions are coming to pass. It is our desire that we and our loved ones can withstand these calamities. (Ibid., 29:14-21; 43:22-26; 45:31-33.), In reference to these judgments, the Prophet indicated that the Lord's predictions would be fulfilled and that we should recognize that the Lord's will would be done. Recognizing that these conditions will prevail on the earth, he prayed that the saints might be delivered from that wickedness. (I bid., 109: 43-46.) FORGIVENESS OF SINS Forgiveness of sins comes through the atonement of Jesus Christ. Latter-day Saints should express to their Heavenly Father appreciation for the gift of repentance through Jesus Christ. (Ibid., 109:34.) THE CHURCH AND THE GOSPEL In the gospel plan there are many events predicted for the dispensation in which we live. Those mentioned in the dedicatory prayer are events for which Latter-day Saints might well pray for their speedy fulfillment. The Prophet 863 November 1967 prayed on behalf of the membership of the Church that the Lord would have mercy upon the various segments of scattered Israel. He called attention to the need for the Jews to return to their ancient homeland. (/bid., 109:61- 64.) The Lamanites about whom The Book of Mormon reveals a great destiny, are mentioned as subjects of salvation to be converted to the fulness of the gospel. (Ibid., 109:65-66.) Finally, the Prophet prayed that the rest of scattered Israel might be gathered into the Church from the nations of the earth. (Ibid., 109:67.) THY WILL BE DONE Man's understanding is limited. He is unable to see beyond his own vista except through the eye of prophecy. God's sight is an eternal one—from the beginning to the end. He knows all things, and he is all-powerful. Latter-day Saints have the privilege of learning the will of the Father and of understanding by the light of revelation, insofar as revelation allows. There are times in men's lives when they must accept through faith the unrevealed, and say, as the Prophet Joseph Smith prayed in this dedicatory prayer: '"Thy will be done, O Lord, and not ours" (D&C 109:44). Class Discussion Why do you believe that one should pray, ''not as I will, but as thou wilt'? (Matt. 26:39) IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints have been counseled from the beginning to 864 express their faith through individual prayer, through family - prayer, and, when asked, before the congregations of the saints. They have come 'to realize that without prayer they cannot receive: salvation. Children reared. In Latter-day Saint homes learn to pray. There are times when it seems that there is a need to express oneself beyond the usual requests for individual needs. The possibilities of expressing one's innermost feelings concerning the Church and the gospel are almost limitless. As one comes to understand the plan of salvation better, his desires for success of the kingdom are increased, and his appreciation for what the Lord has provided mankind through the gospel is greatly enlarged. The dedicatory prayer for the Kirtland Temple, given by revelation, is a source of inspiration for those who seek to enlarge their prayer possibilities. Out of this revelation, one may receive confirmation of matters about which he has prayed, and also learn of other opportunities which, apparently, the Lord would have us understand. Might it not be well seriously to consider further ex- -pressions of gratitude for the numerous privileges which are ours? One need not mention all possible prayer elements in a given prayer, but perhaps one or more new items may be spoken to be replaced by other thoughts in subsequent prayers, as the Spirit may direct. The Lord has said that he who obeys his ordinances and prays with a contrite spirit is accepted of him. (D&C 52:15.) Oe ee ee arr VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths to Live By Message 5—Take Time to Show Love Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: We must organize our lives so as to have time to show Long ago on the robber-infested road to Jericho, two churchmen did not stop to help: a man in need, but a despised Samaritan had compassion on him (Luke 10:33) and cared for him. Did the priest and the Levite justify themselves by some need to hurry? Was their business so pressing or important that they had no time to help? Were they fearful of being involved? It takes time to love, and Jesus stressed that we are to take the time. When this parable was discussed recently with a busy mother, she put her head in her hands and moaned, "Where shall I find the time?" The good Samaritan could not stay with the wounded man until he was well. He helped him to an inn and paid for his care. So, sometimes, we can pool our resources and get help we cannot or do not know how to give. If we do this, do we help once and then forget, letting someone else carry all the load, or do we, like the Samaritan return to check and see that all is going well? The needs of the world are of an unending, overwhelming, magnitude. What can one do? Joseph Smith advised the Relief Society, "Let your labors be mostly conlove to others. Fined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance" (DHC IV, p. 607). He knew that each of us has time to take good care of only a few. However, if everyone followed his advice, no man would be without help. The Good Samaritan thought through the problems and made the necessary arrangements. In our showing love, the same thoughtful planning is required. Do we set a time to determine what we will try to do? Then do we organize our time and do it? For example, everyone needs a sympathetic listener, one who loves and listens without being preoccupied or hurried. One mother, understanding this, sat at the table for a half hour after breakfast and dinner. Soon her family discovered that this was the time to talk to mother and receive her undivided attention. This mother did listen. To help us organize and have time to love we might try the following: (1) decide what is important; (2) sacrifice things of lesser value; (3) tackle one problem at a time; (4) be patient; (5) understand that it takes a long time to develop and train one's capacity to love; (6) expect mistakes and rebuffs as we learn to love; and, (7) give of oneself. November 1967 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 5—The Living Room—Your Design for Living Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February, 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To awaken us to the possibilities of using what we INTRODUCTION Sir Winston Churchill once said that "we shape our houses and then they shape our lives." It is not possible for us to escape the fact that the homes we live in are a reflection of ourselves—of our desires, our values, and our personalities. "Oh," you say, "this isn't true; if I had more money, this isn't the way I'd live or the kind of house I'd live in, at all." Many people have excused their inadequacies and have justified their inability to create a satisfactory way of life, by this kind of reasoning. Money is seldom the answer, however, to the question as to the kind of life we build for ourselves within our homes. Rather, the real answer lies in our ability to make the most of what we have and to face the truth about our limitations. In most parts of the world, the poorest of us today have far more to work with than did our grandparents, and most of them managed to make of their homes places of beauty, enriched with the joy of contentment. At 866 have to the greatest advantage. The same time, the richest of us need to know that the extravagant expenditure of money does not guarantee good taste or lasting satisfaction in our possessions. How can we make our living rooms reflect the kind of life which each of us wants to live? PLAN FOR THE FAMILY The living room should be planned and arranged to best serve its function as the living center of the home for the people who are to use it. The furniture should be placed for the convenience of living, to serve family interests, and in "conversational groupings" for gracious living and entertaining. A living room is not conducive to happy family living if it is not planned for every member of the family, regardless of how beautiful it may be. LIVE WITH COLORS THAT KEEP YOU HAPPY Color is the most important single factor to be considered in decorating your living room. With color, you can create beauty and add charm and personality to an otherwise drab and dreary setting. Scientists have proven that the colors we live with have a definite influence on our emotions and upon our nervous systems. Before the decorating, familiarize yourself with the various color harmonies and don't be afraid to use them. It is surprising what you can do with a paint brush to add beauty to your room. HOW SHOULD WE FURNISH THE LIVING ROOM? Successful furnishing of any room requires careful planning. This will include making a list of all the furnishings which are needed—furniture, floor coverings, draperies etc., their approximate cost, and the order of their importance to the overall plan. In most cases, a budget has to be considered. When the cost of the room furnishings exceeds' the available funds, the most important things should be considered first, and budget-stretching substitutes can be sought to fill the other needs. 1. By purchasing unfinished furniture with the finishing work done by yourself, you can add extra pieces to your room and obtain individual color effects which have considerable charm and personality. 2. With a little rejuvenating, there is many a chest, table, or chair that would be a worthy addition to your room. Bring down the relics from the attic; visit the secondhand stores, and bring hidden beauty to life at little cost. MAKE YOUR ACCESSORIES COUNT Accessories, sometimes called "tremendous trifles,'' are all those things which put the finishing Lesson Department touches to your room. They can not only add highlights of decorating interest, but they can serve utilitarian purposes as well. However, wise judgment must be exercised in their selection. Use your treasured heirlooms, your valued gifts, and your personal keepsakes as a part of your living room decor, but only if they meet » the following tests, otherwise, they will serve only to clutter the room, rather than to contribute to its harmony: Is it an object of beauty? Is it appropriate for your room? Does it enhance the color scheme? If utilitarian, does it successfully fulfill its function? BONE CONCLUSION In our homes, the living room, with its furnishings and the way of life within it, should be a reflection of our lives as we would wish them to be. Through wise planning, careful budgeting, and judicious use of the things which we have, and by developing our sense of good taste through study and observation, we can achieve this end. We can make our living rooms places of beauty where our families love to be. Questions for Discussion 1. How can we best express our own personalities in our living rooms? 2. Are we utilizing what we have to the best advantage? 3. Does my family really enjoy the living room, and is it conducive to the comfort and well-being of every member? Suggestion: An interesting demonstration could be given to correlate with the lesson, e. G., antiquing or refinishing furniture, gold leafing, or the making of slipcovers, and draperies. 867 November 1967 SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 5—Do | Live What | Say? Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that integrity is essential to all rewarding human relationships. INTRODUCTION The word "integrity" may mean many things to many people. What do you mean when you say, "I am impressed by Sister R.'s integrity" or when you say, "Brother B. Hasn't much money, but he is a man of unusual integrity" or "Mr. T. Has talent but, somehow, I always doubt his integrity''? This lesson will develop ideas associated with similar questions, commenting upon their relevancy to rewarding human relationships. (Class leaders should develop more fully those areas which have greater interest and application for their particular group.) Class Involvement In Webster's Unabridged Dictionary (1966) and the International Thesaurus, we find many words related in meaning to the character quality of integrity. Among them are the following: rectitude honor uprightness adherence to moral strength probity 868 steadfastness sincerity trustworthiness truth-speaking dependability truth-living Question 1. Which of the forelisted related _ words most nearly meet your definition of integrity? 2. Would a number of individuals whom you feel evidence integrity be characterized by one word, or phrase, or is integrity more comprehensive in your mind? Discuss very briefly. THE GOOD AND THE WISE Fortunately, many individuals live and have lived abundantly as to moral principle and constructive service. They are the good and the wise who, through righteous beliefs and by adherence to those beliefs, stand out in bold relief against a background of mediocrity. Some of these individuals seem to be inherently attuned to the infinite. They accept. Divine direction readily and spiritual values are, at all times, paramount to the temporal concerns of their lives. Of such are the prophets throughout the ages. There are other individuals honesty principle who, likewise, are as beacon lights and inspiring, since their lives are oriented toward the good and the constructive. They have been willing to make whatever personal sacrifices were necessary in order to keep faith with their convictions. Class Involvement Following is a nonchronological, limited list of individuals. Some of them are world known, some regionally known or known only to members of the Church. Relate these individuals and their lives to your definition of integrity. (To class leader: Select one or two of these for full class discussion. Enumerate all those listed as a mental review of familiar outstanding individuals, or list the names upon the chalkboard.). Abraham (Old Testament prophet who left his home in Ur of the Chaldees, to go into an unknown, foreign land, in obedience to a divine directive. He experienced famine and other trials, even to the testing of his faith when commanded by the Lord to offer his son Isaac in sacrifice.) Joseph Smith (Latter-day Prophet whose mortal life was filled with persecution and hardship as a result of his spiritual experiences. His life culminated in a martyr's death.) Martin Luther (German theologian and religious reformer (1483-1546) whose protest against certain practices and principles of Catholicism helped father the Reformation.) Joan of Arc (peasant maid of Orleans (1412-1431) who led the French army to victory in the early 15th century. She chose death at the stake rather than to recant her words or relinquish her beliefs.) Madame Curie (1867-1934) (Polish wife of the French physicist whose experimentation resulted in the isolation of radium. Of her effort she said that she would not cease to work for it as long as she lived.) Mahatma Gandhi (modern patriot leader (1864-1948) in India who gave his life for his belief in the Lesson Department principle of victory through nonviolence. ) George Washington (first President (1732-1799) of the United States, patriot soldier, dedicated to the principle of personal and national honor.) Simon Bolivar (a Venezuelan statesman and patriot (1783-1830), leader of revolt of South American colonies from Spanish rule.) Florence Nightingale (English nurse (1820-1910), reformer of hospital nursing. Her devotion to the wounded in the Crimean war won her the name "Lady with the lamp.'') Albert Schweitzer (recent FrancoGerman doctor missionary (1875- 1965), who spent his adult years serving the underprivileged natives of Africa.) Mary Fielding Smith (1801-1852) wife of Hyrum Smith who was martyred with the Prophet at Carthage jail, Illinois. She is representative of a Mormon mother who met hardship and persecution in Missouri and Nauvoo, and who made the trek across the plains to the West with courage and great faith.) (To class leader: Other persons may be discussed who have application to a particular country, in lieu of the individuals listed.) INTEGRITY VERSUS MATERIALISM The question, "How important are material possessions to one's life?" brings to mind the life and words of the American naturalistauthor, Henry David Thoreau. Integrity speaks out boldly in his writings, for Thoreau believed strongly in the integrity of mind and of the spirit. He felt that far too much emphasis is placed upon material things, turning luxuries into necessities. He said we should simplify our lives to make room and time for living. In his book Walden, Thoreau states that the only wealth is life, and the only luxury worth coveting, is the luxury of integrity. (The 869 November 1967 Relief Society Magazine, November 1962, p. 623.) A life situation which illustrates the virtue of integrity as compared to material possessions follows: LIFE EXAMPLE Visualize the life situation of Lehi, living in Jerusalem 600 years before the birth of Christ. Lehi is a humble, religious man, receptive to the promptings of the spirit and the warning words of the prophets. He, himself, has foretold the coming of the Messiah and preached repentance to the unrighteous citizens of Jerusalem. He has been commanded in a dream to take his family and journey into the wilderness, for an unknown destination. In the words of his son, Nephi, we read: And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, even in a dream, that he should take his family and depart into the wilderness. And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him. And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the wilderness (I Nephi 2:2-4). The scriptural record does not say whether or not Sariah parted readily with their precious possessions. To most women, an exchange of the comforts of home for the hardships of extended travel in the wilderness would be a sacrifice. The record does state, however, that upon the safe return of her sons from the house of Laban with the plates of brass, she rejoiced, saying: 870... Now I know of a surety that the Lord hath commanded my husband to flee into the wilderness; yea, and I also know of a surety that the Lord hath protected my sons, and delivered them out of the hands of Laban, and given them power whereby they could accomplish the things which the Lord hath commanded them. And after this manner of language did she speak (I Nephi 5:8). No silver, no gold, no precious things! Far more important than silver or gold or precious things, however arduously accumulated, is the integrity of a man or woman who, steadfast in purpose, puts first things first, who is willing to sacrifice the temporal and transient for that which is of everlasting value. Every Latter-day Saint woman should recognize this as truth. Class Involvement 1. How does this life experience relate to integrity, from a woman's point of view? 2. Do you think it would require more courage and sacrifice on the part of Sariah than the Latter-day Saint woman experienced in crossing the plains in 1847? Or than a convert to the Church may expertience today? INTEGRITY IN THE HOME Integrity is accepted as basic to a successful home environment. There is no place in the husband and wife relationship for intrigue or deception; no place in the child-to-child relationship for insincerity or misunderstanding, although the mother may need to be constantly vigilant in order to keep the dependability of one child from creating jealousy in another. The home is the place for honesty and sincerity, for they make for moral strength, regard- less of the financial standing of the family. Question What does it mean to have a friend upon whom you may count, whose commendation is sincere—not a maneuvering for a compliment or a favor? INTEGRITY IN THE CHURCH Every individual holding a position of leadership in the Church recognizes and appreciates the value of integrity in those who make up the membership. Question 1. How essential is it to the bishop to have confidence that delegated responsibility will be carried forth by individuals who are upright and steadfast in purpose? 2. How important is it to have Relief Society class leaders who are at all times dependable? How important is it to have visiting teachers who are likewise dependable? THE UPWARD ROAD The goal of perfection is not easily attained. The steadfast, wise-thinking, triumph-over-self road is a long one. It is beset with many obstacles. For some individuals the handicaps often seem unsurmountable, for others it is less difficult. But for all it is a road requiring patience and understanding on the part of all individuals and all relationships involved. These statements are an appropriate preface for the following words of William Shakespeare and for the questions that relate to that perfection of which integrity is an essential factor: If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been Churches and poor men's cottages princes' palaces (The Merchant of Venice, Act I, Scene IT). __ualis Lesson Department Class Involvement Discuss, keeping in mind this question: are we qualified to pass judgment on the progress another individmaking toward achieving integrity? 1. Is it possible for us to know all aspects of the problems another individual faces? 2. Can we know of another's capacity or limitations in meeting problems? 3. Can we actually know how much progress an individual is making toward her objective? 4. What is the difference between condoning a vice and tolerance of an individual? 5. Are we qualified to pass judgment on others? Relevant to these questions are the following lines: What can they know, who see me stumbling, fall, Of granite heights to which my step aspires? (From poem' Appraisal, by A. H. Christensen.) CONCLUSION Integrity is essential to purposeful living. It is the mainspring for the development of constant effort. One may live satisfactorily, even happily, without the luxuries of an expensive home, art objects, an ample bank account, and other material possessions. But poor indeed would be the life lacking the sincerity of loved ones, the truth-speaking of friends, and the personal satisfaction of endeavoring to keep faith with one's own beliefs. Discussion Use as many of the lesson questions as time will permit. All are relevant. FOR HOME-DOING Ask yourself, "Do I live what I believe and say?" Are you helping your children to see, and reminding yourself, that acquiring integrity of thought and action is worth all effort? 871 November 1967 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—"'Obedience, the Mother of Success" Dr. Bruce B. Clark "Obedience is the mother of success, the wife of safety." —Aeschylus (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume III: Intelligent Family Living, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Note to Class Leader: A consideration of the painting ''To Them of the Last Wagon" by Lynn Fausett, which appeared in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine, will be a part of this lesson. Objective: To emphasize that a woman should anchor her life in obedience to high principle through loyalty and trust. INTRODUCTION Obedience is one of. The great principles of human living for both life now and life hereafter. First and foremost, we should be obedient to our Father in heaven and to all of his commandments. To break these divine laws is to bring suffering in this life and thwart progress in the life hereafter. Second, we should be obedient to the laws of nature and the universe. To break these natural laws is to invite physical disaster. Third, we should be obedient to the laws of government. To break these laws of the people is to defy the happiness and security of society and violate the rights of others. Fourth, we should be obedient to the laws of marriage and the family, recognizing that we should place the needs and happiness of those we love 872 ahead of our own desires and comforts. To break these laws of the family is to cause unhappiness and threaten the very foundation of civilization. President David O. McKay once said:... Obedience is heaven's first. Law, and it is the law of the home. There can be no true happiness in the home without obedience — obedience obtained, not through physical force, but through the divine element of love (David O. McKay, Pathways to Happiness, Salt Lake City, Bookcraft, 1957, p. 118). The scriptures and history, as well as literature, are filled with incidents illustrating the principle of obedience, not only the positiveness of obedience itself, but also the problems of disobedience. As we review these, we see that, if it is important to be obedient when one is a follower or a child, it is even more important to be obedient when one is a leader or a parent. The follower needs to be obedient to those in authority over him, but the leader has the greater responsibility to be obe- - dient to divine guidance, noble principle, and the ideal of love. For the good leader, including the good mother or father, earns authority through the leadership of love rather than the leadership of fear—that is, through qualities of understanding, personal integrity, high courage, sensitivity to divine inspiration, and respect for every individual human personality. The section covered by this month's lesson contains six selections: first, three poems (by John Henry Newman, Edward Hart, and Clinton Larson) illustrating some of the ideals of obedience; second, another poem (by Tennyson), a short story (by James Joyce), and a drama (by Robert Bolt) exploring some problems of the wrong kinds of obedience or wrong ways of requiring obedience and (in the play) dramatizing the ideal of being obedient to the whisperings of inner conscience. "LEAD, KINDLY LIGHT' BY NEWMAN John Henry Newman (1801- 1890) was one of England's and the world's great religious, educational leaders of the nineteenth century. Among many other things, he wrote several short poems that have become worldbeloved hymns, sung in many churches. One of these is "Lead, Kindly Light," often called 'The Pillar of the Cloud." Although usually thought of as a hymn, "Lead, Kindly Light" is also an excellent, beautiful poem, Lesson Department rich in symbolism. Its central focus is obedience—sensitive, faithful obedience to spiritual guidance. Fortunately, the poem is short so that we can print it in full here: Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, Lead Thou me on! The night is dark, and I am far from home—Lead Thou me on! Keep Thou my feet; I do not ask to see The distant scene—one step enough for me. I was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou shouldest lead me on. T loved to choose and see my path; but now Lead Thou me on! I loved the garish day, and, spite of fears, Pride ruled my will; remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blest me, sure it still will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till the night is gone; And with the morn those angel faces smile Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile. Questions and Thoughts for Discussion - 1. What does the "Kindly Light" in line one symbolize? 2 What does Newman mean in line three when he says "The night is dark, and I am far from home''? 3. Note how in stanza two the poet reviews his past years, when his faith was weak, and when he lived in worldliness and pride, relying upon his worldly self rather than upon spiritual faith. 4. Note also how in stanza three, after overcoming the worldliness of stanza two, he relies on obedience to the spirit for both earthly and eternal guidance. What does "the morn" in the next-to-last line symbolize? And what is the implication of the last two words of the poem? TWO POEMS The next two selections in this month's lesson are poems by two 873 November 1967 gifted Latter-day Saint writers. The first of these, '""To Utah" by Edward L. Hart, is perhaps the best poem yet written on the westward movement of the Mormon pioneers and the colonization of Utah and adjacent areas. In artistry it is excellent, with a skilled control of those devices that combine to make exciting poetry—rhyme, alliteration, assonance, delayed rhythms, symbolism, varied metrical patterns, with just enough balance between simplicity and complexity to both communicate and challenge. (For those readers 'who do not have a copy of Volume 3 of Out of the Best Books, this poem was printed in full in the July 1964 issue of The Improvement Era. It also won special recognition by the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts in 1963 and has been set to choral music by Robert Cundick, Salt Lake Tabernacle organist.) Note how much is woven into the poem. In Section I we have mostly description of the scorching Utah valleys wanted by no one except the Mormons—a scorned people in a scorned land. In Section II Salt Lake City is laid out, the central dream of a new empire, both earthly and spiritual, both temporal and eternal. Section III recalls the varied ways in which the pioneers arrived, with tragedy and joy intermixed in their journeyings, and with a vibrant faith anchored in obedience both to God and to their earthly leaders. Then comes the anguish of Section IV as the saints are threatened with destruction by a federal government that does not understand their faith or their customs; rather than yield they will destroy all 874 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in' a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah 0 a> that they have built and start anew in some other land. But note their courage, their strength, their determination to be loyal to their convictions and their leaders at whatever cost. Finally, the crisis over, in Section V and VI the building of an inland empire continues—first the physical building, with Salt Lake City serving as the hub of a wheel of expansion from which the saints move outward in all directions along the spokes, obedient to the instructions of Brigham Young; then the spiritual building, symbolized in the erection out of granite of the great temple. The central theme is obedience—obedience to the Church leaders, obedience to conscience, and obedience to God. Although the poem, in six sections, is too long to appear in full here, we print one section (Sec- COOK ELECT RIC Pots and pans stay 'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Tour-ific! MEXICO Monthly HAWAII November 17 December 28 ROSE PARADE EUROPE June, 1968, $980 For all travel and ticketing arrangements AGARET ly, RNS TRAVEL INC. East 2ne Seuth Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 Lesson Department tion 3, The Gathering) to suggest its qualities and power: They came by thousands at a slow clip, All but those buried at Haun's Mill Or Florence or some place that the lip Of man had no name for yet to trip The tongue of the young, who wanted still To find home over the next hill Or lush pastures past each desert strip. They came over the mountains and around The Horn! In ships and wagons, or dragged Handcarts over stony and _ frozen ground, Often opened and shoveled in a mound Upon women and children or the man who lagged In his shafts only on the day he sagged In death on the crosspiece: Zion bound. The other selection consists of two excerpts from 'The Mantle of the Prophet," a verse play by Clinton F. Larson, who has written twenty other plays based mostly on Latter-day Saint history, Latter-day Saint theology, or other religious subject-matter. Although the excerpts are too long to print here, a few comments on them will undoubtedly be interesting. "The Mantle of the Prophet" dramatizes the anguish of the saints following the martyrdom of Joseph Smith and their eventual rallying behind the great leadership of Brigham Young, President of the Council of the Twelve. The two brief scenes printed in our text show, first the heartbroken resolution of the sorrowing Brigham Young to follow as best he can the leadership of the martyred Prophet and, second (later, lThe southern tip of South America (Cape Horn), around which some sailed instead of crossing the plains. 875 November 1967 during the Conference of the Church on 8 August 1844), the now strong, faith-filled determination of Brigham Young to lead the people westward. Both scenes are filled with the spirit of obedience, to follow the will of God and his earthly prophets. "DORA" BY TENNYSON The fourth selection in this month's lesson is a short story in poetry, "Dora" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809-1892). The poem is included for study partly because its straightforward story will appeal to many readers who are not attracted to more complicated poetry and partly because through it we can explore some significant aspects of obedience. Most of all it presents a father who tried to."command" obedience in his son and others—with disastrous consequences. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Analyze Farmer Allen's personality and character. 2. Discuss the reasons for William's rebelliousness. 3. What does the poem as a whole tell us about the wrong and right methods for parents to teach obedience to their children? "CLAY" BY JAMES JOYCE The fifth selection is a brilliant short story by the great Irish writer James Joyce (1882-1941). The story has many complexities and rich subtleties, both in artistry and in meaning; but above all it is the characterization of Maria, a lonely woman with a dull, drab life who pitiably yields to every pressure upon her as other people manipulate her as if she were a piece of plastic clay. Careful study 876 DISCOVER THE MAGIC tri-ehem Ms uid |. Sood a 2 GUARANTEES "then OR REFUND 19 ca New Nylon Tip. \ = Fountain Brush FREE e Instructions ¢ Demonstrations e Service On Old Tubes Catalogues Available ~ 185 W. Center - BOUNTIFUL, UTAH 295-6033 or 376-2912 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec. 26 - Jan.2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Proudly « Announce *A\RECORDS. Nt nictents Ean) of THE MAGNIFICENT MORMON SOUND Album of Sacred Songs In Stereo and Mono WITH DOT AND JIMMY VAUGHN Available At Your Record Stores Have you heard these SONGS FOR SINGING MOTHERS? TO A CHILD Solo—Alto or Sec. $.50 Trio—SSA 50 Record—33'4, RPM 1.50 SONG OF LOVE: Solo—Sop. Or Sec. 50 Duet—Sop. & Alto 50 CROSSING THE BAR Trio—SSA 50 THE BATTLE LINE OF HOME Trio—SSA 50 CLAIM THOU MY HEART Trio—SSA 50 | CRIED WHEN | SANG OF THE BABES IN THE WOOD Trio—SSA 50 A TREE STOOD TALL Trio—SSA 50 SPECIAL RATES FOR BULK ORDERS Dealers' Wholesale Orders Welcome Zee Ora Pate Stewart: pi 11282 Anabel Ave. ~ Garden Grove, California 92640 Lesson Department of this challenging story should give one of the most rewarding ventures in literature. _-We have included "Clay" in the section on obedience because it points out we should be sensitive to and obedient to the righteous desires of those we love. Obedience, however, does not mean that we should have no will, no inner strength, yielding to every pressure from without, twisted and shaped like a piece of mud or molding clay. Obedience does not mean loss of individuality, integrity, dignity, and self-direction. In being obedient to those we love, we should also be careful that their desires for us are not evil or petty; for if we have to choose between obedience to God and obedience to man, our choice is clear. "A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS" The last selection in this section on obedience is Robert Bolt's Academy-award-winning drama A Man for All Seasons. Because the play so profoundly and powerfully emphasizes obedience to principle, we include a brief discussion of it here. The play centers around the life of Sir Thomas More (1478- 1535)—statesman, scholar, humanist, and writer during the Renaissance. In public life he was one of the most esteemed leaders of his time, first as a member of Parliament, and ultimately as Lord Chancellor of England. Although More had been a friend of King Henry VIII, he refused to take an oath to the Act of Supremacy acknowledging the King to be the supreme authority of the English Church, a maneuver King Henry felt necessary in or- 877 November 1967 der to circumvent the Pope's refusal to permit him to divorce Queen Catherine and marry Anne Boleyn. More was a_ devout churchman and felt that he could not sign the Act of Supremacy, for which he was beheaded as a traitor in 1535. Thomas More is surrounded on all sides by a world of corruption, conspiracy, compromise, bribery, threats, intrigue, and conflicting allegiances. As one of the characters says, "Every man has his price."' But More has no price! Although a mild and mellow man, he will not violate principle at any cost. He will use every maneuver "within honor" to save himself and his family, but he will not betray his conscience no matter what the consequences. The key to all his actions is obedience to a ''clear conscience."' Even when the pressures are massive against him, he will not betray his obedience to principle and conscience. Others may live by the rule "Better a live rat than a dead lion," but not More. Although he has enjoyed the cultured life of a scholar-gentleman, not even imprisonment and the threat of torture will make him compromise his true principles. Friends, loved ones, everybody presses him to compromise, but he will not yield, not even to preserve an old friendship nor save his family from suffering. In their efforts to persuade him his family remind him that he 878 has always told them, ""God more regards the thoughts of the heart than the words of the mouth." Margaret pleads, "Then say the words of the oath, and in your heart think otherwise." But More answers, "What is an oath, then, but words that we say to God?" At the end of the play More is found guilty of high treason and beheaded. At any moment even to the very last he could have saved himself by merely saying a few words. But he dies knowing he has been true to his convictions. This is not only a great play but a play with a great message, as the following "questions for discussion" will help emphasize: Questions for Discussion 1. In planning our lives we need to be wisely obedient, not just blindly, foolishly, or selfishly obedient. In the world are many people who are obedient to the wrong masters and the wrong standards. That is why the moral courage of Sir Thomas More stands out so nobly throughout the play. 2. In our own lives must we sometimes choose between allegiances or the pressures of social groups or customs or even those we love in order to be obedient to the principles we know to be right? 8. Point out some traditions in your own cultural heritage that should be followed and others that should be resisted. 4. Thomas More disciplines his life totally through obedience to the whisperings of his conscience. How do we need to live in order to rely safely upon "conscience" as a guide? History of 1842-1966 A gift for every Latter-day Saint woman to be treasured in all seasons— Especially as a Christmas gift IS w g " g be R 5 w 6 Ss:; @The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — Gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main = Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 By tdlay Cory ws 108 Mrs. Hilda Anderson Erickson Grantsville, Utah 98 Mrs. Julia M. Sullivan Greene Salt Lake City, Utah 97 Mrs. Matilda Sandberg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada 96 Mrs. Sena Anderson Young Richfield, Utah 95 Mrs. Minna Mandlekow Kirkchoff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily Purdy Bagley Sacramento, California Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah 94 Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Florence McCune Lunt Los Angeles, California Mrs. Cervilla Winget Magleby Monroe, Utah Mrs. Sylvia Hogensen Boise, Idaho 93 Mrs. Evelyn S. Watters Koehler Menlo Park, California 92 Mrs. Edda M. Martin Santa Ana, California 880 Mrs. Martha Billings Sherwood Spafford, Arizona Mrs. Edith Stallings Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah 'Mrs. Annie Matilda Appleyard Rothe Lehi, Utah Mrs. Selma Hennings Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Semantha Cornelia Shurtleff Agren Ogden, Utah 91 Miss Linnie Telford Logan, Utah Mrs. Mae Hulse Monson Millville, Utah Mrs. Addie Thorne Nelson Roy, Utah Mrs. Jennett Mitchell Smith Eden, Utah 90 Mrs. Georgiana Hawkins Tremonton, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jane Davis Wales, Utah Mrs. Laura Wilson Ross Portland, Oregon Mrs. Adelaid Prestwich Larson Shaw Orem, Utah Mrs. Harriett Bird Axelson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Georgiana Cropper Johnson Aurora, Utah Mrs. Mary Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah BOOKS MAKE WONDERFUL "GIFTS MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF by President David O. McKay $4.9 5 Compiled by Clare Middlemiss, this newest volume of President McKay's teachings is full of encouragement and hope —a positive guide to a more fruitful life. Filled with insight and deep understanding, these precious thoughts have been gleaned from President McKay's writings and sermons. PASM. ACB > OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 The 1967/68 Relief Society Cultural Refinement Course uses this text. An indispensable aid in getting the maximum value out of the Cultural Refinement program. Order now! T Deseret Book | SS SALT LAKE CITY 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA J 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake = City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 SY OAAS Lm tEF Send me (] MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF (] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 3 Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 312% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. 10) | Gh GPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! SPOSSSHOHTHSSEHSCEHESEEEHSSHEHSHOCHSHESSHHHEHOTZES SSSESHSHSHSHSSSSHRESHSHSHOHSHESRSEOSHESEHEOSEHOED SOPSOHHSSSHSSHOSHSSHOKHSHHOHOHSSHSSHSHHHSHHSHSHHHSCHHEHHHHHHHEHTHHHHEHHHEHEHEHEHHEHHHHHHEHE 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Order from: Deseret Book Company, Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah likely to succeed...... Will have the help of Beneficial Life Insurance. Insurance can be a source of security and comfort to your family — but it can also be a means of improving the qualityof life for each family member. Beneficial Life has policies that provide immediate - estates for your family; policies that take care of your retirement in comfort; policies that create funds for missions and college educations; policies that safeguard the family home. The family most likely to succeed as a family will use the advice of their Beneficial Life Agent to create security and opportunity through insurance. Qe) 8=9BENEFICIAL LIFE Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine DECEMBER 1967 CHRISTMAS IS THE SAME Christie Lund Coles It does not matter if the day is white Or if the sunlight permeates the air; Or clouds hang low with rain; the delight Of Christmas is the same most everywhere. Wherever men are kind and children run Like candles flickering upon a tree, Their faces lifted toward the flake or sun, Their eyes filled with a child's sweet purity; Wherever home is safe and love is true, And the faith of centuries is couched in prayer, There Christmas will be good, its promise new, Revivified by his great love and care. What matters is that Christmas is the same Where people kneel together in his name. The Cover: Vierge a la Grappe by Pierre Mignard Transparency by Camera Clix Frontispiece: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes __ Illustrations: Mary Scopes 881 Son New nd So Thanks for the wonderful Magazine. It truly brings all the sisters in the world together in a common bond. Our branch here in Ames sends the Magazine to our local library each month, and when the library is finished with them, we pick them up every six months. This year we are putting them to extra use and circulation by leaving them at our hospital. Since | am the only registered Latter-day Saint nurse here, | am looking for all sorts of ways to introduce the gospel to my co-workers. More and more, as a result of the Magazine, | am asked questions about the gospel. June E. Booth Ames, lowa For years | have enjoyed the poems of Ethel Jacobson. In Magazines that publish poems—although it be but one— you'll never fail to find one signed by Ethel Jacobson! Vilate R. McAllister Salt Lake City, Utah After having received The Relief Society Magazine in my home for over twenty years, | am still charmed with the contents and appreciate the "little charmer." Marion Baron Duvall, Washington The Magazine is a delightfully new experience for me. Although | am only twenty-one, | am currently serving as secretary for the branch Relief Society, and am finding some lovely and wonderful things about the organization. | am loving every minute of it, especially here in Japan, where there are so few members. RaNae Lindsay Neff Menai Renkau, Japan 882 _ Thanks, again for the lovely Magazi | have enjoyed very much receiving The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Now | am sure of having a Magazine that educates so much and is guided by our Lord. | have been a member of the Church about twenty years, and these years have brought me knowledge and experience—every counsel and teaching comes from heaven through our living prophet. Ninfa B. Torres Houston, Texas Our Relief Societies are progressing. The lessons this year seem to have been written especially for us, as class participation is so good. The Magazines are 'wonderful, and we appreciate the work and planning which make them so. Airlie R. Eagle President Auckland (New Zealand) Stake Relief Society Many times | have gone to The Relief Society Magazine for comfort, and hav: found the thoughts of the sisters com forting and stimulating. Thanks for th guidance and inspiration contained i the Magazine and delivered in ou meetings. Cheryl Barne San Diego, Californi | enjoy the Magazine, and each mon look forward to its arrival. | think t stories express gospel truths in a m effective way. | made the comforter a crib bumper illustrated in the Novembe Magazine 1966 (by Shirley Thulin in the handy size. The Relief SOcIiCty Magazine volume 54 December 1967 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 884 A Testimony of the Work Hugh B. Brown 886 The Wonderful Work of Women WN. Eldon Tanner 896 = Elder Alvin R. Dyer Sustained as an Apostle 897 The Relief Society Annual General Conference—1967 Hulda P. Young 906 Christmas Seals—A Symbol of Yule Spirit 932 Cuna Indian Relief Society, Central American Mission Dorothy H. Brewerton Fiction 900 The Christmas Lamb Elaine M. Murray 908 The Reformation of Ellen Craig Lila Bennet Spencer 934 Throw Down the Gauntlet—Chapter 4 Janet W. Breeze General Features 882 From Near and Far 903. Editorial—The 137th Semi-annual General Conference 907 Women's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 960. =sCiBirthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out The Relief Society Christmas Tree 914; A Christmas Family Home Evening 915; Christmas Trees for the Children 916; A Do-it-yourself Christmas Tree 918; A Christmas Table 919; Christmas Decorations 912; Christmas Bazaar in East Long Beach Stake 921; A Christmas Cloth in Pink and Gold 923; Christmas Foods 925; A Carrousel Motif for a Bazaar 926; A House of Many Roofs 928; Hobby Feature—Quilts for all the Family 931. Poetry 881 Christmas Is the Same Christie Lund Coles London At Night, Anne Reynolds 885; To Keep the Yuletide, Iris W. Schow 895; My Quiet Need, Marjorie L. Hafen 903; Three Score and Ten, Linnie Fisher Robinson 903; My Day of Days is Now, Bertha A. Kleinman 906; Cinquain, Vesta N. Fairbairn 951. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 883 r A Testimony of the Work President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency > A Remarks at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967 884 = I hope you will believe me when I say I did not come to speak, neither intending nor hoping to speak. I left a meeting which has been in session since early morning and will continue until late evening and was made up entirely of men, and I wanted to have the pleasure of seeing some women. I wanted to see Sister Spafford and her Counselors and the General Board and all of you who are here assembled, and it has been most worthwhile. But I think that I should confess to you that a great drawing card to this afternoon's session is the fact that I would see many of my erstwhile friends and companions who have come down all the way from Canada to be here. I knew when I read that Sister Madsen would have contact with them and direct their efforts and their organization and their singing, that her magic touch would weld them into the best they are capable of, and I am sure, although I have not been able to hear them yet, I am sure they have given a good account of themselves. I welcome them personally and welcome all of you. My dear sisters, we are living in a time, as President Tanner has so beautifully indicated, when each of us is called upon to do his very best and to be his very best. It is a time when, it seems to me, the Adversary has marshalled his force in a final effort to overthrow and subvert the work of Jesus, the Christ. We are called upon to stem that tide, and the most basic and important unit of the Church, of society, and of the world is the home— the home over which you, as mothers and wives, preside in large measure. You are responsible for it and for what comes from it. I pray God's blessing upon you. May God bless all of us that we may rededicate ourselves to his work and show by our actions that we mean what we say when we testify to the divinity of Christ and to the resx A Testimony of the Work toration of the gospel. I leave you my personal testimony that I know beyond any shadow of a doubt that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and I have known that all my life. The longer I live, the more confirmed becomes my faith, and I would like to do what Sister Spafford advised all of us to do—to so order the balance of our lives that when the end shall come so far as this life is concerned, we may say with -the apostle, "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith." (1 Timothy 4:7.) God bless you, my dear sisters. I congratulate the General Board and the General Presidency of Relief Society, and pray for his peace and blessings to be with all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. LONDON AT NIGHT Anne Reynolds /£ Moored in the indigo sky; Lichfield Branch, Central British Mission London at night—a liner alight, London at night—a breathtaking sight, Huge and serene to the eye. London by day, busy and gay, Rising to meet flying clouds; London by day—early in May, Filled with adventuring crowds. London in rain—or sunshine again; Steering through fog to the sea; London in rain—grass-fringed Park Lane; At any time—London for me! 885 r ~ The Wonderful Work of Women President N. Eldon Tanner Of the First Presidency Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967 886 @ Sister Spafford, Priesthood representatives, officers and members of this great Relief Society organization: As I stand before this group of approximately ten thousand of the very choicest women in the world, who are representing all the women throughout the Church, I do so in all humility and with a keen feeling of the heavy responsibility of this assignment. I have enjoyed greatly being with you in this very inspiring session of your conference, and was touched by the humble and all-embracing opening prayer, by the beautiful singing of this lovely chorus, the inspiring talks of your President, her Counselors, and others. I do hope that you have found and will find this conference to be most profitable, and that the officers of this great organization will feel repaid for the preparation and effort that they have put forth for this most successful conference. I feel sure that you who have traveled many miles and left your families, will return feeling that you have been spiritually fed and instructed in your duties, inspired to be better mothers, better members of the Church, and better members of this great organization. I was pleased and thrilled indeed to see and hear the Singing Mothers from Canada who have sung so beautifully here today. They are honored to be representing Canada in its centennial year and in this famous Tabernacle in its centennial year. The first general conference of the Church was held in this Tabernacle in October of 1867, a hundred years ago, and all the prophets and all the General Authorities since then have spoken in this famous building, where our most popular Tabernacle Choir has sung for so many years to all the world. Most of these women have come from cities and towns in which I have lived, from schools where I have taught many of them or their parents, from the branch, ward, or stake over which I have presided, and from the Province where I lived and represented them as a member of the Government. I am happy, too, that two of my daughters participated with these Singing Mothers. You see, therefore, that I feel very close to these sisters. I know somewhat of the miles they have traveled and the hours and days they have spent practicing, and the sacrifices that their families have made. I am sure they have enjoyed it and feel that they have gained much and feel good in the service they have rendered. I wish to congratulate them and wish them well. I do hope that they and their families whom they have left have not sacrificed too much and hope and pray and feel that they are all better for it. I wish to congratulate Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen and express my personal appreciation to her for her great devotion, and for the tremendous contribution that she has made and is making all over the Church. I was in England and had the privilege of seeing the miracle she performed there in bringing women from all over the British Isles, as she did in Alberta, and made a chorus of Singing Mothers who gave concerts in some of The Wonderful Work of Women the finest halls in the great cities of England to audiences who were most enthusiastic in their praise. —It is a privilege and pleasure to bring you the greetings and blessings and a brief message from President David O. McKay, a prophet of God who is the mouthpiece of the Lord here upon the earth, under whose divine guidance he is directing this, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I know of no one who is more keenly interested in the welfare of the women of the Church, in the heavy responsibilities which are placed upon them as wives and mothers, as officers and teachers, and as humble servants 'of the Lord. I was thrilled with the way you sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," with the feeling of thankfulness and devotion which you expressed, and, as I listened to the first verse of this great song, which I should like to repeat to you, I wondered if you realized just what you were singing. We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet, To guide us in these latter days; We thank Thee for sending the Gospel To lighten our minds with its rays; We thank Thee for every blessing Bestowed by Thy bounteous hand; We feel it a pleasure to serve Thee, And love to obey Thy command. The message which our prophet has asked me to bring to you and to the Church as a whole, is one that I have had the honor of taking wherever I have gone. Many of you have heard me deliver it before. He has asked me to remind those people to remember who they are, and to act accordingly. Also, he has asked 887 December 1967 me to remind you that you each have an individual responsibility. What a wonderful opporunity it is to get a message from a prophet of God, and what a wonderful and meaningful message comes from that prophet! I cannot tell you what a great privilege and blessing it has been and is for me to be so closely associated with the prophet, to partake of his spirit, and to feel his tremendous influence. While speaking of the prophet, I wish to share a very sweet experience with you which is an example of the great love and devotion his lovely wife shows, and the strength she gives him through that love. Shortly after he had returned from the hospital, following a slight stroke, he related a little experience which I feel sure he would refer to as a "heart petal." He said that he had gone to bed early and about eleven o'clock he got up to go to the bathroom. He said that he had gone only two or three steps when there was his dear wife, Emma Ray, holding his hand. We all know that little, frail Emma Ray could not give any physical help to that big man, but as he told the story, tears came to his eyes, which were unmistakable evidence that her love and attention gave him great strength. These two are examples to all of an ideal husband and wife relationship, and, in fact, in every way. Now, as to his question of who we are. First, we are sons and daughters of God, actually his spirit children who are made in his image. Second, we are 888 privileged to be members of his Church and kingdom here upon the earth. Third, you are mémbers of this great Relief Society organization which was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith over a hundred years ago—the oldest women's organization in the world, and one that functions under the direction of the Priesthood. At the time the Relief Society was formed, Joseph the Prophet said: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct. In this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. (DHC, Volume IV, page 607.) I cannot emphasize too much the importance of following the direction through the order of the Priesthood as established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct. This Priesthood authority is the First Presidency, Council of the Twelve, stake presidencies, and bishoprics. I know of no woman who more willingly and faithfully seeks and follows the advice and direction of the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve than does Sister Spafford, your beloved leader. She, with her Counselors and members of the Board, are most conscientious in carrying out their responsibilities under the direction of the Priesthood. Sister Spafford's natural capabilities, together with her strong testimony and understanding of the principles of the restored gospel, her knowledge of the purpose of our mission here-upon the earth, all help to make it~ possible for her to make greater contributions than she otherwise ~ would be able to make, and which are greatly appreciated by those with whom she is associated. She is a member of boards, an executive, and in some places a consultant, of some of the most important women's organizations in the world. She is a leader whom they appreciate and to whom they listen and whose advice and counsel they follow. There is no doubt that her activity and training in Relief Society have contributed greatly to her success. Those holding the Priesthood, who have been chosen, ordained, and set apart, have the responsibility of directing the affairs of the Church. The Relief Society is an auxiliary, which is an appendage and aid to the Priesthood. You can never go wrong by following those who are placed in responsibile positions in the Priesthood. Sometimes I know that you become concerned and anxious, and wish things could move forward more rapidly, and sometimes in a different manner. Be patient, be long-suffering, but be devoted and ready to sustain the Priesthood. Some of the other responsibilities of members of this great organization, and the organization itself, are: to assist in bringing relief to the poor and needy; to bring help and solace to those who have lost their loved ones; to The Wonderful Work of Women assist and instruct those who need help in administering the affairs of the home—such as budgeting, buying, homemaking skills, etc.; to teach and train the members in the principles of the gospel and in spiritual living; to prepare and teach lessons in and appreciation of art, the finest literature, social relations, and cultural refinement; to help them appreciate their responsibilities as citizens individually and in training their children to become good citizens; lastly, but not the least important, to teach child psychology, human __ behavior, and the art of being a good wife and mother. Now these 'are some of the duties and obligations of this great organization. We all know that when an organization or an individual is in the service of his fellow men he is in the service of the Lord. Before dealing with the individual responsibility which the President says we have, I should like to remind you that women play a very important—in fact a most important part in the lives of children because, as we know, the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. Woman's influence has been felt down through the ages. Eve became the mother of all living. Mary became the mother of Jesus. Elizabeth became the mother of John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ. The greatest progress the British Isles has ever made was under the leadership of the first Queen Elizabeth. Joan of Arc contributed greatly to her country's safety and welfare. The Queen of Holland had a reign of great accomplishment 889 December 1967 and was loved and respected by all. You can be sure, too, that wherever we have great men, the mother's influence generally had more to do than anything else with their accomplishments and success. Regardless of whatever any woman accomplishes outside the home, no one will have a greater reward in heaven than a faithful, devoted mother who has helped her children to know God and Jesus Christ whom he has sent, and to live according to the teachings of the gospel, contributing wherever she can to the well-being of mankind. Though I wish to continue to talk more directly on the subject of mothers and their responsibilities in the home, I should like to recognize the great service that is being given in the Relief Society and other auxiliary organizations by secretaries and by public servants generally in the service of mankind—those devoted women who do not have the privilege or responsibility of raising a family. Now, to you mothers. As you have heard so many times by leaders of the Church, and especially by our _ present-day prophet, David O. McKay, she who can paint a masterpiece or write a book that will influence millions deserves the plaudits and admiration of mankind, but she who would willingly and anxiously and properly rear successfully a family of beautiful, healthy sons and _ daughters, whose lives reflect the teachings of the gospel, deserves the highest honor that man can give, and the choicest blessings of God. In 890 fact, in her high duty and service to humanity, endowing with mortality eternal spirits, she is a copartner with the Creator himself. Here I should like to remind you of that oft-repeated and most meaningful statement of our Prophet, David O. McKay: "No other success can compensate for failure in the home." He has also said: "You may think me extreme, but I am going to say that a married woman who refuses to assume the _ responsibilities of motherhood, or,.- who having children, neglects them for pleasure or social prestige, is recreant to the highest calling and privilege of womankind." (Improvement Era, Vol. 49, 1946, page 691.) It is important that women accept office and responsibility in the auxiliary organizations, and in helping to further the work of the Lord and the community. However, they should always remember that home and children come first. Children must be made to feel and know that mother loves them, is keenly interested in their welfare, and everything they do. If careful organization of time and effort will not make it possible for you to do this and carry responsibility in the Church, you must | remember that your children and your home must not be neglected. In my close association with Relief Society work as a bishop, as a stake president, and as a General Authority, I have learned to appreciate more than I can say, in fact, I marvel that a woman, through her dedication to her work in the home and through living the gospel, can carry on so successfully and accomplish so much. I should like to pay tribute to my mother, who, as a wife of a bishop and a mother of eight children, was able to carry on as Relief Society president, and then as president and teacher in other organizations and never let us children feel that we were neglected. And my wife, of whom I very seldom speak in public, has also carried successfully responsible positions in auxiliary organizations and as a mission president's wife, and as the wife of a General Authority. I have always appreciated her devotion to her work in the Church, and have never felt that she showed a lack of concern regarding her family or my personal interests or well-being. Her prayers have always been asource of great strength to me, and her support has always been greatly appreciated. I know personally what it is to have encouragement and what the expression of confidence and recognition of little accomplishments mean to a son and to a husband. I doubt if a woman realizes what it means for her to encourage her husband and express confidence in him, in his work in the Church, his everyday work, and whenever he feels discouraged. Besides these responsibilities, she has the multitudinous duties with her children to feed, clothe, shelter, train, sympathize with, and encourage them in all things. I have heard it argued, however, that a woman cannot hold a position in the Church without neglecting her family, while, at the same time some of those who argue this can find time to play The Wonderful Work of Women bridge and engage in much less worthwhile activities for hours at a time. I bear testimony that those who participate in Church activities are improving themselves. They are better prepared to look after their families as a result of the courses of study that they have and the experiences in administration which makes them more efficient in dealing with the conditions facing us today. Parents, civic and religious leaders, and responsible citizens are very much concerned about the conditions in the world today. One can hardly believe that there is so much immorality, defiance of law and order, rioting, plundering, and murdering in a country where we claim to be Christians, where the country was founded on law and order, and where the laws were made by free men in the interest of and for the good of all. I am convinced that this new freedom about which we hear so much is nothing more than disrespect for law and the rights of others, and if pursued will lead to anarchy. We must realize and teach our children to understand that freedom carries with it responsibility and respect for the rights of others. Also that which has been regarded as immorality down through the ages, is now referred to by many as the new morality. The new security which is being promoted now gives one the idea that the world owes him a living. It actually destroys individual initiative and infringes upon his liberty and freedom. The use of drugs on: our university campuses, in our colleges, 891 December 1967 and even in our high schools today is appalling. There is no doubt that every "kick" that one gets out of drugs is a kick downhill. It is true that the youth are frustrated today, but I feel that most of those who are having problems wonder just what is right, and probably would choose it if they knew. They ask why so little emphasis is placed on things of importance, such as law and the gospel, and why adults profess so much and fail to live what they profess. I should like to emphasize that some of the causes of juvenile delinquency and the troubles they are having are: 1. The great disregard for law in the home, where there is an expressed sympathy for criminals and great criticism of the police and law enforcement officers. Lack of discipline in the home. The example of adults. The lack of knowledge of a living God and failure to accept the teachings of Jesus Christ and keep his commandments. 5. The lack of love and respect for others. The love of God, love of fellow men, and love in the home cannot be overemphasized. In fact, we all know that Jesus answered the lawyer, who temptingly asked: Pon Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. (Matt. 23: 36-40.) The Lord has emphasized in the following statement our responsibility to teach our children. 892 And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord. (D&C 68:25, 26, 28.) There is nothing that would give our youth greater strength and desire to live as they should than actually to know that they are the spirit children of God, and to know that the spark of divinity which is within them makes their potentials and possibilities unlimited; and then to know that God actually lives, that he and his Son Jesus Christ are interested in us, and that the gospel is the plan of life and salvation which will give us the greatest joy and success aS we carry on in this life, while at the same time it is preparing us for immortality and eternal life; and then for them to feel and know that God actually hears and answers our prayers; that he is interested in us, and that he has said: "... This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."; and to realize that everything in the gospel teachings is uplifting, that there is nothing in it that restricts our activities or growth in any way, in any field which is worthwhile, but will be beneficial and will bring joy and happiness to us. It is impossible to estimate the strength of a mother in the Church who has a testimony of the gospel and who understands and knows and teaches her children that we had a premortal existence, that we were present in the Council in Heaven and votedto accept the plan of Christ, and follow him; that Jesus Christ came and walked among men and gave his life, and was resurrected and actually lives; and to be able to say, without doubt, that the gospel has been restored and the Priesthood is upon the earth. They must be taught that Satan is at work. He has sworn to destroy us. We cannot compromise with him in any way. There is no doubt that children who are taught the principles of the gospel, and who understand the purpose of their mission here upon the earth, are much better prepared to meet the frustrating conditions in the world today. The Church has prepared programs which will be most helpful to you as mothers and parents in the home, and has arranged for and encouraged every family to have a Home Evening. Some bishop said to an individual the other day: "Do you support the President of the Church as a prophet of God?" "Yes." "Do you support the General Authorities and the authorities in the stakes and wards?" "Yes." "Do you hold Home Evenings?" "No," he said. "How then can you say that you sustain the prophet of God and follow his instructions?" Well, you have heard much of this in stake conferences and from speakers who have preceded me. We cannot overemphasize the importance of meeting regularly with your family, discussing the lessons which you have prepared, letting your family know that The Wonderful Work of Women they are the most important thing in the world, and that your interests are there, that you love them and want them to be happy and succeed in life. The benefits of regular Home Evenings, wellplanned and following the instructions and programs outlined, will be most beneficial. We have had requests from people who are not members of the Church for copies of our Home Evening Manual, and for an explanation as to just how they are held. As mothers, you should use your every influence to see that Home Evenings are held regularly. There is nothing you can do that will be better for your family, as you teach them to live the principles of the gospel. I was interested in an editorial in the Deseret News in which Alice Weidner reported on reactions to her proposal for a nationwide American Family Association to advance personal probity, self-reliance, self-discipline, dignity, and integrity. She says that she has received from all over the fifty States of the Union thousands of letters supporting the suggestion. She says that an astonishing thing about the letters which she has received is that the majority come from men, among them a large number of surgeons, dentists, school superintendents, and lawyers, those seeing at first-hand the cost of immorality. She says: The letters are of the highest possible quality, literate, unbigoted, sincere, and constructive. In total, they show that the vast majority of Americans of all ages, including teen-agers, want an organization to voice their disapproval of... Perver- 893 December 1967 sion and subversion, at physical and sexual filth, at foul-tongued speech and foul writing, at tasteless offense aimed at rendering all supreme values worthless. The family, being the oldest human institution, and certainly the most important, makes it society's most basic unit. History will show that entire civilizations have survived or disappeared, depending on whether the family life was strong or weak. I am so glad that the Church is leading in a well-planned, organized program, which, if accepted and followed by members of the Church, will add great strength and bring joy and success to their efforts, and which will make it possible for us to make a real contribution to the communities in which we live. As parents we must always remember that we cannot break any law of God, such as the violation of the Sabbath Day, failing to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, or criticize those in authority, or break any law with impunity, without causing a child to wonder and often to lose his faith. A mother must realize, too, that every word she_ speaks, every act, every response, and every move, even her appearance in dress, affect the life of a child, and often the whole family. She must be strong and joyful, sweet and kind, loving and considerate, and more if you could think of it. Now, regarding the second great commandment, I can think of no place that it applies more than in the home—that we love one another. That lovely song, "Yhere Is Beauty All Around," which appears in our Hymn Book is so true. May I read part of it: 894 There is beauty all around When there's love at home; There is joy in every sound When there's love at home. Peace and plenty here abide, Smiling sweet on every side. Time doth softly, sweetly glide When there's love at home.... All the earth's a garden sweet, Making life a bliss complete When there's love at home... Kindly heaven smiles above, When there's love at home;... All the world is filled with love When there's love at home.... Oh, there's One who smiles on high When there's love at home.... President McKay has said: I can imagine few if anything more objectionable in the home than the absence of unity and harmony. On the other hand, I know that a home in which unity, mutual helpfulness, and love abide is just a bit of heaven on the earth.... Unity, harmony, and goodwill are virtues to be fostered and cherished in every home. (Conference Report, October 1938, page 102.) I can personally think of nothing sweeter in all the world than a home where the father is holding and magnifying his Priesthood by doing his duty and living the teachings of the gospel, and who realizes that his greatest responsibility is to his family, and where a wife will love and sustain her husband in righteousness, where they have their secret and family prayers regularly, where they have their Home Evenings, where the children honor and obey their parents, and their parents are worthy of being able to say to them, "Come, follow me," knowing that they will lead them back into the presence of their Heavenly Father. 1 wish to bear my testimony to you today that I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that you are members of his great Church and kingdom here upon the earth; that we as members of the Church, and you who are members of this great organization, and you who are mothers in Israel, have been given heavy responsibilities and great blessings; and, as you live every day the principles of the gospel, you will be blessed in your home, you will be honored by all who know you, and you will enjoy The Wonderful Work of Women the Spirit of the Lord. As you leave this wonderful Conference, may you carry the Spirit of the Lord with you, and the messages which you have received. May the Lord's blessings attend you in your many varied and heavy responsibilities. May you have peace andlove and harmony, knowing that the Lord is watching over you and directing you, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. TO KEEP THE YULETIDE lris W. Schow Bx And sense the contours of each little hill: (ye Beneath the moon's mild, camouflaging light Have scene on quiet scene unfold, until Back through the world, beyond the troubled days As though beyond the next low rise we'd find Those shepherds with their sheep, and listening long, Would have borne in upon the hearkening mind One angel's words of joy, all angels' song. $e xr 895 ') We seemingly attain Judean slopes, And fact with fancy gently interplays While thoughts are dreams, and dreams are granted none Let us ride slowly through the land tonight '4 act. (Oy i a Elder Alvin R. Dyer Sustamed as an Apostle » 4 ®# Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve since 1958, was sustained as an apostle on the first day of the 137th Semi-annual General Conference of the Church, September 30, 1967. He has been active in the Church since early youth and has held many positions of responsibility. In 1954, he was called to preside over the Central States Mission, where he served until his call to the General Superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement 896 Association in June 1958. Soon after his appointment as an Assistant to the Twelve, he was assigned to preside over the European Mission (1960-1962). Elder Dyer was married to May Elizabeth Jackson in the Salt Lake Temple. They have two children, Gloria May Dyer Klein and Brent Rulon Dyer, and four grandchildren. In addressing the saints, Elder Dyer spoke with emotion and sincerity of his family and his devotion to the gospel: At this time my feelings concern most deeply my tried and true and most wonderful companion for time and for all eternity, my dear wife and sweetheart. Together, we have shared many years of service in the work of the Master.... I know only partially now at the present time what holding the apostleship in my case will entail upon me. I know, of course, that the Lord has made known that an apostle is to contend against none but the church of evil, to take upon himself the name of Christ and speak the truth in soberness, and to be a witness, a special witness for Jesus Christ in the world. But it matters not as to its entirety, for I am committed to serve the President of the High Priesthood, whom we call the President of the Church. He is the one declared by the Lord to be like unto Moses, to preside over the whole Church, and there is only one appointed to this high and holy position upon the earth at one time. I know with all my soul that President McKay is that servant of God upon the earth today. Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967. Seated back of the podium, left to right: President Joseph Fielding Smith; Sister Smith; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Belle S. Spafford at the podium. Members of the General Board of Relief Society in the foreground; Boise West Stake Singing Mothers in the background. Astic stake and mission Relief Society leaders from far and near The Relief Society assembled in Salt Lake Gime the century-old Tabernacle on Annual Temple Square on Wednesday morning, September 27, 1967, at 9:30 for the opening session of the two-day Annual General Conference of Relief Society. This great year of existence continues its unbounded influence of guiding Hulda P. Young and helping the sisters of the saving souls, in strengthening Latter-day Saint homes, and in: S/S role in building the work of our General Conference 897 ma 1967 General Secretary-Treasurer Ni > = Devoted, happy, and enthusiworld-wide sisterhood in its 125th Church to be one in purpose in carrying forward the women's December 1967 Father in heaven throughout the nations of the earth. President Belle S. Spafford conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions of the conference, supported by her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen and forty-seven other General Board members. In attendance at various sessions of the conference were three members of the First Presidency, President Hugh B. Brown, President N. Eldon Tanner and President Joseph Fielding Smith, who is an Advisor to Relief Society, and also the other two Advisors to Relief Society, Elder Harold B. Lee and Elder Marion G. Romney—and Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric. Each of these brethren addressed the conference, giving to the sisters timely and inspired messages enlarging their vision regarding their responsibilities as wives, mothers, and homemakers, and also as leaders in Relief Society. For the first time the proceedings of the two Wednesday sessions and the Thursday afternoon session were carried over television and in color on station KBYU which serves the major portion of northern and central Utah. Delayed television broadcasts of the afternoon sessions each day were carried in the evenings. For the second year, excerpts from the Tabernacle sessions were broadcast in English and some in Spanish over the short-wave, Church-owned radio station in New York, Station WNYW, to an estimated twothirds of the surface of the world. Never before have the inspired messages directed to the needs 898 and interests of women of the Church been aired to such a vast listening audience. Provision was also made for foreign-speaking, representatives in attendance at the conference to hear the proceedings through simultaneous translation in Spanish, Tahitian, German, French, and Portuguese. The international character of the conference was enhanced by participation of sisters from many countries. Heartwarming remarks were given in the opening session by Delfina de Torres, Stake Relief Society President of the new Guatemala City Stake, and by Angelia F. De Giuliani, Stake Relief Society President of the new Buenos Aires Stake in Argentina. Their messages were given in Spanish and translated for the congregation in English. Mavis B. Draper, President of the new Sydney South Stake Relief Society in Australia offered the closing prayer in the first session and Lucrecia Sua rez Vda. De Juarez, Stake Relief Society President of the new Mexico City North Stake, offered the benediction at the concluding session of the conference. In the Presidencies Department on Thursday morning a chorus of seventeen Tahitian Singing Mothers from the French Polynesian Mission sang. They also entertained at the reception held on Wednesday evening in the Relief Society Building. Music for the opening session of the conference was provided by the West Boise Stake Singing Mothers conducted by LaRue R. Campbell with Roy M. Darley at the organ. A large combined Singing Mothers chorus from Alberta, Canada, consisting of ln nance The Relief Society Annual General Conference about four hundred voices under the baton of Florence J. Madsen, with Ellen N. Barnes conducting one number, presented music in the general session on Wednesday afternoon and also at both of the Friday sessions of the General Conference of the Church. Brother Darley was also at the organ on Wednesday afternoon. The stakes participating in the chorus were Alberta, Calgary, Calgary North, Edmonton, Lethbridge, Taber, and Taylor Stakes. All in attendance rejoiced with the members of the Church from Canada which is commemorating its centennial year. Alexander Schreiner was at the organ at the Thursday morning Tabernacle session of the conference and Robert Cundick on Thursday afternoon. Specific guidance and directives relative to carrying forward the program of Relief Society were given to stake and mission leaders by President Spafford in her Report and Official Instructions on Wednesday morning. That afternoon she and her Counselors addressed the sisters with moving and impressive messages. Sister Mary V. Cameron also spoke, representing the General Board. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 Relief Society leaders from stakes and missions were welcomed by the General Board at a beautiful reception in the Relief Society Building. Detailed instructions were given in separate departmental sessions conducted by General Board committees on Thursday morning for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, homemaking leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and also spiritual living, social relations, and 'culture refinement class leaders. On Tuesday preceding the conference, a display of thousands of beautiful homemaking articles provided practical and delightful suggestions for homemaking leaders and members of stake and mission presidencies who were invited to view them. Messages of lasting influence were conveyed to those in attendance through impressive presentations as well as music and inspired speaking. One presentation entitled, "As a City on a Hill," written by Alberta H. Christensen, was given in both the social relations and the Presidencies Departments. It demonstrated how the moving message of a social relations lesson can be portrayed in a Christmas dramatization. At the concluding session of the conference, the presentation, "The Call to Benevolence," written by Luacine C. Fox, stirred the hearts of all present to greater compassion and charity toward their fellow men. Relief Society leaders from most of the stakes and missions in the United States, Canada, and Mexico; representatives from Australia, New Zealand, South America, Central America, and Tahiti, from South Africa, Switzerland, France, and England, departed from conference with renewed conversion of the divinity of the restored gospel which encompasses unsurpassed light and knowledge regarding the place, challenges, and opportunities for women in the gospel plan. 899 The Christmas Lamb: Elaine M. Murray a #® You probably wouldn't have recognized Kim on this day, the day of his visit to the Christmas Room of the art gallery. This was about the only day of the year that he didn't complain about combing his hair and wearing his good clothes. He had even washed behind his ears and cleaned his fingernails without being reminded. No, you wouldn't have recognized him at all as hestepped into that beautiful, peaceful room—with music playing ever so softly. There was always a sparkle in Kim's eyes, but today as he stepped into the Christmas Room, there was a new kind of sparkle in his eyes—not his daily sparkle which was like a brook bubbling and laughing as it tumbled over 900 the rocks in its downward frolicking. It was more like the sparkle in a clear, deep mountain pool, as the rays of the sun frost it with an almost celestial radiance. There was so much depth and love as he looked at each painting in that special room. Not just any painting would qualify, for this room was opened only during the Christmas season each year. The paintings had to be the best and not just wellpainted. They had to be more than good examples of painting technique, for this was a room for feeling as well as looking. One did not stand back and say, "What an excellent painting! I would like to meet the artist who painted that one." Rather, one would look, be drawn closer, and say to himself, "I wish I could have been there at that first Christmas. I wish I could meet' Jesus." So, although many paintings were submitted, only a few were chosen, usually only one new one each year, for this special Christmas Room. Kim sat on the bench in the middle of the room, quietly sliding along as he looked intently at each picture, absorbing what each one had to say. He was never in a hurry here. There were seldom many people here in the morning; that is why he chose this time of day. Only one other person was in the room with him this morning. He enjoyed each of the old familiar pictures and saved the new one for the last. Each one had a special message for him, but there was something about this last one that held him an extra long time. What was so different about this one? He had the strangest feeling that he had seen it before, but that was impossible; it was the new one. It would not have been shown anywhere else. He walked closer to it. The scene was typical, with the Holy Family in the stable, the animals nearby. The shepherds were there, standing and kneeling before the Christ child; the new star in the heavens shone brilliantly and illuminated the cradle and the sleeping baby. It must have been the very young shepherd, who brought him closer and closer, the small one near the doorway. His face was nestled against the soft, white wool of the lamb he was holding. The eyes of the little shepherd were full of wonder and love. They seemed to be saying, "So this is the little The Christmas Lamb baby who will grow up to be the Savior of the world and the King of my people!" There was something about that shepherd boy that compelled him to walk, nearer. He looked deep into the little shepherd's eyes, as if trying to read his thoughts. What was there about this boy? He even reached out to stroke the lamb, when a hand touched his elbow. Kim jerked, startled, and looked into the face of the other viewer, a young man. "But, but look, look, that is I!" he gasped. "I mean, I...." He stammered and blushed. "He looks like me!" The man looked at the picture and at Kim. "Yes, he does," he said, "they were just like you and me." "I wonder if the boy gave his lamb to Jesus. See how tightly he holds it. I wonder if he gave it to Jesus. I wish I had been there. I would have given it to him." "You still can." "But I don't have a lamb, and I can't see Jesus except when I close my eyes or look at a picture." "You still can give him a birthday gift. You can...." Kim's mother appeared at the doorway and beckoned to him. Kim looked at the man, the picture, and at his mother. He hesitated. His mother motioned for him to hurry. The image of the picture, especially the shepherd boy holding the lamb, and the man's voice and words, were with him all the way home. All the following week they were his companions. He tried to shake them off as he helped with the decorating of the 901 December 1967 tree, making cookies, running errands, and wrapping packages, but he could not lose them or blot them out. He was becoming more and more upset. When the last package was wrapped and put under the tree, Kim looked as if he were ready to burst and he blurted out in frustration, "But I don't have a gift for Jesus!" His mother looked up in surprise. "What?" she asked. "Well, it's his birthday. We have presents for each other. We've given lots of gifts... And... We've received lots of gifts... And... Well... It's not our birthday. It's his birthday, and I don't have a gift for him. And if I had one, how would I give it to him? The man in the Christmas Room said that I could, but I can't, I can't! I don't know how!" He was almost crying. His mother dropped the tinsel she had been picking up from the floor. She put one arm around his shoulders, put her other hand under his chin, and lifted his face. She looked thoughtfully into his tear-filled eyes. This was not like Kim. He told her about the shepherd boy, who looked just like him, and his lamb, and about his conversation with the man at the art gallery. "Kim, if you were to ask Jesus what he wanted for his birthday, what you could do for him, do you know what he would say?" "No." "He would say that 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.' Do you remember the story about the rich young man who came to 902 Jesus and asked him how to be happy? Jesus told him that to find happiness he should sell all his possessions and give to the poor and needy. That rich young man couldn't do it. Can you?" "But I don't have great possessions to sell so that I can help the poor and needy. Besides, I don't know any people in need." "People can be poor in many ways. Some are wanting in spirit." She paused and then continued, "Do you know someone you don't like very well?" "Grouchy Jake. He grumbles if we even look at his old flowers." "Maybe he watches them so closely and tends them so carefully because his flowers are all that he has. The flowers are his world. He has no family and very few good friends." There was a short silence and she continued rather hesitantly, "Kim, what do you want most for Christmas?" "A clock radio." "Tt's in the blue package with the red bow at the back of the tree." "Oh, but Mother, I couldn't..." "T know Grouchy Jake doesn't have one." "But I...." "Do you think that shepherd boy loved the lamb? Do you think that he gave it to Jesus? Think about it." She looked intently into his eyes, gave him a big hug and left the room. Kim closed his eyes and saw the shepherd boy with his face nestled against the lamb, and thought of how closely he held it to him, thought of his own words to the young man at the Christmas Room. "I wish I had been there. I would have given it to him." He _ thought, too, of Grouchy Jake and how he always frowned and grumbied if the boys and girls even came near his yard. Then he ran to his room, ~ knelt beside his bed, and prayed as he had never prayed before and asked Heavenly Father what gift he could give to his ~ Son. He was very quiet all the rest of that day and the next, which was the day before Christmas. After dinner, without saying anything to anybody, he got down from the table, walked slowly to the closet, took out his jacket and put it on. Very, very slowly he walked over to the Christmas tree, reached to the very back The Christmas Lamb and picked up the blue package with the red bow, and ever so slowly left the house. ~ He was gone for a long time, and his mother began to feel a little uneasy—until she heard him running up the walk. He took all the steps in one big leap and threw open the door. "Mother, Mother, Mr. Jake is nice!" he shouted as he went to the closet to hang up his jacket. He sat down on the arm of his mother's chair, and once again, with a sparkle in his eyes, and with conviction in his voice, he said, "Mother, if I had been there at that first Christmas, I would have given Jesus my lamb." MY QUIET NEED Marjorie L. Hafen No words, no empty smiles invade our quiet peace. These treasured moments bring tranquility, release. — Despair and turmoil now forgotten ebb. Indeed, Just bring near to you fulfills my quiet need. A THREE SCORE AND TEN Linnie Fisher Robinson | stand in the arrogant flesh, In three score and ten of the Lord; | have shunned the turns in the road And walked in the way of his word. | have seen what the tide has left— The wreckage gathered in storm. | have heeded the cries of need And used my strength against harm. | have found what the heart can earn Through the work of the brain and the arm; The blessings of home and of love, The shelter of love that is warm. So, now will come loss of pride In the failure of limb to fulfill— Yet death shall not rob but restore The farthest reach of my will. 903 ®# The 137th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church, held September 30th, 31st, and October lst, 1967, was especially significant in many ways. The historic Tabernacle, wherein the sessions were held, was being remembered as a centennial structure, having housed the saints for one hundred years. President David O. McKay, revered and beloved, now in his ninety-fifth year, presided at all the conference sessions and attended the opening meeting on Friday. His addresses were read by his son Robert R. McKay. The world-wide growth of the Church received emphasis in all the sessions. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, was sustained as an apostle. Sixty-nine Regional Representatives of the Council of the Twelve were sustained to 'carry counsel and to conduct instructional meetings... And give guidance and direction... To help with the work of overseeing an evergrowing world-wide Church." Proceedings of the Conference were broadcast by radio and television in four languages to the world, over more than two hundred stations, carrying afar to many nations the message of the eternal gospel. The. Singing Mothers from the Alberta region presented music for both sessions of the Conference on Friday, under the direction of Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. Keynoting his opening address on the important and far-reaching principle of unity, President McKay declared: It is the principle of unity that has enabled the wards, stakes, branches, and missions of the Church to progress and to accomplish the purposes for which the Church was established. It could not have been done by dissension and hatred.... As | think of the future of this Church and of the welfare of the young men and women, as well as the mothers and fathers, | feel impressed that there is no more important message to give than ''to be one," and avoid things that may cause a rift among The challenge is before us—we cannot fail in the divine commitments given to us as a people. Unity of purpose, with all working in harmony within the structure of Church organization as revealed by the Lord, is to be our objective. Volume 54 December 1967 Number 12 « Belle S. Spafford, President = Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor # Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer 904 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone RA. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous EDITORIAL members.... The 137th Semi-Annual General Church Conference, President Hugh B. Brown, in his address illuminated the characteristics of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his divine calling, and his dedicated and devoted mission upon the earth. Joseph Smith was the first man since the apostles of Jesus Christ were martyred to make the claim which prophets have always made: that God had spoken to him. | believe he was a prophet of God because he gave to this world some of the greatest revelations of all time. | believe that he was a prophet of God because he foretold many things which have come to pass; things which only God could bring to pass..... AS much as any man who ever lived, the Prophet Joseph had a testimony of Jesus for, like the apostles of old, he saw him and heard him speak, and like them he gave his life for that testimony.... | believe Joseph Smith was a prophet because he did many superhuman things. One was translating the Book of Mormon.... The Book of Mormon not only declares on the title page that its purpose is to convince Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, but this truth is the burden of its message. President N. Eldon Tanner spoke on the power of prayer as a directing and sustaining force in the lives of the saints, helping to ennoble them by faith and courage to seek righteousness. | often wonder if we really realize the power of prayer, if we appreciate what a great blessing it is to be able to call on our Father in Heaven in humble prayer; knowing that he is interested in us and that he wants us to succeed.... To pray effectively, and to feel that one can be heard and have his prayers answered, one must believe that he is praying to a God that can hear and answer, one who is interested in his children and their well-being.... Yes, it is important, and the Lord emphasizes that we must humble ourselves and accept the teachings of Jesus Christ and keep his commandments if we would expect him to hear and answer our prayers. ' President Joseph Fielding Smith explained the mission of the Savior as Redeemer and Mediator ''who stands between mankind and his Heavenly Father."... For some reason, the world looks upon the fall of Adam as being a shameful thing, that Adam came into this world, and the men who gave us the King James Bible have expressed that thought that in partaking of the forbidden fruit Adam did a shameful thing, and we suffer for it. Well, Adam did only what he had to do, and Adam partook of that fruit for one good reason, and that was to open the door to bring you and me and everybody else into this world...., Now that great blessing of celestial glory could never have come to us without a period of time in mortality, and so we came here in this mortal world. We are in school, the mortal school, to gain the experiences, the training, the joys and the sufferings that we partake of, that we might be educated in all these things and be prepared, if we are faithful and true to the commandments of the Lord, to become sons and daughters of God, joint heirs with Jesus Christ; and in His presence go on to a fulness and a continuation of the. Seeds forever, and perhaps through our faithfulness have the opportunity of building worlds and peopling them.... In his closing address President McKay blessed the saints and counseled them always to remember the gospel as an anchor in their lives. The Gospel is our anchor. We know what it stands for. If we live it, feel it, and bear record to the world by the way we live, we will contribute to its growth and upbuilding. Speak well of it, of the Priesthood, of the Authorities; let the standards of the Gospel radiate in our tives. 905 Christmas Seals A Symbol of Yule Spirit The National Tuberculosis Association CHRISTMAS 1967° When you stop to think about it, there are an endless number of appropriate ways to say 'Happy Holidays.'' One of the nicest and most considerate ways is to decorate each and every card and gift you send or give with Christmas Seals. Each time you add a colorful Christmas Seal to a card or package, you are not only adding a decorative touch, but striking a heavy blow against tuberculosis, emphysema, bronchitis, air pollution, and smoking —in fact against all respiratory problems. Is the blow needed? Tuberculosis costs the American people one billion dollars each year. There are 100,000 known active cases in the United States and 225,000 more with inactive TB. Some 48,000 new cases were found in 1966. And what of other respiratory diseases? Deaths from two such diseases related to cigarette smoking—emphysema and chronic bronchitis—have approximately doubled every five years since 1950. Your Christmas Seal Association works year around on programs to educate communities, find those who need help, conduct research, find new programs of treatment and rehabilitation, prevent disease and its costly results. Each tiny Christmas Seal you use helps. Won't you use as many as you can—and make your gift as much as you can. Your local or State Christmas Seal Association will then work earnestly for you. (— MY DAY OF DAYS IS NOW >} Bertha A. Kleinman The olden days are not for me to keep; A wraith are they to lull me as | sleep. From wilted shard and ashen leaves consigned, | turn to face the newer tasks assigned. These days are mine, no matter what my age, Enriched, rewarding, turning page on page, Fulfilling and amending what is past. My days are now to live and learn and last, For all they are, nor questing why or how. Q These days are mine. My day of days is now. Z 906 Many women are being helped incalculably through the American hospital ship, "The Good Ship Hope," which for seven years has gone from country to country, remaining in each port ten months. Its personnel trains doctors, hospital sanitary workers, dieticians, technicians, and nurses, who return to their own communities to train others, causing a ''stone-in-pond-ripple effect" of improving health situations. More than 100,000 persons have been treated and more than 8,450 operations have been performed aboard her. Elva Bean of Blanchard, lowa, has served fifty-five years as a meter reader for the Missouri Power Company, and is still making her rounds at the age of seventy-seven. She also delivers papers. "All this walking," Miss Bean says, "keeps my joints from creaking and getting stiff." Billie Jean King, Long Beach, California, housewife, in July, won the title of World's Number One Woman Tennis Player at Wimbledon in England. A packed gallery of 17,000 gave the twenty-three-year-old American woman a standing ovation. Jeannine Hensley has compiled and edited "The Works of Anne Bradstreet, Puritan Poet" (Harvard Press). A highspirited girl, Anne was eighteen when she came to Boston in 1630. She was truly "one of the first female voices in literature to speak up intimately and directly in her own behalf." LES o o Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Margaret D. Shepherd, photograph librarian at the Utah State Historical Society for the past ten years, was recently awarded, in national competition, a special scholarship by the American Association for State and Local History. The scholarship consists, among other educational and cultural opportunities, free attendance, in Portland, Oregon, at a seminar on administration of historical agencies and museums. Catherine Lacoste, of French birth, won the United States Women's Open Golf Tournament in July. She immediately telephoned her father in Paris, and thanked him for the encouragement he had given her. Forty years ago, the father, Rene Lacoste, was the world's premier tennis player. Phyllis Curtain, Metropolitan Opera star (dramatic soprano), wife and mother, loves to cook. Among her relatives and friends, she is famous for a _ special soup. Born in Virginia, the singer specializes in Southern cooking, including many kinds of rolls and bread. Susanne K. Langer, who has already written two books on the nature of art, has now published a third, "Mind: an Essay on Human Feeling' (Johns Hopkins). She says that we learn from a true artist "what an emotional reality of greatest stretch can be,' as in "Medea," 'King Lear," Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony," Michelangelo's "Moses." 907 The Reformation of Ellen Craig Lila Bennet Spencer Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada = Looking back, Ellen Craig was never quite sure what had caused her reformation. Had it been Myra's letter, her new hat, or the incident at the end of the block? Or had her dissatisfaction with herself been quietly bubbling beneath the surface, needing only these things to make it rise above the close confines of her former life? Not that her life hadn't been a good one. She had been a shy, eager girl, full of romantic dreams and ambitions that she had never confessed to anyone. Then Sam had come along, with his quiet, steady tread, and walked into her lonely heart. After their marriage they had planned and saved, first for a home, then for missions and education for their children. Life had made some demands on her courage—her mother's death, 908 Linda's difficult birth, Jamie's fight with polio, and, more recently, Myra's sudden decision to marry so -young—but with Sam's warm hand in hers, she had come through these crises with only a few worry lines on her forehead to tell the story of quiet suffering and forbearance. The poet's thought, "pursued the even tenor of their ways," had fitted their life together so well. What had happened to those peaks she had dreamed of climbing? People looked at her and saw a reserved, middle-aged woman. Her friends thought her poised and dependable. Those less kind in their judgments assumed she was dull. None of them guessed the silent struggle she had with herself to give a simple prayer in Church or to bear her testimony. Many times her timidity had kept her from speaking out even when she knew that a principle was involved. "I wish I were different," she had confessed to Sam, when she told him how the delegate to the convention who had sat next to her at the banquet table had chaffed her good naturedly about her abstinence, and she had smiled rather prudishly, and not explained about her religion. Sam had comforted her, "You suit me fine, Ellie." But Ellen wasn't satisfied with herself. It's probably my age, she told herself, when sometimes her dissatisfaction clamored to be appeased. Then Myra's letter came. "Guess what, Mom? You're going to be a grandmother. Aren't you thrilled?" Thrilled? Ellen was conscious of a distinct feeling of shock. Oh, it would be lovely to have a baby, but she didn't feel ready to be a grandmother. It was as if she had seen the writing on the wall—"Your life is half over. What have you done with it?" She felt as if she had been running a plodding kind of foot race and, looking over her shoulder, had seen Time overtaking her. Then common sense came to still her silly panic. You're not old, you're only a day older than yesterday. As she went about her work that morning, Myra's news kept her company. I wonder what kind of grandmother I'll be? She thought. Will I be like Grandmother Jensen or like Grandma Holly? Grandmother Jensen's house had shone with Scandinavian cleanliness, but the dark paneling and half-drawn blinds had made Ellen feel as a child that she was entering a hallowed place. She hadn't even enjoyed The Reformation of Ellen Craig the lovely Danish pastries her grandmother always had on hand, because she was afraid to get crumbs on the gleaming floor. She had stammered out answers to her grandmother's questions, and both of them had been relieved when it was suggested that she go to the orchard to swing. She must have been shy like me, Ellen now decided. Grandma Holly was quite different. She was round and rosy and jolly. She had lived two hundred miles away on a farm, and even though she always had been informed of a forthcoming visit, she was never quite ready for them. But she seemed to sense their arrival. Before they had had time to pile out of the car, she would be hurrying down the walk with her funny little jog, swinging wide the gate, and gathering as many as she could reach into her soft, warm arms. Ellen laughed delightedly as she recalled the time Grandma Holly, with flour on her nose and cheek, had stopped in the middle of a giant hug to squeal, "Oh... Oh! My cookies," and had raced into the house to rescue the sad, charred things from the oven. She had laughed with the children who had followed at her heels, and gently eased the cookies into the pigs' bucket. "The pigs will enjoy them." Life had been exciting at her house. She always had bright snips of material for dolls' clothes and old catalogues for cutting out paper dolls. She knew games they had never heard of, and she sent them on rock hunts and treasure hunts. She was never too busy to look through family albums and tell them funny stories about the 909 December 1967 old-fashioned people in them. They had come to life when she talked affectionately about them. "That's my youngest brother Jake. Quite a sport in his young days. One time he rode his bike— one of those big-wheeled ones— to meeting. Of course, he had to put on clamps to keep his trouser legs out of the spokes. They asked him to say the prayer and he hurried to the front. As he prayed, he sensed a ripple going through the congregation, but he finished, opened his eyes, and to his great mortification, saw he still had his trousers clamped up. It looked real funny, with the black patent leather pumps and fawn-colored spats he had on. "You children should have seen it," and Grandma Holly laughed so hard she had to wipe her eyes. Or she would say, "That's your Great-aunt Effie— real bashful she was—went beetred if a fellow doffed his hat to her. One time she went to a play at the opera house with a boy just as shy as she was herself. The streets were icy, and on the way home the poor fellow slipped and knocked her right off her feet. Effie fell in a heap of petticoats— girls wore four or five then. It would be hard to tell who felt the worse. Do you know—they got married four months later. You might say they fell for one another," and Grandma Holly had laughed as hard as they did at her joke. Oh, Grandma Holly had been fun, full of ideas, and brimming over with love and affection and not afraid to show it. Every child needs a grandmother like her, Ellen thought. I must change and change in a 910 hurry, but the wings of her resolution were puny, so puny that Ellen wasn't aware that they were there. Three days later, Ellen went to buy a new hat. Mechanically she reached for a sedate brown one that would go with her beige linen suit, and sat at the table to try it on. As she looked in the mirror, the thought assailed her, you're even beginning to look ~ hke a mouse—a quiet, timid, middle-aged mouse. At that moment she revolted. Quite recklessly she picked up a bright coral confection with a saucy tilt to its brim and eased it onto her head. She looked at herself with amazement. The color brought golden hghts into her eyes and a glow to her pale cheeks. With a change of lipstick she would look almost arresting—not at all like a timid mouse. She bought it. That night a bit shyly she modeled it for her family. Linda squealed in delight, and Jamie exclaimed, "Gosh, Mom, you're a knockout!" There was a look of wonder in Sam's tired eyes. Her saucy little hat saw her through the hospital auxiliary's membership social and Linda's sewing class display and dress show. She found herself making conversation with several ladies she had always before thought standoffish and proud. To her surpise, she found them friendly and interesting. "Mrs, Craig," one of them had said, "anyone with your sense of color must be an artist at heart." Ellen blushed a pretty pink. "Oh, I wouldn't say that exactly, but I used to be rather good at art in high school." "You must take it up again," said her new friend persuasively, and before Ellen knew quite what was happening, she found herself — registered for extension classes in interior decorating and oil painting. To her great delight, she found herself thoroughly enjoying herself. "Mrs. Craig," said the art instructor as he held up her mountain scene for the rest of the class to see, "you paint with a rhythm and force quite unexpected. In such a gentle person. This is very good work." It wasn't too long until some of her work decorated their living-room walls. The children brought their friends in to see the pictures, and their frank. Praise was music in Ellen's ears. What Sam said pleased her most. "Ellen, you paint from the heart. It makes me feel good to look at it." Not bad, for a timid mouse, Ellen told herself. Ellen hadn't been wearing her saucy hat when next she asserted herself. She was in a print housedress carrying a heavy bag of groceries, when she came upon Mr. Jackson shaking one of the welfare children in his care. The Jacksons were relatively newcomers to the neighborhood, and although they had no children of their own, they had three little boys billeted in their home while the mother recuperated from a nervous breakdown. This Ellen had learned from her next-door neighbor, who also hinted that the Jacksons were stricter than they needed to be at times. Mr. Jackson had been repairing his power lawn mower, and the littlest boy's inquisitive fingers had carried off some parts. Mr. JackThe Reformation of Ellen Craig son, his face an ugly purple, had the terrified child by the shoulders and yanked him about as he thundered at him, "You'll tell me where you put it down if I have to shake it out of you!" The little boy was crying piteously as were his older brothers who were standing helplessly by the fence. "Mr. Jackson," Ellen's voice determinedly interrupted him, and her eyes flashed at him above the groceries. "Give him a chance to tell you." In surprise, Mr. Jackson let the child slip from his grasp. Like a frightened squirrel, the little boy scurried away and frantically clawed through the long grass. Ellen put down her groceries and went to help him, without an idea of what they were looking for, but her calm presence seemed to comfort the child. Moments later, a grin of triumph on his tear-streaked face, he held up a tiny screw. "Here, it is! We found it!" Timidly, he offered it to the silent Mr.. JackEllen allowed herself several stern looks in Mr. Jackson's direction before she lifted up her groceries and went on her way. Her knees were still shaking from the encounter, but she knew she 911 December 1967 could have done nothing else and slept that night. "Ellen Craig," she told herself, "you actually stood up to a bully." 'A few days after this incident, as she walked down to the corner store, she felt a little warm hand slip into hers, and a little voice hailed her. "Hi, lady!" He was full of questions and Ellen stood talking to him. There were no tears on his face, but something about him tugged at Ellen's heart. Impulsively she turned in the walk and rang the Jackson's doorbell. A bit breathlessly she asked the dour-faced Mrs. Jackson if Timmy, for that was his name, might come for a walk with her, since he seemed a bit lonely with his brothers away at school.. Grudgingly, permission was given, and the two new friends set off together. It was the first of many delightful excursions. Ellen found herself looking through the old trunks in the attic to find toys for the boys. She went to the library for children's books so that she would have more stories to satisfy Timmy's insatiable appetite. Once or twice Timmy was allowed to come to her house for the afternoon, and her heart felt stretched as she watched his abandoned paint splashing, and his delight in the gingerbread men she had baked for him. Ellen had always thought herself too timid to teach Primary classes, and had always, with a guilty heart, refused to accept any position that meant standing in front of others. Sister Brown, the Primary president, called at her home one day when she was entertaining Timmy, and said, 912 "Sister Craig, this proves what my counselors and I have felt for a long time. You should be teaching in Primary. You love children. You will do wonders with them. Won't you teach the Blazers?" This time Ellen agreed. Her class was a delight to her. It was hard at first to overcome her timidity, but her love for the boys was greater than her selfconsciousness. It was hardly an effort at all for her to go to the Jackson's home and ask if she might take all three of the boys to Primary. Ellen could see that their weekly excursion to the meetinghouse was something that all of them anticipated and appreciated. Once, as she was walking home with the three boys and a few of the other boys from her class, who hadn't had time to tell her all they had to tell, Sam drove by in the car. "Hello, Mother Goose," he called out the window, and his pride in her was there for all to see. And so the days and the weeks and the months passed. Ellen's life was so full of interesting things to do and to think about that she never found time to feel dissatisfied with herself. The days hadn't enough hours for her to do all the things she was eager to accomplish. When Myra's wire came, saying, "You have a grandson," all Ellen felt was joy and an impatience to hold him in her arms. She teasingly said to Sam, "How do you like living with a grandmother, darling?" "My dear," came his calm answer, "you'll never grow old. Living with you gets better all the time." Not bad for a timid mouse, Ellen congratulated herself. "LITTLE GIRL AT THE CRECHE" Transparency by Lucien Bowen THE SMALLEST PART Kathryn Kay Love so easily understands— What you can see is the smallest part; You don't need Christmas in your hands When you have Christmas in your heart. The Relief Society Christmas Tree J M. Heslop The Relief Society Christmas Tree added an elegant touch of beauty to the foyer of The Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City, Utah, general headquarters of Relief Society. This tall and stately balsam was flocked and exquisitely decorated with pink balls, birds, and pink velvet roses. Tiny pink lights set off the tree. A Christmas Eve Family Home Evening JM. Heslop Christmas Eve in the Earl S. Spafford Home. Standing at the mantel, Iris M. Spafford; seated, Earl S. Spafford, holding JoAnn; seated in front, Lynn and Alan; left, at the piano, Janet; seated at left, Robert; standing at the back, holding his viola, Charles Kemp, a Brigham Young University student, son of Mary Spafford (deceased) and Clarence Kemp, and cousin to the other young people in the picture. (continued on page 930) Christmas Trees JM. Heslop Christmas Cone Tree in the Francis A. Madsen, Jr. Home. This cleverly decorated flocked alpine fir is decorated with regular ice cream cones, sprayed gold. The ice cream is made from styrofoam balls, sprayed pink and covered with glitter. The pine cones on the tree were gathered by the family, sprayed gold, and tied together with pink satin ribbon. Pink balls and pink and gold lights enhance the beauty of the tree. The skirt is made from a felt scalloped circle, with felt scenes depicting the 'Twelve Days of Christmas" appliqued on the circle. 7 916 for the Children J M. Heslop A Gingerbread Tree in the James C. Davis Jr. Home. Mary Ellen, Matthew, and Karen play in front of the imaginatively decorated tree, a jack pine, decorated with gingerbread men and houses, red bows, and colored lights. This tree will delight any youngster and bring back fond memories to parents and grandparents. A Do-it-Yourself Christmas Tree J M. Heslop A rubber tree plant cleverly converted into a Christmas tree adorns the family room of the Lorenzo S. Youngs. A few cedar boughs fill out the tree, which is adorned with red balls, colored lights, and silver bows. The table is decorated with holly and poinsettias. The poinsettia pattern is carried out in the napkins and the center runner of red satin adds much to a colorful and decorative room. 918 A Christmas Table John D. Eccles Traditional red and green grace the Christmas table in the Royal Eccles home in Ogden, Utah. Holly, fruit, and mistletoe blossoms form the base of the decoration. Fragrant red carnations rest in a silver container which matches the candelabra. Red satin ribbons are attached to each of the four corners of the table, creating a simple but beautiful and elegant effect. Christmas Decorations Twenty-one grandchildren are delighted by the Christmas decorations in the Elwood G. Winters home. The table decorations include a traditional Christmas tablecloth and_ holiday dishes. In the center is a handcarved, three-tiered scene which revolves from the heat of the candles. A gift from Germany, the centerpiece depicts the shepherds and the animals on the lower tier, a nativity scene on the center, and a reindeer and a Christmas tree on the top. Placed ona mirror, amid Austrian pine, holly, and red berries, the carving is truly a thing of beauty and interest to all. At the right, Janet Winters admires a traditionally decorated artificial tree. The felt cloth beneath the tree is handmade, and features tatted, appliqued snowflakes which are covered with sequins that pick up 'and reflect the lights from the tree. A gold sleigh, filled with tiny packages, and small animals are placed around the tree. 920 Transparancies by J M. Heslop East Long Beach Stake (California) Ruth J. Snowball, President 4s _ Christmas Bazaar in Long Beach Stake (California) Long Beach Fifth Ward Lovely dolls and pixies to place in the very top of the Christmas stockings are featured in this colorful booth, an example of the many outstanding displays featured at the Long Beach Fifth Ward Bazaar, December 1966. Figurines and decorated glass candle holders, wreaths of bright designs, elaborate centerpieces for tables or mantels, apron gifts and pompom gifts, and golden wall plaques, all contributed to the festive holiday bazaar. Left to right, officers of Long Beach Fifth Ward Relief Society: lcamae Giddings, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Linge, President; Jeri Cavin, First Counselor; Myrtle Baxter, Second Counselor. A Christmas Cloth of Pink and Gold JM Heslop For several years my mother had been searching for a pink, white, and gold Christmas cloth. Each year the clerks in the stores told the same tale_ "Christmas is red and green." | had gone with mother on several occasions and had heard them say, ''If the cloth is to be used in a pink and white and gold dining room, red and green will not be appropriate. You'll just have to make your own cloth." In the meantime, Christmas came and went for that year, and! Forgot about the tablecoth until the next July. Then the idea returned again and again to. My mind, and finally, | had to make the cloth. After much detailed planning, | purchased the materials: 5 yards pink felt 125 dozen pink, white, and gold _severai feet of various types 5 yards white net cut crystals (real jewelry) of gold braid 3 yards white felt | 25 dozen gold beads of various 10 dozen snap fasteners 15 yards marabou shapes and sizes several spools of nylon thread PROCEDURE | gathered my notes together, and made detailed plans, including sketches. The cloth has a pale pink felt base, absolutely plain. The rough edges all around the bottom are covered with marabou (similar to fur, but very filmy). There is no, design on the top of the table; twelve scenes (or motifs) are placed on the overlay of net that hangs down ten inches from the table top. 922 Maxine M. Curtis | made my own patterns from onionskin paper. The scenes and Transparencies of Decorative Motifs by Dorothy J. Roberts 1. Motifs are all three dimensional. For -example, a piece of white felt is used as the base for a building, with a pink door sewed on top of the white, and a gold doorknob on top of the pink door. | cut the patterns of onionskin in duplicate, marking them "'W'' for white felt, and "P" for pink felt. The duplicate patterns enabled me to retain a full set of patterns to look at while assembling the felt. There were so many small pieces | had to sew each one on as | cut it out, or the materials would have been an impossible maze of pink and white felt scraps. After the complete scene (or motif) was sewed together, | beaded it, using nylon thread, with. Every four beads tied together, so that if a thread should break, only a few beads would come loose. Nylon thread was also used for all the sewing for the cloth. After the beading was done, | sewed one part of a snap fastener on the back of the felt motif or scene. The other part of the fastener 'was pushed through the net and sewed to the felt base of the cloth. This method of attachment served five purposes: The motifs or scenes could be removed from the cloth and cleaned separately, or replaced, as might be desirable or necessary. They could be stored separately and more easily by rolling each one carefully and storing it until needed again. The scenes could be rotated or rearranged. If serving a buffet from the table only the front of the cloth would be decorated. The felt part of the cloth could be used for occasions other than Christmas. The felt scenes could be used on some _ other color, preferably white or gold. | am glad | made the beautiful cloth for my mother, for the making of it gave me much creative joy, and the cloth has become a treasure in my mother's home. 923 Christmas Transpariences by J M. Heslop Christmas Comes to the McGhie Home Zola McGhie, Member, General Board of Relief Society An exquisitely decorated mantel and a most appealing table greet visitors to the Frank McGhie home at Christmastime. Tasty, seasonal tidbits complete the welcome, without a great deal of effort on the part of the hostess at this most busy time of the year. The decoration over the fireplace consists of two artificial green garlands. Rose pink and red handmade velvet roses and tiny pink lights are fastened to the garlands. The bells on each end are made from starched lace which is molded over a handmade wooden bell mold. The mold is covered with foil. When the lace is dry, it and the foil come off and may be covered with paste in order to add sequins in any desired color. | The table is decorated with a red felt scalloped table runner, trimmed with gold braid. Flowers, holly, or other seasonal plants, attractively arranged, make 924 q Foods a colorful addition to the table setting. The flowers in the picture are red antherium, a gift from Hawaii. Some simple, yet tasty and different recipes for making ''snack"" foods are especially appreciated at Christmastime. CHEESE BALLS 3 large pkgs. Cream cheese small amount of milk or 1 pie-wedge size pkg. Blue cheese cream as needed 1 oz. Roquefort cheese -1 c. Chopped pecans garlic juice or salt to taste (optional) Let cheeses stand at room temperature until soft enough to cream together. Mix well and shape into balls, then roll in chopped pecans. Refrigerate before serving. Serve with party crackers. They keep well. (Continued on page 931) 925 A Carrousel Motif for a Bazaar > Transparancies by J M. Heslop University Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) University Ninth Ward Bazaar ""Carrousel'' Amelia S. McConkie, President, University Stake Relief Society A delightful and clever bazaar was held in the University Ninth Ward of the University Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah. Based around a carrousel theme, the event was well attended and successful. Sister Doralee D. Madsen, at that time President, University Ninth Ward Relief Society, was in charge of the event. The photographs depict the imaginative way the theme was carried out with the entire group of displays being arranged in a circular fashion beneath the tent-like top, set off with colored lights and crepe paper. A close-up of the displays shows a decorative and useful horse, of which there were several, and some of the handiwork exhibited at the bazaar. An ingenious method of entertaining the children is shown as several of them enjoy a ride on their own special carrousel. 926 San Rafael Ward, Santa Rosa Stake, California. A House of Many Roofs Berta Mae C. Peek Fragrant, spicy, old-fashioned gingerbread - and bright, colorful candies set in snowy frosting become a house of childhood's dreams-a delightful miniature Christmas fairytale house. Sweet enough to have enticed Hansel and Gretel to taste it, the house is edible right down to its foil-covered base. A gingerbread house is a holiday gift to en-. Hance any home—on the table, mantel, sideBerta Mae C. Peek and her children Cathy, Jim, and Carol board, or under the Christmas tree—sure to delight everyone from &Sparkling-eyed children to grandparents and great-aunts. One does not have to be an accomplished cake decorator to make a fancy gingerbread house. In fact, it is almost impossible to make an ugly house! | used a family recipe for my house. The following recipe makes enough gingerbread for one house in the dimensions illustrated with the pattern, but the houses can be made in any desired size by doubling the recipe or making the same recipe several times. Color Photography by Charles Peek 928 A House, of Many Roofs GINGERBREAD HOUSE 2%, c. Sifted flour 1 egg - % tsp. Cloves VY, tsp. Salt 3 tsp. Baking powder Yc. Brown sugar (packed) 1 tsp. Ginger 1 tsp. Cinnamon % c. Oil 2, ~c. Molasses Mix thoroughly and chill several hours (overnight or longer). Roll dough on an oiled piece of foil, place on cookie sheet and bake at 300° for 20 to 30 minutes. Place pattern on hot bread and cut immediately. Lift out carefully and cool on cake rack. The gingerbread should be very hard when cool, (if necessary, the pieces can be laid back on the cookie sheet and placed in the oven for five or ten minutes longer.) The roof sections will break off if the dough is not thoroughly baked. ROYAL ICING 3 egg whites (room temperature) 1 Ib. Confectioner's sugar Y, tsp, cream of tartar Beat thoroughly in mixing bowl until the icing stands in peaks, then keep the bow! Covered at all times with a damp cloth, as this icing dries quickly and becomes very hard. If decorator tips and parchment bags are used in applying, use a number 4 writing tip to draw the windows, and a number 30 tip to cover the cut edges along the sides of the house and the seams between the house and the roof. Candies (to be selected from a multitude of various colors and shapes): gumdrops, candy canes, mints, hard candies, etc. Be sure to place the decorative candies in the icing before it hardens. The house should not be frozen or stored in air-tight plastic containers or bags. Added to our annual Christmas "Cookie Carnival" Bazaar, where the accent has been on fine quality home-baked bread, cookies, and candies, our gingerbread man now has his house. The sale of houses alone has increased our gross intake from $500 to $1500 annually. PATTERN We become very excited about, cy. Our gingerbread houses when we Waa we realize these very important '"'housing"' — advantages: BACK 1. Unlike quilting and some other |2" handicraft activities, where only some of the sisters are interested and_ skillful enough to participate, almost everyone is willing to help in some way with the making of the gingerbread houses. 4" SIDE SIDE 2. There seems to be very little competition in the market for gingerbread ) ASSEMBLY houses. Few bakeries can make them, since y L BACK END 5" labor is so expensive. Using icing as "glue," 3. Gingerbread houses are timeless— assemble pieces on year after year, they are delightful gifts. ROOF 10" x ey Pag fo 4. Our ward has found them more a dl profitable time-wise, and more profitable money-wise than any other money-making }e 5" ste 5 scheme we have tried. The cost for making a house is $1.25 or less, and we sell them for $5 each. |_| SIDE 5" SIDE 5" 5. The houses are appealing to nonmember women as well as to our own Relief Society sisters. 929 Christmas Eve in the Earl S. Spafford Home (Continued from page 925) Christmas Eve 1966 in the Earl S. Spafford home, planned and conducted by the children, will be long remembered as a time of reverence and rejoicing, when the true spirit of Christmas—good will and blessings—pervaded the home and hearts of the family. The Spafford children made careful plans to combine Family Home Evening and Christmas Eve into a meaningful hour of words and music and dear companionship. The Christmas tree had been decorated more than a week earlier with chains and bells, and the mother had made the lovely pine cone wreath above the mantel. The entire program was based on the scriptural story of the birth of Jesus as recorded in the gospel of Luke. In front of the glowing fireplace and circled around the Christmas tree, following the opening prayer, the children presented a program of their own choosing. Charles. Kemp played several selections exemplifying the story of Christ and his mission on the earth. Lynn and Alan, in duet, sang a number of Christmas anthems, accompanied by Charles on the viola and Janet at the piano. The theme of the evening was beautifully expressed in Robert's reading of the Biblical account of Christmas from the majestic words of Luke: "And there were in the same country sheperds.... And lo the angel of the Lord came upon them.... And said unto them.... Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Robert had practiced the reading and his voice carried the strength and devotion of the sacred language. The children planned and served the refreshments. Honored guests were the grandmothers Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Ethel Robinson Montague. Christmas Comes to the McGhie Home (Continued from page 925) TURKEY CASSEROLE 3 tbsp. Fat or butter 3 tbsp. Soya sauce 1% c. Coarsely chopped green peppers 2 c. (or more) cooked turkey, ¥, c. Thinly sliced onions slivered, or chunks Y, c. Cornstarch 1% c. Cooked rice 2 c. Stock or chicken soup ( Heat fat or butter in fry pan. Add peppers and onion and cook slightly over low heat. Dissolve cornstarch in small amount of broth, then add to remainder. Add soya sauce to vegetables and stir until thick. Add turkey and pour over rice in casserole dish. Sprinkle with slivered almonds and heat in oven for 15 to 20 minutes at 350 degrees. 930 QUILTS FOR ALL THE FAMILY Addie Bowen of the River Heights Ward, Mount Logan Stake, Utah, has made more than three hundred quilts in thirty years. Sister Bowen has a family of six children, thirty-four grandchildren, and sixteen great-grandchildren. Each new baby has been able to claim a quilt made by Grandma Bowen. Quilts have been given as graduation, wedding, Christmas, and birthday gifts. She has made quilts for people in California, New York, Michigan, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Wyoming, as well as Idaho and Utah. Her husband served as Bishop of the River Heights Ward for ten years. Nearly every wedding reception in the ward has displayed a quilt made by Sister Bowen. She has served in various Church positions, including Relief Society President, and was a visiting teacher for many years. She is eighty years old and still enjoys the many blessings she had gained from Church activity and service to Relief Society and to others. SUGAR AND SPICE NUTS 1 c. Sugar % tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 3c. Nuts: almonds, walnuts 6 tbsp. Milk (canned or whole) and/or pecans Boil sugar, cinnamon, and milk to a very soft ball. Remove from heat and stir until creamy. Add vanilla and nuts. When nuts are coated, pour out on wax paper and separate. SEASONAL SALAD Try molding your favorite Christmas salad in red or green cone-shaped paper cups, making them into Christmas trees. 931 (~ P\ Cuna Indian Relief Society CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION Dorothy H. Brewerton, Mission Relief Society Supervisor Cuna Branch Relief Society, Cristobal, Panama. Front row, left to right: Enelda Pérez; Diocelina Martinez; Bertina Estelia Sosa. Second row, left to right: Cecelia Pérez de Galindo; Ada Hernandez; Eloisa Ferrer de Guillen, First Counselor; Rita Hernandez; Amapipi Pérez, Second Counselor. Standing at back: President Otilina Pérez de Pérez. On April 21, 1966, the first Cuna Indian Relief Society was formed in the Central American Mission at Cristobal. There are now two other Cuna Indian branches, one on the island of Ustupo, and one on the island of Carti Tupile. All three branches are eagerly organizing Relief Society work. The sisters in Cristobal are especially devoted to the visiting teaching program. They have + 932 Cuna Indian Relief Society organized a Singing Mothers group, a real accomplishment, for some of the sisters speak only the Cuna language, and others of the group are Spanish-speaking, so the songs must be learned through repetition. For a conference in Panama on May 29, 1966, every one of the sisters in the group picture came by train from Cristobal to attend the general meetings of the conference and the leadership sessions. The train fare was a real sacrifice for many of them. At left, Dorothy Brewerton, Supervisor, Central American Mission Relief Society, displays articles of handicraft prepared for leadership meeting at the conference. The display was arranged to create an interest in homemaking meetings, and in bazaars. The twenty-three articles displayed were made with very little cost, using salt boxes, ice cream cartons, bottles, scraps of cloth, cookie or cracker boxes, seeds, and feathers. Included are pot holders, wall pictures, flower vases, cradles, doll beds, slippers, oven mitts, dish towels, waste baskets, sewing kits for purses, Indian headdresses, head scarves, doll blankets, and pillows, aprons, bean bags, pads for toys, button up toy animals, hand puppets made from socks, books of ideas cut from The Relief Society Magazine, to show displays and bazaars, with ideas for homemaking meetings, and decorative features for special events. At right, Amapipi Pérez, displaying a beautiful ''mola," typical of the intricate handicraft of the Cuna Indians. It is a most beautiful and exquisite piece of work. The Relief Society motto and sego lily make a unique and cherished mola. The coloring is exquisite and the handwork expertly done. 933 Throw Down the Gauntlet Chapter 4 Janet W. Breeze Synopsis: Nancy Jackson, a ballet dance instructor and mother of two children, gives up her plans for opening a dance studio in her remodeled home, and accompanies her husband on a teaching assignment to the island of Truk. Upon arriving in Truk, the family finds that a quonset house is to be their home. Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to the hospital in Guam for the arrival of twin babies. M It was the first Sunday in October, but as Nancy sat on the edge of the bed, brushing Amy's hair and watching Skipper push the dining chairs into a train, it seemed more like a continuation of a very long, hot summer. "Sleep any better last night?" Grant asked. "A little until it rained. Then I dreamed I was taking a shower and couldn't turn the faucets off. I was pretty wet before I awakened enough to close the shut- 934 ters. Didn't you feel it?" "Oh, yes—but it's happened so often now I just squirm farther down into the sheets." "T still hate to see the beds in the living room" Grant sat down beside her. "T don't know what else we can do, though, Nancy. We couldn't sleep with that wind blowing over us all night through those open louvers. We'll just have to adapt. Ourselves to it. Maybe while you're in Guam I can talk them into remodeling the end bedroom and putting on shutters like this." "There you go again. Guam. Grant, I am not leaving you and Skipper and Amy to go to Guam!" "Nancy...." "Saipan, maybe—but Guam." "Honey, it's been three weeks | not since I wrote the Mortensens to see if you could stay with them and have the babies there. Surely, if the answer was yes, we would have heard by now." She tied a bright red bow on Amy's ponytail and then kissed her on the back of the neck. "Now, you're all pretty for Sunday School." "But who's going to see me?" Amy asked. "Heavenly Father. And_ it makes him so happy to see Amy looking her best." "T wish we had friends at Sunday School." "We will, darling—someday. Right now, let's just be thankful we have a Daddy with the Priesthood—so we can have a Sunday School!" — "But I've failed my family," Grant said softly. "No, you haven't," Nancy said. "Why should you say a thing like that?" "T gave you so many promises, Nancy, to get you to come out here. And I haven't kept the promises." "But it's not your fault, and you do enjoy your work here. I can tell. I can see it on your face when you come home at night— and when you bounce out of bed so fast in the morning. In spite of other disappointments, I really feel we did the right thing." "Honey, if I had known we'd be living like this, I never would have even considered asking you to give up our home." "So maybe I lke looking at chipped paint on the floors. It's really quite interesting, you know. Or haven't you looked at it closely?" She leaned over, touched the Throw Down the Gauntlet back of his head playfully, and pushed him toward the floor. "See there? In its day, this -floor has been dark gray, light gray, rusty red, and green. Just think of the history beneath our feet!" She raised his head, and for the first time since she had known him, there were tears in his eyes. Then he reached over and held her tightly so she couldn't look at him. "Oh, Nancy," he said, "I'm sorry. And I'm so worried about you. I say you have to go to Guam—but I don't want you to go. I want to be with you when you have the babies. Just like always." She kissed him tenderly on the forehead. "You will be, Grant." "How can you say that, Nancy? How can you even think it? There is no possible way for me to leave Truk until the end of the school year." "Have faith, Grant. It's going to be all right. Everything is going to work out—I just know it will." "But the time is getting so short, Nancy. Dr. Rogopas said you couldn't possibly stay here longer than November first. He's sure you're going to be a New Year's mother." "Let's make it December thirty-first," she said, trying to lighten his spirits. "T'welve-hundred-dollar tax deduction on twins, you know!" Amy climbed down off her chair. "Let's have music on our train," she said, and walked toward the little transistor that was perched atop the short bookcase room divider. "Let's not," Grant said. "Not 935 December 1967 on Sunday. Please." Then he turned to Nancy. "Seeing how the people live here was nothing compared to the cultural shock I got from not being able to hear anything over the radio but the Beach Boys twelve hours a day, seven days a week." "Mother wrote and asked if we had just the one station," Nancy said. "I told her, 'Of course not! Only neither one of us speaks Japanese!' " "And when I do pick up Tokyo," Grant said, "all I can get is American rock-and-roll interspersed with Japanese commercials." At this point, Skipper had pushed his chair over to stand by the bookcase. "T like Beetles!" he said, and flipped the knob. As Grant jumped to turn it off, he was stopped abruptly by a familiar, deep voice. "May peace be with you—this day, and always." Now the tears filled Nancy's eyes. "Not clear out here," she said. "Tt's not possible. How could they carry a choir broadcast?" "Tt must have been a Voice of America tape." "And we missed it!" "We'll try again next week," Grant said. "Let's have our fast meeting." Nancy and _ the children straightened the chairs, while Grant went into the kitchen to prepare the sacrament. "Having meetings at home seems natural" Nancy said. "Like another Family Home Evening." They seated themselves in a circle, and then Grant smiled 936 happily at the children. "Well, I'd certainly like to welcome you to our Sunday School and Fast Meeting," he said. "We'll open our meeting by having Mother lead us in the first verse of 'Love at Home,' after which we will ask Amy to give our opening prayer." Nancy stood in front of them. "Pitch it," she whispered. And Grant began singing in his full baritone, 'There is beauty all around...." At the close of Amy's prayer, Grant said: "Now, children, last week Mother gave you the flannel-board lesson from the one Instructor we slipped into our suitcase just before we left. And we told you that this week we would probably have your manual and visual aids. But since they still haven't come, we're going to let you give us the flannelboard lesson and see how much you can remember from last week." "Oh, goody," said Amy. "Me too," said Skipper. The children enthusiastically took turns at arranging the paper cutouts on top of the end table, while giving their own versions of the story. "That's very fine," Grant said, as they finished their discussion. "Now we'll have Mother give us our two-and-a-half minute talk, after which we will sing our sacrament song and Skipper will lead us in the sacrament gem." Nancy watched intently as her two little ones folded their arms after taking the sacrament. She thought of how she had never seen them so reverent and still. That was until Grant finished bearing his testimony. Then Amy waved her arm in the air and started pleading. "Me first, Daddy, please! I want to!" "You don't need permission to bear your testimony," Grant said. "When no one else is speaking, just stand and say what is in your heart." Amy stood on her feet and nervously looked from face to face. Then she ground her toe into the floor and began to speak. "Tm thankful for my Mother and Daddy," she said. "And that we could come to Truk and see the pretty ocean. And that we have this beautiful house to live m...." As she said the words "beautiful house," Nancy looked about her at the faded print cushions on the scarred and weathered bamboo furniture, and the first line of the opening song they had sung trickled back through her mind. When Amy had finished, Nancy rose slowly to her own feet, her eyes once again moist. "T, too, am thankful for this beautiful house in which we Throw Down the Gauntlet live," she said. "Not only is it a nicer home than those around us have, but it is made even more beautiful by the special people who live in it. And I'm very grateful that our Heavenly Father saw fit for us to come to Truk where we could have a home Sunday School, so that Amy could feel free to stand on her feet and bear her testimony for the first time. Perhaps this will be a rich field in which we all may grow." As Nancy closed her testimony, the quiet spirit of their meeting was interrupted by a knock on the door. "Who could that be?" she said. "Susan went off-island for the week end, and so did _ the Roberts." Grant opened the door and greeted a stooped and ancientlooking Trukese man holding a yellow piece of paper. "For you," he said. "District Administrator get radio dispatch." Grant thanked the man and closed the door. Then his hands began trembling as he read the unexpected message. "IT can't believe it," he said. "Tt's from the District Administrator for Education on Saipan. — He says the Mortensens gave him our letter. You can have the babies at Dr. Torres' Hospital on Saipan. And an unmarried teacher at the high school there has agreed to trade places with me here. They want us to leave on tomorrow's flight." He looked up and shouted, "Nancy—we're all going together!" "T knew it," she said. "I just knew it." (To be continued) 937 5 & yt G Lesson SPIRITUAL LIVING— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 86—The Restoration of the Keys of -the Priesthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman rejoices in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood and resolves to accomplish the duties imposed INTRODUCTION Without the Priesthood there would not be The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Although the Priesthood was restored by John the Baptist, and Peter, James, and John, it was necessary that the keys of the Priesthood be restored to direct the use of the Priesthood for salvation purposes. With the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, on March 27, 1836, a structure known as the House of the Lord was available that Priesthood keys might be given to man again. When one considers that the inhabitants of the earth were without divine authority for many centuries and, thus, they were without the 938 upon her by the restoration of the keys. Knowledge of God, the importance of restoring the Priesthood may be appreciated. (D&C 84:20.) Without the knowledge of God— that is not only the knowledge of the true God, but also the means by which a faithful man may reach his eternal destiny—the purpose of man's earth-life would be thwarted. Class Discussion How do the keys of the Priesthood affect your personal salvation? KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD RESTORED On Sunday, April 3, 1836, one week after the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, four personages appeared to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. These _ resur- rected beings were: Jesus Christ, Moses, Elias, and Elijah. One other account appears in sacred history when beings from the other side of the veil appeared for a similar purpose. During his mortal ministry, the Savior took his apostles, Peter, James, and John with him on the Mount where there appeared Moses and Elias. (Matt. 17:1-8.) For what purpose did the Savior, Moses, and Elijah meet with these apostles? President Joseph Fielding Smith provides us with this answer:.. When Moses and Elijah came to the Savior and to Peter, James, and John upon the Mount, what was their coming for? Was it just some spiritual manifestation to strengthen these three apostles? Or did they come merely to give comfort unto the Son of God in his ministry and to prepare him for his crucifixion? No! That was not the purpose. I will read it to you. The Prophet Joseph Smith has explained it as follows: "The Priesthood is everlasting. The Savior, Moses, and Elias, gave the keys to Peter, James and John, on the mount, when they were transfigured before him. The Priesthood is everlasting—without beginning of days or end of years; without father, mother, etc. If there is no change of ordinances, there is no change of Priesthood. Wherever the ordinances of the Gospel are administered, there is the Priesthood.... Christ is the Great High Priest; Adam next." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, page 158.).. The Lord preserved him [Moses], so that he could come at the proper time and restore his keys, on the heads of Peter, James, and John, who stood at the head of the dispensation of the meridian of time. He reserved Elijah from death that he might also come and bestow his keys upon the heads of Peter, James, and John and prepare them for their ministry. (Doctrines of Salvation Il:110- 111, Bruce R. McConkie, Compiler, 1955 edition, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City.) Lesson Department KIRTLAND TEMPLE FAME It was prophesied that the fame of the Kirtland Temple would spread to foreign lands and that the blessings available through that temple would be poured out upon the heads of the members of the Church (D&C 110:10.) Although this temple was repudiated by the Lord when it fell into unworthy hands, following the exodus of the saints from Kirtland, Ohio, the events of April 3, 1836, will continue to bless the lives of both member and nonmember throughout the generations. (Ibid., 124:28; 110:9.) The Savior as head of his Church upon the earth came to the Kirtland Temple to accept it as his house. (D&C 110:7.) The Church is the kingdom of God upon the earth. ([bid., 124:27-28.) JESUS CHRIST LIVES In a world gone astray from the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Latter-day Saints stand as testators to the truths restored in that gospel. Paramount above all other truths are the facts that God lives and his Only Begotten Son is the Redeemer of men. Joseph Smith and _ Oliver Cowdery saw the _ resurrected Jesus Christ in a glorified vision in the Kirtland Temple similar to the vision received by John the Revelator. (Rev. 1:12-18.) The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the 939 December 1967 brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah.... (D&C 110:1-3.) Class Discussion The Latter-day Saint who has a testimony that Jesus Christ lives should live in accordance with the principles of the gospel. JESUS OUR ADVOCATE Following the description of the Savior in the Kirtland Temple, the Lord declared that it was he who was slain for mankind, for he is "your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:4.) Man alone is neither capable nor does he have the power to save himself from sin. It is the Lord Jesus Christ who pleads the cause of repentant man before the Father. As man's Advocate, he is the spokesman, or intercessor, to bring about salvation from sin. On another occasion, the Savior instructed his Church to listen to him as the Advocate with the Father: Saying: Father, behold the sufferings and death of him who did no sin, in whom thou wast well pleased; behold the blood of thy Son which was shed, the blood of him whom thou gavest that thyself might be glorified; Wherefore, Father, spare these my brethren that believe on my name, that they may come unto me and have everlasting life. (Ibid., 45:4-5.) By reason of the redeeming sacrifice of Christ, he provides rescue from the effects of sin. Knowing that imperfect man sins, he stands with outstretched arms to all who seek for his pardoning grace. ([bid., 38:4; 62:1.) Every member of the Church should be profoundly grateful for the privilege to receive forgiveness of sins through repent- 940 ance. By entering into spiritual life through baptism, the symbol of the atonement of Christ, the member of Christ's Church need not receive additional baptisms for sins committed. (Repentance is the principle of forgiveness for those in spiritual life.) Every person in the Church needs his Advocate with the Father that he may eventually be clean to be qualified to enter God's presence. MOSES AND HIS KEYS The second personage to appear to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery was Moses, the ancient lawgiver and leader of captive Israel from Egyptian bondage. In these words his appearance and purpose are given: After this vision closed, the heavens were again opened unto us; and Moses appeared before us, and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel from the four parts of the earth, and the leading of the ten tribes from the land of the north. (D&C 110:11.) Inasmuch as the ten lost tribes are unknown to us today, we should consider that the use of the conjunction "and" in this verse separates them from the other branches of Israel who are known today; therefore, we should accept the fact that they will return from the land of the north as prophesied, when they are commanded. Among the other branches of Israel are: (1) the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh who join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, including the Lamanites (2 Nephi 30:4-6); and (2) the Jewish people who are returning to the Holy Land. Five years before the keys of the Priesthood were restored in the Kirtland Temple, the Lord promised his people that when they got to the Ohio Valley they would be endowed with power to go forth among the nations to do his work. He also promised them that he would lead them whithersoever he would, for Israel would be saved. (Ibid., 38:31-33.) SALVATION THROUGH GATHERING There are two concepts of gathering as found in the scriptures. The first is for a people to be gathered out of the world into the kingdom of God. (Rev. 18; D&C 133:4-7, 14.) The second is for those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ to gather into designated places as commanded by the Prophet. (Jbid., 29:7-9.) Later, the Saints were told to gather to holy places called stakes of Zion. (Ibid., 101: 20-22.) We are living today in the period prophesied by Nephi when members of the true Church would be scattered among the nations and armed with righteousness and power. (1 Nephi 14:14.) PURPOSES OF GATHERING ~ To be gathered into the Church provides the way of salvation. The scriptures and the modern prophets teach several major purposes for the gathering of the saints to designated places. These are: (1) to be instructed in the principles of righteousness and to be obedient to those instructions; (2) to build temples and perform temple ordinances; and (3) to escape the destruction of wars and other calamities. TO BECOME INSTRUCTED Anciently, two prophets foretold the time when Israel, in the Lesson Department last days, would gather together to learn of God's ways and to walk in his paths. (Micah 4:1-2; Isaiah 2:203.) This fundamental purpose has been taught throughout the dispensation in which we live. President John Taylor once said: We stand, then, really in an important position before God and before the world. God has called us from the world. He has told us that we are not of the world.... And you have gathered to Zion that you might be taught and instructed in the laws of life and listen to the words which emanate from God, become one people and one nation, partake of one spirit, and prepare yourselves, your progenitors and posterity for an everlasting inheritance in the celestial kingdom of God. (Journal of Discourses, John Taylor, 14:188-189.) Class Discussion Am I taking advantage of this opportunity by attending appointed Church meetings to be instructed in gospel principles and then to become one with the Lord through obedience to those principles?; TEMPLES AND GATHERING Temples are commanded to be built that the Lord may reveal to his people principles of exaltation. In these holy edifices the worthy members of the Church are instructed in the ways of God, and they learn to walk in his paths. It was the Prophet Joseph Smith who declared that the main object for the gathering of a people together in any age of the world was to build a temple to the Lord where they might be taught the way of salvation. (DHC V: 423-424.) Other modern prophets have confirmed this same fact. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 11:161-162; George A. Smith, [bid., 2:214; John Taylor, Ibid., 26:70.) 941 December 1967 Class Discussion Why do you believe that the main object of the gathering of a people is to build temples where they may learn the way of salvation? ELIAS AND HIS KEYS It is recorded that following the visitation of Moses in the Kirtland Temple, the following occurred: After this, Elias appeared, and committed the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, saying that in us and our seed all generations after us should be blessed. (D&C 110:12.) In the dispensation of the fulness of times the keys of all dispensations with their powers, authorities, rights, privileges, and covenants were to be restored. (Acts 3:19-21; Eph. 1:9-10.) Consequently, ancient prophets came to the Prophet Joseph Smith and conferred the keys of their dispensations. (D&C 128:21.) Elias, who held the keys of the Abrahamic Dispensation, conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery everything that pertained to that dispensation, including the blessings and covenants that were pronounced upon Abraham's head. (Bruce R. Mc- ' Conkie, Compiler: Doctrines of Salvation III: 127, 1956 edition, Bookcraft, Salt Lake City.) What characterized the dispensation of Abraham, or as it is called in the revelation, the gospel of Abraham? (D&C 110:12.) From the Old Testament and the Pearl of Great Price, we learn of these two promises made to Abraham (Genesis 17:1-9; Abraham 2:6-12): (1) his posterity was to be numerous; (2) through his seed the nations of the earth would be blessed by bearing the 942 Priesthood and as custodians of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With the restoration of the keys brought back to the earth by Elias, Latter-day Saints who seek the highest blessings of the gospel in the temple may receive the same promises made to Abraham. Marriage for eternity provides for the faithful the privilege to have a continuation of the seeds forever; that is the power to beget spirit offspring following the resurrection. This blessing is made possible by the covenant which the Lord made with Abraham and his seed. (D&C 132: 29-32.) When one considers that exaltation is the purpose for which God made man, and that these keys have been restored through Elias, every Latter-day Saint should be grateful that this power is again on the earth. (Moses 1:39.) ELUAH AND HIS KEYS The last personage to appear in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836, was Elijah the prophet who lived in the days of King Ahab of Israel. (I Kings 17; II Kings 2.) He was translated in a chariot of fire, but modern revelation states that he was resurrected at the time of Christ's resurrection. (D&C 133:55.) The importance of his mission in the last days was prophesied by Malachi, who declared that, before the second coming of Christ, Elijah would "turn the - heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers" (Malachi 4:4-6.) The Angel Moroni told the Prophet Joseph Smith that Elijah would restore the Priesthood, and he would plant in the hearts of the children the promises that were made with their fathers. (D&C Section 2.) If Elijah restored Priesthood keys in our day, what specifically did he restore in view of the fact that before 1836 the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were restored. (D&C 27:7-8, 12-13.) The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the answer when he said that Elijah held the key of the fulness of the Melchizedek Priesthood that all ordinances of the gospel might be administered in righteousness. (DHC VI:251; 4:211.) These powers are called the sealing powers of the Priesthood whereby all ordinances of the gospel become valid by that power (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, p. 161, 1958 edition, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah.) ELIJAH'S POWERS AND SALVATION FOR THE DEAD From the discussion above, it is evident that the keys restored by Elijah included more authority than the work of salvation for the dead. It is true, however, that the sealing powers of the Priesthood are necessary to make valid all ordinances whether for the dead or the living, but these powers also make possible a welding link between fathers and children. Fathers in the spirit world have the opportunity to hear the gospel, accept it, and then receive by proxy the ordinances of salvation in the temples. (D&C 128:18.) IMPLEMENTATION In view of the glorious events that occurred in the Kirtland (Ohio) Temple on April 3, 1836, Lesson Department every Latter-day Saint may have the opportunity to work out his salvation in this life and in the life to come. The appearance of the resurrected Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery upon that occasion attests that Jesus Christ is the resurrected Savior. The member of the Church does not have to rely only upon evidence from ancient books, but there is modern scripture to affirm his faith. Not only is this information available to him, but he may know of this truth by the power of the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, the Latterday Saint is grateful that the Lord has committed to man upon the earth certain Priesthood keys which make it possible for him to receive salvation. He may participate in missionary work and assist in the instruction of his fellow man in the way of salvation as a part of the gathering process going on in the world. Also, he may receive the promise of eternal increase in the House of the Lord whereby his exaltation. In the celestial kingdom is possible. For this intent the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored in the last days. Finally, through the sealing powers of the Priesthood returned to the earth by Elijah, the member of the Church may receive the opportunity to perform a necessary work for his kindred dead. He may also rest assured that the ordinances of the gospel in his behalf are efficacious thoughout eternity, provided that his life is lived in accordance with the terms of the covenants he has made with the Lord in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 943 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 6—Love, Intelligence, and Compassionate Service Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: Love and intelligence result in compassionate service to others. When God speaks of himself, he says his glory is intelligence. He also has told us his kingdom is based on love. May we assume, then, that intelligence and love must walk together? One without the other lacks head or heart. Jesus' dictum, "And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise" (Luke 6:31) implies that as we are thoughtful about our own needs, so we should put as much thought into the needs of those we love and serve. A fine Latter-day Saint psychologist says, '""The person who thinks about others will end up helping them." When trying to help another, we should try in our imagination to understand her life and have empathy. She is different from us. Her likes and dislikes may not be similar to ours. She may value things that we do not. Her way of doing things may appear strange to us. Yet she needs love, tenderness, affirmation, and recognition, just as we. If we study and think about how best to help, we may, in time, learn to do and say only those things that will truly benefit her, rather than of- 944 fend and alienate her. Our concern should be, do we meet her needs? Not, does she meet ours? Jesus set the great example when he said, "the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister." (Matt. 20:28.) How does one, then, minister with intelligent care? There are many things one can do. Use wisdom in choosing the time to visit. Plan what may be the most comforting or helpful words to say. During bereavement, when taking food to the family, use judgment so there is not a surfeit of food on any one day. Pray for skill so that offered help does not wound, embarrass, belittle, or weaken. At times of illness, try to learn specific food needs and tastes of the patient. Remember the sick mother needs care not only through the acute illness, but also throughout convalescence. Invalids needs care, and are often forgotten. Some become difficult, even unpleasantly demanding and are avoided. What is our obligation in such situations? Needs are many and not always of a spectacular or demand- ing nature. One busy mother who did not knit had a daughter who wanted to learn. The home teacher heard about this. The next day his wife offered her services as a knitting teacher. Training others is a fine aspect of compassionate service. We can serve in both large and small ways. As women rendering compassionate service, we should Lesson Department learn all that we can about human nature, being responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost. Let us serve with a maximum of love, tolerance, kindness, and a minimum of judging. We should pray with Solomon, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart." (I Kings 3:9.) Then our intelligent love will result in truly compassionate service. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 6—The Dining Area—The Threshold of Hospitality, Family © Communication, and Courtesy Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: To encourage mothers to create a happy atmosphere for family observance INTRODUCTION In the dining area, as in the other rooms of the house, the same rules of order and good taste apply. The same importance is attached to the application of color, the choice and arrangement of furnishings, and the use of accessories. However, the emphasis is not quite the same. The dining area is the place where the family gather in close and intimate communion with each other, presumably—and hopefully—three times daily. In many homes it is the dining area in which the family kneel in prayer together. How important it is, then, that this be a place of such pleasant, wholesome, and inviting atmosphere that its influence upon the family bears fruit. Of good manners and courtesy. The emphasis, therefore, in this discussion will be on the relationship of these principles in producing an atmosphere designed to extend hospitality, develop communication and promote habits of good manners and courtesy among family members. TO CREATE A HAPPY ATMOSPHERE Any dining area—whether it be a separate eating area, a section or nook of the kitchen, or a designated part of the living room— should be planned so as to make it the pleasant, happy place which it was meant to be: a place which radiates the spirit of warmth and inviting hospitality. However, the physical setting alone, no matter 945 December 1967 how attractive it may be, cannot guarantee a happy atmosphere. The mother establishes the tone which prevails and which is reflected in the attitudes and actions of the other members of the family. She radiates happiness by cultivating the habit of cheerfulness. She greets them with a smile and with words of encouragement and appreciation. She is clean and neat in her appearance. She has made careful preparation to see that the food she serves is pleasing to the eye as well as appetizing to the taste. She knows the importance of having the table as attractive as possible, but she also knows that the attitude and atmosphere which she establishes will determine the behavior of her family. To Discuss Does my dining area have an atmosphere conducive to family enjoyment? If the answer is in the negative, what is your responsibility? LET'S TALK IT OVER When the dining areas are put to their best use, they can provide times which serve not only for the relaxation and pleasure of the family members but also for the communication of ideas between family members themselves or be- - tween family and friends. Only items of mutual interest should be discussed so that no one may feel excluded, and arguments and personal gossip should be avoided. Family problems and troubles should not be a part of the mealtime conversation but they should be discussed elsewhere at an appropriate time and place. Every member should be made to feel that his contribution of ideas or his relating of experiences is just as important as that of 946 any other member, and that his friends—at proper intervals—are equally as welcome at the table. The Prophet Joseph in his history under the date of January 4, 1844, gives us this little glimpse into his own family life in this regard: I took dinner in the north room, and was remarking to Brother Phelps what a kind, provident wife I had,—that when I wanted a little bread and milk, she would load the table with... Many good things.. At this moment Emma came in, while Phelps, in continuation of the conversation, said, ""You must do as Bonaparte did—have a little table, just large enough for the victuals you want yourself." Mrs. Smith replied, "Mr. Smith is a bigger man than Bonaparte: he can never eat without his friends." I remarked, "That is the wisest thing I ever heard you say." (DHC VI: pp. 165-166.) TEACHING TABLE MANNERS AND COURTESY It is an undisputed fact that environment is conducive to behavior. If we cultivate an attitude of love and thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father for his many blessings and of understanding and courtesy toward each other, the atmosphere becomes charged with these attributes and they reflect themselves in the conduct of the members of our families. Instinctively, children behave according to the environment in which they find themselves. If children come toa clean attractive table, they will want to look their best. When they are greeted with love and happy smiles, they will respond in the same manner. If the parents establish and maintain a happy relationship by being courteous and kind to each other, the children will follow their example. To Discuss The Church is judged by the people it represents, missionaries, students, etc. Early in life children should be taught by precept and example, good manners, courtesy, and all facets of gracious living to prepare them to practice acceptable social behavior. We take pride in using our best linens, silver, and dishes and in displaying our treasured family heirlooms when we know that they will be appreciated and treated with respect. If we surround our children with beauty and show them the virtues of courtesy and refinement, they will respond by developing these qualities within themselves. Questions 1. How can family members express appreciation and show courtesy to the mother and to other family members (e. G., holding a chair for mother and _ sisters, expressing thanks for a delicious meal)? Lesson Department 2. What is the obligation of each individual to create a happy atmosphere at the table? CONCLUSION Make your dining room areas as suitable and as beautiful as you can. Use attractive table appointments; exhibit your best manners before and to your children. Teach them by your example what courtesy and good manners are and practice them together so that they become an habitual part of their lives. This is reward enough for the effort it takes to make our dining area the threshold of hospitality, family communication, and courtesy. SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 6—Of Thoughts and of Words Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Northern Hemisphere: Objective: INTRODUCTION For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. (Proverbs 23:7.) Speech is a mirror of the soul; as a man speaks, so is he. (An old maxim.) This lesson is based upon the ideas contained in the foregoing quotations. It discusses words as (1) they interpret our thoughts and attitudes to others, and (2) as they relate to our inner selves, creating our attitudes and motivating our actions. Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Third Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that "For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he'' (Prov. 23:7.) OUR WORLD OF WORDS We live in a world of words, all kinds of words: words that are easily pronounced, or more difficult to pronounce, long words, short words, musical-sounding, harshsounding, and_ gentle-sounding words. There are passive words, strong-action words, old, old words, new words borrowed currently from other languages, and words newly coined to express today's discovery and expanding 947 December 1967 technology, and words which have wandered through a number of languages before coming into. Our own. Whether written or spoken, words are tools for thinking as well as for communication. They can be one of our greatest assets, and, conversely, they can be a hindrance, even one of our greatest enemies. Question Do you believe that we think with words? If you do not, suggest one idea about which you can think, without the use of words. THE WRITTEN WORD Since the beginning of recorded time, the written word or symbol of word, has been of great importance. So important, in fact, that it has been spoken of as "the steward of the ages," "the carrier of light," the "historian of time." But gos are things, and a small drop of InK, Falling like dew upon a thought, produces That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think. (Don Juan, Lord Byron, Canto III, Stanza 88.) Class Involvement Discuss briefly, as illustrative of the foregoing statement: 1. God's dealings with man (as word preserved in scripture). 2. Information relative to nations and their cultures (as word-recorded secular history). 3. Written words as a channel of communication in today's world. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON WORDS Words assume more importance when we consider our dependence upon them. We define our joys, our sorrows, our problems, their solutions, our expectations, and our failures with 948 words. The radio, telephone, television, personal wills, letters, etc., even our tax and doctor bills may involve words, as well as figures. It is thus evident that the number and variety of words from which to choose, are almost limitless. It is also evident that if words are tools for expressing what we want them to express, we need to select and use those which most accurately say what we want them to say. The use of the appropriate word is especially important in human relationships, although such accuracy may be difficult to achieve since, often, we speak under pressure or excitement, or without analyzing our attitude and intent. Our words reach out beyond us, making friends, but, unfortunately, they also may make enemies. They may cause relationships already established to deteriorate, or they may be ambassadors of good will, making relationships more rewarding. Class Involvement For brief consideration use the following illustrations: Woman #1: I am sorry I said that I would not take that assignment in my civic organization job. What I meant was that I prefer another assignment more in keeping with my particular interest and ability. Woman #2: Oh, I know I said so-and-so, but I just chatter. I don't really mean half of the things I say. Questions 1. Why is Woman #1 concerned about her response to the assignment? 2. How is one to know what Woman #2 really believes? Is she being * fair to herself? Because we use words constantly in our daily living, we may overlook the fact that words do more than merely reflect our thinking and emotional attitudes. We may not consider their power to create an emotion within ourselves. Question Do the following words, written or heard in conversation, influence you emotionally? Bitter kind happy frightened horrible compassionate loving depressed ghastly disgusted Negative, critical words often are detrimental to the establishing and maintaining of happy human relationships. The following are simple illustrations: Mother #A: You look simply terrible, son, just terrible. Look at your shirttail, and your shoes. So unkempt! Mother #B: Son, I was so proud of you on Sunday. Everything about your appearance was commendable, from your hair to your shoes. I think, however, that you might tidy up a bit today. Now consider the different responses of the two sons, as illustrative of the fact that we tend to respond in the same emotional tone. Son #1: I don't care if I do, it's not Sunday. Son #2: Were you really proud, Mom? (tucking his shirttail into his trousers). I guess my shoes could really stand a shineup job today. Other situations may be suggested. Further Class Involvement Consider the following expressions of disapproval of the same statement: 1. What you said is a lie. 2. Yourstatementis really not correct. 3. Idonot believe your statement isin harmony with the known facts. Questions 1. What might be the result from each of these comments, in terms of human realtionships? 2. How may thoughts and words so condition a mother's emotion that her attitude may be as expressive as her spoken word? Lesson Department Illustration: "Mother didn't say a word, but I could tell by the way she looked what she was saying inside herself." This situation may also apply in friendto-friend relationships. EFFECT UPON ONESELF Negative, critical words may have a harmful effect upon oneself. The following incomplete sentences illustrate this type of negative thinking: I am afraid... Will happen. She makes me so mad when she.... I hate doing.... I loathe people who.... I know I shall fail when.... Tom CON Class Involvement Replace the underlined negative, actionproducing words with the following positive words: not afraid, happy, love, appreciate, succeed. LIFE ILLUSTRATION You are driving a car when another driver cuts in ahead of you. You might say, '""That stupid person, I hate people who do selfish things like that," or you might say, "That was an unwise action. He might have caused an accident. I am glad I was not driving very fast." Question How might these two reactions influence the enjoyment of the remainder of the trip? Some modern psychiatrists help their patients achieve peace of mind and emotional stability by emphasizing the fact that words may negatively affect the emotions, often causing frustrations, worry, fear, and anxiety. Why use explosive, emotion-stirring words for unimportant ideas? Why not leave them for the major crisis? OUTWARD BOUND The power of one's words to influence other lives is incalculable. The words of good and wise men 949 December 1967 throughout the ages have given encouragement, inspiration, and motivation. They are as precious cargo in a vessel, outward bound. Think of the world-wide influence for good of "The Spoken Word" of Elder Richard L. Evans, which is appreciated throughout the reading and listening radio world. Dismal and lonely, indeed, could have been the life of worldknown Helen Keller, had her thoughts remained as dark as her sightless world. But they did not. Assisted by a wise and understanding teacher, Helen's thoughts moved outward, courage-ward, faith-ward. She who could not hear the sound of a vocal word, learned the meaning of words, using them as tools to express her wisdom and love for humanity. She said that life at every stage is good; and she expressed gratitude for even her handicaps, saying that through them, she had found herself, her work, and her God. Such an attitude and such words are as a lamp to all people.: THE POWER OF THOUGHT Class Involvement Discuss, as time will permit, the ideas embraced in the following question-andanswer conversation: Speaker A: Thoughts are so fleeting and illusive. What does one do to encourage or develop good and constructive thoughts when there are so many negative, undesirable situations every where? Speaker B: Don't forget there are plenty of wonderful, beautiful, and challenging things about us also. We encourage good character-building thoughts by making wise choices, by choosing the external stimuli which encourage good thoughts. Speaker A: What, for example? Speaker B: The Church instead of the tavern. The good book instead of the mediocre, time-wasting book. Construc- 950 tive action instead of indolence. The search for praiseworthy qualities in others instead of looking for their weaknesses. The sum total of such wise choices constitutes the nourishment from which wholesome, sound, and constructive thoughts develop. Speaker A: What about delinquency and crime? Speaker B: Delinquency and crime are not the result of good, honest and wholesome thoughts and they are not accompanied by kind, clean, and constructive words. You know the scripture: Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery: But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. (Matt. 5:27-28.) Speaker A: Is it possible for a person never to have an evil, unwholesome thought? Speaker B: I do not believe it is. But you don't need to have a party and invite them to stay. HELP YOURSELF TO BEAUTY Rewarding friendships are built upon a foundation of understanding, appreciation, tolerance, and love. They are not built upon suspicion, gossip, nor criticism, as expressed in thoughts, words, and actions. There are potential friendships almost everywhere. There also is beauty everywhere, interspersed with problems to be resolved, of sorrow to be borne. There is the beauty of nature, the beauty of all human virtues, and all spiritual principle and promise, and the beauty of progress. All this to be understood, expressed, and shared through thought, word, and _ resultant action. The Latter-day Saint woman knows that we have been admonished to let virtue garnish our thoughts unceasingly. (D&C 121: 45.) The Latter-day Saint woman, therefore, is refined in her speech as well as in her actions. She knows that a sense of humor is a valuable asset, but that the offcolor story, the uncouth or vulgar remark, have no place in her life. She seeks to maintain a harmony of thought, word, and action, commensurate with her religious beliefs and standards. She believes that an individual is no higher or lower in the scale of righteousness than her thoughts are. Since her thoughts are the standard of her morality, they are the guage by which her worth to the world is measured. She can, in her mental home, entertain goodness or evil, as she sees fit. She knows that "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he." CONCLUSION William Ernest Henley authored these lines: I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul. (Invictus, Echoes IV, In Memoriam R. T. Hamilton Bruce.) We may not stay the storm, rule the hurricane, avoid the unhappy experiences of life. We canLesson Department not say, "This much of sorrow I will take and no more." But through faith we may triumph over misfortune, make of it a rewarding experience, even a blessing. And we can, in large measure, be master of our thoughts—the captain of our words. And if captain of our thoughts and words, we can become the master of our soul. For Discussion Questions in the lesson, developing most fully those areas which are most applicable to the group. FOR HOME DOING 1. Seek to increase your vocabulary through conscious 'effort. See lesson helps, also articles by Myrtle E. Henderson, Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College, (1) What Does Your Speech Reveal? The Relief Society Magazine, March 1963, pp. 184-186; (2) What Does Your Speech Reveal? The Relief Society Magazine, March 1964, pp. 216-218; (3) Let's Speak Correctly, The Relief Society Magazine, August 1965, pp. 580-581. 2. Appraise your use of words to see if your speech truly represents yourself. Help family members to know that appropriate, refined speech is a hallmark of human dignity, and a useful tool in forming all rewarding relationships. CINQUAIN Vesta N.! Fairbairn; Both bough, \' { And nest. Now, eed # Protective leavi Abandoned to Stands bare. \ °) more. > ir, the tree 951 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—''A Loving Heart"' Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3 Intelligent Family Living By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas). (Reference: Section Five) "A loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge." —Thomas Carlyle Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To show that a woman's life is refined and enhanced by Note to Class Leader the gift of genuine! Ove and affection. Musical selections with comments for Lesson 5 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. INTRODUCTORY COMMENT Love is the most universal subject of literature, as well as the great principle of the gospel. Sermons and scriptures and also thousands of novels, stories, poems, dramas, and essays have been published emphasizing the values of love and exploring its many variations—romantic love, family love, God's love, our love of God, love of truth, self-love, love of friends and_ neighbors, which point out also counterfeits of genuine love—pride, lust, and greed. One of the most important things to know about love is that it benefits the one who loves as much as the one loved. Likewise, he who hates is corroded more than he who is hated. The magic, the mystery, and the miracle of love are in the wonder of loving 952 as much as in the wonder of being loved. The section covered by this month's lesson is divided into four parts: First, Burns' "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is a beautiful description in poetry of a family united by deep love and firm parental guidance. Second, "The Parable of the Prodigal Son" is an example of parental love that is genuine and unconditional, after the manner of God's love for his children. Third, Chekhov's "The Darling" is an example of a woman's love that may at first appear admirably unselfish but, on closer analysis, is seen to be unwholesomely possessive. Fourth, a group of love lyrics is included for delight, for beauty, and for a stimulating variety of thoughts. "THE COTTER'S SATURDAY NIGHT" BY ROBERT BURNS Robert Burns (1753-1796) is probably the greatest poet Scotland ever produced, and one of the world's great song writers. In his poetry Burns was an idealist with strong faith in God and in the fundamental goodness of man. In addition to many beautiful lyrics of love and friendship and many delightful satires attractively mixing humor with sharp criticism, he also wrote several excellent narrative poems, of which "The Cotter's Saturday Night" is the most famous. This poem, describing a humble, hardworking Scottish cottager and his family during an evening at home, is the central selection of this month's lesson. Although the poem has some weaknesses (discussed in the text), its-strengths far outweigh them. Beginning with stanza 2, in rich Scottish dialect, Burns describes the humble cottager (cotter), his home, and his family. The poetry is musical and spontaneously attractive, the descriptions are vivid in realistic detail, and the whole scene is authentic and lovely. As the cold November wind blows outside, all is warm and filled with love within the cottage where family and friends gather round the small hearthfire to talk, play games, sing songs, read scripture, and pray on a Saturday evening prior to a day of rest on the Sabbath. As we move through the poem, several valuable reminders of what an ideal family relationship should be impress themselves upon us: (1) the rich joy that all family members have in each other; (2) the genuine love that so Lesson Department abundantly fills the house and binds the family together (remember the words of the familiar song: "There is beauty all around when there's love at home...."); (3) the strong family unity with the mother and the father at the head; (4) the concern of each family member for the welfare of all the others, including the neighbors; (5) the working of the children to help contribute to the needs of the family, with each family member, including both parents and children, having a sense of duty and obedience; (6) a sincere joy of living, but an abiding seriousness, too; (7) the deep religious feeling of the whole family, led by the father, who recognizes his responsibility to study the scriptures with his children and to build character in them; (8) the interest and concern when it is discovered that Jenny has a boyfriend, and the desire to unite him with the family rather than have Jenny and her suitor separate from the family for their entertainment; (9) the conclusion of the evening with Bible reading, the singing of hymns, and, finally, the kneeling of the family in prayer as they simply but movingly speak. To God in "the language of the soul" (stanza 17). Even after the gathering has ended, the father and mother continue close to God and to each other as they kneel in private prayer (stanza 18), thanking God for all their blessings and asking him "in the way His wisdom sees the best" to provide for themselves and for their little ones. The poet has created for all the world a model family bound together by love and religion—all 953. December 1967 things simple and genuine, far removed from outward show and ceremony, which Burns scorned so much. The poem is a beautiful portrayal of the ideal that parents should be affectionate and tenderly loving in all their relationships with each other and with their children, even in times when firm discipline is necessary. The poem is too long to be printed here and will need to be studied from the text, but one stanza will suggest its qualities as the father reminds his children of their responsibilities when working away from home: Their master's an' their mistress's command, The younkers! A' are warnéd to obey; An' mind their labours wi' an eydent? Hand, An' ne'er, tho' out o' sight, to jauk® or play: And O! Be sure to fear the Lord alway, An' mind your duty, duly, morn an' night! Lest in temptation's path ye gang astray, Implore His counsel and assisting might: They never sought in vain that sought the Lord aright! THE PARABLE OF THE PRODIGAL SON (Luke 15:11-32) The greatest, wisest, most skillful teacher the world has ever known was, Jesus Christ, and it is significant that he taught many of his most memorable lessons through short stories, or parables. He knew the power of the parable to dramatize truth, implant it vividly in the mind and heart, and make it a living force in the lives of his listeners. Because the Parable of the lyoungsters 2diligent 3trifle 954 HAWAII Celebrate Christmas or New Years in Hawaii 10 days for only $275 includes jet transportation (from the coast), hotels, lei, transfers, etc. Write for other Hawaii tours 1968. (Write for Rose Bowl Parade Tour) BARNES WORLD TRAVEL AGENCY i' 105 East 3rd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 359-3291 Prodigal Son explores some serious family problems and sensitive family relationships relating to love, we have included it here for study. The story is generally simple and self-explanatory, but several points need analysis. First, note that the younger or "prodigal" son has both good and bad qualities. Obviously, he has sinned seriously, wasting his money on riotous living, including (if we can believe the elder brother) 'squandering it on harlots. Apparently his. Repentance is not as admirable as it could be. For one thing, it-comes only in desperation after he has lost all his money and is starving. Even when he does return to his home, he is motivated, at least in part, by selfish thoughts of what he can get out of his father. Certainly he is not altogether ad- Lesson Department SINGING MOTHER'S ARRANGEMENTS Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide—Madsen @ Bridge Builder Come Come Ye Saints—Madsen @ Gloria @ Glory to God In Thy Form—Madsen @ Lord, Hear Our Prayer Lord's Prayer—Robertson @® Omnipotence O Home Beloved Where- 'er I Wander—Madsen O Savior Hear Me @ Prayer of a Prophet Prayerful Hour @ Thanks Be to Thee—Madsen When Children Pray @ WRITE FOR OUR NEW CHORAL CATALOG Geriro Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ORDERS FILLED THE SAME DAY WE RECEIVE THE ORDER mirable. But he does return. And he is at least partly sincere in his repentance. He does confess his sins and acknowledge his unworthiness, and he does humble himself before his father and before God. He has at least started along the road of redemption. The elder brother also has both good and bad qualities. On the positive side, for years he has obediently lived the commandments of the family, and for vears he has worked hard and faithfully on the family farm. But his attitudes are not as they should be. He shows anger and jealousy, and he is unforgiving towards his brother. Moreover, in his relations with his father he seems to feel that love is a thing to be bought. More important than what happens to either of the sons, so far as the message of this story is concerned, is the attitude of the father. He beautifully displays what Jesus taught in another brief parable immediately preceding this one. (See the Parable of the Lost Sheep, Luke 15:4-7.) Both of these parables illustrate the nature of true love. Love, genuine love, unconditional love, divine love, is a gift that is not dependent on the worthiness of those who are loved. A father or mother does not stop loving a child—at least should not—because the child betrays a trust or turns out to be different from what the parents desire. The child who strays or otherwise sins is loved no less than the one who remains faithful, and the faithful one should rejoice over the repentance of the one who has sinned, not resent him as does the 955 December 1967 older brother in this parable. That is, as God has set the pattern in love for his children, so should be the relationships one to another of all of us who are his children. "THE DARLING" BY ANTON CHEKHOV William Blake once wrote a little poem called "The Clod and the Pebble" in which he described two opposite kinds of love: Love seeketh not itself to please, Nor for itself hath any care, But for another gives its ease, And builds a Heaven in Hell's despair." So sang a little Clod of Clay Trodden with the cattle's feet, But a Pebble of the brook Warbled out these metres meet: "Love seeketh only self to please, To bind another to its delight, Joys in another's loss of ease, And builds a Hell in Heaven's despite. This little poem is quoted to remind us that so-called love may be of many kinds, and not all kinds are beautiful and admirable. There are such counterfeit emotions as lust, greed, jealousy, passion, possessiveness, which are perversions of true love. Ideal love involves unselfishness and unity, but as children of God we also need to maintain a dignity of individual personality. Marriage is a union of souls, but not a loss of personal identity, and not a sacrifice of oneself to the extent that if death comes to the marriage partner, one's total personality and purpose die also. Thus we come to the third selection in this month's lesson— "The Darling" by Anton Chekhov (1860-1906), one of Russia's great writers. The story is a character study of a woman whose life displays many unselfish qualities of love, but it becomes so self- 956 ROSE PARADE TOURS Via San Diego Via San Francisco Dec.26 - Jan.2 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 sacrificing, possessive, and smothering that it is unhealthy. This story is too long to be printed here and will need to be studied in the text, but a few questions will focus attention on the problems it explores: 1. Does obedience to the authority of one's husband mean total subservience to his personality? 2. When Christ said, "He that loses his life shall find it," what did he mean? A GARLAND OF LOVE LYRICS The fourth section in this month's lesson is a sampling of love lyrics. From the thousands of lyric poems reflecting all facets of love's variety, examples have been selected illustrating the delight, the beauty, the idealism, and the stimulating thoughtrichness of the world's heritage of love poetry, for love is indeed "a many-splendored thing." Some have been set to music, and others are beloved the world over as folk poems. Still others may not be so familiar but are attractive through the crisp freshness of their thought. SONNET 116 by William Shakespeare (1564-1616) Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove. Oh no! It is an ever-fixéd mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken. It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken. Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Lesson Department Within his bending sickle's compass come. Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom. If this be error, and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved. "BELIEVE ME, IF ALL THOSE ENDEARING YOUNG CHARMS" by Thomas Moore (1779-1852) Believe me, if all those endearing young charrns, Which I gaze on so fondly today, Were to change by tomorrow, and fleet in my arms, like fairy gifts fading away, Thou wouldst still be adored, as this moment thou art, Let thy loveliness fade as it will, And around the dear ruin each wish of my heart Would intwine itself verdantly still. FROM "A BIRTHDAY" by Christina Rossetti (1830-1894) My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an _ apple-tree Whose boughs are bent with thickset fruit; My heart is like a rainbow shell That paddles in a halcyon sea; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me. "OUTWITTED" by Edwin Markham (1852-1940) He drew a circle that shut me out— Heretic, rebel, a thing to flout. But Love and I had the wit to win: We drew a circle that took him in! "FAULTS" by Sara Teasdale (1884-1933) They came to tell your faults to me, They named them over one by one; I laughed aloud when they were done, I knew them all so well before; — Oh, they were blind, too blind to see Your faults had made me love you more. RITES IOS TES IES VS SSIS iS 957 December 1967 SHALL WE BE LIFTED UP? Clara Horne Park Great books are those that contain the best materials on which the human mind can work in order to gain insight, understanding, and wisdom. A well-known philosopher and writer referred to great books as "'the books that never have to be written again." Their beauty and clarity show that they are masterpieces and they remain as world literature. Great books "'are the ones men everywhere turn to again and again throughout their lives." They are often said to be over our heads. That is why they are good for us. Only things that are "over our heads" can lift us up. So, if we want our humility, our ability, and our strength improved, let us study the scriptures and be lifted up. For only things that are over our heads can lift us up. CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Warehouse Near 45th South and Interstate 15 + MEXICO v2 * HPWAIL ver + ROSE PARADE * EUROPE -ure. 1968. S980 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR For all travel and ticketing arrangements RET Soi wey Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "Twentyfive Inexpensive Handcraft Projects." DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 328-898; 571-03 Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Logan 245-6584 Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Mesa 964-5283 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. 958 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah,» y ZIM S Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10—12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 ""Wist Ye Not that I Must Be About My Father's Business?"' at 9 Whee bay Mas informative account of the Passover + pine ts bon. And a valuable addition to any home WITT SOOTY library. $2.00 All prices include federal tax, All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 program. "Mle th te i ae ae $2.00 Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and_ highly 100. Mrs. Caroline King Pringle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah 99 Mrs. Martha Patterson Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Hyrum, Utah 98 Mrs. Elizabeth Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lottie Hancey Broadbent Ogden, Utah, 97 Mrs. Katie Holiday Cragun Portland, Oregon Mrs. Minnie Kartchner Stratton Snowflake, Arizona 96 Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Price, Utah 95 Mrs. Sarah Lisonbee Kimball Hamilton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Ogden, Utah 94 Mrs. Anna Mary Ball Frewin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho 93 Mrs. Armitta Peterson Clark Orem, Utah 92 Mrs. Mary Anne Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah 960 Mrs. Lillian Yates Evans Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna Marie Anderson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Stallings Sargent Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maria Martin Young Kemmerer, Wyoming 91 Miss Ellen Copley Coalville, Utah Miss Emma F. Duncan San Dimas, California Mrs. Winifred Glover Goates Lehi, Utah Mrs. Lousia Jane Foss Williams North Anson, Maine 90 Mrs. Ida Burgener Alder Midway, Utah Mrs. Nellie Hammond Dwyer Fallon, Navada Mrs. Martha Yates Garrard Lake Point, Utah Mrs. La Nora Moeller Griffin Turlock, California Mrs. Annie May Taylor Guest Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Veda Quist Hughes Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nikoline Isaksen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ada Morrow Jenkins Midvale, Utah Mrs. Mary Matilda Maughan Hollywood, California Mrs. Mildred Boshard Moore Los Angeles, Californa Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lettie A. Stephenson Stevens Salt Lake City, Utah MAN MAY KNOW FOR HIMSELF Teachings of President David 0. McKay $4 95 To know God and his Son, Jesus Christ, is the key to eternal life and exaltation. That man may know God and Jesus Christ for himself is the message of this important book compiled from the sermons and writings of David 0. McKay by his secretary, Clare Middlemiss. T Deseret Boo ook 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA SINCE CUMORAH by Hugh W. Nibley $4.95 Here is a dynamic and challenging new book by one of the Church's foremost scholars. Dr. Nibley pursues clues with the intensity of a true detective and the skill of an experienced academic researcher. Both talents combine to provide the fascinating proof he offers of the authenticity of the Book of Mormon, as confirmed by ancient documents and other evidences that have been unearthed.. Since Cumorah. Ee 2 er Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me the following books: Total amount of purchase $................. To include 3%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax for Calif. Residents ordering from Orange. Enclosed check ( ); money order (_ ). Or, charge my established account (_ ). | WOULD LIKE TO OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT — SEND ME INFORMATION ( ) Check R. S. Dec. 67 The happy smiling faces that peer out at you from our U and I Sugar Express can be either recipe below... Lollipops or Cookies... Decorated any way you please. CANDY LOLLIPOPS 3 cups gronulated U and | Sugar 2/3 cup water 1 cup light corn syrup 1/4 teaspoon salt 4 teaspoons raspberry extract (or other fruit flavor) 4 to 5 drops food coloring lollipop sticks Combine sugar, water, syrup, salt in top of double boiler. Place over moderate heat, stirring constantly until sugar dissolves. Boil to 290° or soft crack stage. Remove from heat. Cool to 220°. Add extract and food coloring. Place over very hot water. Arrange lollipop sticks on buttered cookie sheets. Drop enough candy from tip of teaspoon onto each stick toform 1-14" lollipops. Cool. Wrap in squares of waxed paper. Store in airtight container. Yield: 3 dozen lollipops. In your meals suggests this recipe from Sugarplum Land to add an exciting flair to your summer entertaining. LOLLIPOP FACE COOKIES Drop teaspoonfuls of favorite drop cookies (such as oatmeal or chocolate chip) 2" apart on greased cookie sheet. Make faces with raisins, candied cherries, or bits of dates. Use coconut for hair. Place a 4" paper straw, or a lollipop stick, into side of each cookie. Bake at 375° 10 - 15 minutes. Party note: For Ice Cream Flowerpots, fill colorful paper drinking cups, or cup-shaped cones, with ice cream. Sprinkle tops with colored sugar, orchocolate shot. Freeze until firm. Insert lollipop into each 'flowerpot'. Add green gumdrop leaves. Serve immediately. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U & I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah a
