The Relief Society Magazine JANUARY 1970 @ As the opening year of a new decade approaches we send greetings to our beloved sisters in all the world. We rejoice with you in the blessings which flow down from heaven upon the sisters, and the blessings which attend the work of Relief Society. At the beginning of a New Year, as is the custom, we examine the prospects for the success of Relief Society activities. We pause to appraise the needs of the sisters in this exciting, wonderful dispensation with its sublime and breathtaking accomplishments. We are fully cognizant ot the wickedness and evil rampant in the world and endeavor to make Relief Society a bulwark for the sisters and for the guiding of their families in withstanding the unrighteous temptations of the world. Just the same, we know the privilege of having been born into the world at this time. The daughters of God are vital to his work in these latter days. Never have the prospects been brighter for enlarged membership, greater activity by more sisters, more opportunities for spiritual and cultural advancement. Never has the need for Relief Society been more evident. The sisters need the companionship of other sisters with like ideals, the strength of a great God-given organization upon which to depend. Never has the influence of Relief Society been more widespread, more accepted by others. Never have the women of the Church had more opportunity to provide the example of righteous living, proper family relationships, happy, well-cared-for homes, and refining pursuits. Never have education materials been more abundant, more helpful for application to living. Never has there been more work to do, more opportunities for service. The lonely and benighted souls of many call to Relief Society for help. Never has there been greater need for women strong in the faith— dedicated, devoted women to carry the yoke of the Lord. Look back, sisters. Let the past be the foundation for the present, the preparation for the future. Give past experience full credit for its achievements. "... Ye shall henceforth return no more that way." (Deut. 17:16.) Look up, sisters. Fasten your eyes upon Relief Society now!"... Ye have not passed this way heretofore." (Jos. 3:4.) Do not let your veneration for the past rob you of fullest participation and enjoyment of Relief Society now. Relief Society is fulfilling its destiny. We are seeing the prophecies as to its growth coming to pass. May this New Year carry us farther along the way. Affectionately, General Presidency sagen ome aes Pins ily the te Conversion ich, the account of Which 4Ppears Uatemala " Since our home » this wit) be Most Spiritual and br Y Je, ' Nn, with it autiful Pictures is and Ss completely Caught yu inm ancy and h 4 most enjoyable "ID with Sist Jensen. The elief Society Magazine has been a Source o Strength and joy to me for Many years. Relief Society Magazine. It is always ted PPreciate the ContribuAnita Davis, Provo, Utah | Cannot express enough all m Stimonie. Betty y. Embleton, Needles, California 800d to know © Building influence of the Church is with us. Makes me aS a Relie¢ Society Member feel war an SPpy. | wis everyone could read the Material in the Magazine It could help in ev i ily and me. E ays. | consider aBazine 3 blessing and would | e to express my Sratefulness to Sister S e [ i a, u and our four Children are here jn the East, Where jt isa little More of a Challenge in ome Ways to live the Church Standards. It isa Comfort to have such help as The Relief Socie Y Magazj; e. Moved fro is, New Mexico, and while my husbang is at Clark AFB in the Philippines trying to Make arrangements for our housing,! Will be living here. T;:; 3: ich ended Marriage. The Relief Society iN Clovis is the 9 its stren h. Ere are Many lovely Sisters jn Clovis a8 azine here in Oregon 4nd hope to € sisters jn the Philippines Th S days, - 'Manks for the a8 azine that truly June lL. Moore, Klamath Falls, o, 'on a Arizona, for introducing me to the unter for his inspiring article. ABazine ang for being th, The | Relief Society Magazine volume 57 January 1970 Number 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 1 Happy New Year 1970 4 Responsibility of Relief Society Women Joseph Fielding Smith 7 The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood Mark E. Petersen 22 ~The National Foundation—March of Dimes George P. Voss 30 Binding the Magazine Jennie R. Scott Fiction 12 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 1 Hazel K. Todd 24 ~The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk Maryhale Woolsey 43 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 2 From Near and Far 19 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 20 = Editorial—''A Little Lower Than the Angels'' Marianne C. Sharp 48 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 80 _— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 29 A Thought for the New Year Mary C. Clough 33 Remembering Annie C. Esplin 34 Quick Mixes of Your Own Joyce L. Jones 37 Always Set a Good Table Betty Jan Murphy 38 Testimony Meeting Anna Kivekas 40 He Fixed It Himself Cora Hill Arnold 41 Hobby Features—Clara Shipley and Grace Ferris 42 Words for the New Year From a Ward Relief Society President Ruth Osman Lesson Department 57. Spiritual Living—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions Roy W. Doxey 63 Visiting Teacher Message—True Conversion Alice Colton Smith 65. Homemaking—"'Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed..."". Celestia J. Taylor 67 Social Relations—Purpose and Reward Alberta H. Christensen 72 Cultural Refinement—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure Bruce B. Clark Poetry 6 Not Where | Serve, But How, Lettice O. Rich; 11 The Poet, Ruth G. Rothe; 22 Apples of Gold, Nona H. Brown; 23 By Beauty Awed, Linnie Fisher Robinson; 29 Sky Wings, Betty W. Madsen; 32 The Rhyme and the Reason, Iris W. Schow; 33 A Sprig of Green Alice Brady Myers; 37 Thoughts of An Earth-bound Wife, Leanor J. Brown; 42 A Miniature Loaf of Bread, Beulah Huish Sadleir; 64 Tomorrow's Embryo, Margaret B. Shomaker; 71 Lessons, Dorothy J. Roberts; 76 Mood, Theodora Graham; 77 Full Cycle, Kathryn Kay; 78 Chilc, My Child, Leora Larsen. The Cover: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, Transparency by Hal Rumel, Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press e Frontispiece: A Pattern of Boughs and Branches, Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Studios ® Art Layout: Dick Scopes e Illustrations: Mary Scopes Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©)1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18; 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. of Relief Society Women President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] w My dear sisters, here we are again at another conference and where the time has gone, I do not know. I see a few brethren in the audience, and I am sure that we welcome them at this gathering. You know I am a member of the Relief Society because I am one of their advisors, along with Brother Lee and Brother Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, so you will have to put up with me, but we are very happy to be a part of this great and glorious organization. You wonderful women are doing a marvelous work and are to be congratulated on the results, and all I ask is for you good sisters to be true and faithful and magnify your callings in this wonderful organization. Now I think it would be proper for me to give some instructions taken from the Prophet Joseph Smith's writings because sometimes we forget what our duties are, so with the help of the Lord 4 and your faith and prayers, I shall give to you some of the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and while I mention the Prophet, let me add that President McKay sends his love and blessings to you sisters and he appreciates the work that you are doing. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "... Some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies [are members of this society] and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; and will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice. "Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness.... We feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated." I am interested in this Society., as was the Prophet Joseph Smith, that its rules must be observed; that none should be received into it but those who are worthy and virtuous. "There must be decision of character aside from sympathy. When instructed, we must obey that voice, observe the laws of the kingdom of God, that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us. All must act in concert, or nothing can be done.... It was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, 'Come up higher.' " The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of delivering the keys of the priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the saints whose integrity had been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord for blessings and receive the answer. President Heber J. Grant once said that his heart was full of gratitude to his Heavenly Father "for the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of Relief Society who are doing and always have done so much for the comfort and encouragement of those less fortunate than themselves.... May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel and all who are engaged in building up the kingdom of God on the earth. May the peace and blessings of Responsibility of Relief Society Women heaven abide in your homes and be upon you and your loved ones now and forever." The sisters should always "concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers.... "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence... If we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure, as He is pure.... "You need not be teasing your husbands because of their deeds, but let the weight of your innocence, kindness and affection be felt, which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, purity—these are the things that should magnify you in the eyes of all good men... If this Society listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have 5 January 1970 power to command queens in their midst." I would like to quote some poetry that I think fits many of us. It is entitled "Where Shall I Work Today?" Master, where shall I work today? My love flowed warm and free. He pointed out a tiny spot And said, tend that for me.. I answered quickly, oh no, not there, Not any one could see No matter how well my work was done; Not that little spot for me. When he spoke he was not stern, But he answered me tenderly, Little one, search that heart of thine; Are you working for them or for me? Nazareth was just a little place And so was Galilee. Iam sure we all could take this to heart and do better in our work and not try to be aspiring but be humble in all we undertake to do. I think I have quoted this before: "Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness.... "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward; don't envy the finery and fleeting show of sinners, for they are in a miserable situation; but as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a short time God will-destroy them, if they will not. Repent.... "Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion." I hope and pray that I have given you something today that will strengthen your testimonies and help you to go through life, and to realize the importance of your callings in this great organization. And may the Lord bless you good sisters and magnify you, and I leave my blessings with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. Chee NOT WHERE | SERVE, BUT HOW | do not seek high honor or position, | do not ask to plan or chart the way, For some are called to lead, and some to follow, And all are blessed who serve him day by day. Not where | serve, but how, is all important— How diligent | work in his employ. | do not ask to lead, just to follow The charted course to God's eternal joy. —Lettice O. Rich The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1969] ® The priesthood is the divinely established foundation of a happy home life and the Lord is willing to give its blessings to every worthy family. The priesthood can begin to bless each family as it comes to understand and live the gospel of Christ, whether such a family is a newly converted one in the mission field or whether it has been in the Church for generations. It is especially emphasized in the ordinances of the temple. When we understand the facts of our inspired religion and see temple marriage in its true perspective, we recognize this holy ordinance as the foundation of genuine success in family living. It is the base on which we build true happiness in this life and exaltation in the life to come. It is an assurance to each family of the presence of the priesthood in the home and, when properly understood, it opens the door to righteous, God-fearing living as nothing else can. And when the gospel is thus lived, allits resultant blessings are assured. That is truly when the windows of heaven are opened and such blessings are poured out upon us that we can hardly contain them. In our sacred temples the blessings of heaven are bestowed upon the truly faithful and from that holy place they may be carried into our individual homes for the building of stronger family life and more tender, more sacred relationships between husband and wife. The blessings of the priestly ordinances of the temple are the same for men and women alike. There is no difference. In our marriage, when the sealing blessings are conferred, they are given to the man and the woman equally. January 1970 The covenants of obedience administered through the gospel again are the same for both men and women. There is no difference. We do not have two standards in the Church. And the promised _ blessings are likewise the same. When the Lord tells the obedient that he will open the windows of heaven and pour out such blessings that they can hardly be contained does he segregate these blessings and send some to men and others to women? God is no respecter of persons. So when a young couple, for example, begin their married life in the temple of God, they jointly and together enter into the same covenants under the priesthood and receive the same promises of divine beneficence. When they take this priesthood with them into their newly made homes, what does it mean? It actually means bringing God's power there—his covenant to bless that home—and his power to protect and build and sanctify it—his healing influence in times of illness—his inspiration in teaching little ones—his sanctifying influence which can make each home a temple—a place of refuge—a tabernacle of peace. When a home such as this is established, it is more than a residence where a family may eat and sleep and park the car. It is the beginning of an eternal relationship in which a family is bound together forever. Stop for a moment and contemplate this: Husbands and wives are sealed for eternity—and by what? The holy priesthood. 8 Children are sealed to their parents through life, death, and the resurrection. And by what power? The priesthood. When little ones become ill— by what power are they blessed and healed within the walls of their own home? It is the power of the priesthood. And if death invades the family circle, by what eternal power are loved ones held to that family circle until the time of a joyful reunion in the hereafter? It is the power of the priesthood. Every phase of family life is touched by the power of the priesthood if we live the gospel. The rules of family living in such homes are in harmony with the priestly standards God has given us by his divinely authorized servants. Homes thus become' sanctuaries of divine where family prayers are held under the influence of the priesthood; where games are played and songs are sung in a wholesome atmosphere fostered by the priesthood. Every child, like a tender plant, may be guided and influenced and taught the ways of righteousness under the influence of the priesthood. The strength of purity and the debilitating effect of sin, may be contrasted under the light of the priesthood. The Word of Wisdom is loved; chastity is made the moral watchword; honesty is an undeviating standard—all under the influence of the priesthood. Spirituality comes into its own in such a family circle. There can be no true joy without God. A testimony of his great reality can come to everyone in a home instruction — such as this because God is a part His influence is there. His Joy, his peace, his deep satisfactions, his prosperity, his protection, his radiated intelligence serving as 4 light to our minds, all are there. And as little ones grow UP and receive the blessings of the priesthood themselves, We see a continued extension of God's holy power, generation after generation, until in very deed we become an holy nation, a peculiar people showing forth the praises of him who has called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Should we not then strive to bring the powet of the priesthood into every home and honor that priesthood throughout our lives? The priesthood is defined as f God transmitted to not make that power and its divine influence a tain it by proper ordination and also honor and magnify it? And should not each mother, this divine power conferred on husband, son, father or brother? And why should wife or mother or daughter thus honor that priesthood? Because the priesthood in the home, properly regarded, has a sanctifying influence, and every wife, mother, and daughter will be blessed through the spirit of peace which it provides. Where the priesthood is properly understood and honored and where its influence there will be no family quarrels, The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood no disrupted homes, no deception, no infidelity, and no divorce. Rather there will be harmony and joy: Is notChrist the Prince of Peace, and is not the priesthood his? Is it not truly that which is after the holy order of the Son of God? Then let us all seek to bring it into our homes and recognize in it the source of peace and happtness. So, sisters, encourage your husbands to magnify the priesthood and to act properly in the office to which they have been called. Teach your sons to look forward to the day of their ordination that they, too, may understand its true significance and also honor it. Encourage your husbands to preside with dignity in your homes. Recognize them priestly presidents of the family. It will pay you great dividends in harmony in the home. Them to b patriarchs you would like them to be. Peace comes from God. He is its only sourceYour husbands, like you yourselves, are servants of God. The power they have obtained throu gh ordination 15 the key to peace. You sisters help that key to turn and unlock the blessings 9 heaven for your home. Do it by honoring God's priesthood yourselves and encouraging your husChurch. It is regrettable indeed that some men dishonor their priesthood and they do so in many 9 January 1970 ways. It does not appear only in criminal acts of which a few are guilty, not only in being unchaste, dishonest, or even in apostasy from the Church. But in other ways it occurs more frequently. For example, there are few more unmanly habits than the exercise of cruelty in the home, discourtesy to wife or children on the part of a husband or father who may assume that he is the dictator of the home and that "the king can do no wrong." Some men try to increase their own importance by belittling their wives and children, even before other people, making them appear as second class or inferior citizens. Such disrespect can only lead to resentment and many other troubles, and in extreme cases even to divorce. Just as no unclean thing may enter the kingdom of heaven, likewise no unkind person will ever enter there. We merit admittance to that realm only through our humility and sincere obedience to the laws of Christ who loved little children and treated all wom- €n—even sinners—with respect. It is he who is the Prince of Peace, and _ his peace includes peace in the home. It is he who taught us to be kind to one another and that also includes the home. He taught forgiveness, tolerance, patience, and longsuffering, all of which are at their best when exercised in the home. Do you suppose that anyone can enter his presence without those basic attributes? And yet such violations are almost habitual in some homes. As brethren create such circum- 10 stances in the home by their own selfishness or short-sightedness, they dishonor and desecrate the priesthood which they bear. Violations of God'slaws in secret are nevertheless infractions of his commandments, and the fact that they may occur within the four walls of a home and not in public does not lessen their Seriousness in any degree. Some men present a pious appearance in public, but in their homes behave just the opposite. Such men in a most hypocritical manner dishonor the priesthood. And God _ despises hypocrites, Not only should men be kind to their wives and children and treat them with loving consideration, but by their own example they must teach their sons to do likewise. Respect for womankind is an integral part of honoring the priesthood. Since the priesthood is actually after the order of the Son of God, the attributes of the Son of God should characterize all those who belong to that order. We must remember That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. (D&C 121:36-37.) It is a good thing to read in our homes as we teach our sons and our husbands some of their re- sponsibilities with respect to the priesthood. But when that heavenly power is recognized for what it truly is and is respected by parents and children alike, it can bring to every family joy unspeakable in this life and a continuation of the family ties throughout all eternity. The home in a sense is like a miniature branch of the Church. The program of the Church should prevail and the priesthood should preside there in love and righteousness, and love and harmony should exist among all present. The gospel should be taught there even more effectively than anywhere else. And this should be done in a relaxed atmosphere. It is in such circumstances that children learn to love and enjoy the gospel, but let us remember that they will obey the gospel only as they enjoy it. We recognize that there are circumstances in many families which deprive them of the daily presence of the priesthood in the home. In some instances, fathers are not members of the Church. In others, husbands. And fathers have passed away. And then we have many good women who have not as yet found the opportunity for a proper marriage. The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood But even in these families the powers of the priesthood may be enjoyed.; Faithful wives and mothers may teach their children to pray and to believe and live the gospel. All of our sisters may call for the ministration of their bishops who are fathers of the entire ward. These sisters should also have the ministration of their home teachers, whose influence may be felt continually, not only in their frequent priestly visits, but in their constant nearness and availability to all the homes of the ward or the branch. These brethren may be called upon to bless in time of need. They may counsel and give advice. No family in the Church need go without the inspired guidance of the priesthood of God. So let us recognize the priesthood, then, for what it is—the power of God given to us in this mortal life. And let us remember its purpose—to bless and guide and exalt, and to assure every home of God's omnipresence, not only through the power of his Holy Spirit, but likewise through the physical presence of his duly ordained servants. And for this I humbly pray in the sacred name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. THE POET | Using his: artist's touch, Ruth G. Rothe He shapes each word, each phrase, | Blending and shading with intricate care, | That through his craft, * i The beauty he has learned, i Will be preserved for all the world to share. 11 Chapter 1 Sp ends Jerusha turned to the boy and curiously but pleasantly looked him up and down from his straggly mop of red hair, his freckled nose, soiled shirt; and holey overalls, to his bare brown feet. "I'm afraid that's right, Johnny," she said brightly. "It's been sputtering and grumbling for a week now." "My name's not Johnny. It's Dennis," the boy said. Then he offered in dead seriousness, "But if you said your prayers, it might go." An amused smile spread over Jerusha's softly wrinkled face. "You don't say!" she ejaculated. "We always say special prayers when things happen that're bad." Jerusha pulled the hood of the car down with finality as if this would be the last time and turned again to the boy. "I'm afraid it would take more than a prayer to make this jalopy go, but thanks anyway. You see a mechanic back two days ago told me Behemoth's days were about over." "Is Behemoth your car?" "Yep," Jerusha said, "and we've been together a long time." And she gazed reminiscently at the hulk of car. Then, as though to put it behind her, she added, "But there always has to come an end to everything, Dennis. And you have to start over doing something else. New starts, that's what life is made of." "Are you going to call your husband to come and get you?" Dennis asked. "Don't have any husband," Jerusha said. "Never had any de- "ce ~ sire for one of those kinds of things." "Well, how you gonna' get home then?" 13 | re a | a January 1970 Jerusha padded over to the gate and looked at Dennis over her round-rimmed glasses. "I don't rightly know," she said, smiling a crinkly smile down at him. "Don't rightly know if I want to, especially since it's about two thousand miles from here." Dennis looked very concerned. "You see I got tired of staying there anyway. It was time that came to an end, too. That's why Behemoth and me started out across the country." "You could stay with us tonight," Dennis said. "You could sleep on the couch." Jerusha looked appraisingly into the boy's honest upturned face. "I'm afraid your mother wouldn't like you to bring home an old highway tramp," she said with a wink. "But we don't have any mother," Dennis said, "she died. There's just Suzey and Joe and Amy and my dad and me—and Skeeter," he added, patting the dog who wagged his tail appreciatively. For a minute Jerusha continued to look at the boy. She noted with new interest the long unkempt hair, the soiled shirt, and the gaping holes in the knees of his overalls. And then she said suddenly, "Well, thanks, partner. I am right grateful to you. My name is Jerusha."' She put out her hand and shook his through the wire. Then she turned to the ancient vehicle resting placidly on the road. "But we'd better get this pile of junk off the highway. Do you think you could give me a hand? We'll just push it off to the side where it will be out of the way until something better can be done about it." 14 "Sure," Dennis said and set his jar of loot down carefully on the grass. Jerusha's eyes rested on the bottle. "What in the world have you got in your bottle?" she asked. "Grasshoppers." "Grasshoppers? Mercy sakes alive, what are you doing with a bottle of grasshoppers?" she asked with a wry face. Dennis shrugged. "Just fun to catch 'em." And then he added brightly, "I'll give them to the ducks though. They like 'em." So, with some tugging and pushing and a few sharp yaps from Skeeter standing by wagging his tail anxiously, the old car slid over the side of the road grade into a patch of sunflowers. There were a few creaks and bangs. A hub cap fell off with a clatter into some rocks and rolled away down the borrow pit. "Well, that's that,' Jerusha said, brushing her hands together and wiping them on a large handkerchief she pulled from' her skirt pocket. "And now, let's go home." She leaned down and picked up the old-fashioned suitcase she had extracted from Behemoth before they sent it packing. "This is pretty heavy, but maybe we can manage together," she said. Dennis shut the gate behind them and picked up the bottle. "I'm real strong," he said, squeezing his free hand onto the suitcase handle beside Jerusha's. "I carry the milk buckets into the house all the time, while Joe feeds the cows." "I'm glad to hear that," Jerusha said. Then they made their way up the lane to the house, lugging the case between them, while Skeeter trotted along at the side sniffing here and there at unseen surprises hidden in the weeds and grass. When they set the suitcase down to rest, Dennis threw a stick to show Jerusha how Skeeter could run and bring it back. The house was a rambling cottage with a promising picture window, but the white paint was dull and somewhat smudged. And the criss-cross curtains at the window looked tired and wilted like a last hot summer day. A few straggling rosebushes ran wild about an unkempt flower bed that was smothered with grass and dandelions. A weary white picket fence with a gate hanging on one hinge separated the house and yard from the barn and out buildings. Along the fence tangled a growth of ragged bachelor's buttons in helter skelter arrangement, bespeaking their self-seeding origin. Jerusha set down her half of the suitcase and dented her finger into her cheek thoughtfully while Dennis looked at her questioningly and set his half down, too. "Are you tired, Jerusha?"' he asked. "I can carry it the rest of the way." But she caught his hand and twined her fingers with his. "Just a minute, Dennis," she said philosophically, "I'm not tired. It's your house that's tired. It needs a new start." He looked at her as if to ask, "How could a house get tired?" But just then the door opened and a girl, probably two years older than Dennis, came out carrying a black and white kitten. Jerusha Spends the Night She wore a blue denim skirt which suggested she was growing too fast and a boy's shirt. Her chestnut hair was pulled back into a pony tail and tied with a red ribbon. She stopped when she saw them and dropped the kitten 'to the ground. Her gaze went from Dennis to Jerusha with questioning brown eyes long lashed and striking. "Where have you been?" she asked the boy. "You missed Primary. Your teacher called to see what happened to you." Dennis caught his breath and bit his hp in disappointment. "Darn it!" he said, "I forgot, and we were going to make birdhouses. Why didn't you call me, Suzey? I was just catching grasshoppers down by the road." Suzey shrugged. '"Howd I know? But she said you could come over after supper and she'd help you get yours started." Jerusha listened with interest. Then she prompted Dennis, "I guess you'd better tell Suzey where you found me," she said quite casually as though she might have been another grasshopper or something he had picked up on the ditchbank. "Well, this here's Jerusha," he said. "Her car broke down, and I told her she could stay with us tonight." Jerusha chose to ignore the look of surprise on the girl's face. She just arranged the lines in her face into a soft friendly smile and picked up the suitcase. "Don't worry about it, Suzey," she said, quite at home, starting for the door. "It's not like I was real company, you know. Maybe I can give you a hand with something inside." 15 January 1970 ed a Placed jt Stack of Newspapers, And then She Spotted the little gir] crouched behind 4 big chair. She anket. The child 84Zed up at erusha ith €, timid eyes, urls Were alOusled as the doll's, Her It was Pinned Over er hand to uch the Shinin head, but the little girl] dropped € doll ang blanket and went Itting across th floor, like some Moonbeam slipping behind 4 cloud, to dis Pear into a door Way to Some other Part of the Window at the gj Presume you have a Pare, Your father Must be Coming 16 800d when I cam In," Jerusha Said. "Now I'm ondering if We couldn't just Slip j a few anish dy Plings," She gave an centerpiece for the With a quick striqg € spoke to he Ousehold, Change their UZey who was filling the 8lasses Ives and her life with ew beginwith milk his eyes Were on nings. It h Come about SO eas €rusha, « > Suz," he Said ily. On that orning when 'Ppantly, "wh t' 80Ing on here Dennis brought In the two Pails anyway?" of foam milk, he d nd Suzey Shrugged, and Without Jerusha bustling about the kit. Answering, looked at Jerusha €Xchen Cooking breakfast. Pectantly, "Where's Suzey?" he asked. Erusha turned and Opened "She has to take care of the of 80lden brown biscuits. "We "T told her to Sleep awhile this just thought we'd doa little Spemorning " Jerusha Said. "Young Cia] tonig ' »" she Said Then, girls Suzey' need a lot of Pulled the from the Oven with the bot les ¢ ] put in the 4 Swish, " W as quickly ag you re Tigerator for fam ly use and can get rea Y, this food Should how to Strain the rest Into the € eaten b fore it Sets cold." arge milk ¢ N so Joe Could set it One left Over. Litt] peered from hi face h his arm while at her furtively fro around her e Instructed her, ather Where had he Ped her "W. 0 cuts your hair?" Jer, ha Onto a sto 1 erusha Smiled at asked. Er and € ever tiny a Wink, "Oh, so etimes Y dad and ut Am dr her head back Sometimes he ¢ kes me to th quickly, arber when he don't have time," Mr. Wilson's eyes went round "Did the ducks like Your grass. The table. They Came to rest upon hoppers?" ennis, "Son, Will you Please "Haven't done jt yet," Dennis Say the blessing?" he said. Said, "J went over to my teachennis OWed his ead and er's ¢ t my bj dhouse last Olered his Simp e thanks and supnight," Plicatio A €n, with What erusha listeneg h Interest Must have emed a fitting after- 'Td like to watch the duc S When Ought t; dde "And You give them thos varmints " January 1970 she said. "And Id like to see your birdhouse, too." Dennis gave her a quick grin. "Sure, Jerusha, after breakfast." Then Joe came in, walking with a quick stride. He stopped suddenly when he saw Jerusha, and a slight shadow crossed his face, but she paid no attention to it. He said nothing to Jerusha even though her face shone with friendliness. He turned to Dennis. "Where's Suz?" he demanded. "She's sleeping in," Dennis replied without concern. "Well, I'll get her up," Joe remarked authoritatively, striding across the kitchen floor. Then, through the window, Jerusha saw Paul coming with a shovel over his shoulder. He stopped and leaned it against the house, and she hurried to start the pancakes cooking. With her back to the open door she felt him watching her. She faced him pleasantly and naturally as though she had always been there and flipped over a pancake. "Good morning," she said, "I suppose you have already worked up a big appetite. I made a lot just to make sure." He smiled, a little confused, his eyes on the platter of eggs and bacon, and then he said apologetically, 'This is right nice of you to help out like this. Suzey does pretty well, but we kind of forget what it's like to have a grownup hand doing the cooking." "Tm right happy to oblige, Mr. Wilson," Jerusha said and flipped another pancake. One by one the places filled up at the table. Dennis almost knocked his chair over trying to seat himself with his eyes on the stack of pancakes. Joe sat with a 18 glum stare at the table, and he gave Suzey a black look when she slipped into her chair just in time. Then Amy came tripping in, still wearing her nightgown. She started for her father, and then with a sidelong glance at Jerusha, she detoured around the other side of the table. Paul stood up and quietly looked at Jerusha. "We always have a family prayer together before breakfast," he said. "We'd be happy if you'd like to kneel with us." Quick to oblige, Jerusha's eyes ~ rested on her first acquaintance. "Dennis said you were quite accustomed to praying," she remarked straight forwardly,"and I guess I don't know too much about it, but I'd be right happy to join you." Spry as one half her age, she bent her knees and reached down to straighten her skirt. As she did so, her eyes met Amy's peeping at her under the table. The little girl quickly dropped her head onto her arms on the chair seat. Jerusha had a great longing to reach out her hand and touch the child's head _ reassuringly. But under the table was not quite the place to begin her conquest, especially if Amy should decide to scramble away from her. Paul offered the prayer for the family, remembering each member's welfare. He asked for blessings for friends and relatives and the welfare of the Church and its leaders, after giving thanks. And then he mentioned the family's guest. It brought about a peculiar twinge inside Jerusha, so that she felt she would like to shake his hand in friendship. (to be continued) families. The thriving business NOW pro. College Station, in East Europe to Meet their foreign Arkansas, for her iNspirational leadership, Counterparts Genera} friendliness was and "her Vision and Courage jn dealing demonstrated, and enthusiasm for With Causes," and Particulary for "bring. The Potentiaj role of women in help. Ing Pride into the lives Of the towns. Ing to achieve better World for tomor. People," and for €Ncouraging and teaching TOW were the main themes of discussion, r vote. Miss Pegey Carey of Long Beach, Calif. € General Assembly o the Uniteg nia, has been 4PPointed the new house. Nations, She is the Second woman to be keeper at the White House Washington SO honoreq. The first Was Vijaya Lakshmij:: q M India. Years of hotel €xperience to the White Mrs. Ray Kirklana, Bountiful, Utah, has ae, House and is aking a leave of absence become One of twen y OCiates of the from her Present job 4S regiona| Super Photographic Society of America for Visory housekeeper with the S €raton 9, and has reaped Many other honors ote] Orporat IN her fielg Mrs. Dorene Johnson, an eMployee at Hill Rache| Carson, Who before her death, Air Force Base, Ogden, Utah, is the Only cer. USed her Splendid Writing talent to arouse tified woman radiographer iN the Uniteg: inion h ' ' e ly been honored by the renaming of 4 ous (if not handled Correctly) iridium 192 Wild-life Sanctuary on © coast of radioisotope, She takes X-ray Pictures— aine, It is NOw the Rachel Carson and interprets them—of the INSides of Nationa| Wild-Life Refuge. Airplanes to detect any possible faults, EDITORIAL / "'A Little Lower Than the Angels" @ At the end of a day or in wakeful moments in the night is often a time for evaluation. Alone with one's thoughts, the events of the day just gone may pass in review, and many events may appear in a new light from a different angle. Then the hurt look on the face of a child, the withdrawal of understanding of a friend may come back to plague one. ''Oh, why did | say that? What good did that remark do?'' persist in the mind of the reviewer. All such thoughts lead back to what is the most important aspect of life, and we hear again the question of the lawyer, ''Master, which is the great commandment in the law?"' and the Lord's answer, ''Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,. And with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.'' (Matt. 22:36-39.) And so one applies these words once again to a given situation and the events of a day. Was it as important to rush downtown to consider some purchase as to take Mary to the park, such as had been promised to her in a general way, so many times? Should one have taken the time to visit with lonely Sister Hall on the phone instead of completing the chapter in that book? When the question persists as to the relative importance of things or people, certainly and surely there is borne in upon one the answer—people are of the first importance in this world. Christ gave his life for the inhabitants of this world. He died that all might live again, but also he spent his life teaching people, doing good to them, reprimanding them, helping them, healing them, showVolume 57 January 1970 Number 1: THE GENERAL BOARD y Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer — | i ing them the way. He is the great Exemplar. He even taught '*... Do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you.'' (Matt. 5:44.) He pointed out the example of the Father in sending rain on the just and the unjust. It helps in daily living to arrive at the conclusion. That people are of the first importance. When one is young and able to be independent, life pretty much centers around one's own person, but the passing of years reveals slowly but inexorably one's dependence upon others —dear ones and friends. Friends come to mean more and the tried and true are increasingly valued. The storms and vicissitudes, sorrows, and tribulations beat upon one's life. The time for waiting comes— waiting for someone to help, waiting for needed assistance, even waiting for understanding. How fortunate the older individual who has young relatives, young friends who have learned the importance of people and respond to one's needs in willingness and joy. ''It is more blessed to give than to receive' might be termed the wellspring of those who bless others. Today while life remains is the time to live the axiom ''People are important." In Psalms we read ''What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour." One does well to serve one's fellow man and lift him up, for his destiny is glorious. —M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Fanny S. Kienitz Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth B. Winters Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron - Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore GIVE to the The National Foundation George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations When we embarked on this program in 1958, the prospect of conquering birth defects seemed as unlikely as did the chance of wiping out polio in 1938. We won that fight, and, with your help, we think we can win this one. Scientists supported by the Foundation have already recorded significant advances. Academic and pharmaceutical researchers have also developed vaccines against Rh disease and against rubella. If properly developed over the next two decades, they can wipe out major congenital birth defects. In addition to participating directly in efforts to see that these new weapons are maximally employed, the March of Dimes has embarked on intensive prenatal care and educational programs to reduce the incidence of birth defects associated with prematurity and to reduce infant mortality. Prevention of birth defects is at last becoming a reality, as medical science discovers answers that will spare heartache to countless families. Today the March of Dimes maintains 111 Birth Defects Centers throughout the United States, supports vital research into causes, cures, and prevention, conducts intensive programs in professional and public health education, and fosters community recognition of the need for prenatal care as a safeguard for the health of future generations. APPLES OF GOLD "A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver" (Proverbs 25:11) Like apples of gold in bright pictures of silver Are words fitly spoken, we are told. Some words said to me | have treasured and cherished Far more than mere silver or gold. Kind words, said in love, can strengthen and gladden, Encourage and comfort and bless. Lord, grant me the wisdom to make my words fitting In all of the thoughts | express. —Nona H. Brown 22 firs have pierced the snow that fell, As if straining to meet some call. T the hours have passed on that third day, While he who labored saw it face to face; = —-: His love was hovering as now, When God looked down upon this place. PHOTOGRAPH BY HAROLD M. LAMBERT #@ The summer my brother Bill was fifteen he got his first "regular" job, delivering groceries for the town co-op. "A man-size job, boy," Papa told him. "But if you work hard, doing your very best, you'll handle it fine." And Mama said, _echolike, "Sure you will, Bill. You can do fine all the time, just doing your best." He started next morning, brisk and confident in new striped coveralls, straw hat, and brightly shined shoes. With a jaunty, "Well, see you tonight!" he emerged from his clustered family and walked away down the road with firm, steady steps. "Good going, Bill!" Mama called at last. Her smile seemed to me different somehow—sort of tight, and her eyes held worry. I wondered why.... The J Delicious Fried Banana Stalk Maryhale Woolsey In due time Bill reached his first payday. We were all gathered on the small front porch waiting for him; watching him come swaggering up the walk, wearing an ear-to-ear grin and holding his left hand high, waving a little blue oblong of paper towards us. His first pay check! All of us kids, from me down to Freddie and Katie, had been counting the days —almost like before Christmas— waiting to see this wonder. But what, I thought suddenly, was that funny thing he carried over his right shoulder? It looked like a lanky, brown, leafless little tree. Oh, it was—of all things—a banana stalk, with all the bananas gone. "What's the trophy for?" Papa asked. "I thought when I first saw it, it was a set of antlers; thought you might have been splurging already." "Not me," Bill said. "Didn't I promise to bring my first pay check home so you could all see it? And when I cash it, most of the money is going right into a good old savings account in the bank—for high school this fall, just like I've said all along." The grin was gone and Bill's expression was one of sober earnestness. He rubbed his chin with the back of the hand still holding the check. As if, I thought, he was feeling the fuzz on his chin grown longer since morning. Then he added, "This is a—uh—a bonus, folks. First time the newest employee ever got one right along with his first pay, Hank Burton told me." He marched on, through the sitting room into the kitchen, with all of us trailing after him. We gathered around, watching him lay the banana stalk on Mama's work table. It made a small thud as it turned over when he let go of it. I looked up and saw Mama and Papa looking queerly at each other. "But—whatever is Mama asked. "It's to eat," Bill said. "Fried —like eggplant, Mama. Something new for supper," Bill finished proudly. "F-fried—?"' Mama's voice was faint. "I never in my life...." Papa spoke up. "Tell us more about this—uh—bonus, son. Did Hank Burton give it to you, himself?" "Why... Why, no. He just was the first one to congrad— con-grat-ulate me, Papa. He gave it for?" The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk me such a whacking thump on my back, he almost knocked me _ over, and said to me, 'Kid, you're doing okay, aren't you! A whole month's pay, and a bonus the first clatter out of the box.' And he showed me where it was hanging up, right there by my hat, by the back door. And all the others— just about everybody, Papa, came around to me and congratulated me. Even Mr. Lonney—the boss, you know." Bill paused as if out of breath, and the grin—a sort of remembering grin—spread across his face again. "And...?" Papa questioned. "Well... Just like Mama, I didn't know about cooking banana stalks. I didn't know they were good for anything—and I told Hank that. And he said where had I been all my life, and he told me, 'Why, you eat 'em, kid. You sure your mother hasn't fed 'em to you sometimes, without you knowing?' " Bill paused, his eyes remembering. "I said I guessed I'd know a long thin crooked thing like a banana stalk, any time. And then Hank said heck, it won't look like that when it's all cooked, because it's in little slices. Sliced and parboiled and dipped in egg and crumbs and then fried, allee samee eggplant; see? And if we folks at our house 'hadn't ever tasted delicious fried banana stalk, well, we've really been missing some treats. I asked him if you salt and pepper it, and he said oh, sure, of course. And then—he offered to help me carry it home, but I said I could do that all right myself. And I said thank you, Hank.... And— and that's all, I guess. You can cook it—part of it, I mean, tonight, Mama, can't you?" 25 January 1970 "T'll try, Bill, though I must say, I never in my whole life knew of anybody cooking banana stalk." "Oh, that's all right, Mama. I guess there's lots of things we never heard of, out here in the sticks," Bill said reasonably. "Did you ever know anybody cooking oysters on a half a shell, either? I bet not. Well, I read in a book once, about folks in a real swell hotel ordering oysters on a half a shell; it was in New York or someplace grand like that. I guess we can try fried banana stalk, can't we?" Mama shook her head, looking doubtfully into his earnest gaze. "A banana stalk is just wood, Bill dear. Wood isn't to eat." "Look, Mama, just because we haven't ever tried it, does that prove anything? Look, it's my bonus. I earned it by being an extra-good worker. If I go slice it, now, you will cook it, won't you, Mama? Please!" Bill coaxed. "Of course she will," Papa said. His voice was sort of choked up. "You go right out and slice it. Use my small saw, if you need to, and I'll get the fire going good and hot, and some water ready to parboil it. Bill is right, Mama. He earned that bonus, and the least we can do is be willing to try his—uh—something new to eat." Mama nodded. "You're right, dear, Bill, too. Go ahead, Bill, cut a good batch of slices, and I'll do my best to cook them right." Happy again, Bill shouldered his banana stalk and went out back to the summer kitchen. Mama said to Papa, in a low but indignant tone, "That Hank Burton! He—he ought to be 26 spanked. Bill's so innocent, so trusting." "Never mind, dear. He'll live through it, you'll see. I'll go bring in some wood." Freddie and Jimmy followed him out. Something in their voices puzzled me. But Katie was calling me from the sitting room. I was supposed to be helping her make a new dress for her favorite doll. I went to her, and for the next half-hour she kept me busy, but over her chatter I kept hearing Bill's peculiar tuneless whistle, punctuated with little jerks and swells and pauses that measured his exertions as he worked. I heard, too, the clatter of kettles and pans as Mama got things out, preparing to start cooking. And when Papa came in and dumped an armful of wood into the woodbox, I caught some words he said to Mama: "Better see we have plenty of stuff to go with our fried banana stalk, Lib." "That's what I was thinking, too," Mama responded. "I'm starting a chocolate cake. That will make a good ending, no matter what else...." Katie said, "I'm tired of sewing now. I'm going out and run and YUM. Can." I wandered back into the kitchen. "Can I set the table now, Mama?" "It's kind of early, but I guess not too. Yes, go ahead, dear." I breathed a big sigh of relief. Setting the table was the one way I could be sure of remaining in the kitchen—and that was something I wanted terribly to do. I wanted to see what was going to happen; something was, I felt sure. All that looking at each other, the way Mama and Papa looked, had made me excited and eager and, yes, a little bit afraid. What was so queer about a banana stalk? I dawdled over the table setting, placing the plates and the knives and forks and drinking glasses with such meticulous attention to spacing, that Mama might have wondered and questioned me, if she hadn't been so busy. Bill was back presently, with a milk pan full of dark drippy rounds about an inch thick, I guess; they were a kind of dark mustard color with darker streaks in them. "IT washed 'em, Mama, so they're all ready to start the cooking. Gee... You making chocolate cake, too? That's fine, Mama." She slipped the cake pans into the oven, then dumped the banana stalk slices into her big kettle where water was already boiling. "I wonder how long they need to parboil... Did Hank say anything about that?" "No, but—well, you stick a fork in potatoes and things, don't you —to tell when they're cooked? I should think...." "IT guess so,' Mama _ said hastily. She began fixing creamed leftover potatoes and peas, and sliced some ham. Bill stuck by her, wanting to help, but mostly getting in her way—until she thought of letting him beat the eggs and roll dried crumbs for the "egg and crumb dip." On the platter they looked good. I guess you could fry sagebrush chips and they'd look all right, I mean the egg and crumb coating would look good! But in our mouths—well, one by one we removed the woody flavorless The Delicious Fried Banana Stalk chunks and placed them at the edges of our plates, that is, after eating the egg and crumb coating off them; that was edible, all right. Bill's face got longer and longer. "Do you s'pose they needed to parboil more? Hank ought to have told me, if they take a long, long time," he puzzled. "That Hank!" Mama said. And gently, "Ill betcha he's pulling your leg, Bill. I mean, it's his idea of a joke." "They do things like that to kids just starting on first jobs, you know," Papa explained. "The main thing is, don't let the jokes make you feel bad. You'll have your chances, you know, to turn the laughs around onto him, sometime." "Oh," said Bill. His face seemed to crumple a little. He left the table without finishing his applesauce, but he left not a crumb of his chocolate cake. Al day Sunday Bill went around with a silent, closed-in look; even through Sunday School he wore it. Mama worried. "I don't want he should get his feelings hurt too bad, this first job," I heard her tell Papa, low, when Bill had gone to bed extra early. "Maybe I had better go to town in the morning, first thing. Maybe if they see me in the store, they won't rub it in as much." "Maybe you should,' Papa agreed. "It would make you feel better, that's sure. "Bout time to lay in some more ham and flour, anyway, isn't it?" "Washday will be late," Mama frowned, "but it will be in a good cause." 27 - Mama was right on hand to our Bill come out on top. All the while she was getting dinner, she a over to Bill and said, quite loud, you like your —Jack, you never saw a straighter face in your life!—and he said, ourse Papa dropped down into his chair «py be doggoned. Jumping Jupiter, but matched Mama's and Papas youd eyes And 1! Knew tha prother Bill was suddenly some one to b prow of—and all at A: Thought for the New Year Mary C. Clough w The Christmas lights have gone out and are being taken down one by one. There must have been millions of them in this city alone, decorating buildings, streets, and trees, and we won't see their cheery, twinkling lights until the next Christmas season. There are countless lights in the sky that twinkle and shine from season to season with such unchanging certainty that they have been used for centuries for directional guidance. There are also human lights, millions of them around the world, that light the way for others. Some of them will fade out before an other year Is through. Will yours? SKY WINGS Over the still trees where the last light clings, Unfolded in a feathering design Of silver brushed on blue, of widened wings, Clouds lift above the city's darkening line. Look skyward, you who walk the evening street; Heaven is painted there for you to find.. Look up from traffic and the print of feet; Never a night So holy as this one. Watching the wave of wings across the sky, Though shadow-bound, |, too, can almost fly---- —Betty W. Madsen PHOTOGRAPH BY LUOMA PHOTOS 29 Choose Order not Chaos now where On which Shelf Te ch by nine-inch ] Painting) Were also USed fo together With one of the following: Binding the Magazine MANILA FOLDER BOx A heavy Weight 9", 12' folder reinforced With Pieces of Poster "manila folder (used fo r Paper may }, Step 1 center index tab, Opening Spread » Tule horizonta] v,"', a', and 1 " 2° 'ule vertica| lin t along dotted Jj 0 and another In the middle of the front a Pipe cleaner around the fastener heads to hold The Completed box May be cCOvere Paper, if desired.; also displayed, as 2 (zippered School-book bag). Play of bindin a interest to the gj 31 the Home PHOTOGRAPH 8Y WILLARD LUCE THE RHYME AND THE REASON The battered truck crept up the interstate Packed firmly as a good hard cabbage head With shabby household goods securely bound To place by well-tied cords. No item visible in all that load Of tired necessities but stood in need Of renovation or to be discarded; Each cried its tale of hapless poverty. The flimsy, battered cots that squared the sides Along the load, disclosed their knocks and rust. The occupants, attuned to the slow jog, The gaunt, worn woman and the long-faced man, Passed by with heed for nothing but their route. Then, tightly fastened on the very back To be the last impression the load left, A tarnished sprinkling can, spout slightly bent, Proclaimed the dauntless owner's warm intent That flowers would burst like reason and like rhyme To bloom wherever one gaunt woman went. —Iris W. Schow | Annie C. Esplin @ Although many years have passed since I was in my childhood home, there remains a certain something, even now, which enfolds me like a delightfully warm and comforting cloak. It is the priceless sense of security, love and faith our parents conveyed to us throughout their lives. How blessed we were to have such parents at the helm of our happy domain! One especially precious memory is the heartwarming manner in which my father prayed. I have a clear vision of father, mother, and us children, kneeling in morning and evening prayer. The room was always tidy and clean. Firelight flickered, embracing the walls of the room and its occupants. Which served to create a pleasant atmosphere like a benediction. Father approached our Heavenly Father with simplicity and love, quiet grace, and firm, unyielding faith. Always, first to be expressed were humble thanks for manifold blessings he bestowed upon us. Some never-to-be-forgotten phrases were these: "We thank thee for the light of the gospel, for thy servants, for each other.... Help us so to order our lives that we will be worthy of exaltation in thy presence. Fill our minds so full of good that evil cannot enter. Wilt thou temper the elements for our good.... Help us to live busy useful lives and overcome our weaknesses.... Forgive us for our shortcomings and take the lead of our thoughts, words, and actions. Bless the Authorities of our Church, our missionaries in the field; comfort the heartsof those who mourn. Let thy kind protecting care and guidance abide with us this night." I humbly bow my head, remembering. A SPRIG OF GREEN Just give me a little sprig of green That | may weave it in between The twilight hour and the purple dark— Between layers of winter preceeding the lark. A philodendron cutting will do, Its slender leaf spear reaching through Step and sheath in an endless chain— Reaching, and leafing and reaching again. | do not ask for blossoms of red Or flowering pink in a window bed. Leaf green is enough to urge me on In faith through the shadows before the dawn. —Alice Brady Myers 33 Quick Mixes of Your Own ee ee ~~ ™ ~~ "> —~ 3 } ™ = _. ' a ~~ e. —, a - = 7. ' + = » =. Joyce L. J bien @ Many of the prepared mixes which we find on the grocer's shelves today had their beginning in the kitchen of yesterday's homemaker. In the hurry-scurry pace of today's activity, many homemakers have turned to the prepared mixes as a time-saver. However, the time saved is not always in proportion to the additional cost of the prepared mixes. By using a small amount of time on a less busy day, the homemaker can mix several of her own prepared mixes for use when time is at a premium. Some of my favorite mixes and recipes for their use follow. WHITE SAUCE MIX 2 c. Dry milk (regular, not instant) lc. Sifted flour 1 c. Margarine Cut in margarine until crumbly. Store in covered container in refrigerator. WHITE SAUCE Place measured amount of mix in saucepan. Gradually stir in water, cooking over low heat, stirring constantly. Flavor with salt and pepper. Thin: Yc. Mix 1 c. Water Medium: %c. Mix lc. Water Thick: %c. Mix 1 c. Water POTATOES AU GRATIN 2 c. Cooked potatoes (cooled and cubed) % to 1 c. Cubed cheese 1 c. Prepared white sauce mix Layer potatoes, cubed cheese, and white sauce mix alternately in a 1-quart greased casserole. Bake at 350° until heated through and cheese begins to melt. CREAMED TUNA 2 c. Prepared white sauce 1 can tuna 1 c. Cooked peas (drained) grated onion pimento Combine ingredients, heat and serve over hot biscuits. 34 BISCUIT MIX 8c. Sifted flour Y% c. Double-action baking powder 4 tsp. Salt 1% c. Shortening Sift baking powder and salt with 2 cups of flour into a large mixing bowl. Add remaining 6 cups of flour. Stir. Drop shortening by spoonfuls on top of flour mixture. Cut in shortening with mixer at low speed till mixture looks like coarse meal. Store in covered container. Makes about 11 cups (2% Ibs.) Do not refrigerate. Will keep 6 to 8 weeks in your cupboard. Recipe may be doubled. Mix in large roasting pan. Biscuit mix may be used in any recipes calling for commercial biscuit mix. Oi IF BISCUITS 2% c. Homemade biscuit mix 7% c. Milk Stir milk into biscuit mix. (Mixture should be soft.) Turn onto pastry cloth or board, dusted with biscuit mix. Knead gently 2 or 3 strokes. Pat or roll out %" thick. Cut with floured cutter. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet, 425°, 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 12 to 15 biscuits. PANCAKES 2 eggs, beaten 1 bsp. Sugar Cc. Milk c homemade biscuit mix A Sugar and milk to 8S. Stir in bis Cuit mix. X only unti thor, ghly dam ened. Bake hot riddle. T N when to bubbles Start to break. €s about 16 Medium-size Pancakes. 1 tbsp. Chopped 8reen Pepper (Optional) C. Cooked Mashed Potatoes 2% © Chopped celery or Carrots 2 tbsp. Melted butter NDeaten e tsp Pepper % tsp. Salt 3. Lve. €round beef tsp. Salt Ove S€parately ake ] recipe biscuj dough and rol| OUt into Square. Spread each Mixture on dough ginning with 1, th N 2, and 3. Form a roll ang bak hot oven (400° for ] Our and Minute Serve hot With tomato sa Cc. Homemade biscuit mix 1 tbsp. Butter or Substitute Y% ¢. Seedless raisins or ch a od Chopped Walnuts tbsp, Sugar tbsp. Cinnamon Mix first ingredients blendeg. Tur Onto flour, together until board Or pas. Quick Mixes of Your Own 4% c. Sy 4 tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Sog c. Shortening Mix dry N8redients together. Drop Short Ening o top by Poonfuls. Blend at low Speed of mixer — tit) even| blended: Scrape sj S and bottom of bow! Requent| 0 no refrigerate Cookie Mix will p 6 eeks jn your Cupboard To €asure, Poon lightly Into Measuring P, level th Spatula f Weather S umps orm, stir with fork befo, €asuring PEANUT BUTTERNUTS 3 ¢ homemade Okie mix a os (Packed) brown Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla eggs v2 ©, Chunk Style Peanut butter Heat Oven to 3750 © all ifigregi ents, Stirring Until wel] bli d Drop by ©aspoontu|s Out 114" art on un &reased co kie Sheet, py, SS flat with tines of fork dipped in floy Bake at 375° about ] Minutes, until brown Remove at onc to rack to coo} Makes 1 bsp. Milk 1% tsp. Vanill €gg % ¢. Chopped nuts lic (6 oz. Pkg.) SEMi-sweet Chocolate Pieces Heat oven to 375 °. Mix first 4 ingredients by hand Or electric Mixer until SMooth and 35 fluffy. Stir; | January 1970 DATE CLUSTERS 3 c. Homemade cookie mix 1% tsp. Vanilla 1 egg lc. Cut-up dates Y c. Chopped nuts Yq c. (packed) brown sugar Heat oven to 375°. Mix first 3 ingredients by hand or electric mixer until smooth and fluffy. Mix together dates, nuts, and brown sugar; stir into batter. Drop by small spoonfuls about 1" apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 375° for 10 to 12 minutes until light brown. Remove at once to rack to cool. Makes 4% to 5 dozen. CAKE MIX 8 c. Sifted cake flour 5 c. Sugar Y% c. Double-acting baking power 4 tsp. Salt 2. C. Shortening Mix dry ingredients. Drop shortening by spoonfuls onto dry ingredients. Blend at low speed of electric mixer or cut in with pastry blender till consistency of corn meal, scraping bowl and beaters frequently. Makes 14 cups, enough for 4 two-layer cakes. To store, keep in tightlycovered container at room temperature. Do not refrigerate. Cake mix will keep 6 weeks in your cupboard; several months, if stored in cool, dark place. To measure: Do not sift cake mix. Spoon fightly into measuring cup; do not pack. Level with spatula. VANILLA QUICK CAKE Have ingredients at room temperature. Use two 8" round pans. Line bottoms with plain paper (not wax). Do not grease or flour. 3% c. Homemade cake mix % cc. Milk 1% tsp. Vanilla 2 eggs Combine milk and vanilla; add half to cake mix. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining milk and eggs. Beat 2 minutes more. Turn into prepared pans. Bake at 375° about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes then turn out on rack. 36 SPICY APPLESAUCE CAKE Use two 8" round pans. Line with plain paper (not wax), do not grease pans. Have ingredients at room temperature. 3% c. Homemade cake mix Y2 tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Cinnamon Ym tsp. Cloves Y% tsp. Allspice % tsp. Nutmeg lc. Canned applesauce 2 eggs Stir together cake mix, soda, and spices. Add slightly over half the applesauce. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining applesauce and eggs. Beat 2 minutes more. Turn into prepared pans. Bake at 375° about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes, then turn out on rack. PINEAPPLE UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE Have ingredients at room temperature. Heat oven to 350°. Topping: Melt 3 tablespoons butter or substitute in 8" x 8" x 2" pan. Cover evenly with % c. (packed) brown sugar. Over sugar arrange 5 or 6 well-drained pineapple slices and maraschino cherries. Make batter: 2% c. Homemade cake mix Y% c. Milk 1_ tsp. Vanilla 1 egg Combine milk and vanilla; add half to cake mix. Beat 2 minutes at medium speed of electric mixer (or 300 strokes by hand). Add remaining milk and egg. Beat 2 minutes more. Pour over fruit in pan. Bake about 40 minutes. Cool in pan 3 or 4 minutes, then turn out on serving plate. PEACH UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE Follow recipe above, making these substitutions: In topping, use canned peaches instead of pineapple. In batter reduce vanilla to ¥% tsp. And add % tsp. Almond flavoring. Betty Jan Murphy Linda and I took our time reaching MIA class on that memorable night long ago. We slipped into the ladies' room to comb our hair, emerging after an interval with appropriate giggles and teenage chatter.... New teacher tonight. As we entered the classroom, we regarded it with suspicion. There were two small tables in the room carefully draped with cloths. These cloths seemed less ornamental than useful, for bulges and bumps tattled the presence of secret objects beneath them. Sister Milton, the new teacher, smiled a greeting and eased the restless girls into the lesson immediately after prayer. This lesson was a practical one on meals and table etiquette. We all listened with interest, but the high point came when Sister Milton removed the cloths from the mysterious tables. Both were set for dinner. But, oh what a dramatic difference! In the center of one table was a loaf of bread, a carton of milk, the salt and pepper shakers, and a bottle of catsup. The plates, glasses, and utensils were not attractive, they did not match nor complement each other. The other table was set simply but elegantly. A modest floral centerpiece of blue and white garden flowers attracted our attention. The bread was on a plate, the milk in a pitcher. The patterns on the china, glassware, and silver were tastefully enhanced by one another. "At which table would you like to be a guest?" Sister Milton asked. We didn't need to answer. "Always set a good table," our teacher re-emphasized. Through the years I have carried the image of those tables in my mind. A colored place mat, a seasonal centerpiece, a sprig of parsley are little bits of elegance which make a world of difference! THOUGHTS OF AN EARTH-BOUND WIFE 1 stand in wondrous awe of you Who say, with singular authority, The moon's not blue, Whose feet have trodden lunar soil, Who shoot through space while | do kitchen toil. Those famous feet now rest beneath my table. The world is yours. Will ever | be able To bring my earth-bound self to someday speak (To you) Of homely things, such as a faucet leak! —Leanor J. Brown 37 a t. TESTIMONY MEETING Anna Kivekas Nokia, Finland / @ "In the Relief Society I have learned so much: I have learned to be proud of being able to make good food for my family, to take pride in a clean and nice home. Its cleanliness depends on me, on my work. And when I thank Heavenly Father for my children, I also thank him for Relief Society, where I have learned so many useful things about how to rear and teach children." With bent head and downcast eyes, Beda Virtanen sat listening to the young sister testifying. Oh, yes, it was useful indeed for young mothers to go to Relief Society meetings. She, too, had learned a lot, when as a newly baptized convert she had eagerly taken part in all the meetings. But now, with the children all gone to make their own homes and her husband still a nonmember, and especially since she had returned to full-time work, now Relief Society seemed so distant, somehow, as if it did not concern her any more. Well, she had not been to meetings for a long time... How long was it really? Three years... Yes, for three whole years she had not been to a single Relief Society meeting. She almost wished she had not come this time either. ".. Iam so thankful for you all, my sisters... It is such a pleasure to me to come here and 38 to listen to our inspiring lessons. And I am particularly thankful for the sisters who lead the classes. They give of their time and they give of themselves...." Yes, surely, Beda Virtanen thought again, surely that sister is happy to be here, with those bad legs of hers and burdened with age as she is, I suppose she doesn't get around too much. Why don't I feel the same as she about the lessons, to me they seem just the same over and over again. Oh, why doesn't anyone rise? They expect me to testify, of course, but I have nothing to say, absolutely nothing. Good, that new sister is rising, she was baptized only last week, I think I heard. ".. And particularly I wish to express my thankfulness that I may be a member of the Relief Society. When I come here to meeting it is like stepping into another world, or at least quite another atmosphere. Oh, it is so difficult for me to explain, but you, sisters, will surely understand, when I tell you that what I experience here with you is something I have experienced only when as a child I was visiting my grandmother. In her home there was warmth and security. Oh, yes, that I felt in our own home, too, but at Grandma's there was something more, a feeling of festivity because I was wearing my good clothes, and Mother had told me to behave, and Grandma served her best cookies, and there was a shining white cloth on the table. Grandmother has long been out of this world and it is a long time since I was a child, but that feeling I have experienced anew here in Relief Society. I am _ thankful that I may be here, that I may learn and develop along with you sisters." But I am not one of you! I don't learn anything new, I am an outsider, I am alone. Beda Virtanen frowned with violent emotion. Suddenly she became aware of the deep silence in the room. Nervously she looked up and met the gaze of the Relief Society president. The president nodded to her kindly and encouragingly. Beda Virtanen rose. "T wish to express thankfulness to my Heavenly Father that I, too, have a testimony of the gospel," she began in a very formal voice. "For a long time I have not been to meetings, but all the time I have known—and I know now—that this is Christ's own Church, that David O. McKay is the prophet of the Lord." Her voice softened. "A long time ago, when I used regularly to attend meetings I felt like you do... It was so wonderful here..." Her voice became muffled and she finished quickly, "I am happy that I have been able to come here again... In spite of all." The meeting was over and the sisters were leaving, chatting happily. Beda Virtanen delayed her going by putting her books carefully into her bag. She did Testimony Meeting not want to go with the others, she would have nothing to say to anyone. "Sister Virtanen." The Relief Society president sat down on the empty chair beside her: "There is something I'd like to talk to you about." "Yes?" "Well, perhaps you have heard that Sister Kantola is moving to another town? In fact, today she gave the lesson for the last time in this branch. We haven't as yet a new leader for the spiritual living class, so now I ask you— the branch president agrees— would you be willing to accept that assignment?" Beda Virtanen was surprised. She did not know what to say. The president continued: "I have a feeling that in you we would get another good class leader like Sister Kantola, atid we will all be happy if you accept." "Well..." said Beda Virtanen slowly, "thanks for your confidence.... Do you really think I could....?" "Yes, we do indeed. We are sure of it. So we can trust you to take care of the lesson next month?" "Ye-es... 2 "Good. And thank you. But there is another matter. Sister Kantola has also been a visiting teacher. Could you perhaps replace her in that capacity, too?" But afterwards Beda Virtanen could not understand why she had accepted the assignments. If she had not been so surprised she would most certainly have refused. But since she had promised, there was hardly anything else she could do than to give it a try at least. I) 39 January 1970 Three months later Beda Virtanen once again sat listening to the sisters' testimonies. She had given the lesson, and she knew she had done it well. She felt calm and serene. When she arose to testify, she felt as if she wanted to burst out singing. "T am thankful to my Heavenly Father for my opportunity to serve. In his wisdom he has given us a Society, the success of which depends on each dnd every, member, on our willingness to serve, on our ability to cooperate. A sister once expressed thankfulness for the sisters who serve as class leaders. For my part, I wish to express my deep gratitude and thankfulness that I am one of those who have been called to serve in that capacity. It has been a blessing to me... It is so still, it is every time so rewarding.... While serving others we forget ourselves." Looking down at her own hands the Relief Society president sat listening, nodding thoughtfully to herself. He Fixed It Himself Cora Hill Arnold @ He was only six and he knew his father could fix everything. So when his bicycle broke down, instead of crying, he waited for his father to come home. The wise father looked at the problem and said, '""Tommy, I can fix this for you in just a few minutes, but you will still not know how it is done. So I will show you how and you mend it yourself. Then the next time your bicycle breaks down, you will know just what to do." The boy grew day by day and, finally, reached manhood. His problems were many and much greater then. And one day the boy—now a man—had a most serious problem. What could he do? What decision should he make? He longed to talk with his father, but he was gone now. So he went to his Heavenly Father in humility and asked him to fix it for him, so everything would come out all right and his problem would be solved. And as he prayed he seemed to hear these words: "My son, I cannot take away your problem, for it would make you weak, and you would never know how to solve other problems. But, if you will listen closely, I will help you to think for yourself, and you will be able to find a solution. Then next time it will be a little easier, for you will be stronger." 40 Hobby Features Clara Shipley, of Riverdale Second Ward, Ogden, Utah, has used her creativity and talent to fashion many beautiful articles of handwork. She has made over forty appliqué quilts, and the pillowcases, tablecloths, aprons, and other articles number into the thousands. Much of this work has been donated to Relief Society for bazaars. She is also most gracious about baking delicious pies for various occasions. Sister Shipley had five children. There are eleven grandchildren and thirteen greatgrandchildren all of whom have received loving portions of her exquisite handwork. Ial: » —, «. 2 ~ b< 4 € mean =... —— tt - Grace Ferris, Bountiful Twentieth Ward, Bountiful, Utah, has made over 200 lovely quilts of several varieties. Her quilts have graced weddings, baby showers, and other events, as well as bazaars, for many years. In serving as quilting chairman in Relief Society, she has passed her talent on to others who were eager to learn it. Her husband has been a great help to her quilting endeavors by cutting the materials. She in turn works in the yard with him. She also does her own canning and is an excellent cook. There are five children in her family, fifteen grandchildren, twenty-four great-grandchildren, and one great-great grandchild, all of whom have been kept warm at first by baby quilts, later by large ones. 41 Words for the New Year i Ward Relief Society President Ruth Osman ® The beginning of a New Year is upon us. May we as your Relief Society presidency put to you this challenge: A "'self'' is not something we are given at birth, it is something we are creating as we live our day-by-day life. Whatever that self shall be, barren or productive, depends upon the interests we reach and achieve. The greatest achievement is the making of ourselves. God gives us a New Year, a new month, a new day—each minute, if you will, to take and work something worthwhile into our lives. Can we afford to miss one gift, one opportunity, one second of this New Year? We sincerely pray that each one of us may create our best ''self.'' Relief Society is one of these tools, may we each use it and be able to put our best ''self'' forward. A MINIATURE LOAF OF BREAD A loaf of bread was magic exposed To a young boy's watchful eyes: Hot from the oven—homely composed, Evoked pleasure in anxious sighs. But the miniature loaf seemed his very own, To him, a succulent prize— It was cooled and wrapped in new cellophane He guarded it—saying goodbyes. When he got to his home and was readied for bed— On his pillow rested the prize; Was it only a miniature loaf of bread Or a love-tokened gift, in disguise? —Beulah Huish Sadleir 42 Chapter 8 (conclusion) m "My father is dying in this alien land," said Kim in anguish. They were at the emergency division of their doctor's hospital, where he had met them after a dash by ambulance from their home. The first concern of all of them was, of course, for Father Freeman's mending hip bone. They hung on Dr. Judd's word, and were relieved at his report. "The bone seems to be all right. We'll take extensive X-rays tomorrow. Just now he is dehydrating from the nausea, and from too little intake of fluids the last while." This smote Mary Ann with guilt. Things had moved too fast for her and Kim through Rosemary's and Cary's wedding. "We should have hired a nurse for him through all this," she said. "This was my responsibility," said Kim. "You had your hands rentd."' 'There was the pinched look of a dying animal about him when the nurse let them into his room, a little emergency bed off the main office. She was fixing a bottle to a standard and she inserted a needle into his arm, taped it to a board and left the room, saying: "He'll be all right here until the doctor sees if he needs hospitalization." His eyes were closed and he looked very much like death itPD < self. Kim rarely wept, but he was weeping now, his face immobile, but the tears flooding his face, furrowing down to drop off his chin. "Speak to me, Dad," he pleaded. "I'll take you home again as soon as you are well, and you'll never have to leave there again, I promise." How could Kim make such a promise? Touched as Mary Ann was at her husband's anguish and the plight of her father-inlaw, this time she did not kneel beside the bed and augment that promise, as she had kneeled by Father Freeman's chair last October when Kim invited his father home "untilspring."' Such a promise was too hard to keep, as the other one had been hard, too hard, perhaps, for they were not yet through with the consequences. The spring had come and gone and he was still here. To Mary Ann's surprise Kim's promise had a reviving effect on his father, who opened his eyes, and looked straight and clear into his son's gaze. "Thank you, Kim," he said. "The roses are 43 January 1970 in bloom for Rosemary now." He had written a painstaking letter to Emily and Francine and their husbands as early as April, instructing them to have everything is readiness for the honeymooning couple. Letters had come to assure him the house and yard had been cleaned and made attractive. Victor had gone farther. He had stocked the kitchen with essential food, and it would be like walking into their own domain. Rosemary and Cary would have a wonderful beginning to their marriage in that sweet place, the place where her parents and her grandparents before her had started theirs. The promise had been given and accepted, Mary Ann knew. Now how to keep it. Again, Kim had acted without thinking of her, and this time Mary Ann felt more than a twinge of resentment, as they sat and watched Kim's father, who now seemed asleep. It was amazing as they watched to see the blueness leave his face, the pinched look flesh out and the pink come back to his lips. Maybe, with the care they could give him now, he would be all right. If only Kim had not promised or that his father had not heard that promise! But Kim had promised, and that was that. He had his father's determination when it came to keeping a promise. Yet he had seemed truly sorry to have acted before without previously consulting Mary Ann. That time he had followed his impulse, it was true, but she had been so much in accord with his feelings that it was her impulse, too. This time it was not. There were too 44 many things to be accomplished before it could be remotely possible for Kim to take his father home. In the first place, Kim's vacation would not come immediately. Rosemary and Cary planned at least a two-week stay, and maybe longer. When she brought these things up to Kim he said: "I didn't mean a visit, Mary Ann. I meant to live." "Kim! How could you?" Mary Ann said. "Without so much as consulting me? I feel injured, Kim, very injured at your lack of thought for me and for the family." "IT meant to consult you, dear, for us to plan it together, but with Dad seeming near death there was no time." "Well!" said Mary Ann doubtfully. "I'm certainly open to discussion." "But closed to suggestion?" ventured Kim. "T suppose so, Kim," said Mary Ann relaxing. Kim could always do this to her, make her see she was unbending. "What suggestion? Your job—this place..." "How about me quitting my job, selling this place and us moving to Utah?" "Kim Freeman, are you out of your mind?" "You think about it, honey, I have been ever since Mr. Shelton made Dad that offer. If Dad's place is good enough for a retirement home for him it should be for us. All the men in the shop talk about all day is getting some little place like that, away from it all, close to hunting and fishing and all that. It is mostly talk and wishful thinking with them. We could do it, and it would be a way of taking Dad back home for the rest of his life." "Retire? You retire, Kim?" "Why not. I'm retirement age, you know. Mr. Shelton is, and he is no older than I am. Besides, he will have his son take over, and I never could get along with that whipper-snapper. I looked for a garage in Mayville and there is none. I could put up one, make enough to keep us going." "But this house, the mortgage?" "We have twelve thousand dollars equity in this house, Mary Ann. You can see yourself we can't pay off the other thirteen thousand on my wages. We stand to lose it all if something happens and we can't make the payments. With our equity we could put two thirds of it in trust or on interest and save it for the time when the girls will want their share of Dad's estate, then pay them off and keep it." "The children...." said Mary Ann in a small voice, as she had reserved the most important argument for the last. "The children? James and Carol have already moved to Hawaii. Utah is no farther from Hawaii than Los Angeles, the way they travel. Jennifer and her family are already packed to go. They'd have been gone now except for Rosemary's wedding. Richard and Heidi will be in New York and goodness knows where Tommy will be. If he accepts that offer from the University of Alaska, and if Rosemary and Cary go to Houston, where are the children?" "There's still Barbara," said Mary Ann. Heart Room for Home "Just enough reason to spend our vacations in California and ~ for them to come to. Mayville for theirs." - "Kim, I feel weak," said Mary Ann, and sat down. He had demolished every argument she had. "But selling this place! You just can't walk out and sell a place like this in five minutes." "T know that, honey. It might take months, but if Dad had it to look forward to...." "Kim, I can't just change that fast. The ward, here, our friends —it would be going back to an old way of living—at our age." "We have some good friends in Mayville. Remember how we hated to leave them? A ward is the same all over the Church. People come and go here, too, you know. Nothing stays the same; everything passes." K im's sad words "Everything passes" haunted Mary Ann for days. Looking back gave one that sense. How could it have been so painless—and so final? The children growing up. What would she give for one hour of them as babies? As little ones coming to the house for bandaids and a kiss to make them well, their falling in love, marrying, and then the grandbabies. Now Barbara's children would follow the same cycle—she had noticed Kirby eyeing the girls who served at Rosemary's wedding, little sisters of her friends, Cary's younger sisters. Everything passes. Enjoy it while you may, but don't look back. This place, now? They had lived here for fourteen years. Had she enjoyed it? Certainly nothing could top their enjoy- 45 January 1970 ment of it at Rosemary's reception. Everything else was anticlimax. She would remember it forever, but would she ever want to repeat the experience? Not without another daughter to marry the man of her choice. When Tommy married the reception would be from some other house. No, this house had served them well, but now it was too much. Too much room and too much expense. It was good to have Father Freeman in the hospital for the few days of Tommy's graduation —their last son coming down the ramp from the platform where he received his diploma, their last son in cap and gown. There were too many last things just now, and they almost overwhelmed Mary Ann. "I know," said Kim, reading her mind again, as he had before they had all become too hysterically busy to think. "Will we be always living a memory, Kim?" "I hope not, - Mary Ann. I went through this weeks ago, when the idea first hit me. Now I am anxious and eager to start a new life, a new life for ourSelves. It can be pretty full, you know, the way I look at it." "What happened to Lizbeth?" Mary Ann suddenly remembered. Tommy's answer was not the same now as it used to be. Mary Ann was not prepared for the pain in Tommy's face. "Her soldier boy came back from Vietnam," was all he said. A man had to be prepared for the choice the girl might make. "Ts it final, then?" "T don't know, Mother dear. There was never any promise on 46 her part—to me, that is. She wouldn't make any, with him Overseas, except that if her anSwer to me was yes, she would call me." "You've changed your mind about a good many things, haven't you, Tommy? You have made it a matter of prayer?" "Yes, Mother," answered Tommy soberly and went to his room. The telephone rang and it was for Kim, Emily calling from Mayville, because, of course, they had called her and Francine to tell them about their father being in the hospital. "We're bringing him home tomorrow, Emily, and he is going to be fine... -What's that? No, you don't need to be prepared for his death. Dad's going to live -... As long as he wants to, I guess. At least until he gets his feet on his own land, that's for sure." Kim spoke at length about his father's condition, reassuring both his sisters. Francine had gone over to Emily's for the conversation. "Now, you two girls give way and let me talk to Victor.... Say, Victor, that was a nice thing you folks did for Rosemary and her husband. We appreciate it and we know they do, too. Victor, is it true that the interstate highway is cutting through 4 corner of Dad's meadow? Good. No, that's not bad. It's good. I'll tell you later." "Why didn't you tell them we are moving there?" asked Mary Ann when he hung up. Kim looked her full in the face. "Because you hadn't told me, Sweetheart?" "You mean it wasn't all cut and dried, that you were waiting for my decision?" "Exactly! You've kept me on tenter hooks for a week, my dear, but I was going to press you for an answer before tomorrow. I had to know what to tell Dad." "You would have broken your word to him if I didn't approve of your idea?" "What do you think? You had me in the same situation Eve had Adam," Kim answered. "By the way, that question I asked Victor. Can you imagine a better spot for a garage than that corner of Dad's meadow? Know something else? You remember one of the men from the shop asking about this place?" "Yes, I do, now that you mention it. Both he and his wife made flattering remarks about our place." "It wasn't flattery, dear. He meant it. Great things are coming about at the garage since Mr. Shelton is leaving. We will now have a president—his son, and a vice-president, John Shane, the man who came to Rosemary's wedding. With this prospect he wants me to sell him this place. What do you say?" "That's wonderful. We'd better sell, don't you think, Kim?" "That's not all," said Kim. "They are getting new machinery and when I asked what was to become of the old—the stuff I've worked with for the last twenty years, some of it, Mr. Shelton said it was obsolete and he would probably junk it. I asked for an option and got it. I can do anything with that machinery. I'd be lost with the new—at least for awhile." "Kim, it looks as if everything Heart Room for Home was meant to turn out this way," said Mary Ann. "I'm beginning to think of that wonderful old rock house of Dad's, and what we can do with it. Do you think that window...?" The telephone ringing interrupted Mary Ann. It was for Tommy, a timid little voice Mary Ann hardly recognized as_belonging to Lizbeth. Tommy bounded out of his room when his mother told him who it was. He said only one word: "Yes?" then looked at his watch. "I'll be there in exactly thirteen minutes freeway time," he said; and literally ran out the door, calling back: "She decided for me. Lizbeth is mine!" "This must be the evening of feminine decisions,' said Kim dryly. "Dad, we're going home," he told his father jubilantly. When they got to the hospital. "Yes, I know, but it won't be the same without Rosemary, will it?" "IT mean home to Mayville. Just as soon as you can evict your present tenants. Mary Ann and I are selling out here and coming to live with you, if that's all right with you." "Oh, now! I didn't mean to upset anybody. Are you sure, Kim?" "T've been sure for a long time, Dad. Just waiting for Mary Ann to get used to the idea." "Now don't help me. I can walk by myself," Father Freeman told Kim. "Now, Mary Ann, is this going to put you out?" "No, Dad. It took me just a little more time. I had to move a number of things over to make heart room for it, that's all." 47 Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field The Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanist, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be in focus. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. Black and White Prints Required Black and white prints, preferably in glossy finish, are needed for Notes From the Field. Prints should be clear, with definite contrast and detail. Color pictures are not used in this section. Do not submit negatives, kodachromes, transparencies, or color prints. Size of Picture Through processes available at the press, pictures can be enlarged or reduced in size to fit the space available. However, reproductions of small pictures are not as effective as those made from larger prints—up to 8x10 inches in size may be used. 48 Relief Society Activities orado) Presents " May 15, 1969 "Let Music Fill the, esenting America; ion Stake Reli i reports: _ 1 e resentation of 'Let Viona Pa organist. Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junctio work of our stake 0 ganist an horister outstanding in formed In he various es an tablea A str nged group 4 compan d severa numbers This lovely pres niation, enjoye ore than 200 people, g fitting ety year 49 Music Fill the Earth,' b Lucelle R. Taylor. The stake Singin sented six of our nine ards others chorus repre Ss utstanding An additional forty groups per- January 1970 First i Ward Relief iola Ward, President; olah Arnel, Second Counselor. Butler Stake Relief Society, reports: "fh lovely spring d \ ial tribute to the der, presented President, utler Sixth. Cial relations class lea eriences and a poem relating their exP' as a presidency: on comp d affair which was en joyed time which they a ic and a delightful Junche Sixth Ward Relief Society sing?" May 1969 of our stake presen over forty si ing Mothers of the es a Singing Mother Sing?' and accompanied by Luina Wilcox. —_ a a) Relief Society 1969 Board, left to right: Helen Dalquist; i allard, President, Arlene he Pasadena Stak - Sara Neilson, Jas Pasadena Stake (Californi Fashion Show, May 1, fashion show. Mildred S. Heaton, ed very lovely in their long St. Ge and presented a variety January 1970 South Carolina West Stake Presents ''Gardening Helps'' At Homemaking Day, June 28, 1969 Helen Shaw, President, South Carolina West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Frances Bethune, our homemaking leader, decided that it would be appropriate to have our Homemaking Day around gardening this year, and it was most successful. Our sisters must travel great distances, but they brought the materials for seven displays with them. "We had a formal garden, patio, rock garden, vegetables, porch, a quiet nook in a garden, and an old-fashioned garden. In addition to these displays, the sisters were asked to bring floral arrangements for the luncheon tables, decorating around a red, white, and blue Independence Day theme, and we were amazed at the talent displayed here. It was a most successful event. The theme was appropriate—''Beautify Your Corner of America." North Central States Misson Relief Society Sponsors Leadership Conference, May 24, 1969 Members of the North Central States Mission Relief Society Board, front row, second from left: Colleen Johnson, Magazine representative; Jean Marie Didra, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary B. Ostvig, President; Margaret Ann Abbott, First Counselor; Carmen Lee Dahlgren, Second Counselor; Olga Hansen, visiting teacher message leader. J Inset: Marguerite Satterfield, former Mission Relief Society supervisor. Remaining sisters are district executive officers. Sister Satterfield reports: 'Training sessions for the executive officers of the various districts in the mission are proving to be very successful and beneficial. They are held three times each year, and the districts are encouraged to hold them for their branch executives. "A different phase of leadership is discussed by each of the board members. There are. Group activities, and special inspirational words from priesthood leadership. It is a very successful program and has greatly advanced the work of Relief Society in the mission.": Virginia B. King is the new Relief Society Supervisor in the North Central States Mission. Illinois Stake Relief Society Presents ''Things Lovely" April 5, 1969 Mary Dyson, visiting teacher message leader, Champaign Ward, and Esstel Flint, President, Farmer City Ward Relief Society. Marnette R. Woolley, President, Illinois Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our leadership meeting in April we presented a program with the theme 'Things Lovely.' "A wide variety of items was shown including ceramics, afghans, quilts, needlepoint, and crewel embroidery. A special feature of the display was the oil paintings completed during a special class taught as a homemaking project in the Champaign Ward. Sister Claudia Peterson, an experienced art teacher, volunteered her services and each homemaking meeting those sisters interested spent the work time learning to oil paint. Other activities were always available for sisters not wishing to paint. This was a very popular activity, and some beautiful paintings were done. "Refreshments were served by the stake board and a social hour followed. All who attended were inspired to create lovely things for their homes."' 52 was — — "t. Ogre. -~ January 1970 Western Canadian Mission Relief Society Holds Conference April 26, 1969 Members of the Regina Branch, South Saskatchewan District Relief Society, who modeled fashions they had made, front row, seated, left to right: Maisie Dodman; Beth Spackman, daughter of President N. Eldon Tanner; Mary Bailey; Velma Collins; Ruth Skriver. Back row, standing, left to right: Eileen Tondevold, Evelyn Pilling, Lettie Preete, Wanda Matheson, Gayla Jacobs, Pat Boecks, Gerry Wetton, Eaenie Ursenbach, Elena Morse, Elsie James, June Mullen. LaNore D. Espenschied, Supervisor, Western Canadian Misson Relief Society, reports: ''We held our first mission Relief Society conference, and it was very successful. The theme was 'Harmony in the Home,' and a copy of a talk by President David O. McKay, with this title was given to each sister. "Many of the sisters had to travel great distances to attend the conference. Members in Edmonton, Alberta, opened their homes to these sisters and their husbands who attended with them. It was an inspiration to see so many Lamanite sisters. There was an outstanding general session, and departmental sessions where there were films, demonstrations, and information. Following these there were displays and a fashion show in the cultural hall. "The conference was closed with the film 'Unto the Least of These,' and a very impressive testimony meeting. The sisters gained much uplift from this conference and had a very enjoyable time to remember." Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Honors Visiting Teachers May 15, 1969 Front row, seated: Cleotha Smith, Othello Ward, who has served twenty years as a visiting teacher; Lucy Christensen, Royal Ward, thirty years; Melinda Goodrich, Moses Lake Fourth Ward, twenty years; Nellie Chapman, Moses Lake Second Ward, thirty-two years; Mae Eaton, Moses Lake First, fifty-three years. Back row, left to right: Alta Duvall, Moses Lake Third Ward, forty-six years; Aurilla Christensen, Royal Ward (one of the two youngest visiting teachers); Rosemary Bishop, Moses Lake Ward (youngest visiting teacher); Fern Zirker, Warden Ward, twenty-eight years. Inset: Mabel Roylance, Othello Second Ward, fifty-five years service. Eileen S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A tribute to our visiting teachers was held in the stake center. A delicious luncheon was followed by a spiritual program in their honor. Special recognition was given to the sisters who had the longest record of service, also to the two youngest visiting teachers present. "The Moses Lake Third Ward was honored for having the most visiting teachers in attendance. They received a beautiful floral arrangement as a tribute." January 1970 Humbolt Stake (Nevada), Elko Second Ward Presents Bazaar May 2, 1969 Elaine Dicks, President, Humbolt Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The emphasis of the bazaar presented in the Elko Second Ward was on good old Mormon cooking. There was much food to be bought and it was enjoyed by all. The theme was centered around the Maypole. There were several booths focused around the youth, from tiny tot to the teens. Our 'Olde Bake Shoppe' was popular also. A highly successful bazaar was made possible by the hard work of the many involved and the desire of ward members to contribute through purchases. Decoration chairman was Patricia Scott. The presidency of this ward consists of Joyce Giles, Edithdell Black, and Gwen Petersen." a : = ' The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING by 4 - 7 Lesson 103 Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions— Pearl of Great Price Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To increase the Latter-day Saint woman's testimony that the Pearl of Great Price was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration and to enlarge her understanding of God's eternal plan. INTRODUCTION In evaluating the work of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elder John Taylor said that the Prophet had done more for the salvation of men in this world than any man in it except Jesus Christ. (D&C 135:3.) Among the reasons for this evaluation were The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, and, as Elder Taylor added: "... Many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit 3 of the children of men.... Among these wise documents is the Pearl of Great Price, a book of modern and ancient scripture. It consists of four parts: The Book of Moses, the Book of Abraham, Writings of Joseph Smith (consisting of two parts), and the Articles of Faith. THE BOOK OF MOSES In June 1830, the Lord revealed some visions received by $7 January 1970 Moses anciently. (Moses 1.) The remaining seven chapters of the Book of Moses were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in December 1830. Much is restored in this book which is not recorded in the Bible. The Lord revealed to Moses his dealings with Adam, Adam's fall and redemption, the premortality of men, the period in which Enoch reared a generation in righteousness, and Noah's ministry. From this revelation has come renewed information about the plan of Salvation. THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM The Book of Abraham, the second book of Scripture in the Pearl of Great Price, came into Joseph Smith's Possession in an unusual way. Some Egyptian mummies, discovered in Egypt by Antonio Sebolo in the year 1831, were purchased by members of the Church in July 1835, from their owner Michael H. Chandler, them in the United States. With these mummies were some papyrus rolls scribed ancient hieroglyphics. To the great joy of the Prophet it was learned that one of the rolls contained the writings of Abraham, another the writings of Joseph of Egypt. Joseph Smith translated of Abraham, which now constitute the 1967, in a special ceremony at the New York Metropolitan MuSeum of Art, eleven Papyrus pieces once owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith were presented to President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency. (Church News, December 2, 1967, p. 7.) The best information available to the Church for almost one hundred years was that the Papyri and the mummies upon which they were found were destroyed in the Chicago fire of 1871. The recovered papyri are only portions of the material possessed by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The well-preserved facsimile No, 1 of the Book of Abraham is a part of the collection, An interesting incident in connection with Joseph Smith and the papyrus rolls occurred upon their discovery by Mr. Chandler in the United States Customs house at New York City. He was immediately told, while yet in the custom house, that there was no man in that city who could translate his roll: but was referred, by the same gentleman, (a Stranger,) to Mr. Joseph Smith, Jun., who, continued he, PoOssesses some kind of power or gifts, by which he had previously translated similar characters. (DHC 2:349.) For many thousands of years the Lord had preserved these writings that this dispensation might have the testimony of the Abrahamic dispensation concerning such important doctrines as the premortal existence of man, the creation, and the priesthood of God. WRITINGS OF JOSEPH SMITH This division of the Pearl of Great Price contains material relating to a revision of the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, and the story of Joseph Smith's ancestry and early visions. In the revision of the twentyfourth chapter of Matthew, clarification is given to the events mentioned by the Savior in the New Testament about the signs of the times heralding the destruction of the Jews in the meridian dispensation and the calamities preceding the second coming of Christ in our dispensation. The difference between the two periods is clearly indicated in the revision of this chapter. (vs. 21-23.) THE ARTICLES OF FAITH In the Times and Seasons, a publication of the Church at Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 1, 1842, an article by the Prophet Joseph Smith appeared giving a short history of his life and also what are known as the Articles of Faith. This account was written to Mr. John Wentworth, editor and publisher of the Chicago Democrat, and has become known to the Church as the "Wentworth Letter." Elder James E. Talmage wrote an outstanding book discussing these Articles of Faith. Elder B. H. Roberts gave the following comment regarding them: Millions of these "Articles of Faith" have been published; they have been translated into many languages and carried to all the nations of the earth and tribes of men where the New Dispensation of the gospel has been preached. They were not produced by the labored efforts and the harmonized contentions of scholastics, but were struck off by one mind at a single effort to make a declaration of that which is most assuredly believed by the church, for one making earnest inquiry about her history Lesson Department and her fundamental doctrines. The combined directness, perspicuity, simplicity and comprehensiveness of this statement of the doctrine of the church is regarded as strong evidence of a divine inspiration operating upon the mind of Joseph Smith. (A Comprehensive History of the Church, by B. H. Roberts, Vol. 2, p. 131.) Class Discussion Wherein does the Pearl of Great Price differ in its contents from the other standard works of the Church—Bible, The Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants? JOSEPH SMITH'S FIRST VISION When one considers the claim of Joseph Smith to having been called of God to open the last dispensation of the gospel, one must believe that in the Prophet's works one will find inspiration and guidance to fulfill the purpose of life. The devout Latter-day Saint learns through his study that the contributions of the Prophet to the salvation of men in this world are significant because they raise men to greater heights of understanding and faith. The First Vision is one of the important revelations from God. Its message to all men is such that few can reasonably doubt the authenticity of the Vision. When compared with other recorded accounts' of visions of God, this one stands out preeminently as of great worth, not only because of its detailed information but also because of its value as a witness to an unbelieving world of the reality of God's existence. Joseph Smith's testimony of the reality of the First Vision is convincing. (Writings of Joseph Smith 2: 24-25.) 59 January 1970 We learn of the following saving principles from the First Vision: First, the actual existence of God the Father as a personal Being. Joseph Smith saw God the Father "... Whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air." (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:17.) To know God as a personal Being is a prerequisite to eterna! Life. (John 17:3.) Second, Jesus is a resurrected Personage, separate and distinct from the Father. "One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Writings of Joseph Smith 2:17.) Joseph was told that he should join no church for they had all gone astray. (Joseph Smith 2:18-20.) Fourth, men may have the assurance that sincere prayer is answered. I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I had found the testimony of James to be true—that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided. (Joseph Smith 2:11-13, 26.) In order to achieve salvation, manmust"askGod" forknowledge by which he may walk uprightly before him. (Moroni 10:3-7; D&C 103:36.) Joseph Smith's testimony of prayer and the reality of the future life furnish further reasons for faith in the efficacy of prayer in leading one to salvation. Class Discussion Of what value is the knowledge of 'the First Vision to one's personal salvation? 60 Third, there is only one true Church. THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST Among the contributions to salvation-knowledge from the Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham is the fact that the gospel principles of salvation taught by Jesus Christ were known from the days of Adam. Moses learned that faith, repentance, baptism by immersion, and the receiving of the gift of the Holy Ghost were taught to Adam and his posterity. (Moses 6:52.) The authority conferred upon _ worthy men to administer gospel ordinances gave the same validity to those ordinances anciently as it does today. (Abra. 1:2-4; 18, 31; 2:8-11.) Class Discussion Wherein is the justice of God indicated in the fact that the gospel of Jesus Christ was available to people before the time of Christ? Although the New Testament refers to the gospel among the Old Testament people, most "Christian" theologies have not held that people before the time of Christ had these saving principles and ordinances. Thus, the Pearl of Great Price makes a contribution to man's understanding of God's relationship with his children. If one knows that God is a personal Being, the Father of men, he accepts the truth that God is just and merciful because he blessed Adam and his posterity by providing them with salvation teachings. As revealed, God created man and gave him commandments, and when man broke those laws, the means was provided whereby man might be saved from the effects of sin. (D&C 20: 17-29.) Men are saved by the same gospel in all ages of the world. ' Because of similarities in the "Christian" religion and nonChristian religions, some have claimed that Jesus "borrowed" from other religions to formulate his own. Since the gospel of Jesus Christ was known to Adam, it is no doubt true that other religions "borrowed" from those teachings. A WITNESS TO OTHER SCRIPTURES In a world of doubt and skepticlsm, many witnesses are provided to aid and assist those who will be helped. The consistency of teachings throughout the four standard books of scriptures is a testimony of the truths spoken therein. Each book of scripture may give a certain emphasis to one doctrine or teaching above another one, yet the similarity of teachings is remarkable. The scriptures testify that God lives. The Pearl of Great Price contributes to this truth because of the experiences of Enoch, Moses, and Abraham, who saw and talked with God. (Moses 7:3-4; 1:2; Abra. 3:11-12.) CREATION UNDERSTOOD Man's purpose on the earth is to receive greater faith in God and to increase his ability to live the commandments. The Book of Moses and the Book of Abraham are plain in establishing these truths: (1) that every person is a child of God, created after his image as a spirit being before the earth was created, and (2) that man's purpose in earth life is to receive a body and then Lesson Department work out his salvation. An account of the spiritual creation of all things, including man, before they were temporally created is as follows:... I, the Lord God, made the heaven and the earth; And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth.... And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men... For in heaven created I them.... (Moses 3:4-5.) It was Abraham's privilege to behold all of the spirit children of God before the earth was created as their future abode. Among these spirits he was numbered as one who was chosen to perform a mission of responsibility upon the earth. (Abra. 3:22-23.) An understanding of man's purpose in life is known from the revelations to Moses, as revealed to Joseph Smith. Probably one of the most enlightening scriptures in all sacred literature follows: For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. (Moses 1:39.) This truth means that God brings about man's resurrection (immortality) through the atonement of his Son Jesus Christ, and also makes man's exaltation (eternal life) possible in the celestial kingdom. Earth life provides the spirit with a body which will become immortal through the atonement of Christ. Without a_ resurrected body, the attainment of godhood would not be possible. (D&C 93:33-34.) To give immortality to his spirit sons and daughters is the work of 61 January 1970 God; to sive them eternal life is his glory. (D&C 132:31.) an, however, Y not en joy God his Father raham learned at the earth he Place where man Might be Proved. JOSEPH SMITH RESTORER OF TRUTH The Prophet Moses that in the last days, Prophecy, jg 81ven in these Words: And in a day When the children of men shall] esteem MY words as naught and take Many of them from the book that would eclj the Work of earlier Prophets (2 Ne 3:6-9 D&C ].) The Pear! Of Great Price, consisting of four Major divisions, 8ives materia] from the ancient Writings of Abraham and aS Well as information from the truth. (D&:2-4; 50:21-29 ) Therefore the Person who to learn of the truth of the Pear] ice may receive this mortality. To know that a. Preearth life as a child of God gave opportunities for progress to immortality unto eternal life provides motivation for working out one's salvation in this life. Inasmuch as this concept includes the fact that man shall live forever, it provides for decision-making in this life. Every decision ought to be made in terms of the consequences of that decision in the eternity ahead, not for the present life only. The reason for Lesson Department and the fundamental cause as to why man may eventually attain godhood resides in the origin of man's spirit—he has within him the spark of divinity. Every person who sincerely seeks for the fulness of religious truth will find by accepting the Pearl of Great Price a treasure house of revealed ancient truths which bring him to a better understanding of the questions: Where did I come from? Why am I here? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Message 7—True Conversion Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that true conversion entails humility, repentance, improvement, and righteous works to the end of one's life. "Could you say, if ye were called to die at this time, within yourselves, that ye have been sufficiently humble?... Behold, are ye stripped of pride?" (Alma 5:27-28.) "... Can ye look up to God... With a pure heart and clean hands?" (Alma 5:19.) "... Have ye spiritually been born of God?... Have ye experienced thismighty change in your hearts? Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of him who created you? Do you look forward with an eye of faith?..." (Alma 5: 14-15.) One day in a beautiful European city a young and earnest mission branch president told the saints that President David O. McKay had asked each member to be a missionary and to bring one convert into the Church each year. After the service a blind sister came forward tearfully asking, "How can I do this? I am old and cannot see. I have been in the Church many years. I have no friends that are not members. How can I bring anyone into the Church?" The branch president said, "Sister, 63 January 1970 if you have faith and a desire to do his will God will show you the way." Some weeks later, this member went on a vacation that included a train trip. During the journey the travelers who sat opposite her helped with her luggage and cared for her needs with special compassion for her affliction. The sister thought, "What can I do to repay them?" In a few moments she leaned across and said, "T want to give you something for your kindness. I have a great gift to give you, if you will accept it." The new friends smiled. How could this woman, obviously not well-off, give them a great gift? Politely, they thanked her and said it wasn't necessary. She gently persisted. One of the women finally said, "I will be glad to accept it." The member sister replied, "This gift is not of money or jewelry, it is a gift of the Holy Spirit. I know that God lives. I know that Jesus is the Christ. I know that living on the earth today is one of God's prophets who reveals to us the word of God. This great gift of knowledge I can give to you." The woman, interested in spite of the odd _ situation, asked, "How?" "Give me your address and I will send to you two young men who will explain." This was done. Three years later the elderly, blind woman made her way down the Church aisle to ask the then mission president, "President, how many people have I helped to bring into the Church by now?" Tears streamed down her face as he answered, "Your faith has helped in bringing eight souls into the Church, the woman you met and seven of her friends and relatives." True conversion requires us to repent of our lack of faith, to be humble, to share the gospel with others, to try and do the will of our Father in heaven all of our days. CEYO TOMORROW'S EMBRYO Come, children hold my hand, As a family let us kneel and Pray, in earthly life, to see A glimpse of our eternity. With time to sift the chaff and weed Then carefully plant the fruitful seed. The harvest yield is what we sow— Tomorrows, now in embryo. —Margaret B. Shomaker HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness ee Discussion 7—''Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed; Her Husband Also, and He Praiseth Her." (Proverbs 31:28) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out the mother's role in adequately preparing herself and her children through education and training. INTRODUCTION Life is a continual process of training and education—of the body, of the mind, and of the spirit. If we are not engaged in the building up of our bodies and minds, we are in the process of tearing them down. This is the inevitable law of construction and destruction, and one process or the other is taking place in our lives constantly. The one requires direction and discipline, while the other follows a line of least resistance and so, unfortunately, can take hold of our natures, if we are so inclined. If we are not led in the right direc- 'tion almost from the time of our birth, we are in danger. How great, then, is the responsibility which falls upon us, the mothers, to whom is given the stewardship of the precious lives of our children. Ours is the responsibility as well as the privilege of guiding and directing their lives as well as our own. Fulfilling this role is as much a part of family preparedness as any other; in fact, it actually supersedes all others, for education and training are basic and fundamental. TRAINING IN SECULAR EDUCATION Even though both Church and government are strongly in support of education, it is sometimes difficult to keep children interested and challenged. We mothers can do much to make them feel the importance of school and to prevent them from dropping out before they are prepared to meet the problems which will inevitably confront them. Following are some of the suggestions which might be helpful to us as mothers: In addition to their regular formal school education we should see that they have opportunities for cultural and social studies. All children should be encouraged to read good books in their moments of leisure rather than to spend 65 January 1970 these valuable hours in continuous watching of television. They should be exposed to fine music and given opportunity if possible to learn to play some instrument such as the piano, violin, or others; or to cultivate their voices and other talents so as to give beauty and service to others. They should be taught the cultural values of courtesy, respect for law and order, and obedience to authority in the home, the school, and the community. They should be taught to be morally clean, physically fit, and mentally alert. The training in each of these areas comes under our jurisdiction as mothers whether we recognize the fact or not. TRAINING IN SPIRITUAL EDUCATION Are we inclined, as _ busy mothers, to leave the spiritual training of our children to the Church? True it is,-that without the Church we would find it difficult to guide them, for the gospel is, literally, our way of life. Without our example, however, to show them the way and set their feet on the right path, they would indeed be lost, as many children are in this mixed-up world today. Following are some of the ways we can direct our children along these paths: Early in childhood our children should be taught to pray. They should come to realize that prayer is a natural part of their living. We need to establish in them the habit of attendance at all their Church meetings—Sunday School, Primary, M. I. A., priesthood, and sacrament meetings—so that they will stay close to the Church throughout their lives. We need to teach them to be reverent and obedient and to have respect for the Church leaders. Our boys, in particular, should know all through their growing years that they are preparing to go on missions. Every girl and every boy should grow up knowing that to be married in the temple of the Lord is the only way for them. Only by our example and our loving instruction 66 4 can we make these things an integral part of the lives of our children. HOW DO WE PREPARE OURSELVES? The Latter-day Saint woman has a responsibility to herself as well as to her children in preparing to meet the challenges which confront her. We mothers and homemakers should never feel that our education is complete or that opportunities for learning and _ self-improvement are beyond our reach. On the contrary, there are limitless ways by which we can improve our minds and develop our potential talents and capabilities. The Relief Society itself offers us a wide variety of learning experiences which can broaden our vision and develop every facet of our lives, if we take advantage of them. Everywhere around us are other channels of enrichment through which we may be stimulated to keep our minds alert and our senses aware of the fulness and completeness of life—the abundant life which we were meant to live. CONCLUSION No home is prepared for the future if the members of the family, parents as well as children, are not receiving adequate training, and education—if they are not developing their minds and spirits to their full potential. Our beloved prophet, David O. McKay has told us that "On the proper education of youth depend the permanency and purity of the home, the safety and perpetuity of our nation." (Pathways to Happiness, David O. McKay, p. 61.) SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 7: Purpose and Reward Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 1-5.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out that if a Latter-day Saint woman will keep the ultimate destiny of the family unit constantly in mind, she may be purposefully motivated in her daily living. INTRODUCTION This lesson continues'. The theme of the importance of the role of woman but discusses it from a somewhat less theological point of view than did the preceding one. This lesson emphasizes the fact that in order to realize satisfaction and personal fulfillment, a woman must see in the role of wife and mother, both purpose and reward. This should not be difficult for the woman who understands the Latter-day Saint attitude toward the family unit, who understands, through gospel teachings, the importance of the parent-child-parent cycle in the eternal plan. This spiritual background should give meaningful motivation to the activities that are on the day-to-day agenda of motherhood. TO KEEP IN MIND Although children may be greatly desired and loved by people of all cultures and religious beliefs, they are held in a special and peculiar place dmong the Latter-day Saints. The gospel teaches that they are the fleshly tabernacled spirits whose intelligences are coeternal with God and that they did not follow the rebellion of Lucifer. Therefore, they kept their first estate and are entitled to earth conditions which will help them to keep their second estate. This fact places importance and specific requirements upon the homes that Latter-day Saint parents establish. President Clark points out a known but seldom emphasized aspect of parenthood in the following:... I would like you to know that no daughter nor no son of yours has ever intruded himself into your family. You invited him in, you invited her in, they are your guests, and you owe to them all that a good hostess owes to her guests. 67 January 1970 I think we cannot hold that too firmly in mind. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 2.) Class Involvement Questions 1. How should the foregoing statements influence a mother's general attitude toward the responsibilities of motherhood? 2. How should they influence her (a) affection for her children? (b) the amount of patience she willingly will use in the training of the children? 3. What, in your opinion, does a good hostess owe to her guest? 4. How might the following good hostess qualifications be applied to the motherchild relationship in the home? A. A good hostess does not embarrass her guest. B. A good hostess establishes a general atmosphere of cheerfulness and good will through her attitude and her speech. C. A thoughtful hostess does not selfishly do all the speaking, but encourages her guest to participate in the conversation. D. The considerate hostess does not ignore the contribution of the guest. E. Ifthe guest volunteers information regarding personal problems, the considerate hostess endeavors to understand and responds with kindness and empathy. Other suggestions may be considered. PURPOSE Through the centuries women and work have been generally inseparable. In addition to the bearing of children, they were expected to do much of the work of field or farm, while the male of the species hunted or explored or engaged in war. A woman's work in many countries today involves the less arduous out-of-the-home physical exertion than in former times. In specific situations a woman's life has become one of physical ease. However, generally 68 speaking, a woman's role still requires long hours, seemingly thankless tasks, and, most certainly, it demands the same fundamental virtues of courage, insight, willingness to work, and unselfish service. Perhaps, being naturally inclined toward tenderness and compassion, these women of the past have found the needs of children and of others sufficient reason for their efforts and enjoyed a sense of personal fulfillment, even in the most difficult circumstances, as they saw their children develop in stature of body and of mind. EVEN TODAY Even today when conditions are considerably better for many women, when opportunities for self-improvement and _ personal enjoyment are numerous, the basic personal needs remain. In order to be happy in her role, a woman should see purpose in her efforts and enjoy a feeling of self-fulfillment. In lesson 3 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark takes us step-by-step through the guiding path of motherhood, painting an overall picture of the mother and child relationship: But the full glory of motherhood is not yet reached when her child comes forth into this world of trial, nor is her opportunity for service passed when her creation breathes the breath of life. Still from the dust of the earth she must fabricate the food that keeps alive and nourishes the little one. She not only feeds, but clothes it. She cares for it by day and watches over it by night. When illness comes, she nurses it with that near divine love that fills her heart. She gently leads its faltering steps, till it walks alone. She helps to frame its first lisps and teaches it the full art of speech. As consciousness matures, she deftly sows into the plastic mind the love of God, of truth; and, as the years flow by and youth comes on, she adds the love of honor, of honesty, of sobriety, of industry, of chastity. She teaches, bit by bit, loyalty and reverence and devotion. She implants and makes part of the growing, virgin intellect an understanding of the restored gospel. She steadies the swaying will when temptation first comes. She builds into the warp and woof of her creation, selfcontrol, independence, righteousness, love of God, and a desire and will to serve him. (Jdid., lesson 3.) The foregoing paragraph enumerates desirable personal qualities which are not acquired in a day, a month, or a year. All of them, in fact, may require a lifetime of consistent effort on the part of both mother and child. As we reread the foregoing excerpt we note the following characteristics: honesty, self-control, sobriety, chastity, honor, devotion, independence, reverence, a love for truth and of God. What a challenge it is to be in a position where one may influence another individual toward developing these qualities! Here is purpose enough for any woman. No Latter-day Saint woman can read this paragraph thoughtfully without being moved by the great human potential and by the magnitude and power of a mother's influence! Discussion Questions 1. Although engaged in the most challenging and rewarding calling in the world, why do some women become discouraged, even to the point of inducing emotional illnesses? 2. Do you think they are dissatisfied with the woman-role generally or merely with particular aspects of it? Lesson Department 3. What practical help can we give the woman who says, '"'What I do is so - trivial—so unimportant?" 4. How may family relationships be affected if the mother is habitually unhappy with her inherent role? ASK THE WOMAN—SHE KNOWS Emma and Jean have similar economic backgrounds. Both are mothers. Their contrasting comments relative to the role of wife and mother follow: Emma: What is wrong with me? I am busy from the moment I rise in the morning until I go to bed at night— to say nothing of the nights when one or another of our six children is ill and then I'm up half the night. I never seem to catch up—just get the bathroom scrubbed and the dishes washed and it is time to do them over again. Then laundry in the basement, closets to be cleaned, and always another meal just around the corner. I believe the old saying, "A'* man's work is from sun to sun, but a woman's work is never done." Sometimes I wish I were a man. What is so important about all this household trivia, the irritation of children's quarrels, and the endless routine of bedroom, and dishes? Ask any woman, she knows, how much work it is to keep up a house. Drab, that's what I call it. Discussion Questions 1. What advice would you give to Emma? 2. Would this attitude, in your opinion, likely be confined to the busy years when children are in the home, or is it likely a chronic attitude? 3. What does Emma need in addition to better home management? Jean also has six children. She speaks of the role of wife and mother in terms of her own mother's teaching. She says: 69 January 1970 Our mother impressed us with the idea that a cheerful disposition is about the best thing a girl can take to the altar. She said it is evidence that one is well on the road to maturity. It helps you to live agreeably with others and with yourself. If you can't enjoy yourself, what on earth are you going to do? In little consistent ways she taught her daughters to see that wifehood, and especially motherhood, are the most exciting and rewarding callings in all the world. Some of the ideas we grew up with we call '"Mama's Special Ten." 1. Be honest. If you are honest in your thinking, you have a pretty good chance of developing a sound perspective of yourself and situations around you. 2. There is no substitute for a moral life. Chastity is worth the price, whatever it may be. 3. Refuse to feel sorry for yourself and you will somehow find an inner strength that will help you to endure—often to endure happily. 4. Be willing to work. When women through the centuries have seen what had to be done, they have rolled up their sleeves and have done it. 5. Work toward perfection in yourself but don't demand it in others. Cultivate the attitude of liking things and people who are a little this side of perfection. This makes life easier. 6. Prepare for economic reverses by denying yourself and your family some of the little luxuries you could afford to have. 7. Develop a sense of humor and use it, for it is the human sunshine that helps you take disappointment and it may even dull the sharp edges of adversity. 8. Housework is as drab or as interesting as the housewife. 9. If you are creative you can make beauty from materials most people would cast away. Help children to get creative satisfaction from little things—daisies in a teacup or changing the bed onto the other side of the room. 10. Above all things, remember this: The Lord wants you to be a good mother. Ask him, humbly and earmestly, to help you. He will. 70 THE PRUDENT CARE OF OBJECTIVES For Class Participation Do you believe the following statements? Discuss. 1. In the comments of Emma there is no indication that she has objectives outside the duties of housekeeping. If at one time she did have such specific goals, they likely have been shaken out the window by the duster. Her only reference to the children is that of being irritated by their quarreling. She does not indicate interest in helping them to resolve their difficulties. There is no indication that she is concerned about their moral or spiritual development. Assuming that her negative attitude is habitual, we may say that she cannot see the forest for looking at the trees. 2. Jean's mother was taking good care of her objectives. She saw purpose in the role of wife and mother, and, apparently, personal fulfillment for her came in guiding the children in the direction of those objectives. By enlarging their horizon in practical ways, she was helping them to glimpse the vision of their high destiny. She definitely was concerned with the moral and spiritual development of the children and she apparently knew what many women fail to realize: that their inherent role places them in a position to become an expert in the most important area of life—that of human relations. WHAT SHOULD BE THERE President Clark devotes the latter part of Melchizedek Priesthood lesson 3 to the right kind of home—the perfect home—the home toward which Latter-day Saint parents should direct their guiding efforts. His enumeration includes things, conditions, and attitudes which we know should be in a good home but about which we frequently need to be reminded. We quote from him: If you aTe going to build the right kind of a home that Shall be a place in; " 4 4 y as Parents, as children, as brothers and Sisters, ven n a 71 Faith Must cover the home asa kindly Step each family mem ber, Northern HemisphereFourth Meeting, Aprit 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, August 1970 ART "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat (1859-1897) French (September 1969 Relief ) A Casual Observer might Say that this Painting "La Grande Jatte"' by Georges Seurat illustrates 4 popular leisure-time activity—strolling in the Park, However, aS One looks and reflects, he May find that there iS much More to it than that. The reality of en j the Subject has be Subjecteg to Stringent refining—not necessarily to improve it— Painter's arrival at a Maturity in the use of the Method he invented. His departure trom the established Way of Painting, and from the Impressionism Of his time, Opened the Way tor later, SO-calleq Modern": art Seurat Must have Worked hard to accomplish what he did at such an early age. (He dieg at the age of 32.) And, as is the case with many highly Creative People, he INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS As the preceding quotations and objective make clear, the main point of this lesson is that there should be a happy balance in our lives between work and leisure—perhaps a good deal more work than leisure, but also some time for the rewards that leisure can bring. That there are abundant values in a lifetime of dedication to honest, constructive work should be self-evident to all thinking people. Yet a woman would be wrong if she allowed her life to become so submerged in work and work only that all recreational, aesthetic, and spiritual things were crowded out. Again the need is for a healthy balance. In harmony with this ideal, the selections covered by this lesson are all concerned in one way or another with work and leisure. Some emphasize the values of work and some the rewards of leisure. Some suggest the balance that is needed between work and leisure and some the consequences when there is lack of balance. THOMAS CARLYLE ON WORK Out of the Scotch peasantry came Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881) warning the world, like a Biblical prophet, against the evils of materialism, idleness, and _ all things superficial. Although his writing is rough and even clumsy he was a courageous, independent thinker concerned above all with human values; and, however, clumsy his style, he forces us by vividness of phrase and power of idea to listen to his thoughts. His influence has been felt world-wide, with such men as Lesson Department Emerson and Thoreau acknowledging their indebtedness to him. As a young man Carlyle went through a profound spiritual crisis but found his spiritual footing and thereafter in volume after volume of essays was a vigorous prophet, preaching the gospel of work, the worship of heroes, the sacredness of life, the glory of God, and the evil of too much worldliness. He is often opinionated and chaotic in both ideas and style but he is always forceful—this boisterous, explosive, sincere man of faith. Following are some brief excerpts from the writings of Carlyle, who made the strongest statements we know in literature on the values and nobility of work. The excerpts are from two of his most famous volumes, Past and Present and Sartor Resartus. Readers will find them a bit clumsy and hard to read but with great power and even eloquence in their awkwardness: All work, even cotton-spinning, is noble; work is alone noble: be that here said and asserted once more. And in like manner, too, all dignity is painful; a life of ease is not for any man, nor for any god.... The only happiness a brave man ever troubled himself with asking much about was, happiness enough to get his work done. Not "I can't eat!" but "I can't work!" that was the burden of all wise complaining among men. It is, after all, the one unhappiness of a man. That he cannot work; that he cannot get his destiny as a man fulfilled. Behold, the day is passing swiftly over, our life is passing swiftly over; and the night cometh, wherein no man can work. The night once come, our happiness, our unhappiness,—it is all abolished; vanished, clean gone; a thing that has been.... But our work, —behold that is not abolished, that has not vanished: our work, behold, it remains, or the want of it remains;— 73 January 1970 for endless Times and Eternities, remains; and that is now the sole question with us for evermore.... For there is a perennial nobleness, and even sacredness, in Work. Were he never so benighted, forgetful of his high calling, there is always hope in a man that actually and earnestly works; in Idleness alone is there perpetual. Despair.... The latest Gospel in this world is, Know thy work and do it... Know what thou canst work at; and work at it, like a Hercules! That will be thy better plan.... Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness. He has a work, a life-purpose; he has found it, and will follow it!... Labour is Life: from the inmost heart of the Worker rises his god-given Force, the sacred Celestial Life-essence breathed into him by Almighty God; from his inmost heart awakens him to all nobleness,—to all knowledge, "self-knowledge" and much else, so soon as Work fitly beings.... Work is of a religious nature:—work is of a brave nature; which it is the aim of all religion to be.... Older than all preached Gospels was this unpreached, inarticulate, but ineradicable, foreverenduring Gospel: Work, and therein have wellbeing.... The thistle that grows in thy path, dig it out, that a blade of useful grass, a drop of nourishing milk, may grow there instead.... All true Work is sacred; in all true Work, were it but true hand-labour, there is something of divineness.... Who art thou that complainest of thy life of toil? Complain not. Look up, my wearied brother; see thy fellow Workmen there, in God's Eternity; surviving there, they alone surviving: sacred Band of the Im-. Mortals, celestial Bodyguard of the Empire of Mankind.... And who art thou that braggest of thy life of Idleness; complacently showest thy bright gilt equipages; sumptuous cushions; appliances for folding of the hands to mere sleep?... One monster there is in the world: the idle man.... As to the Wages of Work there might innumerable things be said.... One thing only I will say here.... The "wages" of every noble Work do yet lie in Heaven or else Nowhere. Not in Bank-of-England bills.... 74 Two men I honor, and no third. First, the toilworn Craftsman that with earthmade Implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's. Venerable to me is the hard Hand; crooked, course... Venerable too is the rugged face, all weather-tanned, besoiled, with its rude intelligence, for it is the face of a Man living manlike.... A second man I honor, and still more highly: Him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of Life.... If the poor and humble toil that we have Food, must not the high and glorious toil for him in return, that he have Light, have Guidance, Freedom, Immortality?—These two, in all their degrees, I honor—all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth. Unspeakably touching is it, however, when I find both dignities united; and he that must toil outwardly for the lowest of man's wants, is also toiling inwardly for the highest.... Such a one will take thee back to Nazareth itself; thou wilt see the splendor of Heaven spring forth from the humblest depths of Earth, like a light shining in great darkness. LIN YUTANG AND "THE IMPORTANCE OF LOAFING" Most issues have two sides. Carlyle has made a powerful case for the values of work. Something also, however, can be said for the values of leisure. Some excerpts from Lin Yutang's essay "The Importance of Loafing" follow to develop this second point of view. Lin Yutang (1895- ) can be called genuinely a citizen of the world. Born in China, he received his early education in Shanghai, then studied at Harvard and several German universities. Returning to China, he became a professor of English at Peking but later fled mainland China when the Communists took over. Since then he has become recognized throughout the world not only as a fluent spokesman for free China but also as a prominent writer in English, especially in his essays. Amonghisimportant publications are My Country and My People, The Importance of Living, A Leaf in the Storm, and Between Tears and Laughter. While studying this lesson on work and leisure, readers will undoubtedly want to contrast the views of Carlyle and Lin Yutang. Surely no one has talked more glowingly of the nobility of work than Carlyle, who even went so far as to call the idle man a monster. At the other extreme, Lin Yutang eloquently defends "the importance of loafing." Before we conclude that the two are completely contradictory, however, we should read carefully what each says. For Carlyle, "all true work is religion" and "all true work is sacred"—but note the emphasis on the word true in each statement. For Lin Yutang, "the man who is wisely idle is the most cultured man'—but again note the emphasis on the word wisely. These qualifying words make a great difference in what each man is saying and indicate that both are aware of the preciousness of time, whether spent in work or in leisure. Culture, as I understand it, is essentially a product of leisure. The art of culture is therefore essentially the art of loafing. From the Chinese point of view, the man who is wisely idle is the most cultured man. For there seems to be a philosophic contradiction between being busy and being wise. Those who are wise won't be busy, and those who are too busy can't be wise. The wisest man is therefore he who loafs most gracefully. Here I shall try to explain, not the technique and varieties of loafing as practised in China, but rather the philosophy which nourishes this divine desire for loafing in China and gives rise to that carefree, idle, happyLesson Department go-lucky—and often poetic—temperament in the Chinese scholars, and to a lesser extent, in the Chinese people in general. How did that Chinese temperament—that distrust of achievement and success and that intense love of living as such—arise? In the first place, the Chinese theory of leisure, as expressed by a comparatively unknown author of the eighteenth century, Shu Paihsiang, who happily achieved oblivion, is as follows: time is useful because it is not being used. "Leisure in time is like unoccupied floor space in a room." Every working girl who rents a small room where every inch of space is fully utilized feels highly uncomfortable because she has no room to move about, and the moment she gets a raise in salary, she moves into a bigger room where there is a little more unused floor space, besides those strictly useful spaces occupied by her single bed, her dressing table and her two-burner gas range. It is that unoccupied space which makes a room habitable, as it is our leisure hours which make life endurable. I understand there is a rich woman living on Park Avenue, who bought up a neighboring lot to prevent anybody from erecting a skyscraper next to her house. She is paying a big sum of money in order to have space fully and perfectly made useless, and it seems to me she never spent her money more wisely.... Figuratively speaking, we, too, are so cramped in our life that we cannot enjoy a free perspective of the beauties of our spiritual life. We lack spiritual frontage.... To the Chinese, therefore, with the fine philosophy that "Nothing matters to a man who says nothing matters," Americans offer a strange contrast. Is life really worth all the bother, to the extent of making our soul a slave to the body? The high spirituality of the philosophy of loafing forbids it.... The three great American vices seem to be efficiency, punctuality and the desire for achievement and success. They are the things that make the Americans so unhappy and so nervous. They steal from them their inalienable right of loafing and cheat them of many a good, idle and beautiful afternoon. One must start out with a belief that there are no catastrophes in this world, and that be- 75 January 1970 sides the noble art of getting things done, there is a nobler art of leaving things undone. On the whole, if one answers letters promptly, the result is about as good or as bad as if he had never answered them at all. After all, nothing happens, and while one may have missed a few good appointments, one may have also avoided a few unpleasant ones.... Our quarrel is not that efficiency gets things done and very well done, too. I always rely on American water-taps, rather than on those made in China, because American water-taps do not leak. That is a consolation. Against the old contention, however, that we must all be useful, be efficient, become officials and have power, the old reply is that there are always enough fools left in the world who are willing to be useful, be busy and enjoy power, and so somehow the business of life can and will be carried on. The only point is who are the wise, the loafers or the hustlers? Our quarrel with efficiency is not that it gets things done, but that it is a thief of time when it leaves us no leisure to enjoy ourselves and that it frays our nerves in trying to get things done perfectly.... American engineers in building bridges calculate so finely and exactly as to make the two ends come together within one-tenth of an inch. But when two Chinese begin to dig a tunnel from both sides of a mountain, both come out on the other side. The Chinese's firm conviction is that it doesn't matter so long as a tunnel is dug through, and if we have two instead of one, why, we have a double track to boot.... The tempo of modern industrial life forbids this kind of glorious and magnificent idling. But worse than that, it imposes upon us a different conception of time as measured by the clock, and eventually turns the human being into a clock himself.... This is what makes life so hard and hectic.... And Americans have now come to such a sad state that they are booked up not only for the following day, or the following week, but even for the following month. An appointment three weeks ahead of time is a thing unknown in China. And when a Chinese receives an invitation card, happily he never has to say whether he is going to be present or not. He can put down on the invitation list "coming" if he accepts, or "thanks" if he declines, 76 MOOD Sullen sky, cold sand, restless water. Gulls crying, wind blowing, waves roaring. All alone and sad, thinking thoughts of you. —Theodora Graham PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours Southern Temple Tour March 15-21st SS Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Learn a Career with a future We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success ina rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved wr e "4, Send now for. E our brochure f 9 a s * S Ten) * 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 FULL CYCLE The vines of experience and knowledge burgeon from the seeds of truth, intertwine through their summering, gaining and giving strength each to each, to autumn, their harvest of wisdom.... Time winters inevitably but souls Springtime into Promised joy, fulfilling the covenant. —Kathryn Kay Lesson Department but in the majority of cases the invited party merely writes the word "know," which is a statement of fact that he knows of the invitation and not a statement of intention.... Worthy of the name. Unfortunately, character is not a thing which can be manufactured Overnight. Like the quality of mellowness in wine, it is acquired by standing still and by the Passage of time. Women for action, trying in this way to gain their self-respect and the respect of the younger generation, is what makes them look so ridiculous to an Oriental.... The loss of the capacity for loafing is bad enough in men of middle age, but the type of life where every man is throwing away his last year's car and trading it in for the new model. Old silver, old dictionaries and old prints, but we life, for beauty, it seems to me, is what is old and mellow and well-smoked. Sometimes a prophetic vision comes to me, a beautiful vision of a millennium when Manhattan will go slow, and when the American "go-getter" will become an Oriental loafer.. - + Policemen will exchange a word of greeting with the slowdevil at the crossings, and the drivers themselves will stop and accost each other and inquire after their grandmothers' health in the midst of traffic.... A glass or orange juice will last half an hour... Punctuated by delightful, chatty remarks, instead of swallowing it at a gulp.... Fire engines will proceed at a snail's pace, their staff stopping on the Way to gaze at and dispute over the num- 77 Rose Elder Ada Mortensen January 1970 ber of passing wild geese in the sky. It is too bad that there is no hope of this kind of millennium on Manhattan ever being realized. There might be so many more perfect idle afternoons. " "The Importance of Loafing undoubtedly goes too far in advocating leisurely living. Everyone knows that efficiency, accuracy, and punctuality are generally virtues, not vices. Work needs to be pushed along with energy, projects, and programs need to be completed as expertly as possible, deadlines need to be kept, letters (at least some of them) need to be answered, and fire engines need to hurry to put out fires. But does Lin Yutang have a point? In the rush of twentieth-century living, are we pushed and pressured so constantly from so many sides that we don't have enough time to think, to create, to appreciate the beautiful, or even to experience the spiritual? Do the things we have to do too often get in the way of the things we want to do or, even worse, of the things we ought to do? Do we need to make room in our lives for at least some periods of leisure when the mind can think, the heart can appreciate, and the spinit can commune and grow? Plants are smothered when crowded too tightly in space. Are personalities smothered when crowded too tightly in time? Is it also true that in our modern world we are forgetting how to grow old gracefully and do not have proper respect and appreciation for the beauty of old age? If too much leisure in life is wrong, is it also wrong to have no leisure, or too little? Long ago the Greeks advocated moderation 78 CHILD, MY CHILD Your house is tomorrow with rooms to fill, My house is today, come if you will And visit my light rooms filled with love, In all corners crowded with tokens of A younger yesterday remembered well. You may find a treasure or | shall tell, Child, my child, a rare secret and true, This day was begun a house for you. —Leora Larsen SELB SU GY MUSIC COMPANY ''Singing Mothers'' "'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 * Instruments and balance in all things. Is that still the best answer? Question Most readers will undoubtedly enjoy Lin Yutang's essay whether they agree with it or not because it is wntten so delightsomely. In your opinion is he fully serious in the essay, partly serious, fully right, or partly right? OTHER SELECTIONS IN THIS LESSON In addition to the essays of Thomas Carlyle and Lin Yutang, the text also contains the following selections with discussions: (1) "After Apple-Picking," an excellent modern poem on the pleasure and pain of work by Robert Frost, (2) "Life of Ma Parker," a moving short story by Katherine Mansfield showing a woman whose life is filled with too much work and too little of all the other things that life also needs for nourishment, (3) 'The Secret Life of Walter Mitty," a delightful story by James Thurber about a timid man who tries to escape reality through constant daydreaming, and (4) some excerpts from "The Roots of Honor," a stimulating essay by John Ruskin outlining the responsibilities to society of merchants and other public leaders. Each class leader should choose those selections that she finds most interesting and most appropriate for her group. Lesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5 ~._--.75 Zone3 ___-.-0 Zone6 _~___- 85 Zone4 ___-_-_.65 Zone7.~.._..95 Zone8. - - - -1.05 ay jEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 TO ALL MUSIC PEOPLE: Have you seen our FREE catalog and latest (pink) supplement listing over 150 SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS by thirty-five L. D. S. Authors and composers —songs written to fill their special needs, and now available to help you fill yours? Selections include choruses, trios, solos, etc. With a variety of themes—spiritual, patriotic, pioneer, home and family, missionary, and others. Many have expressed delight with this unique service. For enough catalogs for your stake ward leaders, and for interested friends, write: Shecial Pm Songs 1365 East 4800 South, (Murray-Holladay Rd.) Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 or call Vilate McAllister, 277-7331 'tWe Choose to Share, Not Shelve."' 79 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by "anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 102 100 96 95 94 93 92 Mrs. Margaret Clarkston Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah 91 Mrs. Louisa Caroline Tempest Anderson Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Ismilda Thueson England Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lee Wilson Myers American Fork, Utah Mrs. Zerviah Greene Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder Richfield, Utah Mrs. Ora Crutchfield Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Anna Marie Anderson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Huffaker Larsen Los Angeles, California Mrs. Annie Eliza Summers Moore Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Ella Wheeler Reynolds Springville, Utah Mrs. Theresia Klein Redwood City, California 90 Mrs. Annie Cecilia Christensen Larsen Marsing, Idaho Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Johnston Franks Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Sarah (Sadie) Bullock Holt Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Hattie M. Redding Owens San Diego, California Mrs. Irene Phippen Voyce Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Laura Jane Cameron Worthen Panguitch, Utah Mrs. Rose Ellen Webster Berry Grand Junction, California Mrs. Mattie Smith Colson Portland, Oregon Mrs. Effie Matilda Longshore Dougal San Diego, California Mrs. Hattie Beck Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elisabeth Harries Liddle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Camma Atkinson Lutz Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Christina Wangsgaard McKay Ogden, Utah Mrs. Cornelia Peters Officer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Frances Pearl Hight Toolson New Meadows, Idaho Mrs. Amy Eunice Fernelius R. Eldredge Carey, Idaho Mrs. Ruth Ada Coombs Coleman Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Josephine A. Christensen Centerfield, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elvira Andersen Cook Bonners Ferry, Idaho Mrs. Pearl Bullen Harrison Logan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Green Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Annie E. Haag King Denver, Colorado Alma Maria Layman Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Farnsworth Lee Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Anna Homegar Richenbach Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Eva Lee Russell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Pearl Kennedy Wall Aurora, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Hoge Welker Fortuna, California Mrs. Henrietta Zufelt Wilcox American Fork, Utah | 4 From Deseret Book Barely a month old, this new book tells the true story of the singing King family. Now, for the first time, a: book that tells how it all began. This is a story of the King Sisters quartette and their determination to make good during the era of the "big bands." It tells of the joys and sorrows that go with achieving stardom. This is also the story of how they managed to maintain a home life in spite of their traveling. Order your copy of this first edition NOW! "Déseret- —_ DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me....... Pieces:.... Copies of THE SINGING KINGS Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Jan. R. S. Mag. 70 | Total Cost $2000.20,| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [J Second Class Postage Paid | at Salt Lake City, Utah i | The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Iustrations: WINTER SONG Ice is in the wind tonight glazing in the swale. | have heard a bittern bird weeping on a rail. | have watched a listless bee Crawling to a hollow tree, Its summer-swift and reaching wings Trailing, spent and useless things. In brittle light of frozen night A snow fox finds his lair On Cavern Peak, and now | seek My fireplace and my chair. | am snowbound. A winter sound Easing silence in my house Is midnight gnawing of a mouse. With drowsing year | hush and hear New snow sliding off my roof, Hoarfrost shattered by a hoof. —Peggy Tangren Reflection of Trees and Mountains Transparency by Hal Rumel Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Winter Near Park City, Utah - Photograph by Elizabeth Simon Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 81 Just a note to thank you for the special attention given to my poem "Sequoia Soil or Desert Sand'' in the November issue of the Magazine. It is wonderful what an effective illustration will do to enhance a poem. (Mary Scopes illustrator). | think it is due mostly to the pine tree clinging to the edge. | want to tell you how beautiful the Magazine covers are. Each one could be enlarged into a masterpiece. The last one is so much like our Richmond canyons in November—a light skiff of snow on autumn leaves. So often my husband and | climb these trails. | often envy Dorothy Roberts capturing beautiful scenes for her photography and her poetry. Alda L. Brown, Richmond, Utah | would like to tell you how much the Magazine affects my life. | have seven young children and am constantly in need of encouragement and comfort. This is given through articles such as ''If It's Right We Can Do It,'' by President Belle S. Spafford (November), and the poignant messages of the editorials. The article 'Madonna Keepsakes" by Florence G. Butler (November) has motivated me to make my own collection of Relief Society Madonnas from my library of past Magazines. Needless to say that activity has taken longer than planned, as | rediscovered favorite selections and recipes in the old issues. Amy B. Marcusen, Kaysville, Utah My mother read the Magazine to me when | lived at home, and | experimented with some of the recipes. While | was in the mission field the Magazine was a regular part of my proselyting tools—it was, ro to speak, my second ''companion." Now | am a young housewife and a regular subscriber to the Magazine for myself—and how very precious it is in my home. | read every printed word, absorbing every ounce of love that is contained within the covers. The only problem now is that | have a stiff competitor for the Magazine's attentions—my husband. When | was married | was proud of the lovely dowry of handwork | brought to our new home. My husband, on the other hand, had been a regular subscriber to the Magazine throughout college, the service, and his mission, and brought to our home bound copies of each issue since 1954! -. Nadine H. Kerr, San Jose, California | would like to express my appreciation for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine which | have had in my home for fifty years. | have served as a Magazine agent in two wards and have found it easy to achieve 100 per cent subscriptions. The beautiful covers are always an inspiration, and | am pleased with the lovely poetry, stories, and recipes—but most of all the beautiful lessons. They all bring joy, courage, comfort, and an increasing testimony. Martha Bassett, Boise, Idaho The Magazine is full of beauty and full of interesting reading. The lessons give help and information which we very much need. If it were possible to place the Magazine in the homes where the growing children could have the training it provides for both mothers and children, | am sure it would help to lessen the trouble we have these days. It is a small Magazine, but it holds a wealth of information. Lola B. Walker, Seaside, California! Am glad that the Relief Society has such a fine Magazine. | would never be without it. One day a small, lovely woman appeared at my door. She was the Relief Society president making a call on the sick. It was the first time | had talked with anyone from the LDS Church. Then Etta Rees sent me The Relief Society Magazine, and | began to read it to find out the things | needed to know about the great program of Relief Society and of the Church. She has sent me the Magazine for more than five years as a gift. She is the best and dearest sister | have ever had and the most wonderful friend—and | needed one so much in my life. Hannah Cagle, Fillmore, Ut 82 The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 57. February 1970 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 84 To Save Souls Marion G. Romney 90 Weaving the Fabric of Home Life Halaevalu Mata'aho 118 Magazine Honor Roll for 1969 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 94 An Odd-Shaped Valentine Kathryn E. Franks 99 Happy Anniversary! Rosemary Addis 112 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 2 Hazel K. Todd General Features 82 From Near and Far 96 Editorial—On Contemplation Louise W. Madsen 98 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 132 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 104 Make a New Start with Alaskan Sourdough Edythe K. Watson _107 The Blessings of Visiting Teaching Verda F. Welch 108 Penny-Wise Playgrounds June F. Krambule 110 The Creek Taught Me Anny M. Campbell 111 Hobby Features—Annie Elizabeth McQuivey and Mary Jane Ashworth 131 Make Popsicles From Leftover Juices Alice Brady Myers Lesson Department 140 Spiritual Living—Zion and Its Future Roy W. Doxey 146 Visiting Teacher Message—''Men Are, That They Might Have Joy' Alice Colton Smith 147 Homemaking—"'She Stretcheth Out Her Hand to the Poor...' Celestia J. Taylor 149 Social Relations—''Whither Goest Thou?" Alberta H. Christensen 154 Cultural Refinement—The Thrill and Reward of Participation Robert K. Thomas Poetry 81 Winter Song, Peggy Tangren; 88 Unclaimed Heritage, Beulah Huish Sadleir; 89 Sea, Dorothy J. Roberts; 93 On Priorities, Mabel Jones Gabbott; 102 A Happy Day, Grace Diane Jessen; 103 If Only, Mary C. Clough; 107 Backyard Bluebird, Kathryn Kay; 145 ''The Flower Song When the Sun Is Out,'' Nona H. Brown. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.50 a year; foreign, $2.50 a year; 25¢ a copy. Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once. Giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. To Save Souls Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1969] = The Prophet Joseph Smith, early in the history of the Relief Society, instructed "The Ladies' Relief Society," as he called it then, that it was "not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." This was a charge to the "Ladies" to assist in the Lord's great "".. Work and... Glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) Itis about this awesome assignment your Relief Society Presidency has asked me to speak a few words this afternoon. The importance of saving souls has frequently been emphasized by the Lord. To John and Peter Whitmer, on separate occasions, he said:. Behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father.... (D&C 15:6; 16:6.) 84 To Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and David Whitmer, he gave this counsel: Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; And if it so be that you should labor all your days... And bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father. (D&C 18:10, 15.) These scriptures teach that a soul is saved by being brought back into the "kingdom of God." What he was speaking about when he used the word "soul," the Lord explained by saying "".. The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D&C 88:15.) The word "body" as here used, conveys the same meaning to almost everyone; and Latter-day Saints understand the meaning of the word "spirit." But since our concept of a spirit is not so widely understood, an explanation may be in order. INTELLIGENCE The Lord taught the Prophet Joseph Smith that: Man was... In the beginning with God. [That] Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made... (D&C 93:29.) And to Abraham, he declared:... I rule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath... Over all the intelligences thine eyes have seen. As to what he had _ seen, Abraham wrote: Now the Lord had shown unto me... The intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones... For he stood among those that were spirits. (Abraham 3:21-23.) SPIRITS These scriptures teach that the spirits are created from that "intelligence, or light of truth" which was not created or made, but was in the beginning with God. The Lord revealed the key to the means by which these spirits were created, when he said that the inhabitants of the worlds "are begotten sons and daughters unto God." (D&C 76: 24.) As to the likeness of these spirit "sons and _ daughters" "begotten... Unto God," we are given a clear understanding in the Book of Ether. It is there stated that it was some 2200 years B. C. That "the Lord showed himself" to the Brother of Jared, and said:... Behold, I am Jesus Christ....... Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man To Save Souls have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh. (Ether 3:14-16.) We further learn through the Prophet, that a spirit has a material body.... All spirit is matter, [he said] but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes;. When our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter. (D&C 131:7- 8.) THE BIRTH OF SOULS Just before Jesus was born in Bethlehem... The voice of the Lord came unto him [Nephi] saying:... The time is at hand... And on the morrow come I into the world.... (3 Ne. 1:12-13.) Accordingly, Jesus Christ, the spirit who had appeared to the Brother of Jared some 2200 years earlier, came "into the world" in a mortal body. As the son of Elohim and Mary, he entered mortality as a living soul. So it has always been. When a mother gives birth to a child, a human soul—a spirit child of God in a mortal body—is born. This is the answer to the Psalmist's query: "What is man...?" (Ps. 8:4.) It also gives meaning to the awe-inspired lines of Shakespeare: What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god! (Hamlet Act 2, Scene 2.) THE WORTH OF A SOUL IS MEASURED IN ITS POTENTIAL The Creator endowed all living things with seed in themselves to bring forth offspring having the 85 February 1970 capability to reach, in full matu-. Rity, the likeness of the parent. This is true with the offspring of herbs, animals, and man. It is also true with the offspring of God. Being his begotten spirit child, a human soul is endowed with the potential to become like God, his Father... Now are we the sons of God, [said John] and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him... (1 John 3:2.) Jesus enjoined men to aspire to this high station, when he said: Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect. (3 Ne. 12:48.) THE PLAN His purpose, to save souls—by bringing to pass their "immortality and eternal life'—God has been pursuing from the beginning. His plan for accomplishing this was announced at the great preearth council, where "there stood among" the spirits, one... Like unto God [who] said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon... And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever. (Abraham 3:24-26.) That we are now human souls is proof that we kept our first estate. And we are assured of being further added upon with immortality. But we are not yet assured of that salvation envisioned by the Prophet Joseph in B6 his charge to the ladies of the Relief Society. In our quest for that salvation, we now face the greatest challenge we have yet met or that we shall ever meet: the challenge to keep our second estate. This requires us to "do all things whatsoever the Lord" our God commands us. If we succeed, we "shall have glory added upon... [our] heads forever and ever." We shall become perfect, even as Jesus and our Father in heaven are perfect. This is what it means to be saved. If some of you should now ask what this long discourse has to do with our charge to "save souls," this would be my answer. I have sought to remind you of what a soul is; of its infinite value, and potential; what it means to save a soul, and how a soul may be saved, because I believe that a knowledge of these things is: necessary if we are to be effective in our efforts to help save souls. I believe that a guide who would lead another must have a correct understanding of the desired goal; of what it means to reach it, and how to reach it, and be on the way himself. I am convinced that it is one's clear and constant view of these things which gives him motivation and guidance. It has been the vision of Zion, with the hope and expectation of securing a place therein, which has held the righteous on course through the ages. President Young, back in the 1850's, reminded a group of saints that it was not... A vision of driving cattle across the plains... Where you would be mired in this or that mudhole [nor of] the stampedes among the cattle, and those of a worse character among the people, [but the] vision of Zion... In its beauty and glory [which cheered them on]. Rows and disappointments of this morta] life and Overcome them and be made ready to enjoy the glory of the Lord as it was revealed to you. 1 Paul reminded the Hebrews that the Redeemer, himself, was in like manner held to his course. He said it this Way::.. Jesus the author and finisher of our faith... For the joy that was set before him endured the cross (Heb. 12:2.) We love and revere our favorite hymns because they lift our Fearnot, Iamwith thee, Obe not dismayed, ForI am thy God and will still give thee aid; Pll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand Upheld by my righteous, omnipotent hand. And another: And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day! All is wel]! We then are free from toil and sorrow, too; With the just we shall dwell! And so I repeat—an indispenSable prerequisite to Saving souls -.. Treasure these things up in [our] hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon [our] minds. (D&C 43:34.) So doing, we Shall be about the business of Saving our own souls not only, but we can then go forth To Save Souls and encourage those with whom we are called to labor to Strive to save their souls in like manmore restricted assignment. To them he said: Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, and in the circle of the world; but your administering should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Relief Society. (DHC IV: 607.) We know that the Prophet intended to include husbands in the "circle of your own acquaintance," because he Said: Let this society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argumant or a murmur—if he "Your own acquaintance" also Includes your children, grandchildren, and other family members. Concerning our obligation in this field, I have a feeling that there is much which we can do in Many areas. For example, those which concern working mothers and home evenings. I recently heard of a Primary from which some of the children because their were not at home. I was reminded 87 February 1970 of these lines by Esther Hull Doolittle: Sometimes when I get home from school And mother isn't there (Even though she'll be back soon And I don't really care) Still all the furniture looks queer, The house seems hushed and sad; And then I hear her coming in And, oh boy! Am I glad! Ladies of the Relief Society who understand and appreciate what we have here said concerning the saving of souls and the influence of their absence from home upon their children, will not leave their homes except under the most stringent circumstances. In no other area of their great work, can "The Ladies' Relief Society" do more to save souls than in motivating themselves, and all other women in —- the Church, to plant in the minds and hearts of their children the aspirations which inspired Eliza R. Snow's great poem: I'll serve the Lord while I am young, And in my early days, Devote the music of my tongue To my Redeemer's praise. I'll praise His name, that He has giv'n Me parentage and birth Among the most beloved of heav'n That dwell upon the earth. O Lord, my parents here preserve, To teach me righteousness, That my young feet may never swerve From paths of holiness. And, like the faithful ones of old Who now behold Thy face, May I be formed in virtue's mould To fill a holy place. That this may be our goal and success, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. —.) UNCLAIMED HERITAGE Did you say, 'Come back when England's winds Blow over marsh and meadow tand; When hedge sparrows warble to The dawning day's command?"' Did you bid my return to sight Of houses, quaint as were the Bard's In Stratford town? Where swans afloat On Avon's placid stream, move Unaware of one man's high esteem? Yes, you know, that should | stay a fortnight At a village inn, to learn the lineal Legacy that moves my pen, no Doubt in England's marsh and meadow land | there shall find an unclaimed Heritage, a definitive future planned. —Beulah Huish Sadleir SEA Never-the-same-sea Yet ever-the-same-sea Frolics on the shores, Leaps on the beaches— Dawn to moonrise, Curled and folding under, Looped with lace; The green combed arch of wave, Never, yet ever the same. Se jDorathy J. Roberts -_-— a > -» 7 | His Majesty | King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV | of Tonga and Queen Halaevalu Mata'aho. Weaving the Fabric of Home Life Halaevalu Mata'aho, Queen of Tonga [Translation of an address given by the Queen of Tonga, Queen Halaevalu Mata'- aho, at the Relief Society Homemaking Display Show held as part of the Golden Jubilee celebration of the Tongan Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, November 27, 1968. Presented by permission of the Queen. ] = I wish to pay my respects to the chiefs and nobles assembled here today, my respects to the wife of the British Consul who is with us today, my special regards to President Tanner and his wife who are here from America, and to President Groberg our own Tongan Mission President, and his wife who are here also today. Also my regards to the leaders of the various women's organizations in the various churches in 90 Tonga who are here today, and my special regards to the members of the Relief Society organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who, of course, represent the main reason we are here today. It is always a pleasure for me to take part in any meeting which has as its purpose the giving of thanks or praise for good work which has been accomplished. I want to thank especially all of you members of the Relief Society for the great work you have done and which is demonstrated here today. We must remember, however, that it is always our responsibility as women in Tonga or as women anywhere in the world to perform this type of work lovingly and carefully, and to make the home we live in more pleasant. There are two words I would like to use to base my talk upon. I hope it will be helpful to some of us here this afternoon. The first word is husband, and the second word is wife. The word husband comes from two English words, namely house and band. We can see then that this word basically means that which wraps around or solidifies or strengthens the house and provides protection and support thereto. And this is the case, for truly it is the husband who provides the protection and support and indeed ties together all of the various elements connected with the house. If he is a good husband, he provides everything that is needful for the family with his work and _ his efforts and with his ability to do things that only men can do, such as heavy work, building homes, etc. _ We must always remember that this responsibility is fulfilled from the husband's heart, for, indeed, in his home is everything that is valuable to him—his wife, his children, and their love and respect. Naturally he desires his family to have the best of everything possible, be it government, church, family, or any other association. How very, very blessed is the woman to whom God has given such a husband. Now there may be a few women who would tend to say, "I am grateful to God for the, religious understanding and light that I have, but it is a real burden to me that my husband does not understand religious truths Weaving the Fabric of Home Life as I do, and does not live by these family or eternal truths as he should." If this happens to be the particular burden of a Christian woman, and she begins to think that the burden is very heavy for her to carry, some may even go as far as to feel that they should make a change in their marital relationship. If there is anyone who thinks this way, I would lke to read to you from the Bible a passage which I believe applies directly to such women, and I believe this passage of scripture will be a source of strength and comfort to you and help you to carry on. This scripture is found in the New Testament in the Book of First Corinthians, Chapter 7, and reads as follows:... If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy. But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to peace. For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? 'Now, my dear fellow women, if you can be completely unselfish and meek and humble and have the true spirit of Christian love and be guided by the Holy Ghost in your actions and words I am certain that as you work with these influences you can indeed 91 February 1970 become an instrument in the hands of God to change the heart of your husband for the better that he may become truly Christian also. Now the second word that I want to speak about is the word wife. The meaning of the word wife is something we probably all wonder about. Why is it that we women who are married are called wives? I feel that we can learn quite a bit from the origin of this word. The word wife originally comes from the verb which means to weave. In the very early days linen or cloth was woven in each separate home. Even the thread was made in each separate home with a machine called the spinning wheel. Then when there was enough thread it was made into cloth on a machine called a hand loom. Originally, the wife was the one who did this weaving or making of the cloth. I would like to quote again from the Bible, this time from' the Old Testament, the Book of Proverbs which says: She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it.... (Proverbs 31:13, 19, 24.) The husband, as_ previously mentioned, has the responsibility for all of those things from the outside to tie the home together, but the wife has the responsibility and opportunity of weaving the fabric of home life. This is done inside the home in order to provide the necessary happiness for her family. And you know, fellow women, as far as I am concerned, this is the most beautiful weaving and the most important weaving 92 that is done anywhere in the world—weaving the fabric of your home life. And how beautiful is that fabric if woven by a true Christian woman or wife, especially a Christian woman such as one described in the Book of Proverbs and one who sincerely has the desire to make her husband and her children and her family happy. In any weaving there are bound to be those moments of trial and temptation which we must overcome, for all is not easy. There will be those days when we will get tired of the constant weaving which we are doing. The fabric of our home will be colored by the various problems and hardships which come our way, but if successfully overcome, these only add to the beauty of the overall design. Yes, if we have love in our hearts and understanding in our hearts, these problems thus overcome act as gold and silver threads which are stronger than any other threads which may come our way. If we can just be unselfish and have a sincere desire to love and serve our families and also be brave and strong in the work we are called to do, we can weave this most beautiful of all fabrics. Wives, mothers, just how is the fabric of your home? Are you weaving beautifully and orderly through peace and love or are you one of those wives who weaves in a disorderly fashion—a wife who leaves the weaving loom of her home and goes outside in an attempt to find her own happiness and joy which she can never find outside of her own -particular assignment at home? There are so many women nowadays who are crying for their freedom and their rights to be free from the traditional responsibilities of the home and family. This class of women will never be able to weave the beautiful fabric necessary to have a peaceful home unless they repent and return unto that which they are privileged by God to do. One other point I would like to mention is to ask all of the mothers here to remember that the fabric of the lives of our children, their characters, is largely determined by the weaving that they observe us doing. They not only learn from us but we actually weave the fabric of their lives for them in their tender years. In fact we actually begin weaving the pattern of their lives before they are even born. Yes, one of our most important weaving assignments is our children. Weaving the Fabric of Home Life We must always remember that the life of our children is made up of three parts—that is body, mind, and spirit. There are many of us who provide all the necessary things for their body, and encourage them strongly in their academic pursuits to develop their minds, but we must remember that if we do not feed and help and support their spirits we are in fact being negligent of that portion of our children which is by far the most valuable—their eternal spirits. How happy should be the mother or wife who is able to answer thusly: Yes, in the love and grace of God my spirit does live and the spirit of my husband and the spirits of my children live despite the hardships of this uncertain world. My love to all. I thank you for this opportunity. ON PRIORITIES Let me lean on your love tonight; Tomorrow's crowded moments might Find me frantic with the need To frost small cakes with poppy seed For eager Scouts, to soothe the cares Of wee ones tripped by treacherous stairs. Perhaps, awhile, a child again, I'll stay my aging father when His loneliness spills over... All Day long, whatever task or call, A sister's sorrow, a daughter's tears, A lesson written on the Pioneers, Whatever has priority— Mother, daughter, wife—I'll be. But | am a woman first, my dear, Frayed with uncertainty and fear, So let me lean on your love tonight; Then tomorrow will be blessed and bright. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 93 AN w In the Southwest where I live, we have no February snow, but this morning great heavy clouds swooped down over the foothills, bringing the winter rains. A good day, I decided, casting aside the morning paper, to put a cake in the oven. This accomplished, I started a gelatin salad for the next day's luncheon. I had not realized it was Valentine's Day until Patrick, my threeyear-old neighbor, zigzagged through the puddles to my backdoor for his usual morning visit. He dried his feet on my throw rug while, in one breath, he greeted me with the morning news. "My daddy couldn't start his car and Skippy Cat got caught in the rain. Know what? Terry took all the valentines to school.". Wiping his wet hands on his pant's leg, he walked directly to the living room and_ looked around. He came back to the kitchen and pulled himself up on the maple, round-seated stool I had left beside the kitchen cupboard. "Did the mailman leave you some envelopes?" he asked. "Yes," I replied, "two." = A moment of silence. "Then where are your valentines?" he asked. Apparently, he felt concerned because he had not discovered valentines lined along my livingroom mantelpiece, nor found any standing in my window sill above my kitchen sink. Patrick's eyes sobered in thought as he sat on the stool silently brooding. Knowing Patrick, I guessed he must be worried because my friends had forgotten to send valentines. The fact that I live alone has troubled Patrick for some time. He senses my "aloneness," and tries in his three-year-old way to help me, and be company for me. My big, quiet house appalls him. He is one of four children, and although the silence puzzles him, I suspect at times, it is a haven of privacy for him. Here he has my undivided attention, and over the past year we have become good, trusted friends. I felt, as he sat there watching me mix cranberries into the gela- tin, that the valentine situation was bothering him. Therefore I explained to him that my friends, our age, sent different kinds of cards. "Get well cards, birthday cards—these cards convey messages of love," I said. "They don't always have to be heart-shaped like valentines." He listened, then abruptly jumped down from the stool. "T've got to go home now," he said. He turned and ran out the door before I could hand him my umbrella. This was unusual for Patrick. He always waited for the cake to come out of the oven so that he could have the first piece. But he had dashed across the yard, looking like a giant butterfly floating through the rain. In five minutes he was back, calling from the outside step. As I opened the door, I saw he carried something in his arms. Raindrops, dripping from his red and blue plaid shirt sleeves, dropped to the floor. His eyes watched my face as his small steady hands held out an old, blue, oval-shaped flower bowl with two rocks centered on the bottom. On top of one rock sat one of the tiniest turtles I'd ever seen. Stretching its skinny neck out from a brightly decorated shell, it looked up at me. "He's yours—I'm giving him to you," Patrick said, his face aglow. Sensing the magnitude of the gift, I assured him that the turtle was exactly what I needed for company. "T'll keep it here in the window sill while I'm working in the kitchen," I explained jubilantly. "When I go upstairs, I'll take the turtle with me." An Odd-Shaped Valentine "He's a valentine," Patrick exclaimed quickly, because I hadn't already guessed. Surprise vanished from my eyes momentarily as I considered the thoughtfulness of his act. A gentle smile checked my heartfelt tears. "Patrick, this is the nicest valentine I have ever received," I said shakily, taking the wiggly turtle out in my hand. "But he's not shaped like one, is he?" Patrick questioned. I felt certain that Patrick was reminding me of what I had told him only minutes before about grownup valentines. "No, he's not heart-shaped," I answered, "but because you gave him to me on Valentine's Day, my only valentine, he'll always be heart-shaped to me." That was enough for. Patrick. Evidently my expression told him that I had accepted the gift as he had intended, with love. Then because my valentine started to crawl out of my hand, our smiles burst into giggles, and as Patrick watched proudly I placed the pet back into the bowl. Afterwards, I removed the cake from the oven, set the breakfast nook table with two red placemats, cut us each a piece of chocolate cake, poured two glasses of milk, and then the two of us sat down to a pleasant, Valentine Day snack. While our conversation consisted mostly of the care and feeding of miniature turtles, I thought of what I had learned that day, for secretly I had learned something delightfully new about the odd shape of val-. Entines. 95 EDITORIAL / On Contemplation m= Did you ever stop to think that every book written, every picture painted, every building erected, every play enacted, every car driven was conceived mentally and had its beginning with ideas inside someone's mind? Someone deliberately thought and thought until ideas became realities, a whole procession of ideas became workable inventions, artistic expressions, articulate expositions. Did you ever stop to think that only those who stop to think make progress equal to their capabilities? Do you ever stop to think? Do you ever meditate, summon from your heart and mind the things that need your most considered judgment? Do you see in meditation an opportunity to renew yourself, to build your self-confidence; to revitalize and gather new strength, not dwelling upon weaknesses or failures but upon better ways to accomplish tasks; to refresh with greater determination; to reflect upon events of your life that were pure joy; and to create constructive attitudes and enthusiasm? Do you take time to contemplate, to bring your mental powers and resources to work out your problems, to form your judgments? When decisions must be reached do you pause to map your course, to think through to a conclusion the probable consequences of a contemplated action? Your head should be allowed to guide your feet to keep you from an impulsive action which could be a disaster. Thoughtful consideration may save many mistakes. Contemplation is not idleness though it requires a certain stillness and freedom from physical activity. Contemplation does not squander time but makes time more valuable. Volume 57 February 1970 Number 2 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 96 your ming of €arth-boung things to leave it Open iNSpiration trom the L ] ugh your faith h Stant Mundane busine your sou. Con. Fe) this blessing. Your COMpanions wh Can be excelle 0 think, Sisters. Contemplate these u UPON their Mea INEZ to you, Cultivate your Meditative m live your fife abundantly and beautifully, 97 Dame Sybil Hathaway, eighty-five, has abdicated from the rule of her hereditary fiefdom, Sark, a Channel Island three miles long and one mile wide, with 556 residents. Her family has ruled Sark since the sixteenth century under a charter from the English Crown. Sark has no hospital, no police, no divorces, depending upon her neighboring larger Channel Island of Guernsey when in need. Forty thousand tourists a year visit this interesting community. Dame Sybil, angered because her subjects refused to obey the liquor-control Jaws, turned over her fiefdom to Guernsey. Pauline Frederick, born in Gallitzin, Pennsylvania, did outstandingly well in her television reporting of the Apollo Eleven astronauts' moon landing. She has reached a very high peak for a woman in communications. She has been State Department correspondent for United States News; an important freelance writer; news commentator; and United Nations correspondent for both American Broadcasting Corporation and National Broadcasting Company. She has_ received special citations for United Nations coverage, also a '"'Golden Mike' award as outstanding American woman in radio and television, besides a George Foster Peabody award for her contribution to international understanding. Mrs. Julia Marr Robinson, thirty-four, has become the press coordinator for the press staff of America's First Lady, Mrs. Richard M. Nixon. She has been a reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle, and society editor of the now defunct New York World Telegram and Sun. 98 Ramona W. Cannon Marian Buck-Lew is a brilliant ChineseAmerican pianist, who was born in HongKong, has lived in the United States since 1953, and is currently an assistant professor of music at the University of lowa. In 1969 she toured the United States with marked success as a concert pianist. Betty Crocker, sometimes called ''America's First Lady of Foods,' appeared for fifteen years on radio and television programs as our national symbol of the perfect housewife. Her face on packaged-food boxtops was familiar to millions. Now, after earning her Ph. D. Degree at New York University, she has reverted to her former profession, teaching school—at the University of Victoria in Canada. Her subject is not home economics, but speech. Her real name is Mrs. Adelaide Hawley; she is mother of one daughter and grandmother of two children. More than fifteen million women over the age of forty-five, most of them married, are employed full time in America. American working women earn ninety billion dollars a year. At the last Labor Department count, one-third of all mothers with children under eighteen were working mothers. Present-day statistics report that seventy-eight to eighty per cent of women with a college education are employed. Only nine per cent of the doctors in the United States are women, as compared to sixty-five per cent in Russia and twentyfour per cent in Great Britain. -—_ Happy Anniversary! Rosemary Addis Sheffield, England mw The loud clamour of the alarm clock brought Janet to abrupt wakefulness from her deep sleep. David's arm extricated itself from under the warmth of the bed clothes and reached up to switch off the alarm. The luminous hands of the clock pointed to five minutes past six. Another few minutes and he would heave himself reluctantly out of bed and prepare for the day's work ahead. David preferred to get up on his own, have a quick breakfast, and see himself off to work. "I can get off much quicker without you," he had told Janet right from the start. "You only slow me up." Janet had not argued with him, she was quite content to remain in bed a little longer. In her estimation seven o'clock was quite early enough to rise, and it gave her half an hour to herself before calling Eric, their son, who at this moment was asleep in the next room. Usually, first thing in the morning, Janet was slow to come _—_ mf t AQ t to. She was a very sound sleeper. When, in the transition from sleep to wakefulness she gave David silly answers in reply to anything he said, he would chuckle and say, half in exasperation, "That's my girl." But this morning her mind was alert, and immediately the thought was there—this is our anniversary, our twentieth anniversary. Will he remember? Shall I whisper to him "Happy anniversary, darling?" No! She decided. I'll see if he remembers. As the minutes ticked away it was obvious David did not remember. A brief hug, a kiss, and a "See you tonight" and she heard him running down the stairs. Janet lay still, a little wave of hurt and disappointment sweeping over her. Perhaps there would be a card or a little something on the table to show that he had remembered. At this thought her spirits lifted, and as soon as she heard the front door close after David, she slipped out of bed, wrapped herself in her dressing 99 ee February 1970 ervice abroad. He his first birthday finally deing those first Years, she had been to receive the Penciled Jet. Was later on When they Were home life toband's Make-y D. She realized, too, by the €Xpression on 100 and his contrite Spirit, that she Was not the Only one to fee] hurt © stairs and Ile Up to her Son. She kne €xperience lS Would be the first 9 Several] Steady for SIX mon ths achel was quite Prepared to wait Until Eric had finished More with Is anniversary day Wenty years! Why, it Was a milestone in their lives, She couldn't Jet it pass uNNOticed. Twenty years of loving companionship, trust, the Shari did forget anniversaries, what about all the other little thoughtful acts he did at other times, the unexpected flowers and chocolates? It suddenly occurred to Janet that she herself had made no plans to make this day a special day. She had been waiting for David to do it all. This thought came as a revelation to her, and lifted the last mists of hurt and resentment. She planned her day. First, the room extra shining and bright. Then the menu. Both her men loved mixed grill, so that was a must. She would have orange meringue pie to follow. A cake —she must make an extra nice cake, but it wouldn't have to be too complicated, there wasn't time. She remembered the cake recipes in the drawer. David was always tearing cake recipes that looked extra luscious out of her weekly woman's magazine in the hope that she would take the hint and bake him one. Now was the time. She chose a large chocolate cake sandwiched with cream and smothered in cherries. She had never tried a combination of chocolate and cherries before. Janet was thankful for the little reserve of money she had been diligently trying to save these past weeks. Now she could make a little splash in her purchases. Once she had the cake in the oven, Janet set about moving the one and only table from the kitchen into the dining room. No eating in the kitchen tonight. Moving the table from the kitchen, through the narrow hall into the dining room, was really a two-man job, but she set to with great determination and, after Happy Anniversary much _ puffing achieved her goal. She fetched her best white linen cloth and spread it on the table. Carefully she set out her new china set and the cutlery. From the garden she plucked a gay assortment of the flowers in bloom and made an attractive arrangement of them which she placed in the center of the table. As Janet stood back to survey the effect, the colour and beauty of the flowers filled her with a sense of joy, and a silent prayer of thankfulness went up to the one who was Creator of such perfection. The despondency of the early morning seemed as if it had never been, and in its place was a happy mood of anticipation. Oh! She must not forget the bottle of Peardrax, a favorite fruit drink for all of them. They would be able to use it for a toast to the happy occasion. The hands of the clock seemed to be flying around. The cake had been given its final touches and was beautiful to behold. She hoped. Fervently it would taste as good as it looked. She seemed to have so many baking catastrophes when it came to trying something new. The orange meringue pie had turned out just as she had hoped it would and looked tempting. Now for the main course. When all was near completion Janet went upstairs and washed, and changed into the pretty soft green dress which she knew David liked her in best of all, and by the time she had put some fresh make-up on, she felt like a new woman. As she made her way downand panting, 101 February 1970 stairs again there was a loud rat-tat at the door. Eric and Rachel were the first to arrive. Ushering them into the room, Janet noticed with satisfaction how warm and inviting it looked with the fire blazing cheerfully in the hearth. Eric looked at the table with all its signs of festivity. "What's going on, Mum, are we having a celebration or something?" Janet nodded and smiled. "Yes! Your dad and I have been married twenty years today, so I thought it would be nice to have a little celebration." "Oh, Mum," said Eric, "why didn't you tell me? I would have sent a card." He hugged his mother, and Rachel, too, came forward impulsively to embrace her and offer congratulations. In the midst of all this, David's familiar rat-a-tat-tat-tat sounded at the door. Although he had a key of his own, David still liked to have the door opened by his wife, to have her welcome him home. Tonight he stood outside the door, a sheepish grin on his face, his hands behind his back. For a few moments they looked at each other, then, as he stepped into the house, he brought from behind him an enormous box of chocolates. "For you" he said, a soft expression in his brown eyes. As they went into the room together, David's eyes took in all her preparations, and turning to her, he explained how, as he had been glancing through the newspaper during his lunch hour, he had noticed the date and remembered it was their anniversary. Putting his arm around her, he looked at her, his whole heart in his eyes, and as he kissed her he whispered "Happy anniversary, darling." Janet's happiness was full, and as she looked into the dear smiling faces of those who meant so much to her, the words echoed in her heart. "Happy, happy aniniversary." eho A HAPPY DAY They say that happiness is an elusive thing That merely touches one, then flits away; But happiness came in my door quite recently And did my bidding when | told it "stay." A morning spent in my old brown rocking chair With ears toward the television screen To hear the words of truth from men of God Uplifted me and made my home serene. "Then it carried over as | went about my work. This quiet, happy feeling in my heart, And gave me extra patience which was felt By those around me. Now I've made a start Toward becoming better than before. One happy day arrived and beckoned more. 102 —Grace Diane Jessen the Home IF ONLY... If unkind words could be recalled, Or better yet, not uttered: If we could detour around the paths With good intentions cluttered: If we could pause before we act And think before we speak, We'd have better understanding And find the peace we seek. —Mary C. Clough iy!, * gPHOFOGRAPH BY OOROTHY Is. ROBERTS & - ao ie Make A New Start With Alaskan Sourdough Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society ® Our visit to Alaska was the culmination of a lifetime's dream. As a teenager I had read the exciting, colorful adventure stories of this vast territory. This had been coupled with the impressive, spiritual experiences related to me by my husband who had labored in Alaska as one of its first missionaries. I felt a special feeling of kinship for that land and its people. I had hoped that someday I, too, might go there, see its great beauty, view its wide expanse, and meet its people. From my first glimpse of its rocky shoreline as we touched down in Sitka, to a leisurely trip through the golden heart of Alaska, to a breathtaking glimpse of Mt. McKinley from the air as we sped homeward, I was impressed. I felt that perhaps now I understood what beckons people to this land. Those who met with us were preponderantly young. They are vigorous, capable, dedicated saints. Their beautiful chapel was impressive and inviting. The flowers all about were exquisite in their intensity of color and were amazingly large and beautiful. Pansies which graced our charming breakfast 104 —- Pa Sat table were as large as a cup. The trees in their fall raiment were a striking contrast to the ruggedness of the landscape. Alaska's very atmosphere seemed to flood one's senses with a feeling of excitement and adventure. This forty-ninth state is sometimes known as the Last Frontier. Its name is taken from a word meaning Great Land. Modern day pioneers have carved their homes, villages, and cities from this rugged country despite. The hardships and the rigors of the North. During the past forty years Latter-day Saints have made their contribution, have helped to modernize this new state. Church members have made their influence felt. Our sisters have played an important role. Despite obstacles, deprivation, and hardship, they have worked side by side with their husbands in establishing good homes, using the resources, commodities, and _ foodstuffs available to them. For many years the Alaskan homemaker found it necessary to make her own bread. Much of the food supply had to be shipped in. Yeast, a necessary requisite to breadmaking, could become de- activated before it reached its destination. Sourdough then became the basis for their staff of life. The "sourdough pot" became a valuable possession. Sourdough is an interesting term, having several definitions. It may mean an Alaskan oldtimer, or it may mean a yeasty starter for leavening bread, hot cakes, waffles, muffins, even cake. Sourdough starter is long lasting. Someone has said that it is as tough and indomitable as its oldtimer namesake. Between the camps it was the last item placed in the pack sack, the first item removed at each new encampment. Settlers sometimes walked miles for a starter because it was so vital to their sustenance. Many of the Twentieth Century Alaskans still use the sourdough starter which provides nutritious foods for their families. Missionaries in Alaska find it inexpensive, quick, and simple to use. MAKING THE STARTER The starter must be set the night before you wish to use it. If it is replenished every week with flour and water it can last for months, even years. One lovely Relief Society sister in Fairbanks had continued her starter for over twenty years. Last year she made thirty new starts from it, which were sold at the Relief Society bazaar to the delight of ward members. Sampling delicious sourdough bread made from this start was a highlight of our visit to the Alaskan saints. A starter which I carried home with me is proving a delight to use and has given Make a New Start With Alaskan Sourdough me new interest in breadmaking. Sourdough hotcakes, waffles and muffins have a special delectable flavor—one which would delight any family. Make a starter for your own use. It is simple to do in our modern day. It may also prove useful for those who have canyon homes, those who enjoy camping out, or who take fishing or hunting expeditions—and for all who prefer sourdough bread. The following instructions and recipes have been carefully prepared and graciously shared by the sisters of the Alaska Stake. The Alaska Extension Service supplied some of the details used. For best results use glass or pottery containers. Never use a metal container or leave a metal spoon in the starter. CL SOURDOUGH STARTER 2 c. Flour 2 c. Warm water 1 package dry yeast Make this starter only when you have forgotten to save a start, or when you are making it for the first time. Combine ingredients and mix well. Place in a warm place or closed cupboard overnight. In the morning put 2 c. Of the starter in a scalded pint jar with a tight lid and store in the refrigerator or a cool place for future use. This is sourdough starter. The remaining batter can be used immediately for pancakes, waffles, muffins, bread or cake. To use the starter again, place it in a medium-size mixing bowl. Add 2 c. Milk and 2 c. Flour. Beat well and set in a warm place to develop overnight. In the morning the batter will have gained % again its bulk and be covered with air bubbles. It will have a pleasant yeasty odor. Now, set aside 2 c. Sponge in the refrigerator jar for your sourdough starter for next time. 105 SOURDOUGH HOTCAKES 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Soda 1 to 2 eggs 3 tbsp. Melted shortening In the evening or 6 to 8 hours before using, set the sponge (batter) as directed above. In the morning save %2 c. For next starter. Add salt, sugar, soda, and eggs and blend well. Add melted shortening. Bake on a hot griddle, turn once. For interesting variations add % c. Whole wheat flour, cornmeal, wheat germ, or bran flakes to the batter. The 2° eggs in the recipe will provide the liquid for this addition. FS SOURDOUGH WAFFLES tsp. Salt tbsp. Sugar tsp. Soda eggs V4 c. Melted shortening Set sponge as directed above, making it slightly thicker, and let stand overnight. Remove the usual % c. Starter for next time. To the remaining sponge add eggs and dry ingredients and mix well. Add melted shortening just before baking. Bake according to directions that come with the waffle iron. Ow) SOURDOUGH MUFFINS 1% c. Whole wheat flour Yc, Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda lc. Raisins (optional) Ya _c¢. Melted shortening 1 or 2 eggs Set the sponge as usual, saving % c. For next starter. Sift dry ingredients into a bowl. Make a well in the center. Mix egg and shortening thoroughly with the sponge. Pour this into the well in the flour and stir only to moisten the flour, Fill muffin tins % full. Bake at 375° for 30 to 35 minutes. Makes 12 large muffins. NOK 106 SOURDOUGH BREAD 4c. Sifted flour (or more) 2 'tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Shortening % tsp. Soda 1 or 2 eggs Set sponge as usual, saving % c. Starter. Sift dry ingredients into a bowl, making a well in the center. Add shortening to the sponge and mix well. Add beaten eggs. Pour into the well of flour. Add enough flour to make a soft dough for kneading. Knead on a floured board for 10 minutes. Place in a greased bowl. Cover with a towel and let rise in a warm place for 2 to 4 hours or until doubled. (If you want bread to rise faster, add some dry yeast dissolved in % c. Warm water to the sponge.) Dissolve the % tsp. Soda in a tbsp. Of warm water and add to the dough. Knead it in thoroughly. Shape dough into loaves in bread pans and set aside to rise. When doubled, bake at - 375 degrees for 50 to 60 minutes. Ca SOURDOUGH CHOCOLATE CAKE Y% cc. Starter 1 c. Milk 1% c. Flour Mix and let stand 2 to 3 hours in a warm place until bubbly and there is a clean sour milk odor. Lsc. Sugar Yc. Shortening % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1% tsp. Soda 2 = =eggs 3 squares melted chocolate Cream shortening, sugar, flavorings, salt, and soda. Add eggs one at a time, beating. Well after each addition. Combine creamed mixture and melted chocolate with sourdough mixture. Stir 300 strokes or mix at low speed until blended. Pour into two layer pans or one large pan. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes or until done. Cool and frost with butterscotchchocolate frosting or other icing of your choice. The Blessings of Visiting Teaching Verda F. Welch My companion and I feel a need to meet the challenge of visiting teaching each month with a prayer for the Lord to magnify us in this calling that we may have understanding hearts and discernment in meeting the needs of the sisters we visit. We have found that its blessings flow both ways. Occasionally, physical help is appreciated. In some homes we need to give patience and a listening ear, for the shutins have a need to talk and unburden themselves. We can learn of gentility and devotion from the sweet-faced little mother, while we pray silently for an opportunity to interest her in the gospel truths. We can learn of tranquility and acceptance of facets of life which could not be changed, from the sister who had fun in her covered wagon journeys. There was no hint of complaint for hardships involved, nor for the harshness of life which necessitated them. We can learn of the sweetness of service from the sister who spent so many years of giving of herself and her time to her aged neighbor. And from the sister whose energy, zest for living, and creativeness, belie her seventy-five years, we can learn thrift, ingenuity, love of and use for the commonplace things of life, and peace with self and fellow man. As the words and actions of these sisters touch and bless our lives, we pray that our messages and the spirit of Relief Society may enrich theirs. And if our visits have reached less than the potentials desired this month, may our sympathies be deepened and our understandings be broadened in our future visits. BACKYARD BLUEBIRD My spirits weeping-willowed low, my body sagged and drooped with pain, in skies once laced with sunshine-glow dark clouds piled darker gloom to rain, and through the rain and thunder-roar my eyes cried, too, in sympathy, the rainbows | was searching for defiantly eluded me. But storms are only season long and every storm must have an end. | learned | could be oak-tree strong, or sometimes, like a reed, could bend to weather through the winter part, and when | dried my tear-wet eyes, | found the rainbows in my heart | could not find in April skies. —Kathryn Kay 107 June F. Krambule w As warm weather unfolds tender, young leaves overhead, many young mothers begin to ask themselves, "What can I do to keep the children happily occupied and off the street?" The answer lies in well-planned playground equipment—and that doesn't necessarily mean expensive equipment. Nursery school supervisors are quick to agree that while swings and slippery slides are nice, these standard playground items are often not used, while their im- 108 aginative charges spend hours engrossed with playthings which we sometimes classify as junk. The problem, they say, is not a matter of money, but in knowing what to select or build that will stimulate the everactive imaginations of the young. Consider, for instance the wooden packing box, one of the most popular items in the nursery playground. Several of these boxes in a series of sizes provide all sorts of possibilities for the young and active minds of children, especially those between the ages of two and ten. With inexhaustible energy, they climb in and out of the boxes, hide from each other in or behind them, push them around to form various structures, and turn them upsidedown to stand or pound on. One minute these sturdy boxes may be taking children to town with a loud choo-choo, only to be magically transformed into skyscrapers minutes later. Add several planks to these boxes and there are still more POSsibilities The children will "Give children a chance to be Place a Plank across two Of the Creative," Plead experts in the Oxes to along' 6 jum eld of hild velopment And rom, and then mo t likely USe it Sandboxes, th >» ATE Wonder. Or "Pringboard— more fun l—particula ly if the are than yoy can imagine. One end of €quipped With digging and mold. The Plank will Perhaps be Placed Ing Utensils Such as Shovels and yourself 11] there e falls In finding any uses fo his par SMashed fingers and Slivers? Ticular investment. It will be Wise, of Course, to One Utah nursery Schoo] proSand the boxes and Planks—g_ Vides a 800d ™Uuscle-buildey in Pecially on dges and corners the form OF an old ead tree, and app] ome non OXIC paint debarkeq and with he thick Is wil] liminate the Tavages Sturdy limbs cyt back to Within OF splinter. Two or three feet fro the trunk S for Pinched gers and esting on Several of these alls, th » Unhapp ly, are an inranches Ml-upright Posi evitable Part of pla cording 10n, give at climbing for ° nursery Schoo] Servers, if 4ny number of pret d games the YOu were + SIt dow Noticed children Oncoct Other ° Watch a py Up of chi] ren play Variations of his idea clude Or several] h > "he session logs cut Varying lengths and bump on the head. Actually. A basket, Provide Many hours of enfal] Seldom rates more than a Joyment edged With education, whimper, unless Older folks are Another Item to be had for In view With ready Sympathy. The asking jg an old Steering February 1970 wheel. Mount it on a pipe or pole anchored in the ground and watch how often Johnny goes for q ride in his new sports car, speed boat, or airplane. The possibilities are limitless, even though the budget may not pe. Add stakes for horseshoe pitching or a pole for tether ball, construct your own brand of jungle gym, or pour cement rounds for jumping stones. But there is one thing you must not do: You must not plan the play yard for parent appeal as is SO often done. Give the children the things they want—toys that will develop them and their thinking, and give them a section of the yard to call their own. Hedge it off if you wish, but let them make play real child's play. The Creek Taught Me Anny M. Campbell From where I sit here in our living room, my eyes rest on a pretty white rock on our bookshelf. This rock brings beautiful memories back to me... One evening last summer, while the sun W on a trip in the mountains. As setting, my husband, our son, and I, went We found a fine place for camping. After supper, We put up our cots. Then we knelt together in prayer, and went to bed. I lay awake for sometime, looking up at the stars. The stillness felt soothing. The only sound was a very soft lulling sound. J asked my husband what he thought it was. From his cot, close by mine, he answered sleepily, "T guess it is the wind through the treetops." A little later, 1 knew that both my husband and our boy were sound asleep. I was still wide awake, listening to that soft little sound in the great stillness. Suddenly, I knew what it was. It was a creek—and not far off. I will go and find it in the morning, | thought happily. The sun was shining when I woke up On this note I fell asleep. The next morning. My husband was Up, and had already been looking around a bit. He told me there was a creek nearby. I followed the little path he showed me. The creek. It was short, and ended by the edge of As I looked at the sunlight glittering in the clear, sparkling water, thoughts flowed through my mind. This creek is like life. I looked up the creek, just a little way up, there was 4 bend. The creek seemed to narrow down there, and ferns and leaves hid it from sight. I well knew it did not end there, but it came from far up in the mountains. Neither do our lives start back in hazy infancy, they also come around the bend, from high up, and far away, I thought. Then I looked at the rocks in the creek—some small, others quite large. They were of many soft colors. The water rushed over and around them. What beautiful obstacles they are! I thought, and what exquisite noises they create. They make the creek sing. Then I thought of the obstacles of life that we all encounter, and I believe that I found a higher acceptance than before, of obstacles in our life. TI knew that as t and a deeper understanding of the necessity he rocks in this creek created music an beauty of sound and sight, by lying in the path of the flowing water, so can our obstacles become opportunities to create music in our lives, and beauty in our souls. And now, as the days come and go, the little white rock on our bookshelf silently ~ reminds me of the singing creek and what it taught me. 110 Hobby Features ee A ae PY oe ——_ a Annie Elizabeth Sheppard McQuivey, West Sharon Stake, Orem, Utah, finds joy and happiness in creating lovely, colorful handmade articles. She has spent countless hours knitting, embroidering, quilting, and crocheting. In addition, she keeps her yard full of lovely blossoms that everyone may enjoy. Sister McQuivey has served as a faithful visiting teacher for more than fifty years, always going the extra mile to maintain loving relationships with those whom she taught. She is the mother of seven children. Fifty-four grandchildren and sixty great-grandchildren enjoy the beautiful handmade articles she gives them regularly. Mary Jane Ashworth, Las Vegas East Stake, Nevada, has made a hobby of quilting, needlepoint, crocheting, and sewing throughout her lifetime. She designs her own quilt patterns. Much of her lovely work is sought after at bazaars. Sister Ashworth has served as quilting chairman in Relief Society for many years, and has served more than fifty years as a visiting teacher. She has six children, and there are seventeen grandchildren and sixteen great-grandchildren. She delights in making quilts and other lovely articles for her family and many friends. 111 Chapter 2 Jerusha Spends the Night Hazel x. Toad Synopsis: Jerusha has been invited by the Wilson's young son Dennis to spend the night when her car breaks down near their home in Utah. She finds the home in charge of the young teen-aged daughter since the death of the mother. There are Paul (the father), Dennis, Suzie, Joe, the eldest who resents Jerusha's presence from the first moment, and little Amy who will not associate with anyone outside the family. @ Pancakes seemed to be a long neglected treat at the Wilson breakfast table. Jerusha was barely able to keep up with the rapidly disappearing hot goodies. She naturally left her own plate 112 empty trying to keep the others' filled. She sensed this was of concern to Paul, but she flashed him a smile. "In a few minutes my turn will come," she assured him. "These are sure good," Dennis said, pouring syrup on his seventh. "Why don't you stay with us a week, Jerusha? Suzey never makes pancakes." Joe spoke up quickly. "Don't be silly, Den. I'm sure our guest needs to be on her way wherever she's going." "But she's not going anywhere." Dennis insisted. "She told me she lived two thousand miles away, and she was tired of being there. Anyway, her car's worn out. We pushed it down in the sunflowers." Joe's eyes flashed. "Oh, why don't you cool it, Den!" "Never mind, Joe," Mr. Wilson broke in, looking strangely at the guest. "Let's see what Jerusha has to say." He put down his fork, with his eyes steadfastly on her face—a kind of peculiarly solicitous look. "We don't have much to offer, and we don't expect you to work all the time, but we'd like to have you stay on with us for awhile." "Why, thank you, Mr. Wilson," Jerusha said, smiling and sitting down in front of her plate. "T'll be right happy to." Through the corner of her eye she caught the glimpse of a scowl on Joe's face, but he got up and left the table, and at thesame time another wheel began turning in her mental machine. So the week passed, and nobody said anything about Jerusha's leaving. She and Suzey cleaned the junk out of the small back room that had been used for storage, hung up some _ pink striped curtains at the window and moved in her suitcase. She set Dennis to painting up the old iron bedstead leaning in the corner, and Paul brought home a set of new springs and a mattress. - "There," she said, eyeing the new quarters with satisfaction. "It's almost too elegant for an old highway tramp. When I braid a rug for the floor, you'll all want to trade with me." The second week passed, and to most of the Wilsons it had already begun to seem as though Jerusha Spends the Night there were only two times to remember, once when there was a real wife and mother, and once when there was Jerusha. It was just a matter of course when the holes disappeared in the knees of Dennis's overalls and neat patches took their places, and the safety pins became substituted on Amy's playsuit for a pair of bunny rabbit buttons. Suzey came out wearing a new dress stitched from some cloth Jerusha found in a drawer. Things began to happen to the house, too. No one knew for sure when the curtains in the living room window took on new life, but one day as Paul drove up the lane on his way home from town, he suddenly realized they were fresh and alive. He drove into the yard and sat for a minute looking. Then he got out of the car and started to the house. It was then he saw Jerusha and Dennis fussing with the ragged flowers along the fence. Jerusha was decked out in an old slat sunbonnet and one of his wornout shirts she must have found in a closet. It was big enough to put two Jerushas in. She had a spade and was going after the earth in dead earnest. "T ought to have my camera," Paul laughed, "T'll bet I could win a prize with your picture." Jerusha stuck the spade into the ground and pushed the bonnet back on her neck. The damp gray curls twisted about her face like corkscrews. "Well," she said, quite unembarrassed at her appearance, "these bachelor's-buttons needed some unbuttoning, and this was the best I could find to keep the sun from drying me up completely." 113 February 1970 His face grew suddenly sober. "T think you look wonderful, Jerusha—just like the window curtains. They look wonderful, too." She turned and eyed the window. "I guess they do look a little fresher, don't they?" "Everything is better around here since you came. I—I don't know how to thank you." He paused and gazed at her, his fine masculine features filled with emotion. "I guess I've been afraid to mention it to you before for fear that you might tell me you were leaving." "Never said anything about leaving," Jerusha said casually. A quick light leaped into his eyes. He cleared his throat. "Do —do you mean we could make some sort of arrangement for you to stay on? Maybe I couldn't compete with wages where you came from, but I'm sure I could arrange for a comfortable...." She stopped him with a wave of her hand. "You ought to know by the looks of me I'm not a money-making institution," she said. "Just enough to buy me a yard or two of cloth for an apron once in awhile and a few hairpins to keep my hair out of my eyes." She looked out across the fields. "T like this country air. Maybe it's even better than West Virginia's." Then her eyes traveled up his stature to his face, "And I'll be hanged if I don't like you, too, son." He stood a moment staring mutely down at her. "It's been a long time," he said, "since I had a mother to call me that." Dennis had been sitting on the ground digging in the dirt with a stick. Skeeter was lying nearby 114 roasting in the sun, and Dennis kept piling dirt onto the dog to watch him shake it off. Now he looked up at Jerusha excitedly. "You mean you're going to stay and live with us?" he asked exuberantly. "Why, of course I am," Jerusha said. "Here, shake hands with your new foreman." They shook ~ hands, and she added, with a wink, "So you'd better get your dandelion digger oiled up!" "Yeow!" Dennis shouted, "golly, goody!" and he made three somersaults across the flower patch. It was ironical that she should look up and see Joe standing by the corner of the house just at that moment. He was staring fixedly, his forehead creased into a scowl, but, as she looked, he turned and disappeared around the house. "What about Joe?" she asked, with her hand on Skeeter rubbing against her legs. Paul looked at her with a quiet smile. "Joe has a much nicer side you haven't met. You'll think of something," he said. For a minute she was silent, then she spoke musingly, "Maybe." She patted the dog's head. "But he's a tough one." Then she walked over and picked up the pliers she had waiting under a rosebush. She held them out to him. "Don't you think that gate's getting tired leaning on one foot?" she asked. '"'And after that, Dennis needs his hair clipped. It's just about long enough to hang a cat with." Paul smiled again and took the pliers. "Guess I just needed you to bring it to my attention. Ill get right at them both." And he started toward the gate. Jerusha looked toward the corner where Joe had disappeared. "Now, if I could just get Joe to paint the house and fence," she said half aloud, "maybe..." The first Sunday had been a new experience for Jerusha. She had never found a church that interested her enough to do much about it, even though she had attended several, and even had been affiliated with one for a short time. But when the family showed signs that Sunday was a special day, she pricked up her ears to see what she could do to help. She heard Paul and Joe in a serious discussion. It seemed Joe had some excuse for not going to church which Paul was not willing to accept. Then she saw Joe with the ironing board up in the kitchen. He was doing a white shirt. "I'd be glad to iron that, if you'd like me to," Jerusha said impulsively and immediately wished she hadn't offered, for Joe was not about to let her iron his shirt any more than he was about to let her break down his wall any other way. "No, thanks," he said crisply, "Tl do all right by myself." Jerusha let the rebuff slide off as though he'd just given her a fine compliment, and turned to more fruitful fields. Suzey was fussing with a dress in the living room and looked very frustrated. Jerusha happened over and sat down beside her. "Zippers are miserable things," she said, with her eyes on the metal contraption Suzey was working on with a pair of pliers. The girl dropped the dress dejectedly. "I just can't fix it," Jerusha Spends the Night she said, almost in tears, "and I have to have it to wear to Sunday School." Jerusha picked up the dress and looked at it critically. "Oh," she said enthusiastically, "it's still in workable order. You hold it and give me the pliers. We'll have it sliding like it had never thought of getting stuck." So, with a few tugs in the right place, the zipper glided up and down as if it were charmed. Suzey gave Jerusha a grateful smile. "Thank you," she said. But Jerusha was momentarily oblivious to the gratitude. She was appraising the long-lashed brown eyes, the chestnut hair, and the gangly legs for a certain colored new dress that would do wonders for a fast-growing young lady. Then Paul came through the house spruced up in a suit and tie. He paused, standing there tall and comely. He's right handsome, she said to herself, still fit for the races. "Joe and I are going to priesthood meeting," he said to Jerusha. "T'll be back for the family in about an hour. We'd be glad to have you go with us." Jerusha looked at him curiously. "Might as well," she said. Then, as he started to the door, she stopped him. "Just which church is this I'm about to be initiated into? I've tried several, you know. Maybe yours is different." He smiled. "Yes," he said, "I think you will find ours is different. We're Mormons." She looked at him shrewdly. "TY should have known this was Mormon country," she said, and went to see what she had to wear that would be fitting for a church 115 February 1970 where you prayed for brokendown cars and a house guest that barged into your home as a highway tramp. She emerged presently, her trim little person clad in a plain dark suit, a little outmoded but neat, and her pancake hat. Amy, dressed in a ruffly hand-me-down probably from some neighbor, as it was too big, was sitting on the stool while Suzey brushed her shining curls. Jerusha caught her breath, an impulsive desire in her to get her hands in the glistening luster. "Oh, please let me do it!" she exclaimed. But Amy drew away, and Suzey looked at Jerusha apologetically. "She just won't let anybody but us be around her." "Just a slippery little fairy elf," the older woman smiled musingly, "but some day I'll catch her." Jerusha came home from Sunday School, her unruffled religious inclinations vaguely disturbed. She hadn't expected to find some deep-seated emotion inside her behaving in such a manner. True, there was a special warm atmosphere of friendliness, but there was something else, too. When Paul asked her later how she had enjoyed the services, she eyed him strangely and remarked, "Let me think about that one awhile before I answer." And now there had been two Sundays of meetings, and she found herself looking forward to the next one. Also, some good soul had invited her to another affair where you made quilts and one - thing or another—''homemaking meeting," she called it. She had even offered to pick her up on Tuesday morning to spend the 116 day. Jerusha had quickly agreed. But Tuesday morning came along with some _ unforeseen events. "I'm going to homemaking meeting with a Mrs. Johnson," Jerusha told Suzey while they got breakfast on the table. "I'm sure you can make out all right again. There's pie left. Your father says there is some green corn ready that you could get Dennis to bring in, and maybe you'd like to cook some hamburgers." Suzey was very willing. To get dinner for a day now and then was quite different from having to do it every day with no time to spend with friends or on other youthful pastimes. Before Paul left for the field, Jerusha had heard him telling Dennis to put the new calf in the pasture. "I think it is too young to give much trouble," he said, "but if you wait a day or two until he finds what his legs are for, he'll run away from you." Dennis was confiscating crumbs from the kitchen table for the birdhouse he had finished last Primary day and nailed in the sprawling willow tree at the back of the house. "Sure," he said, "Tl twist its tail if it tries to get away. If you do that, they can't get away from you." What an interesting new life! Jerusha thought—calves and birdhouses and homemaking meetings. "I saved some corn bread for your birdhouse," she said, taking a paper bag out from under the sink a little later. "Birds ought to like that." "Golly, thanks Jerusha," Dennis said with pleasureful eyes on the bag. "I wonder if it'll be a robin or a wren or just a plain _. _ old sparrow that lives in my house." "T'll bet all the birds in the neighborhood have a fight over it, and you have to hire a lawyer," Jerusha said, as Dennis took the sack and started to the door. "Don't get so excited about the lease on your property you forget about the calf." "Yeah," he said, "I'd better do it right now, 'fore I forget." He set the sack down and started to the barn. She had just decked herself out in a white blouse and a straight gray skirt and was pinning hairpins into her hair, when she heard a hubbub outside. Gazing through the window, she chuckled in amusement to see Dennis clinging to the tail of the red and white calf as it raced up and down along the pasture fence. "Looks to me as if it already knows what its legs are for," she said to nobody in particular. "I'd better see if I can help. Four hands on a tail ought to be better than two." But only a mere ninety-eight pounds of inexperienced woman didn't seem to amount. To much to a new calf that had just discovered the power in a_-set of fresh legs. Through some maneuvering, she did manage to grab hold, but only to find herself suddenly jerked off her feet into the weeds and dirt, wet from the water seeping under the pasture fence. After floundering about on the slippery grass and weeds, she managed to sit up just in time to see the calf, with Dennis still intact, dart through the gate amid loud bellowing from the calf and equally loud whoops from the tail twister. Jerusha Spends the Night "Well, hurrah for you," Jerusha said dryly as Dennis let go of the tail and grabbed the gate quickly before the racing young bovine made his returning lap around the pasture. "TI got him!" Dennis exclaimed triumphantly, oblivious to her plight as she extricated herself from the earth and stood scooping the weeds and mud from her clothes. "Golly, you're all messed up, Jerusha. How you going to homemaking meeting?" "Now that's a good question," she remarked, as the car drove up and stopped by the newly repaired gate. "I'm so glad to have you go with me," Mrs. Johnson called, getting out of the car, and then she stopped short as she beheld her disheveled guest. "Nothing serious," Jerusha hurried to explain. "I just wasn't as tough as I thought I was. Couldn't even hang onto a calf's tail. If you'll just wait a minute, Ill see if I can find something else to wear." Homemaking meeting turned out to be most interesting. Jerusha had never quilted before, but she had done a great deal of other sewing, so that she mastered the technique quickly, and found it very delightful. There was such a warm friendly feeling around the quilt, she found herself entering freely into the conversation. She even gave a vivid description of her morning's escapade with Dennis and the calf, which brought peals of laughter. On the way home Jerusha asked abruptly, "How is it Paul Wilson never got himself a housekeeper before?" (to be continued) 117 118 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp ® Relief Society Magazine representatives continued during 1969 to maintain the high subscription rate. The total number of subscriptions has reached 281,790, with the Spanish number increasing to 6,839, making a grand total of the number of subscriptions of The Relief Society Magazine of 288,629 as of August 1, 1969. At the last Relief Society Annual General Conference in a meeting with sisters from overseas speaking different languages, the most frequently expressed request was that The Relief Society Magazine could be translated into their own languages as it was in the Spanish. It is regretted that the limited number of members in the different language groups makes it financially impossible at this time. There are 238 stakes on the Honor Roll which made 100% and over, and sixty-eight stakes in which all wards exceeded 100%. The stake with the highest percentage in 1969 is Sydney Stake, Australia. Congratulations go to these sisters who have made the high record of 196%. There are 429 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1969, which is an increase of eleven over last year. The missions are to be congratulated on having twenty-one missions on the Honor Roll. The General Board is always endeavoring to improve The Relief Society Magazine. A welcome improvement this past year is the better grade paper being used in the color sections. The colors reproduce brighter and clearer and make for more attractive reproductions. The Magazine is ably fulfilling the plans of the founders as it provides a means whereby the writing talents of Latter-day Saint women can be printed and preserved. The Magazine literary compositions in the last contests showed marked improvement in the writing fields. Through the pages of the Magazine there comes a closeness of the spirit among sisters throughout the Church. Many members today living in different lands are learning to read English. They also receive enlightenment from the pictures which carry a universal language, so that English copies which go to foreign-speaking Relief Society sisters are being utilized. May the blessings of the Lord attend the devoted Magazine representatives who carry out their callings so faithfully and the presidencies under whose direction the work progresses. 119 STAKE WARD *MISSION MISSION DISTRICT MISSION BRANCH Magazine Representative—Elsie F. Parton 196 170 170 141 135 135 134 California—112% Magazine Representative—Shirley M. Allred *112 111 100 * 98 98 98 95 Magazine Representative—Beatrice Slinker Sydney -----------Elsie F. Parton Huntington Park - - - - - -Joy B. Snell South Los Angeles - - - - -Dona Osborn East Rigby ---------Norma Rounds Rexburg -----------Leona Flamm Cheyenne ----------Deanna J. Hoyt Los Angeles - - - - - - - - -Nola D. Whipple Florida------------Lois Ketcher Newport Beach - - - - - - -Lucile S. Lundwall Las Vegas ----------Fannie H. Bloxham ELEVEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN MISSIONS California ----------Shirley M. Allred North Central States - - - - Virginia B. King Western States - - - - - - -Nedra L. Redd Alaskan-Canadian - - - - -Elsie T. Bowers West Central States - - - - Nancy L. Jenkins Eastern Atlantic States - - - Donna J. Bowen Gulf States --------~-Frances M. Connor Western Canadian - - - - -LaNore D. Espenschied Central States- ------ -Lola R. West South African - - - - - - - -Eleanor A. Badger Florida------------Anna G. Rawson *Limited Representation (One district only) Sydney (Australia) 196% Normanhurst, Sydney (Australia) 515% Magazine Representative—Elsie F. Parton Kansas Central District, Western States Mission—147% Magazine Representative—Elizabeth Kline Sulphur Wells, East Central States—375%. TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN STAKES 136 ie Fa 102 95 120 TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1402 1288 1234 1233 1188 Glendale Mesa East Cache Timpanogos Huntington Park 1158 1133 1133 1132 1111 Las Vegas Nampa Rigby South Los Angeles Bonneville TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1013 East Central States 576 750 North Central States 564 741 Alaskan-Canadian 555 636 Central States 542 630 Canadian 528 STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER Alameda----------Naomi Demiezio Anaheim- ---------Esther Pomeroy Antelope Valley - - - - - -Etta B. Rees Bannock- ---------Ada Williams cise BIS o ap asso55Genevieve Creswell Brigham City -------Hilda R. Forrest Burbank - - --------Virginia W. Starke Covina-----------Evelyn T. Rodney East Cache --------Mardean Lindbloom East Jordan ------- -Etta M. Whittaker East Provo --------Arlean M. Lewis East Rigby --------Norma Rounds Ensign-----------Mildred O. Sloan Florida-----------Lois Ketcher Fullerton----------Juanita B. Barfuss Grand Coulee - - - - - - -Arlene G. Andersen Granger North - - - - - -Ella H. Larson Giamite = -nag- =e - yeyCora M. Christensen Monument Park West - - Florence R. Carter Mount Rubidoux - - - - -Barbara J. Taylor North Box Elder - -- --Lila Y. Rader North Rexburg - - - - - -Maurine R. Pocock North Tooele -------Ann Russell Oquirrh East - - -----Connie K. Johns Palmyra ----------Eleanor D. Olsen Palomar ----------Amaretta H. Graves Phoenix West - - - - - - -Rae D. Levie Pocatello ---------Jeannette B. Ames Pomona - ---------Nora R. Perdue Rreovor.--=2--.-..-. LaRue B. Davies @eoocosogcsMargaret Martell Rexburg - ---------Leona Flamm Rigby -----------Ora H. Stallings Roy North ---------Afton A. Johnson St. Louis- ---------Louise M. Cluff San Diego South - - - - -Isabell Allphin Eastern Atlantic States Northern States New England West Central States Southern States 121 196 170 170 141 136 136 136 135 135 134 131 129 129 128 128 128 128 Sydney Huntington Park South Los Angeles East Rigby Rexburg Cheyenne Los Angeles Florida Newport Beach Las Vegas Phoenix West Antelope Valley Boise Reseda New Jersey Palomar Whittier Grant Holladay - - - - - - - - Huntington Park - Idaho Falls - - - - Las Vegas - - - - - Las Vegas Central Las Vegas East - - - - Malad Marin Mesa-------- Mesa South - - - - - - Millard--------- - - Lillian B. Carroll - - lrene A. Austin - -Gloria R. Gleed - - Norene B. Deaver - -Rae O. Lemmon - - Maxine Robins - lreta F. Stevens - Joy B. Snell - June Keller - Fannie H. Bloxham - Lily Childers - Ethelyn J. Madsen San Fernando - - - - - - Santa Rosa ------- Santaquin-Tintic Seattle---------- Sevier ---------- Shelley- --------- Simime -- - a5 - ~~ = South Cottonwood - - - South Idaho Falls - - - - South Los Angeles - - - South Salt Lake - - - - - - Betty M. Read - Cathryn M. Grasteit - Ella H. Sandstrom - Virginia D. Miller - Manetta Hansen - Vella H. Mecham - Juanita Hermansen - Ann V. L. Lindman - Valeta G. Simpson - Dona Osborn - Hannah Dietrich - Vivian Pickett Mill Creek ---------Martha J. H. Matern soocoseeGladys V. Broadhead DOO ooG5cGaylene S. Beier =o oeRuth B. Parkinson Minidoka - Modesto - - 127 126 126 126 126 125 123 123 122 122 122 121 120 120 -120 119 119 Marin Burbank East Los Angeles Santa Rosa Washington San Jose South Cassia Inglewood Glendale Bannock Chicago Tucson Granite Anaheim Ensign Moapa Rigby Taylor ------ Washington - - - West Utah - - - - Whittier - - - - - Canoga Park Seattle Modesto El Paso San Diego East Las Vegas Central Shelley Las Vegas North Denver Holladay North Box Elder Hayward Dallas San Fernando Redding South Idaho Falls Mesa soooLauretta S. Dahl cobceJoyce Hoggan - - - - - Beth W. Baker a. Beulah Mickel Oquirrh East Mount Rubidoux Taylor West Utah Provo Nyssa Phoenix Sunset Burley Milwaukee Fort Collins St. Joseph Puget Sound Grand Coulee Mount Ogden Idaho Falls Minidoka 114 114 114 114 114 114 113 113 113 113 113 113 112 112 2 m2 112 South Salt Lake Phoenix North Pomona Ashley Boise North Young San Diego South Santa Barbara Huntington Beach Denver West Grant Roy North Cassia East East Provo Covina South Bear River South Box Elder Oct Tet 1402 1288 1234 1233 1188 196 170 170 141 136 136 136 135 135 134 131 129 129 128 128 128 ghect Ratine Eastern Atlantic States Northern States New England West Central States Southern States South Salt Lake Phoenix North Pomona Ashley Boise North Young San Diego South Santa Barbara Huntington Beach Denver West Grant Roy North Cassia East East Provo Covina South Bear River TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1158 Las Vegas 1013 _—_ East Central States 576 ~ _ 1133 a 750 North Central States 564 East Cache 1133 ~=Rigby 741 Alaskan-Canadian 555 Timpanogos 1132 South Los Angeies 636 Central States 542 Huntington Park 1111 Bonneville 630 Canadian 528 STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER Alameda----------Naomi Demiezio Monument Park West - - Florence R. Carter Anaheim- - --------Esther Pomeroy Mount Rubidoux - - - - -Barbara J. Taylor Antelope Valley - - - - - -Etta B. Rees North Box Elder ---- -Lila Y. Rader Bannock - ---------Ada Williams North Rexburg - - - - - -Maurine R. Pocock Boise -----------Genevieve Creswell North Tooele - - - - - - -Ann Russell Brigham City - - - ----Hilda R. Forrest Oquirrh East -------Connie K. Johns Burbank - - - -------Virginia W. Starke Palmyra ----------Eleanor D. Olsen Covina -----------Evelyn T. Rodney Palomar ----------Amaretta H. Graves East Cache --------Mardean Lindbloom Phoenix West - - - - - - -Rae D. Levie East Jordan --------Etta M. Whittaker Pocatello ---------Jeannette B. Ames East Provo --------Arlean M. Lewis Pomona ----------Nora R. Perdue East Rigby --------Norma Rounds Provo -----------LaRue B. Davies Ensign-----------Mildred O. Sloan Reseda ----------Margaret Martell Florida-----------Lois Ketcher Rexburg ----------Leona Flamm Fullerton- ---------Juanita B. Barfuss Rigby -----------Ora H. Stallings Grand Coulee - - - - - - -Arlene G. Andersen Roy North ---------Afton A. Johnson Granger North - - - - - -Ella H. Larson St. Louis- ---------Louise M. Cluff Granite ----------Cora M. Christensen San Diego South - - - - -Isabell Allphin aa *s Grant -----------lreta F. Stevens San Fernando - - - - -- -Betty M. Read Holladay - -----.-.-Lillian B. Carroll Santa Rosa --------Cathryn M. Grasteit Huntington Park - - - - -Joy B. Snell Santaquin-Tintic - - - - - Ella H. Sandstrom Idaho Falls ----.---June Keller Seattle--.---...---Virginia D. Miller Las Vegas ---------Fannie H. Bloxham Sevier --------.--Manetta Hansen Las Vegas Central - - - - Lily Childers SHeNey — — — —)ouela) = reeVella H. Mecham Las Vegas East - - - - - -Irene A. Austin SIMI) ~~ = see = = aJuanita Hermansen Malad 2-5-2 -- eeeGloria R. Gleed South Cottonwood - - - - Ann V. L. Lindman Marin -----------Norene B. Deaver South Idaho Falls - - - - -Valeta G. Simpson Mesa- - - -- -w-----Ethelyn J. Madsen South Los Angeles - - - - Dona Osborn Mesa South --------Rae O. Lemmon South Salt Lake- - - - - -Hannah Dietrich Millard-----.------Maxine Robins Sunset------..... Vivian Pickett Mill Creek ---------Martha J. H. Matern Waylor ---.---...-Lauretta S. Dahl Minidoka -.--------Gladys V. Broadhead Washington - - - - - - - -Joyce Hoggan Modesto ----------Gaylene S. Beier West Utah-.-------Beth W. Baker Monument Park - - - - -Ruth B. Parkinson Wiifttier ---=-.- 275Beulah Mickel Honor Roll Stakes by Percentac _~1969 Sydney 127. Marin 119 Canoga Park 116 Ogquirrh East 114 Huntington Park 126 Burbank 118 Seattle 116. Mount Rubidoux 114 South Los Angeles 126 East Los Angeles -A18 Modesto 116 = Taylor 114 East Rigby 126 Santa Rosa 118 El Paso 116 West Utah 114 Rexburg 126 Washington 118 San Diego East 116 Provo 114 Cheyenne 125 San Jose South 118 Las Vegas Central 116 Nyssa 114 Los Angeles 123 Cassia 118 Shelley 116 Phoenix 113 Florida 123 Inglewood 118 Las Vegas North 116 Sunset 113 Newport Beach 122 Glendale 118 Denver 115 Burley 113 Las Vegas 122 Bannock 117 Holladay 115 Milwaukee 113 Phoenix West 122 Chicago 117 North Box Elder 115 Fort Collins 113 Antelope Valley 121 Tucson 117 Hayward 115 St. Joseph 113 Boise 120 Granite 117 Dallas 115 Puget Sound 112 Reseda 120 Anaheim 117 San Fernando 115 Grand Coulee 112 mid Jersey -120 Ensign 117 Redding 115 Mount Ogden 112 — 119 Moapa 117 South Idaho Falls 115 Idaho Fails 112 119 Rigby 116 Mesa 114 Minidoka 112 128 South Box Elder 122 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 Ammon Redondo Santa Ana Cedar East Jordan Napa Great Falls St. Louis San Luis Obispo Santaquin-Tintic Fullerton Scottsdale Pocatello San Joaquin Kansas City Cedar Rapids West Pocatello American Falls Las Vegas East Brigham City Monument Park Boston Perth East Idaho Falls Alameda North Columbia River Timpanogos East Phoenix Mount Graham North Tooele Bonneville Panguitch Tucson North Albuquerque Palm Springs San Mateo St. George East Bear River East Pocatello Roy Pasadena Woodruff Park Malad Wells Granger North Pensacola Sevier Temple View Granite Park Star Valley Redwood Klamath Maricopa Granger Millard South Cottonwood Sharon Seattle East Fremont Susquehanna Taber Franklin Uvada Torrance Beaver Cedar West East Sharon Kolob 100 100 (Continued) Oneida San Francisco West Covina Portland North Seattle Portneuf Toronto Hyrum Parleys Olympus Logan Arlington Yuma Parowan Weber Bear Lake East Ogden Flagstaff Portland West New York Monterey Bay Zion Park Chicago South Corvallis Springville Liberty University West Taylorsville Bountiful South Murray Shreveport Cumorah Juarez South Blackfoot Vancouver Tooele St. George South Carolina West Idaho Long Island Raleigh Farr West Potomac Texas North Lethbridge San Jose American River Oklahoma Weiser Philadelphia Arkansas Garfield Lake Mead Yakima Kaysville Midvale Emigration Riverton Sacramento Wasatch Bakersfield Canyon Rim Benson Rose Park North Bountiful Coeur d'Alene North Carbon Hunter American Fork Ben Lomond Bountiful East Pittsburgh Pikes Peak Lyman Pioneer Salem Moroni West Jordan Albuquerque East Indianapolis Rialto Lorin Farr Grantsville Morgan Fort Wayne Humboldt South Ogden Baton Rouge Cache Tempe Hudson River Leeds Cincinnati Sandy East Sacramento North Cleveland Atlanta North Carolina Hartford Cascade Winter Quarters South Carolina East Brisbane Sandy Houston ee eed 123 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 Wilford San Diego Virginia Fort Worth Long Beach St. Johns Norwalk Oakland-Berkeley Santa Monica Dearborn Denver South Southern Arizona West Sharon East Long Beach Lost River Mill Creek Cannon Nampa Twin Falls Monument Park West Calgary East Cache Juab Simi Utah Blaine Mount Logan Uintah North Pocatello Wichita Mesa South Reno Reno North Walnut Creek Big Horn Concord Blackfoot Grand Junction North Rexburg Riverdale Box Elder Detroit East Mesa Highland Edmonton Garden Grove Lewiston North Idaho Falls Sydney South Riverside Alpine Oregon West Sugar House San Juan Mount Olympus Billings E! Monte Santa Monica San Jose West Weber Heights Lake View Ogden Fresno East Deseret San Leandro Spanish Fork West Boise Bend Duchesne Kanab Roosevelt Tacoma Fair Oaks Rose Park Yellowstone Gooding Casper Holladay South Manchester Carbon Kearns North Spokane Santa Maria San Antonio Columbia River Jacksonville Union 'Alaska Nebo Taylorsville West South Summit Oquirrh Richland Snowflake Mount Jordan Alberta Valley View Clearfield North Davis Smithfield Fresno Grand Coulee North North Weber Helena Montpelier Salmon River Salt Lake South Davis Texas West Cottonwood Butte Gunnison Orem West Orlando Teton Murray West North Sanpete Columbus Ilinois San Luis Davis North Jordan Medford Butler West Mojave Washington Terrace Calgary North Summit South Sevier Greensboro Lehi Nevada Pasco San Bernardino East Mill Creek Gridley Norfolk Oahu Missoula Houston East Orem Hillside Bountiful North Craig Layton Palo Alto Mid-Michigan Murray South Olympia Winder New Jersey Central North Sevier Adelaide South Jordan Tulsa Ben Lomond South Minnesota Willamette Lansing Beaumont Sacramento South Wind River Glasgow Emery Tampa Macon South Sanpete East Midvale Butler Maine Leicester Miami Kearns Corpus Christi London Hilo Melbourne Honolulu New Orleans Jackson Hamilton Auckland Layton East South Carolina Hattiesburg Memphis Hamilton South Pearl Harbor Wayne Auckland South Sunderland Alabama Wellington New Zealand North Hawkes Bay cA €2t Ammon Redondo Santa Ana Cedar East Jordan Napa Great Falls St. Louis San Luis Obispo Santaquin-Tintic Fullerton Scottsdale Pocatello San Joaquin Kansas City Cedar Rapids West Pocatello American Falls Las Vegas East Brigham City Monument Park Boston Perth East Idaho Falls Alameda North Columbia River Timpanogos East Phoenix Mount Graham North Tooele Bonneville Panguitch Tucson North Albuquerque Palmyra Wilford San Diego Virginia Fort Worth Long Beach St. Johns Norwalk Oakland-Berkeley Santa Monica Dearborn Denver South Southern Arizona West Sharon East Long Beach Lost River Mill Creek Cannon Nampa Twin Falls Monument Park West Calgary East Cache Juab Simi Utah Blaine Mount Logan Uintah North Pocatello Wichita Mesa South Reno Reno North Walnut Creek Big Horn Concord Blackfoot Grand Junction North Rexburg Palm Springs San Mateo St. George East Bear River East Pocatello Roy Pasadena Woodruff Park Malad Wells Granger North Pensacola Sevier Temple View Granite Park Star Valley Redwood Klamath Maricopa Granger Millard South Cottonwood Sharon Seattle East Fremont Susquehanna Taber Franklin Uvada Torrance Beaver Cedar West East Sharon Kolob Riverdale Box Elder Detroit East Mesa Highland Edmonton Garden Grove Lewiston North Idaho Falls Sydney South Riverside Alpine Oregon West Sugar House San Juan Mount Olympus Billings El Monte Santa Monica San Jose West Weber Heights Lake View Ogden Fresno East Deseret San Leandro Spanish Fork West Boise Bend Duchesne Kanab Roosevelt Tacoma Fair Oaks Rose Park Yellowstone Gooding Casper Holladay South (Continued) Oneida San Francisco West Covina Portland North Seattle Portneuf Toronto Hyrum Parleys Olympus Logan Arlington Yuma Parowan Weber Bear Lake East Ogden Fiagstaff Portland West New York Monterey Bay Zion Park Chicago South Corvallis Springville Liberty University West Taylorsville Bountiful South Murray Shreveport Cumorah Juarez South Blackfoot Vancouver Manchester Carbon Kearns North Spokane Santa Maria San Antonio Columbia River Jacksonville Union Alaska Nebo Taylorsville West South Summit Oquirrh Richland Snowflake Mount Jordan Alberta Valley View Clearfield North Davis Smithfield Fresno Grand Coulee North North Weber Helena Montpelier Salmon River Salt Lake South Davis Texas West Cottonwood Butte Gunnison Orem West Orlando Teton Murray West North Sanpete Tooele St. George South Carolina West Idaho Long Island Raleigh Farr West Potomac Texas North Lethbridge San Jose American River Oklahoma Weiser Philadelphia Arkansas Garfield Lake Mead Yakima Kaysville Midvale Emigration Riverton Sacramento Wasatch Bakersfield Canyon Rim Benson Rose Park North Bountiful Coeur d'Alene North Carbon Hunter American Fork Ben Lomond Columbus Ilinois San Luis Davis North Jordan Medford Butler West Mojave Washington Terrace Calgary North Summit South Sevier Greensboro Lehi Nevada Pasco San Bernardino East Mill Creek Gridley Norfolk Oahu Missoula Houston East Orem Hillside Bountiful North Craig Layton Palo Alto Mid-Michigan Murray South Olympia Winder New Jersey Central North Sevier Adelaide South Jordan Tulsa Ben Lomond South Bountiful East Pittsburgh Pikes Peak Lyman Pioneer Salem Moroni West Jordan Albuquerque East Indianapolis Rialto Lorin Farr Grantsville Morgan Fort Wayne Humboldt South Ogden Baton Rouge Cache Tempe Hudson River Leeds Cincinnati Sandy East Sacramento North Cleveland Atlanta North Carolina Hartford Cascade Winter Quarters South Carolina East Brisbane Sandy Houston Minnesota Willamette Lansing Beaumont Sacramento South Wind River Glasgow Emery Tampa Macon South Sanpete East Midvale Butler Maine Leicester Miami Kearns Corpus Christi London Hilo Melbourne Honolulu New Orleans Jackson Hamilton Auckland Layton East South Carolina Hattiesburg Memphis Hamilton South Pearl Harbor Wayne Auckland South Sunderland Alabama Wellington New Zealand North Hawkes Bay 124 Retief Society Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative Adelaide Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Albuquerque East Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Antelope Valley Arkansas Arlington Ashley Atlanta Bakersfield Bannock Baton Rouge Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Bend Benson Big Horn Billings ae — oe BC Eee 208 749 410 291 418 748 351 'Shirley M. Edis Naomi Demiezio Cecil Olsen Marion Low Vera K. Hamilton Margaret E. Wallsieffer Meda A. Hunsaker 'Verna Larson Elionor Liebelt C. Fay Labrie Luella D. Holmgren Esther Pomeroy Etta B. Rees Mary L. Wiihite Tula C. Berry Alice T. Wall Annie F. Bennett Ima L. Gates Ada Williams Marie Sullivan Afton Hymas Melba J. Capener Hattie Moss Daisy Gillins S. Elaine Wade LaRaye C. Sheridan Marjorie A. Hall Lana Robinson Phyllis Taggart Maud J. DeVore Coeur d'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas Davis Dearborn Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Midvale East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo 767 Dorothy L. Bennett Bernice W. Taylor Marsha McKim Fern O. Pike Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Evelyn T. Rodney Eva M. Pace Margaret G. Stoner Elsa Neil Barbara J. Robison Leola E. Jorgenson Ada B. Norman Virginia L. Potter Phyllis T. Benfell Genevieve S. Farnsworth Mattie R. Tuft Thelda M. Halstead Mardean Lindbloom Connie Dee Kane Etta M. Whittaker Rebecca Sutton Myra D. Baldwin Mary Lynn Adams Melva B. Evans Ethel B. Grupper Zelda G. Schultz Lois L. Tanner LaVerne Marley Arlean M. Lewis 125 Blackfoot Blaine Boise Boise North Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butler West Butte Cache Calgary Calgary North Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cassia East Cedar Cedar Rapids Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Cincinnati Clearfield Cleveland 409 646 453 993 734 526° 272 425 339 486 234 602 288 461 481 585 787 496 Emma D. Woodland Vera E. Clifford Genevieve Creswell Anna T. Scott Isabelle Peterson Shirley J. Blomberg Alice A. McDermott Gloria H. Watt Margene D. Peterson Gwen T. Rawlings Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth Virginia W. Starke Freida Manning Gladys R. Loveless Vera E. Cowley Jeannette P. Bradfield Norma J. Thompson Elva M. Crape Rhoda Martin Elsie Duehimeier Lola Tanner Marian H. Heward Lorraine Stevens Mabel M. Collins Jean Oakley Emma C. Payne Maurine H. Baxter Nettie K. Morris Constance Bennion Hazel B. Davies Deanna J. Hoyt Fern E. Van Orden Violet Coffing Doles E. Fullerton Thelma M. Haslam Barbara T. Dabb East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton Ei Monte El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Fair Oaks Farr West Flagstaff Florida Fort Collins Fort Wayne Fort Worth Franklin Fremont Fresno Fresno East Fullerton Garden Grove Garfield Glasgow Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Coulee North Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Gunnison Norma Rounds Lucile M. Weenig Esther R. Bryant LaVonne E. Howe Maud T. Bentley Ella Maxfield Reva B. Holt Mildred O. Sloan Marjorie H. Allen Nora K. Poulsen Lulu E. Orter Lois Ketcher NaVon Cazier Alice Green Lucille W. Molen Edna Lemmon Ruth Hunt Norma G. Boswell Marietta Bates Juanita B. Barfuss Beverly Anderson Melba Gates Marjorie G. Foote Dorotha M. Beers Edna McClure Arlene G. Andersen Mary H. Anthon Arda Luster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Cora M. Christensen Lythia J. Street lreta T. Stevens Olive T. Western Delores McGillen Ruth Alice M. Brewer Marietta N. White Amy Thompson Stakes on Honor Roll—1969 vel EnrollSubscriptions, EnroltFemme 8 ms > INT Relief Society ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Relief Society ment jo. Ct. Agazine Repres i 208 85 Shirley M. Edis Coeur d'Alene 370 335 91 Dorothy L. Bennett a EA 624 110 Neen Demiezio Columbia River 696 668 96 Bernice W. Taylor Alaska 330 316 96 Cecil Olsen Columbus 409 367 90 Marsha McKim Alberta 788 749 95 Marion Low Concord 683 728 107 Fern O. Pike Albuquerque 374 410 110 Vera K. Hamilton Corvallis 303 296 98 Euzell Preston Albuquerque East 346 291 84 Margaret E. Wailsieffer Cottonwood 681 642 94 Wilma P. Barr Alpine 821 836 102 Meda A. Hunsaker Covina 707 794 112 Evelyn T. Rodney American Falls 432 479 111 Verna Larson Craig 313 271 87 Eva M. Pace American Fork 650 586 90 Elionor Liebelt - Cumorah 429 417 97 Margaret G. Stoner American River 533 494 93 C. Fay Labrie Dallas 542 633 117 Elsa Neil Ammon 632 707. 112 Luella D. Holmgren Davis B48 757 a9 Barbara J. Robison Anaheim " 712 851 120 Esther Pomeroy Dearborn 308 333 108 Leola E. Jorgenson Antelope Valley 356 459 129 Etta B. Rees Denver 439 516 118 Ada B. Norman Arkansas 209 193 92 Mary L. Wilhite Denver South 573 620 108 Virginia L. Potter Arlington 425 418 98 Tula C. Berry Denver West 673 758 3 Phyllis T. Benfell Ashley 657 748 #114 Alice T. Wall Deseret 723 727——=— 101 Genevieve S. Farnsworth Atlanta 431 351 81 Annie F. Bennett Detroit 379 389 103 Mattie R. Tuft Bakersfield 687 626 91 Ima L. Gates Duchesne 451 453 100 Theida M. Halstead Bannock 356 435 122 Ada Williams East Cache 1149 1234 107 Mardean Lindbloom Baton Rouge: 257 212 B3 Marie Sullivan East Idaho Fails 728 803 110 Connie Dee Kane Bear Lake 505 496 98 Afton Hymas East Jordan 663 743 «112 Etta M. Whittaker Bear River 558 592 106 Melba J. Capener East Long Beach 792 855 108 Rebecca Sutton Beaumont 315 247 78 Hattie Moss East Los Angeles 821 1037. 126 Myra D. Baldwin Beaver 559 577 103 Daisy Gillins East Mesa 728 746 «86103 Mary Lynn Adams Ben Lomond 972 872 90 S. Elaine Wade East Midvale 467 351 75 Melva B. Evans Ben Lomond South 632 538 85 LaRaye C. Sheridan East Mill Creek 722 633 88 Ethel B. Grupper Bend 240 241 100 Marjorie A. Hall East Ogden 852 837 98 Zelda G. Schultz Benson 653 595 91 Lana Robinson East Phoenix 591 649 110 Lois L. Tanner Big Horn 861 918 107 Phyllis Taggart East Pocatello 609 646 106 LaVerne Marley Billings 444 450 101 Maud J. DeVore East Provo 682 767 «112 Arlean M. Lewis Blackfoot 772 B22 107 Emma D. Woodland East Rigby 663 934 141 Norma Rounds Blaine 306 328 107 Vera E. Clifford East Sharon 1073. 1106 103 Lucile M. Weenig Boise 621 800 129 Genevieve Creswell Edmonton 458 468 102 Esther R. Bryant Boise North 659 749 «#114 Anna T. Scott Ei Monte 512 519 101 LaVonne E. Howe Bonneville 1014 1111_~=S110 Isabelle Peterson El Paso 533 628 118 Maud T. Bentley Boston 530 585 110 Shirley J. Blomberg Emery 698 541 78 Ella Maxfield Bountiful 921 834 91 Alice A. McDermott Emigration 629 576 92 Reva B. Holt Bountiful East 786 668 85 Gloria H. Watt Ensign 921 1101 120 Mildred O. Sloan Bountiful North 823 713 87 Margene D. Peterson Fair Oaks 415 416 100 Marjorie H. Allen Bountiful South 933 909 97 Gwen T. Rawlings Farr West 756 705-93 Nora K. Poulsen Box Elder 513 517. 103 Cleo N. Dixon: Flagstaff 635 623 98 Lulu E. Orter Brigham City 605 669 111 Hilda R. Forrest Florida 432 584 135 Lois Ketcher Brisbane 301 240 80 Elsie E. Orth Fort Collins 334 384 115 NaVon Cazier Burbank 772 976 126 Virginia W. Starke Fort Wayne 418 348 83 Alice Green Burley 693 799 «115 Freida Manning Fort Worth 429 467 109 Lucille W. Molen Butler 496 371 75 Gladys R. Loveless Franklin 814 842 103 Edna Lemmon Butler West 562 501 89 Vera E. Cowley Fremont 432 447 104 Ruth Hunt Butte 413 389 94 Jeannette P. Bradfield Fresno 508 482 95 Norma G. Boswell Cache 693 571 82 Norma J. Thompson Fresno East 563 567 101 Marietta Bates Calgary 403 433 107 Elva M. Crape Fullerton 588 657. 112 Juanita B. Barfuss Calgary North 409 363 89 Rhoda Martin Garden Grove 465 475 102 Beverly Anderson Cannon 646 697 108 Elsie Duehimeier. Garfield 286 264 92 Melba Gates Canoga Park 453 537 119 Lola Tanner Glasgow 125 97 78 Marjorie G. Foote Canyon Rim 993 906 91 Marian H. Heward Glendale 1146 1402 122 Dorotha M. Beers Carbon 734 709 97 Lorraine Stevens Gooding 692 693 100 Edna McClure Cascade 526 426 81 Mabel M. Collins Grand Coulee 459 526 115 Arlene G. Andersen Casper 272 272 ©1000 Jean Oakley Grand Coulee North 315 299 95 Mary H. Anthon Cassia 425 524 123 Emma C. Payne Grand Junction 562 598 106 Arda Luster Cassia East 339 381 112 Maurine H. Baxter Granger 657 686 104 Viola G. Johnson Cedar 486 545 112 Nettie K. Morris Granger North 682 717. (105 Ella H. Larson Cedar Rapids 234 260 111 Constance Bennion Granite 622 744 120 Cora M. Christensen Cedar West 602 621 103 Hazel B. Davies Granite Park 686 720 105 Lythia J. Street Cheyenne 288 392 136 Deanna J. Hoyt Grant 815 917 113 Ireta T. Stevens Chicago 461 562 122 Fern E. Van Orden Grantsville 611 512 84 | Olive T. Western Chicago South 481 470 38 Violet Coffing Great Falls 420 470 112 Delores McGillen Cn 5385 480 82 Doles E. Fullerton Greensboro 391 346 Bo Ruth Alice M. Brewer learfield 787 748 95 Thelma M. Haslam Gridley 971 851 Be Marietta N. White % Cleveland 496 404 81 Barbara T. Dabb Gunnison 440 414 94 Amy Thompson Ss 126 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. (Continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enroll. Ment Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative Hartford Hayward Helena Highland Hillside Holladay Holladay South Houston Houston East Hudson River Humboldt Hunter Huntington Beach Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls IHinois Indianapolis Inglewood Jacksonville Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns North Klamath Kolob Lake Mead 368 492 244 647 1098 558 517 345 353 302 306 691 464 698 876 530 614 428 727 685 299 576 231 662 953 654 517 274 308 248 255 624 524 1188 870 Ella D. Kohler Clementina B. Ranney Viola G. Posey Veryl Mattson Raola S. Weenig Lillian B. Carroll Blanche D. Garff Mary Mills Lucille Krumnow Marjorie Schneider Elaine Dicks Norma H. Scott Pearl Watson Joy B. Snell Arlene B. Hall Hazel Ozburn June Keller Janet F. Jeffery Belva O. Wheeler Edith Pew Vera M. Williams Rita S. Andrews Rita S. Johnson Esther B. Tait Venna T. Witbeck Marie K. Taylor LaVern L. Rouska Beverly Ellis Verla B Roundy Winnie C. Prince D Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Olympus Mount Rubidoux Murray Murray South Murray West Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Jersey Central New York Newport Beach Norfolk North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls 369 875 706 703 525 398 790. 709 917 712 655 490 727 515 1051 a Anna Jensen Jean C. Keetch Ruth B. Parkinson Florence R. Carter Glenna Porter Betty A. Cook Trella S. Ellsworth Ruth C. Gull Pearl G. Fowler Fern H. Ewer Dora H. Lerch Barbara J. Taylor Liesel Barthel Gladys Casselbury Virginia G. Bell Ginger Fuhriman Holly C. Holdsworth Elva Hill Lu Atkin Kathleen Jones Anita Scotto Dorotha Bean Lucile S. Lundwall Mary B. Waldorf Lila Y. Rader Lue Tweddell Katherine L. Bailey Sarah M. Williams Ardell Stoker Maurine N. Grimmett sce a imma ae to m 127 Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas Central Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Layton Leeds Lehi Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Long Island Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Macon Malad Manchester Maricopa Marin Medford Mesa Mesa South Mid-Michigan Midvale Millard Mill Creek Milwaukee Minidoka Minnesota Missoula Moapa Modesto Mojave 551 426 862 477 549 573 687 337 773 726 358 744 652 704 320 865 448 301 602 283 588 216 847 307 509 1108 707 295 656 617 704 418 819 581 554 361 542 449 556 335 1158 562 608 674 595 277 684 676 366 726 643 767 299 725 609 325 510 214 619 209 886 390 454 1288 755 255 602 643 760 482 936 460 483 431 640 400 lsora Olmstead Maralin P. Bennett Fannie H. Bloxham Lily Childers Irene A. Austin Jean Wilcox Carol O. Preece Alice M. Parsons Rosa Ashton Beulah Manser LaMayne J. Borrus Mayme H. Peterson Luana J. Mortensen Ida Moyle Holt Gladys Edic Hazel G. James Nola D. Whipple Thelma C. Sayer Susann E. Allen Margaret Duff Gloria R. Gleed Edna Hargreaves Olive Wallace Norene B. Deaver Barbara Shepherd Ethelyn J. Madsen Rae O. Lemmon Gladys Sundquist Zina M. Olson Maxine Robins Martha J. H. Matern Dorothea G. Hodge Gladys V. Broadhead Arthella M. Basinger Pearl Dunlap Pear! Robison Gaylene S. Beier Oral F. Hales North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oahu Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympia Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Oregon West Orem Orem West Orlando Palm Springs Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Pasco Pensacola Perth Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North 890 370 752 678 677 452 495 680 671 503 348 761 763 508 435 647 674 530 292 221 921 832 482 313 737 882 538 454 743 583 407 907 398 293 282 568 665 671 Virginia B. Latimer Martha H. Packer Maurine R. Pocock Ruth Jones Dorothy W. Marlowe LaVerde S. Gurney Ann Russell Marvel Barrow Kathleen Clegg Carrie C. Fife Julia M. Thornley Stella S. Hoopes Jewel V. Arondet Regina Brinkerhoff Myrtle Rogers Alfarette S. Liddle Jessie G. Swann Gwenevere M. Hickman Connie K. Johns Arlene Baxter Virginia S. Lewis Marlene L. Harms Leone R. Johnson Eloda Barkdull Eleanor D. Olsen Virginia M. Wood Amaretta H. Graves Theora Heap Pearl E. Rohde Virginia Morgan Barbara B. Burt Rose N. Simper Joy Hulet Annie A. Lord Elizabeth A. East Wilma M. Monson Evelyn Smith Dolly V. Jensen 921 AI Subscriptions Stakac on c ln mn ior Roll—19¢ (Continued) EnrollSubscriptions Relhet Society ment No. Pct. Magazine Representative Retief Society ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative 368 299 81 Elia D. Kohler Monterey Bay 369 361 98 Anna Jensen fe 492 576 117 Clementina B. Ranney Montpelier 875 829 95 Jean C. Keetch Helena 244 231 95 Viola G. Posey Monument Park 706 780) =«=(111 Ruth B. Parkinson Highland 647 662 102 Veryl Mattson Monument Park West 703 757 108 Florence R. Carter Hillside 1098 953 87 Raola S. Weenig Morgan 525 439 84 Glenna Porter Holladay 558 654 117 Lillian B. Carroll Moroni 398 336 = 84 Betty A. Cook Holladay South 517 517 100 Blanche D. Garff Mount Graham 790 867 110 Trella S. Elilsworth Houston 345 274 79 Mary Milis Mount Jordan 709 676 95 Ruth C. Gull Houston East 353 308 8687 Lucille Krumnow Mount Logan 917 983 107 Pearl G. Fowler Hudson River 302 248 8682 Marjorie Schneider Mount Ogden 712 816 115 Fern H. Ewer Humboldt 306 255 83 Elaine Dicks Mount Olympus 655 666 102 Dora H. Lerch Hunter 691 624 90 Norma H. Scott Mount Rubidoux 490 567 116 Barbara J. Taylor Huntington Beach 464 524 113 Pearl Watson Murray 727 708 97 Liesel Barthel Huntington Park 698 1188 170 Joy B. Snell Murray South 515 445 86 Gladys Casselbury Hyrum 876 870 99 Arlene B. Hall Murray West 574 537 94 Virginia G. Bell Idaho 530 495 93 Hazel Ozburn Nampa 1051 1133 = 108 Ginger Fuhriman Idaho Falls 614 703 115 June Keller Napa 665 745 112 Holly C. Holdsworth Iilinois 428 384 90 Janet F. Jeffery Nebo 742 710 96 Elva Hill Indianapolis 727 611 84 Belva O. Wheeler Nevada 499 441 B88 Lu Atkin Inglewood 685 839 123 Edith Pew New Jersey 308 395 128 __. Kathleen Jones Jacksonville 326 313, 6 Vera M. Williams New Jersey Central 352 302 86 Anita Scotto Juab 583 626 107 Rita S. Andrews New York 432 423 98 Dorotha Bean Juarez 100 97 97 Rita S. Johnson Newport Beach 358 482 135 Lucile S. Lundwall Kanab 527 529 100 Esther B. Tait Norfolk 365 319 87 Mary B. Waldorf Kansas City 705 784 111 Venna T. Witbeck North Box Elder 501 587. 117 Lila Y. Rader Kaysville 938 862 92 Marie K. Taylor North Carbon 592 536 «91 Lue Tweddell Kearns North 651 629 97 LaVern L. Rouska North Carolina 436 354 81 Katherine L. Bailey Klamath 239 250 105 Beverly Ellis North Columbia River 413 455 110 Sarah M. Williams Kolob 740 761 + 103 Verla B Roundy North Davis 654 621 95 Ardell Stoker Lake Mead 770 709 92 Winnie C. Prince North Idaho Falls 919 939 102 Maurine N. Grimmett aoe — as — Lake View 551 556 101 lsora Olmstead North Jordan 890 795 B89 Virginia B. Latimer Lansing 426 335 79 Maralin P. Bennett North Pocatello 370 396 107 Martha H. Packer Las Vegas 862 1158 134 Fannie H. Bloxham North Rexburg 752 800 106 Maurine R. Pocock Las Vegas Central 477 562 118 Lily Childers North Sanpete 678 635 94 Ruth Jones Las Vegas East 549 608 111 Irene A. Austin North Seattle 677 674 100 Dorothy W. Marlowe — North an: ome 118 Jean Wilcox North Sevier 452 387 86 LaVerde S. Gurney ayton 5 87 Carol O. Preece North Tooele 495 543 110 Ann Russell "a E Fe = aie ae North Weber 680 645 95 Marvel Barrow Ss osa Ashton Norwalk 671 730 109 Kathleen Clegg Lethbridge 726 676 93 Beulah Manser Nyssa ie C. Fi Lewiston 358 366 102 LaMayne J. Borrus Oahu Bd A 'és ae Tae Liberty 744 726 98 Mayme H. Peterson Oakiand-Berkeley 761 B28 109 Stella S. Hoopes Logan 652 643 99 Luana J. Mortensen Ogden 763 769 «101 Jewel V. Arondet Long Beach 704 767 ~=109 Ida Moyle Holt Oklahoma 508 471 93 Regina Brinkerhoff me "1 a 93 Gladys Edic Olympia 435 376 6 Myrtle Rogers Los Angeles 448 609 rm i > ee ons. Aa a 1@ Wes S a;. Essie G. Swann —" a 2 ee Oquirrh 530 506 95 Gwenevere M. Hickman flacon io -— £ pe * Oquirrh East 292 339 116 Connie K. Johns Malad 588 619 105 Gloria R Gleed = = i - '= vigiti SO al a0 ro A 4 Phe iigigrenves Orem West 832 782 94 Marlene L. Harms Marin 307 390 127 ana —— ins. Rings a5 3 Os Es wae Medford 509 454 83 Barbara Shepherd P; 'ea aimee ia ara Shephe almyra 737 807 109 Eleanor D. Olsen Misa South aa 4 ae a Madsen Palo Alto 882 764 87 Virginia M. Wood Mchicheon ou ae 'te ge steam EEL, io ona ae + 4 ue Bluey Park 743 785 106 Pearl E. Rohde Mill Creek 704 760 108 Martha J. H. M an ae Milwaukee 418 482 115 Dorothea G. Hodge 7 Oo a ee Minidoka 819 936 114 Gladys Vv. B 4 et ammo; ys V. Broadhead Pasco 398 352 55 Joy Hulet a, 3981 460-79 Arthella M. Basinger Pensacola 293 308 105 Annie A. Lord ja 554 483 87 Pear! Dunlap Perth 282 311 110 Elizabeth A. East Moapa 361 431 119 — Peari Robison Philadelphi 568 Modesto 542 640 118 Gaylene S. Beier z adeiphia 525 92 Wilma M. Monson Mojave a hd a er. Hoenix 665 768 116 Evelyn Smith al F. Hales Phoenix North 671 765 114 Dolly V. Jensen 128 Relief Society Enroll. Ment Subscriptions No. Pct (Continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enroll: ment Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pittsburgh Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Rialto Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Rose Park North Roy Rae D. Levie Jean C. Cruikshank Mabel W. Jenks Matilda Aston Jeannette B. Ames Nora R. Perdue Evelyn M. Nielson Arelie Reznick Melba Olsen Marilyn G. Kerr LaRue B. Davies Myra Ennis Daphne Tew Amelia Daniels Jenadora B. Westover Ruth J. Allen Doris Young Patricia M. Bailey Margaret Martell Leona Flamm Esther A. Hill Leora T. Belliston Ora H. Stallings Perneica D. Fiet Virginia D. Glad LaVon L. Usher Lavella J. Schaefermeyer Doris B. Hensler Dorothy G. Hartvigsen Lynile Buhler Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Simi Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina East San Jose West South Carolina West South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Jordan South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Erma M. Kenyon Manetta Hansen Arlene L. Bascom Vella H. Mecham Beulah Hayes Juanita Hermansen Ruby J. Thornley Jocie B. Tenney Mae A. Cornwall Editha Van Orden Blanche S. Bird Betty Lou Stanley Vivian L. Webb Vivian Lee Black Anna V. L. Lindman Fern B. Holt Valeta G. Simpson Louise Shields Dona Osborn Helen Hoffmann Hannah Dietrich Lucille K. Allen Myrle P. Morrey Martha A. Lambert Virginia Hawkins Fern Linton Beulah A. Edwards lvie Thorpe Ruth T. Turner Arline W. Bell 129 Roy North Sacramento Sacramento North Sacramento South St.. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose South San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Sandy Sandy East Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle 431 400 683 337 557 685 621 828 549 383 210 697 370 575 1002 681 723 1062 437 562 542 452 736 773 476 586 218 742 553 437 544 813 300 888 692 478 666 841 Afton A. Johnson Annabelle G. Mosler Mary E. Anglesey Amanda E. Hurst Blanch C. Wright Ruby Iverson Elda B. Rencher Genevieve Woods Louise M. Cluff Aileen D. Brown Emma Herbst Idonna A. Toone Carmen S. Martinez Pauline Riner Mariellen D. Greer Pear! McCaleb Isabell Alphin Betty M. Read Ella M. Alger Mary L. James Joanne Glama Frances L. Blaisdell Vivian L. Webb Merle J. McDonald lreta Wheeler Irene Mott Nellie C. Johnson Inez Suhisen Janice M. Greenwood VaLeen T. Bell Abigail S. Millett Effie C. Rohlfing Esther G. Hollingshead Helen G. Hanson Cathryn M. Grasteit Ella H. Sandstrom Valma T. Hakes Virginia D. Miller Summit Sunset Susquehanna Sydney Sydney South Taber Tacoma Tampa Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Tempe Temple View Teton Texas North Texas West Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tucson North Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Weber Weber Heights 375 409 358 829 457 460 811 411 412 686 768 1014 416 675 838 - Otis $. Bullock Vivian Pickett Martha Brady Elsie F. Parton Mary M. Proctor Evelyn G. Johnson Janet L. Dickson Gail Abrams Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Marjorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Kathleen V. Perschon Ruby Hogan Alma Kuykendall June B. Souter Velma Gillman Bertha J. Hogan Barbara Fitzgerald Mary Ann Stratford Pam Jones Elizabeth G. Martin Nona Moffat LaVella Pace Stella Richards R. Darlene Hottel Margaret D. Scott Faye Christensen Ivy L. Edwards Maxine Lind Carolyn J. Wotherspoon Ethel T. Sweet Winnifred L. Spuhler Emily Conrad Joyce Hoggan Edna B. Goodliffe Gonda DeBoer LaVerna K. Taylor Sel 62T Subscriptions Hor or Roll— OLO (Continued) Subscriptions Relief Society ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Relief Society ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative i 610 798 «131 Rae D. Levie Seattle East 722 751 104 Erma M. Kenyon Pham 511 433 85 Jean C. Cruikshank Sevier 896 941 105 Manetta Hansen Pioneer 675 572 85 Mabel W. Jenks Sharon 743 773 +=104 Arlene L. Bascom Pittsburgh 339 288 85 Matilda Aston Shelley 907 1068 118 Vella H. Mecham Pocatello 588 656 112 Jeannette B. Ames Shreveport 503 490 97 Beulah Hayes Pomona 793 904 114 Nora R. Perdue Simi 474 509 107 Juanita Hermansen Portland 747 745 100 Evelyn M. Nielson Smithfield 860 817 95 Ruby J. Thornley Portiand West 811 795 98 Arelie Reznick Snowflake 1015 968 95 Jocie B. Tenney Portneuf 550 547 99 Melba Olsen South Bear River 739 830 112 Mae A. Cornwall Potomac 797 742 93 Marilyn G. Kerr South Blackfoot 881 854 97 Editha Van Orden Provo 615 7il 116 LaRue B. Davies South Box Elder 458 515 112 Blanche S. Bird Puget Sound 528 606 115 Myra Ennis South Carolina East 312 251 81 Betty Lou Stanley Raleigh 317 296 = 93 Daphne Tew San Jose West 729 736 6101 Vivian L. Webb Redding 382 445 117 Amelia Daniels South Carolina West 293 274 94 Vivian Lee Black Redondo 666 747 «112 Jenadora B. Westover South Cottonwood 769 802 104 Anna V. L. Lindman Redwood 301 315 105 Ruth J. Allen South Davis 931 881 95 Fern B. Holt Reno 665 710 107 Doris Young South Idaho Falls 609 710 117 Valeta G. Simpson Reno North 548 585 107 Patricia M. Bailey South Jordan 377 321 85 Louise Shields Reseda 675 866 128 Margaret Martell South Los Angeles 665 1132 170 Dona Osborn Rexburg 798 1088 136 Leona Flamm South Ogden 758 630 83 Helen Hoffmann Rialto 477 400 B4 Esther A. Hill South Salt Lake 469 536 114 Hannah Dietrich Richland 571 545 95 Leora T. Belliston South Sanpete 855 647 76 Lucille K. Allen Rigby 949 $1133 119 Ora H. Stallings South Sevier 466 413 89 Myrie P. Morrey Riverdale 599 615 103 Perneica D. Fiet South Summit 484 463 96 Martha A. Lambert Riverside 632 643 102 Virginia D. Glad Southern Arizona 465 503 108 Virginia Hawkins Riverton 576 527 92 LaVon L. Usher Spanish Fork 765 770 ~=—:101 Fern Linton Roosevelt 626 628 100 Lavella J. Schaefermeyer Spokane 694 670 897 Beulah A. Edwards Rose Park 500 501 100 Doris B. Hensler Springville 820 801 98 Ivie Thorpe Rose Park North 392 356 91 Dorothy G. Hartvigsen Star Valley 774 812 105 Ruth T. Turner Roy 462 490 106 Lynile Buhler Sugar House 918 935 102 Arline W. Bell EE eee — EeOoooee —— =m 5 os Roy North 383 431 113 Afton A. Johnson Summit 422 375 BS Otis S. Bullock Sacramento 437 400 92 Annabelle G. Mosler Sunset 371 429 116 Vivian Pickett Sacramento North 834 683 82 Mary €E. Anglesey Susquehanna 338 = =6350 «6104 = Martha Brady Sacramento South 430 337 78 Amanda E. Hurst Sydney 261 511 196 Elsie F. Parton St.. George 596 557 94 Blanch C. Wright Sydney South 266 272 ~=102 Mary M. Proctor St. George East 644 685 106 Ruby Iverson Taber 395 409 104 Evelyn G. Johnson St. Johns 570 621 109 Elda B. Rencher Tacoma B45 B48 100 Janet L. Dickson St. Joseph 720 828 115 Genevieve Woods Tampa 463 358 77 Gail Abrams St. Louis 490 549 112 Louise M. Cluff Taylor 717 829 116 Lauretta S. Dahl Salem 453 383 Aileen D. Brown Taylorsville 586 572 38 Marjorie E. Jones Salmon River 222 210 95 Emma Herbst Taylorsville West 478 457 96 Marjorie E. Coats Salt Lake 736 697 95 Idonna A. Toone Tempe 559 460 82 Florence H. Bateman San Antonio 385 370 96 Carmen S. Martinez Temple View 533 560 105 Kathleen V. Perschon San Bernardino 651 575 88 Pauline Riner Teton 563 528 94 Ruby Hogan San Diego 917. 1002 109 Marietlen D. Greer Texas North 218 203 93 Alma Kuykendall San Diego East 578 681 118 Pearl McCaleb Texas West 232 219 94 June B. Souter San Diego South 640 723 =«113 Isabell Alphin Timpanogos 1122) =1233 110 Velma Gillman San Fernando 901 1062 117 Betty M. Read Tooele 629 589 94 Bertha J. Hogan San Francisco 438 437 100 Ella M. Alger Toronto 634 630 99 Barbara Fitzgerald San Joaquin 504 562 112 Mary L. James Torrance 726 750 103 Mary Ann Stratford San Jose 584 542 93 Joanne Glama Tucson 256 310 121 Pam Jones San Jose South 361 452 125 Frances L. Blaisdell Tucson North 519 569 110 Elizabeth G. Martin San Jose West 729 736 =:101 Vivian L. Webb Tulsa 371 316 85 Nona Moffat San Juan 758 773 ~=—-:102 Merle J. McDonald Twin Falls 976 1052 =108 LaVella Pace San Leandro 473 476 101 lreta Wheeler Uintah 518 555 107 Stella Richards San Luis 655 586 90 Irene Mott Union 655 629 96 _ R. Darlene Hottel San Luis Obispo 195 218 112 Nellie C. Johnson University West 695 678 98 Margaret D. Scott San Mateo 697 742 ~=106 Inez Suhisen Utah 545 685 107 Faye Christensen Sandy 695 553 80 Janice M. Greenwood Uvada 325 336 =6103 Ivy L. Edwards Sandy East 532 437 82 VaLeen T. Bell Valley View 852 811 95 Maxine Lind Santa Ana 485 544 112 Abigail S. Millett Vancouver 424 411 97 Carolyn J. Wotherspoon Santa Barbara 719 813 113 Effie C. Rohiting Virginia 378 412 109 Ethel T. Sweet Santa Maria 311 300 96 Esther G. Hollingshead Walnut Creek 643 686 107 Winnifred L. Spuhler pe Monica 825 888 108 Helen G. Hanson Wasatch 841 768 891 Emily Conrad oa re _ y 4 ane - Cathryn M. Grasteit Washington Boe 1014 126 Joyce Hoggan Scottsdale 596 666 112 Sine aes 7 — be aoe pd es ae '=; nda DeBoer Seattle 711 841 118 Virginia D. Miller Weber Heights 830 838 101 LaVerna K. Taylor 130 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Relief Society Enroilment Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita Wilford 669 912 577 446 486 648 726 816 575 259 709 619 959 580 445 410 720 785 944 733 277 775 93 105 101 100 84 111 108 116 128 107 109 Pearl V. Meacham Gertrude S. Fullmer lla Mae F. Dahl Gayle L. Brackner Thelma Steadman Zola M. Jacobs Marie W. Smith Beth W. Baker Beulah Mickel Kaye B. Greever Elsie D. Macbeth Willamette Wind River Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park 611 236 759 374 782 348 911 714 433 427 482 185 655 303 827 320 913 811 426 418 79 78 86 81 106 92 100 114 98 98 Myrtle Powell Myri Bray Clara W. Cameron Dorothy M. Clark Orrie C. Muir Louise M. Thomas Leola Beddes Faye J. Flack Effie Nowland Arva Jepson Alaskan-Canadian Australian West British South California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States East Central States Eastern Atlantic States Florida Gulf States Elsie T. Bowers Julia F. G. Hess Joan S. Child Shirley M. Allred Ardella A. Davey Janice V. J. Anderson Lola R. West Marjean A. Day Donna J. Bowen Anna G. Rawson Frances M. Connor New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States South African Southern Australian Texas South West Central States Western Canadian Western States 598 677 611 457 442 229 112 530 338 378 93 111 92 93 95 77 80 102 98 107 Jeanne C. Dunn Virginia B. King Ruth B. Kimball Sharon T. Stucki Eleanor A. Badger Ruth B. Hewlett Geneal J. Larsen Nancy L. Jenkins LaNore D. Espenschied Nedra L. Redd @ I'm like ¥°U—practical Save everythi le to the last cCrumblin ng from remnant on crust of bread. ] Craps like the stuff; the fina Everything has som in final] of fruit;,,; almost-empt or after th vention" Was Now, tWOyear-olds a necessity," and it was twoand an af, er juices Into - very ten Minutes he dutifully en his Satisfactio the pear o Ppy to benefit from SOmeone else's New yoy Would be interested 1 Juice Problem. Me a little. Would yoy Suggest I m of some leftover bottles cherries? (Johnny Seems to have developed an UNCommon appetite for cherry Popsicles!) Could | make ¢ erry pies? They are not pie Cherries, you know— just nice;-plump Bings, Without their Juice, » but, in Spite of all hj » they finally did All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1970, page 48. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities © 4 1 '. Iva, ve 7. Oklahoma Stake Relief Society Provides Home Nursing Instructor's Course July 28-31, 1969 Posing as a patient: Margaret Anderson, Education Counselor, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society. In back, left to right: Virginia Gillespie, Homemaking Counselor; Regina Brinkerhoff, President, Oklahoma Stake Relief Society; Shirley Hunter, Red Cross Nursing Instructor. _ sister Brinkerhoff reports: ''Our stake covers a very large portion of land, making it very difficult for the sisters to meet together. In order that more sisters might be able to have home nursing instruction we sponsored an instructor's course with the help of the Red Cross. "Twenty-three sisters were given certificates at the end of the course. During the time the course was offered, the sisters were given banquets, tours, films, and a talk from the stake president. On the final evening, a testimony meeting was held. "Lovely floral arrangements made by members of the stake board were presented to the nursing instructors. We feel that this program will be of great benefit to the families in our stake.'': 132 Notes From the Field Cedar Rapids Stake (lowa) Singing Mothers Present "God Gave This Land to Me," June 6-7, 1969 First picture represents Singing Mothers from the Rock Island and Davenport Ward Relief Societies. A The second represents Singing'Mothers from Cedar Rapids Ward, Fayette Branch, Cedar Falls, and lowa City Ward Relief Societies. Three more branches have been added since this picture was taken: Washington, Clinton, Dubuque. Irene Hamilton, President, Cedar Rapids Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our stake is spread over a very large area, and we wanted our Singing Mothers concerts to be enjoyed by many, so we divided them into area groups and presented the program twice. Donna Lee Frogley directed both groups and wrote the narration, highlighting true incidents in the life of her mother, a great-great-granddaughter of Hyrum Smith. "Songs were chosen which would teach her children about the beauty of the earth, prayer, the restoration of the gospel, and the heritage of their land. Young Primary and MIA youth participated on the program, enabling it to truly be a family affair. Accompanist for both groups was Bonnie Kerry." a 133 February 1970 Helena Stake (Montana), Helena Second Ward Honors Former President, August 13, 1969 Left to right: Lois Faw, quilting chairman, Helena Second Ward Relief Society; Lucile Rossiter; Lois Thomas, President; Dorothy Cory, homemaking counselor. Camille Neuffer, President, Helena Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The Second Ward of our stake honored a sister who was moving away after many long years of service to Relief Society as ward president, stake board member, organist, and visiting teacher. Lucile Rossiter was presented with a lovely quilt with a grand piano in the center and a border of music notes with a floral and diamond design. This quilt was designed by Lois Faw, assisted by Dorothy Cory. A musical program was also presented to honor Sister Rossiter. St. Johns Stake (Arizona), Eagar Ward Holds Successful Bazaar, August 15, 1969 Left to right: Ann Udall and Beverly Johnson who were in charge of display. Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Eagar Ward in our stake held what we felt was a most successful bazaar. The sisters, under the direction of Donna Hamblin, Homemaking Counselor, and Ruby Rogers, homemaking leader, were busy throughout the summer in preparation for this bazaar. "One of the outstanding departments, we felt, was the Pillow Plaza featuring many kinds of decorative pillows, both for the youngsters, and for the beautifying of the home." Adelaide Stake (Australia) Honors 100% Visiting Teachers July 30, 1969 Visiting teachers who achieved over one-hundred per cent, left to right, front row: Thelma Medlen; Janet Fleming; Florence Crane; Roma Tredrea. Back row, left to right: Doris Schilg; Laurel Ellis; Edith Cameron; Margaret Dunbar. Thelma E. Hobby, President, Adelaide Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake is quite widespread, and it is a special occasion when the sisters meet together at the stake house. Our visiting teacher convention was such an occasion. "The Singing Mothers and two soloists thrilled us with lovely music, a film was shown, our stake president addressed us, we enjoyed a luncheon and a play, and testimonies-were borne. All sisters who achieved 100 per cent as visiting teachers were honored. There were nine others than those pictured who also attained 100 per cent visiting teaching.'' February 1970 Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society, Santa Ana (El Salvador) District Presents Bazaar, December 18, 1968 In group picture at left: Seated, second and third from left: Blanca Rosa de Hernandez, Secretary, El Modelo Branch Relief Society; Celcilia de Zepeda, President. Seated in center row, second through sixth: Lucila Martinez, Counselor, El Jardin Branch Relief Society; Andréa T. De Navas, Secretary, Barrio Nuevo Branch Relief Society; Elena de Gonzales, President; Liliana de Diaz, Secretary, El Centro Branch Relief Society; Francisca de Valencia, President. Standing, second, fifth, sixth, and tenth from left: Margarita Salguero, Secretary, Sonsonate Branch Relief Society; Victoria E. De Olmedo, President, El Molino Branch; Isabel de Garcia, President, Santa Ana District; Rosa de Regalado, President, Chalchuapa Branch. Four sisters in picture at right: Ana Moran de Marroquin, First Counselor, El Centro Branch Relief Society; Isolina Marroquin, Second Counselor; Francisco de Valencia, President; Liliana de Diaz, Secretary. Bonnie C. Clark, Supervisor, Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Santa Ana District of the mission presented a very successful bazaar. The seven branches met and presented their handwork which they had made in classes throughout the year. It was a very enjoyable day, climaxed by a dinner for all of the sisters." ES SEE EE EE eee eee Lake Mead Stake (Nevada), Henderson Fifth Ward Aids Building Fund By Baking Bread Left to right: Genevieve Smith, Second Counselor, Henderson Fifth Ward Relief Society; Myrna Olds; Angela Dillard; Ileene Robinson, First Counselor; Grace Wingett, President; Dolores Pendleton. Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters of the Henderson Fifth Ward have raised an amazing amount of money for the ward building fund by baking and selling bread. One day was spent in Relief Society teaching those sisters who did not know how to bake bread. It has been a most impressive and successful method to aid in building a new chapel." Taber Stake Relief Society Holds Visiting Teacher Convention August 16, 1969 Standing at left: Ida Wood, who was honored as the oldest active visiting teacher and crowned queen for the day. Remaining sisters are visiting teachers over seventy years of age. Hazel N. Tanner, President, Taber Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for our visiting teacher convention was 'Love One Another.' It was emphasized by the presentation of a play, 'Which Pattern Do You Follow?' and a skit, 'If the Shoe Fits.' "A lovely luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters, and the eldest visiting teachers were honored. The Vauxhall Branch received a copy of History of Relief Society for having the highest percentage of attendance at the convention. Booklets of original poems composed by the sisters of the Taber Stake were given to all present. We feel that it was a highly successful event, and enjoyable to the sisters."' 136 a SE February 1970 Burley Stake (idaho) Presents ''My Sister's Keeper'' At Presidencies Breakfast, September 17, 1969 Left to right: Pearl Lee; Jacqueline Sagers; Janine Taylor; Edith Blacker. Mary G. Bateman, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Stake board members presented the dramatization 'My Sister's Keeper' at the annual Presidencies Breakfast. Narrating the program was Deaun Wood. "The breakfast tables were decorated in blue and gold, featuring fall bouquets centered with gold hearts and draped with blue streamers proclaiming the year's overall theme in our stake—'Compassionate Service—The Heart of Relief Society.' "The sisters greatly enjoyed and were inspired by the dramatization. Jacqueline Sagers, cultural refinement leader, was chairman for the event." Mt. Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'A Labor of Love,'' May 1, 1969 LaVerda O. Lloyd, former president, Mt. Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Under the capable direction of Jean Ennis, stake chorister, and Regina Roden, stake organist, and the ward choristers and organists, a group of 138 Singing Mothers presented a lovely concert, 'A Labor of Love.' "Each of the nine wards presented a number, and the combined groups presented three numbers. The script for the program was written and narrated by Sylvia Haycock. "We were pleased to have Elder and Sister Sterling W. Sill present, along with Zola McGhie of the General Board of Relief Society." Myrle F. Turner is the new president of Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society. Oar French Mission, Spanish Branch (Madrid, Spain) Relief Society Holds First Bazaar May 13, 1969 Left to right: Patricia Oliveira, Second Counselor, Spanish Branch Relief Society; Paloma Alddaruez, President; Pearl Dean, First Counselor; Janet Baker, SecretaryTreasurer. Marian H. Griffin, Supervisor, French Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The enthusiasm and cooperation of all of the sisters made possible a successful bazaar in this small branch. It is obvious from this experience that they are going to move forward with even greater efficiency. We are very proud of them and the devotion they have to Relief Society." 138 A 2?.;. Tet «\, 4 | The Doctrine and Covenants SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 104 Zion and Its Future Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere; First Meeting: October 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman is guided and sustained through her knowledge that the Church has been, is, and will forever be led by prophets of the Lord. INTRODUCTION Before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord gave this counsel to individuals interested in Joseph Smith's work: Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion. (D&C 6:6; 12:6; 14:6.) Although Zion has -several meanings, when the foregoing counsel is considered in its context—a time when The Book of Mormon and the modern revelations had not yet been received and the Church not yet established—then Zion, as here used, refers to the marvelous work and a wonder to be established upon the earth. The marvelous and 140 wondrous work to be restored was not only The Book of Mormon spoken of by Isaiah, not only the building up of a certain geographical area, but the accomplishment of all God's purposes on the earth. (Isa. 29:13-14; D&C 105:31-32.) True it is that Zion in the scriptures refers to Jerusalem, to the ancient city of Enoch's people, to North and South America, to the center place—Jackson County, Missouri, as geographical areas. (2 Kings 19:21; Ps. 48; Moses 7:18-21; Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. VI, pp. 318-19 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC); D&C 57:1-2.) But, also, Zion has significance in that it means: (1) The Church of Jesus Christ, and (2) the Pure in heart. (D&C 105: 32; BPO) ) THE FULNESS OF TIMES Spoken of by t: this dispensation &athering +. For it ig necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of the fulness of 1 ] dispensation is now beginning that a Whole and complete and perfect union, and Welding together in this, the d of times. (D&C 128:18.) Class Discussion THE GATHERING AND TEMPLE BUILDING One of the unique teachings of Lesson Department land of the north to receive their lessings at the h Latter-day Saints (D&C 133:26- 34), the tribe Therefore, thus Saith the Lord unto You, with whom the Priesthood hath continued through lineage of your fathers— For ye are lawfy] heirs, according to the flesh, and have been hid from In the Words of President Wilford Woodru 'ig and you knew jt not. You are literally Priesthood 14] February 1970 through the lineage of your fathers, and that Priesthood will continue throughout eternity, therefore you have received your appointment, and the Lord looks to you to build up his Zion and kingdom upon the earth. (Journal of Discourses, 18:120.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said that the main object of the gathering of the saints is to build temples. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 307- 08.) In these sacred edifices where the Lord may come to visit his people, principles of exaltation are administered. (D&C 124:28-31, 37-42.) Thus, the purpose of all activities and programs of the Church should prepare the people for these blessings. With the keys of the gathering restored, the way was prepared for the instruction of the people in wards and stakes preparatory to their receiving the higher ordinances of the gospel. Also, the way was provided for them to administer saving ordinances for their dead. (D&C 128:5-9.) Class Discussion How are temple building and the principle of Zion related? THE CATALYST The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints exists for the purpose of bringing men to exaltation. In order that the saints may be assisted in achieving this goal, the Lord has placed within their reach the witness of the Holy Ghost to motivate them to righteousness. As the dedicated, loyal Latter-day Saint becomes acquainted with the essential purpose of the dispensation of the fulness of times— preparation for the second coming 142 of Christ—he learns that his efforts are to build Zion upon the earth. It was for the Prophet Joseph Smith, divinely directed, to restore to the earth the unique concept of Zion. From his own words we learn about Zion and the mission of the Latter-day Saints: The building up of Zion is a cause that has interested the people of God in every age; it is a theme upon which prophets, priests and kings have dwelt with peculiar delight; they have looked forward with joyful anticipation to the day in which we live; and fired with heavenly and joyful anticipations they have sung and written and prophesied of this our day; but they died without the sight; we are the favored people that God has made choice of to bring about the Latter-day glory; it is left for us to see, participate in and help to roll forward the Latter-day glory, "the dispensation of the fullness of times, when God will gather together all things that are in heaven, and all things that are upon the earth, "even in one".. (DHC Vol. IV pp. 609-10.) United with the saints in this noble endeavor will be those of other dispensations who also worked for the accomplishment of God's purpose on the earth. As the Prophet said: The heavenly Priesthood will unite with the earthly, to bring about those great purposes; and whilst we are thus united in the one common cause, to roll forth the kingdom of God, the heavenly Priesthood are not idle spectators, the Spirit of God will be showered down from above, and it will dwell in our midst. (DHC Vol. IV, p. 610.) Class Discussion Wherein does the building of Zion contribute to preparation for the second coming of Christ? THE HOLY GHOST (HOLY SPIRIT) The Holy Ghost (Holy Spirit) is a revelator. The promise of the his people will receive, through appointed chanby the Holy Spirit, even that which has not been revealed since the world began. In fact, in the fulness of times nothing shall be withheld. (D&C 121:26-28.) As one views the history of the. Church since its organization, the overriding conviction ls that the voice of God has been with this Church in all its travels and tribulations. ( C 128:21.) The efforts of men to thwart the kingdom of God have been futile, although attempts have been made to destroy and to dispossess this people. (D&C 136:17.) CHALLENGE TO BUILD From the beginning of the dispensation, the Lord's servants have admonished the saints to accept the challenge of the dispensation, as given in the words of President Wilford Woodruff: We are called to build up Zion, and to establish righteousness and truth; called to build up the kingdom of God..- (Journal of Discourses 12:279.) To build Zion means to participate in all the activities which will further the work of God's kingdom, his Church. (D&C 38: 40.) Whatever contribution is made to this goal is a step to the fulfillment of Zion's glory. (D&C 101:17-19.) A CENTER PLACE The early saints were given the objective of building 4 center place from which the wisdom of God would flow to the nations. (John Taylor, Journal of Discourses 6:169.) The temple of Lesson Department the Lord will be puilt in the New Jerusalem aS prophesied, for therein the Lord will dwell, and righteous laws will go forth to govern the nations, as well as from the Old Jerusalem. (D&C 84:1-5; 38:21-22; Isa. 9-1-2.) In that city of Zion, to be located in Jackson County, Missouri, there shall be found peace, safety, and refuge from the wickedness of the world. In the world where strife, unrest, and war exist, Zion's people will be free from these acts of violence as they gather from the nations of the earth to serve the Lord. (D&C 45:66-79.) IN THE MEANTIME Zion as envisioned by the prophets is not here. But the preparation continues for that blessed day. Though some may not realize Zion in its fulness in this life, each saint who assumes his responsibility in building Zion will find eternal joys and happiness. He will, following the resurrection, enjoy the presence of the Lord with other faithful saints. (D&C 27:5-14.) What of the scattered saints? Members of the Church in parts of the world other than where the f the Church are found wonder when they should gather to 7ion. They have already of the world and as a covenant son or daughpure in heart in order to become Zion. Zion ls where the pure in heart dwell. Although the saints are scattered throughout the world, as foreseen by Nephi, they are to stand in holy places. (Zion) until 143 February 1970 the prophet of the Lord calls them to gather in appointed places. (1 Ne. 14:14; Elder Harold B. Lee, Conference Report, April 1948, p. 55.) The day will come when the leaders of the Church will call the faithful, devoted members to build the New Jerusalem; but the call will come only when the revelation is received by the prophet. (D&C 101:16-21; 105:13.) Class Discussion Of what necessity is it to obey the leaders of the Church? WHAT IS REQUIRED When the effort to build the center place of Zion failed in 1834, the Lord gave the reasons for the failure. He also indicated through revelation the way whereby that plan will not fail. That they themselves may be prepared, and that my people may be taught more perfectly, and have experience, and know more perfectly concerning their duty, and the things which I require at their hands. (D&C 105:10.) Class Discussion To what extent is progress being made by Latter-day Saints in attaining the objectives mentioned above? THE FUTURE OF ZION They who have the testimony of the Spirit that Joseph Smith is a true Prophet, that the revelations through him are from God, that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only true and living Church upon the face of the earth, and that the successors of Joseph Smith have also been divinely called, know that all of the prophecies con- 144 cerning this dispensation will be fulfilled. (D&C 1:37-39.) The Lord has decreed that: (1) his kingdom is on the earth for the last time, and it will stand forever (Daniel 2:44; D&C 65:2), (2) he will raise up a people who will serve him in righteousness (D&C 100:16), and (3) Zion will be redeemed. (D&C 100:13; 136:18.) Although the future of Zion is assured, the individual member of the Church may not find the blessings of Zion except upon condition of obedience to the commandments. IMPLEMENTATION From the last revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants, given to President Brigham Young, we learn about Zion and her people: My people must be tried in all things, that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom. (D&C 136:31.) The trials of present-day saints compared with those of members in the decades following the organization of the Church may be quite different, yet the basis for faith and devotion remains the same. President Heber C. Kimball once said: Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and his work. This Church has before it many close places through which it will have to pass before the work of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming, it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of this work for yourselves. The difficulties will be of such a charac- ter that the man or woman who does not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right and call upon the Lord and cease not till you obtain it. If you do not you will not stand. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on borrowed light. Each will have to be guided by the light within himself. If you do not have it, how can you stand? Do you believe it? (Life of Heber C. Kimball, by Orson F. Whitney, pp. 449-50.) If the saints failed to observe the words of the Lord, the kingdoms of the world would prevail against them, for they were assigned to be a light to the world. (D&C 103:5-13.) Ample provision has been made whereby the saint may learn his duties from attendance at appointed meetings, study of the scriptures, and by the Holy Ghost as an interpreter and guide to truth. Although one may follow these ways of determining truth, yet there is one sure and practical way to keep on the Lord's side. Expressed in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, it is: "Look to the Presidency and receive Lesson Department instruction." (DHC3:391; D&C 124:45-46.) The First Presidency of the Church teach only the way of righteousness whereby exaltation will come to those who obey. The revelations of the Lord come to them for the members of the Church. They are inspired to solve the problems of the day and to give the correct interpretation of what the Lord has revealed in the books of scripture. The Lord has said through the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the goal for which the saints should strive: And your whole labor shall be in Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause, not fearing what man can do, for I am with you. Amen. (D&C 30:11.) We ought to have the building up of Zion as our greatest object (Joseph Smith, DHC 3:390.) If one accepts this charge, then he will accept in deed the closing words of the Doctrine and Covenants: Be diligent in keeping all my commandments, lest judgments come upon you, and your faith fail you, and your enemies triumph over you. So no more at present. Amen and Amen. (D&C 136: 42.) O "" "THE FLOWER SONG WHEN THE SUN IS OUT" (Words of Small John Grenawalt) The rain slid down on the world outside, On trees and the silver street, Inside, the tune that my grandson played Was lilting and strangely sweet.. Of course, he couldn't play tunes at all, But gaily his fingers flew. | asked the name of the tune he played And somehow, | felt he knew. "A flower song when the sun is out!" He answered and smiled at me. The room was bright with his sparkling thought And wonderful imagery! —Nona H. Brown ° 145 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Message 8—''Men Are, That They Might Have Joy'' (2 Ne. 2:25.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, October 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that one of God's great objectives is that man ''might have joy. It was her first week in an eastern city. She, a girl from the western United States, was attending the biggest junior high school she had ever seen. Uncertain, shy, and frightened, she tried to make herself as inconspicuous as possible. It was Friday morning and the long week was coming to a close. Horrified she heard the teacher call her name to come to the front of the class and lead it in reading the scriptures and the morning prayer. Fortunately, unlike today, simple religious services were allowed in the schools. The walk to the front of the room seemed endless. She felt every eye staring at her. Without looking up, she opened the Bible with stiff fingers. What should she read? What could she read? A moment of fumbling and there in front of her were the reassuring words, the comforting, beloved words read so often at home. It was her favorite Psalm. Too young yet to understand completely their full meaning, the beautiful words were even so an anchor in the storm: 146 I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore. (Ps. 121.) As she read the familiar, beloved lines, fright left her. The Lord was her strength and refuge. Out of panic came comfort and joy. ".. Men are, that they might have joy." (2 Ne. 2:25.) In a world where uncertainty, fear, and evil are common these words are indeed welcome. The earth was created to make joy possible. Strange as it seems, to accomplish this purpose of God man must be enticed by both good and evil to make choice real. He must learn the law and the consequences of choice. When men were redeemed from the fall this joy became possible because they became "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon...." (2 Ne. 2: 26.) What did Lehi mean by "free forever" and "to act for themselves and not to be acted upon"? How do these concepts contribute to joy? What is joy? How do we acquire it? There is much discussion of joy in the scriptures. As King Benjamin gave his last great address to the Nephites they were ". Filled with joy, having received a remission of their sins, and having peace of conscience, because Lesson Department of the exceeding faith which they had in Jesus Christ who should come...."' (Mosiah 4:3.) For the Lord shall comfort Zion, he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert hke the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody. (2 Ne. 8:3.) God's desire is that we will know joy, and we experience it many times in life when we are doing his will, but we must remember, "Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full." (D&C 101:36.) HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 8—''She Stretcheth Out Her Hand to the Poor; Yea, She Reacheth Forth Her Hands to the Needy." (Prov. 31:20.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that compassionate service is part of each woman's role in the welfare program. INTRODUCTION The word "compassion" is a Christ-like term and one closely associated with the Savior in his brief span of life upon the earth. It is deeply rooted in the second great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself' (Matt. 22:39) and in the golden rule which is closely related to it, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them...." (Matt. 7:12.) The word takes on added meaning when we couple it with another highly connotative term, and we say "compassionate service," a phrase 147 February 1970 beautifully poetic in its fusion of sound and sense. This phrase is indivisibly connected to Relief Society and therefore to the Latter-day Saint woman. Love-inspired compassionate service is the thing for which Relief Society is best known and.... Respected. Sympathetic, tender, merciful service to those in distress is, and always has been, the fundamental work of Relief Society. The relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan; ministrations to the sick and downtrodden; comfort to the sorrowing and to those whose souls are weary; and the exercise of benevolence are the principal purposes for which Relief Society was organized. (History of Relief Society, p. 61.) THE WOMAN'S ROLE DEFINED Since the organization of Rehef Society in 1842, Latter-day Saint women have been fulfilling these purposes and have attached to themselves as their motto, "Charity never faileth." In the words of President Spafford,.. Charity is the expression of unselfish love which builds up and strengthens not only the physical but the spiritual in our people and helps the individual and the family to realize their full potentials. (From an address in Welfare Meeting, held April 7, 1967.) Today, the welfare program encompasses far more than merely taking care of the physical needs of our people. It embraces many activities which have to do with the rehabilitation of the soul and spirit as well. The admonition which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the sisters in the early days of the Church that they "... Might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor—searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants...." 148 (History of Relief Society, p. 18), are just as pertinent today as they were then. As women of the Church we need to recognize our individual part in this great program and fulfill the role which is assigned to us. PUTTING OUR OWN HOUSES IN ORDER Ourrecent homemaking discussions have pointed out our responsibilities in preparing our own homes and families to be selfsustaining. When we extend our own houses to include any close relatives or family connections who might be in need, we are giving "compassionate service" to our own and to that extent are aiding the welfare program even though it may not be given credit as Relief Society compassionate service. When we extend such service to a needy neighbor or friend, we contribute even more compassionate service. HELPING OUR WARD FAMILY As sisters in Relief Society, one of our responsibilities is to devote whatever time we can in caring for the sick and the needy in our ward family. When such help is needed, we may assist them in learning to sew and cook and develop their abilities in all the homemaking arts by urging their attendance at Relief Society homemaking meetings, as well as by giving them special help in their own homes. In addition: We can render compassionate service in times of sorrow and bereavement by assisting in whatever ways our help might be needed. We can extend the hand of friendship to those who are lonely and in need of comfort. We can visit the homebound and cheer their spirits by reading to them and by administering to their needs in other ways. We can give nursing care and special assistance when called by our Relief Society president or by the bishop, as the case may be. Those of us who are trained in special ways can provide such help as tutoring services for backward children or for "dropouts' who need special guidance, opening our homes to the Indian children who need companionship and training, giving volunteer service wherever the need arises. We will benefit threefold by giving of ourselves in compassionate service, for as the poet Lowell says, '""Who gives himself with his alms feeds three, Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me." (James R. Lowell, Lowell's Complete Poems, [Boston and New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 1899], p. 111.) Lesson Department CONCLUSION The world today is sorely in need of the administering services of love and compassion which stem only from the human heart. Women are by nature loving and compassionate. The Prophet Joseph Smith recognized these womanly virtues and pronounced a wonderful blessing upon the heads of the sisters if they would act accordingly. This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence... If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be _ restrained from being your associates. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. IV, p. 605 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church].) SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life s Lesson 8—''Whither Goest Thou?'' Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lesson 39 and other lessons as specified.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1970 OBJECTIVE: To reemphasize some of the truths in the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., which may influence for good the behavior patterns of our lives. INTRODUCTION A man may be remembered for his deeds and also for his words, each being an indicator of his general pattern of thinking. Thus a man may exert an influence upon others long after he himself has left the mortal scene. 149 February 1970 President J. Rueben Clark, Jr. Is remembered for many accomplishments contributed during a long and active hfe but he also is remembered by his words. The present series of social relations lessons, based upon his writings and orally given addresses, have brought us the benefit of his thinking on many aspects of life. In lesson 1, titled "Profiles Remembered" reference was made as to his continuing influence upon some policies of international law. That which President Clark contributed during his many years of service to the Church may likewise have a continuing effect for good as his administrative counsel is remembered and retained. In addresses given at the Relief Society Annual General Conferences to the women of the Church, to other Church auxiliary organizations, in baccalaureate sermons given. To graduating university students, and on other occasions, President Clark made many important statements.. To isolate specific comments from their original context, often robs them of important associated meanings, yet there are many statements, uniquely and concisely expressed, which may stand alone. As pronouncements of truth or opinion, they may stimulate personal thought or form the basis for intelligent and profitable discussion. They even may vitalize an individual's life. In the latter part of this lesson we include a number of important statements made by President Clark. They reflect the thinking of a good and great man upon the basic principles of 150 the gospel and upon many aspects of our everyday lives. As lesson 1 "Profiles Remembered" (The Relief Society MagazinesJuly 1968, p. 544) summarizes, generally, the important accomplishments of President Clark's active life, this lesson reemphasizes_ the spiritual and intellectual aspects of his personality as revealed through his writings. Together, they personalize a well-balanced and deeply religious man, who may continue to inspire and motivate others for good. WHITHER GOEST THOU? President Clark, in lesson 39 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, brings us face to face with the essential problem of individual choice as to the direction we wish our lives to take. He reminds us of the results of the choices we choose to make. Through relevant scripture he takes us to the upper chamber at the Last Supper, when Jesus told his disciples: Little children, yet a little while I am with you. (John 13:33.) Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards. (John 13:36.) President Clark then refers to a tradition which, although not supported by recorded facts of history, is an impressive story. It states that: Peter, the Apostle, bitterly persecuted, was fleeing Rome for his life. He had hardly gotten outside the city walls when he met the Savior coming along the Appian Way, going towards Rome. Startled, Peter cried out, "Quo vadis, domine?" "Master, whither goest thou?" The Savior answered, "I am going to Rome to be crucified again," and vanished. Reproved, Conscience Stricken hum. With foregoing IN mind i pene aoa hs cuca Latter it fore en wil head downwards at his o request, de. Want t brace all that peta Claring himself UnWorthy to t@ as had - Vates for 800d, all t € will Ji ht the Master ( 'cltonary of he Postolic the Way beyond th trial and the rch, sub ee cnet.) oe temptations th Writings of © Aposto Cc urch wa not built: by the Worldly Proud, and haughty the tt oe ae * ei la "ich and POWerful of the eg th, but by sul elines or rig. Us, ha ay the humble Ones of 's footstoo] Who Livin e m embod ound the £0spel Plain anq Simple y tal Spiritual] ths, hich, that they could understand It, live It, when Understood and lived, May and die " — til now the Lora Change fo, 800d the behavior rom the sinning un Now the Lor: 85 pointed | in ice, not Pattern of our lives number always so dramatically as in this tradition of buldeline co ent appear about Pe » Dut he ha never left us In Is legs Un ess therwise Without a living or written 8uide, indicated, these Statements are ie shalll gain the destiny God has Selected from President Clark's Prepared for US, We must have that same Writings hi constitute the Spirit of Crifice hich jg US tradi 1 P tioned of eter Ummortality d Eterna] elchizedek "esthood Course We, Vol. 2, less of Study fo 1969.7 00s Or class SCUssion— a. Time will Class Participation Questions Permit—those Which May be of 1. Do You ever ask yourself, "Where do Special] interest the éroup. I want to be in eternity" he numbers refer to the num- 2. Where am I at Present, on that roaq? Bers of the lessons in Ilmmor. President Clark States: tality a ernal L; @, Vol - €ach of you May go el 2. (See Lesson Helps as to the e€ac 0. Tion, the having endowed each of us with that right and tha POWer,"' (Ibid. ) Lesson 3. Our Homes 3. What does President Clark mean by Tew thes Latter-day Saint, the home "endowed by that right and that is a holy Place. It has its pattern in Power?" There Is an old Saying, "All he heavens Toads lead to Rome" and Some apply The Priesthood-born, home jg the It to mean that al] Toads lead to loftiest Spiritual Organism of Which we heaven, inferring that specific beliefs know. Only through it can the highest j me. Matter —_. 4. Do You believe the foregoing State. Lesson 2: The Building Of Home Life ment? [f not, why? What do you What must this farthly home of believe? Divine destiny be to become the Celestia] amily of infinity. -++ Children Must have a welcome; motherhood and f. Therhood _ ROYAL ROAD bring the h ghest happin are our Ther yal road to Salvation _oftiest destiny, and exaltation a d beset With Lesson r Wives ang Our Mothers als and t ibulations and Ptations jn the Eternal p €ven fro sinning ¢ he end. Tom that day, whe Eve thus Placed €mptation ever cease hile you among her blessin he Wer to February 1970 Lesson 4: Responsibilities Attending Homemaking God grant we may in this nation, and in the world, rebuild, fortify, and keep forever safe, the true Christian home. Lesson 5: Children in the Gospel Plan Knowledge plants the seed; wisdom garners the harvest.... Knowledge is the race of the swift, the battle of the strong; wisdom is that which endureth to the end. Knowledge like the wind goeth where it listeth; wisdom braves the blast and goeth down the middle of the road.... Knowledge telleth the hours of the sun's coming up and going down; wisdom putteth the hours to the service of man. Knowledge telleth the time for sowing and for reaping; wisdom planneth wisely and nurseth the crop to ripeness. Knowledge counts the virtues and marks out their boundaries; wisdom brings them all together to make the upright man. (Addressed to officers and teachers): Those who undertake to instruct, guide, and direct the children and the youth of Zion, in whatever capacity or institution, work not in a worldly career, but in a sacred calling... Teachers must come to their tasks praying, with pure hearts, upright lives, contrite spirits. Lesson 7: Restraints and Conventions —Why? It follows that whether we wish or whether we do not wish restraint, yet restraint is inherent in all creation: it has endured in the past, it will exist in the future. Lesson 20: Seek Not After Earthly Treasures Remember that when the Savior was here and bestowed the blessings, which he, the Divine One, had to give, in no case did he give riches. He gave health, he gave strength, he restored sight, he made the dumb to speak, he pardoned sin, he led people from sin. The one thing that he did not do was to give of earthly riches.... Lesson 21: Life at Its Best The Lord always speaks to a people 152 in the language which they speak and in terms which they understand.... Lesson 22: The Upward Reach The Church is the organization which God has set up to help men in their struggles against the limitations and inhibitions of the flesh... It is as nearly perfect as mortals permit it to be; greater perfection will come just as soon as men can understand and use it. The Lord has never revealed his mind and will beyond man's power of comprehension; and when man has shown his confirmed unwillingness to follow the plan and live the law revealed, the Lord has taken each away and given a less perfect plan and lower law, as he did to Israel under Moses. Lesson 23: Work—Work Always Work is next to genius. You cannot be successful at anything and waste your time. Lesson 25: Divine Origin of the Welfare Program. Men who want to rationalize, judge everything by their own wisdom. Lesson 26: Sacrifice and Service It is perfectly idle for us to try to understand all of the works of the Lord, all of the reasons for what he tells us to do; some we can get dimly but we cannot understand all.... Lesson 28: Beware of False Prophets It is a dangerous thing to tamper with the words and revelations of the Lord, by way of adding to or taking away. Who is so wise as to say which of God's commands may be ignored, or altered, or cast away? Lesson 31: Knowing the Scriptures I cannot impress... Too much the importance of reading the scriptures and of trying to learn their meaning. They are told to us in clear enough language so that we can always be reasonably certain when we are in the true paths. Lesson 35: Get your own Testimony... Seek a testimony, humbly; live for it and God will give it to you. And when you get it, do not be boastful, but be humble; because if you boast, it may leave you.... Humility is necessary to the full enjoyment of the Spirit of the Lord. Lesson 37: Prayer Prayer is the royal road between each of us and our Heavenly Father. Whether it remains open or is closed is for our determination. I think there is no common denominator for all the peoples of the world that can equal the desire to pray and the resulting prayers. We do not all pray alike. We do not all pray to the same God... But the commonest instinct of all humanity is to pray to a superior Being, some Being somewhere, of some kind, who knows more than we know and who has the power to change events to suit our prayers if he so desires. Lesson 44: What is Man We are not moving blindly... Guided only by the revelations given in ancient times. We are moving forward under revelations given in modern times and... A knowledge that if we need further light, it shall be given to us. Lesson 35: Not Where You Serve, But How In the service of the Lord, it is not where you serve but how. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 1, 1968-69.) THE MAN REMEMBERED—A SUMMARY Although we now conclude our present lesson-association with President Clark, we do not part company with him as an individual, nor with his guiding words. He has become a wise and friendly counselor, leading us kindly to the core of Christ's teachings, urging us to make the scriptures a practical part of our everyday lives. He has introduced us to the universe, sometimes along paths of logic too profound for all to follow easily, but well worth the intellectual effort needed to understand even its basic immutable laws. He has helped us to see that liberty is not license, and that responsibilities accompany freedom, warning us to be Lesson Department vigilant against the conspiracies of evil. He has enlisted our loyalty to our families, our friends, and to the Church, even loyalty to the responsibilities of our day-to-day living. His appreciation for the role of woman gives many wives and mothers a new perspective of worth and importance in the eternal plan of life, thus bringing to brighter flame the light of unity and love which should glow in every home. He asks us to work, and to pray for wisdom, and to weigh prudently the luxury desires of the present against the lasting joy of the eternity, reminding us that there is no profit in gaining the whole world if one loses his own soul. Although himself steadfast in his adherence to principle, he speaks with compassion and understanding of the weak who are struggling to overcome error and to live a better life. Over and over again he reminds us that humility is essential for all who would grow in mind and in faith, essential for all who would enjoy the companionship of the Holy Spirit. Time and time again he has given us his testimony that Jesus of Nazareth is Christ, the Redeemer, warning us not to be deceived by false doctrine and philosophies of men. Relief Society sisters, this is the legacy President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has left to help us as we walk the road toward immortality and _ eternal life. FOR HOME DOING Review in your mind, even reread if possible, the lessons of the past two years and select ideas or principles which can be of greatest help to you personally. Nurture them in your own life. 153 CULTURAL REF INEMENT hood in Relation to Home and the Family Books, Volume 5 ity, ection Seven and Robert K, Thomas i ' there js no Out action," —Benjamin Disraelj urth Meet ing, May 19709 eeting, Septe, mber 1979 ° Without can match the Northern Hemisphere: Fo Southern Hemis Phere: Fourth M insight, 8rowth, ang "Fourth Tableay"' from Me€rican (R USSian-born) Commentary nN musical Selection Fine Arts, Brigham You ig niversity, the ballet Petrushka by Igor Stravins ky (18g9. ) awson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of uSic,"' too Often b i ic fingers, to d y €xperience with a pj and eMotionally | he thinks Plece of Music Experience Of Co, €ar his throat + Whenever a it, but who is in no sense a Ici eal Participation ar Poser ang of experience with a Ussian folk SOngs for US to lear Ourt; Tableay" of Same folk Songs. Co n, following » Which conta © Russian folk SOngs with Piano accompa a g Packet. Class members May then listening to the b let musj niment will b learn the Ore enjoyable.) € included SONgsS which will Make © ready to If not Physically, Ro nN the Person w iS Performed and travinsky's ballet, Petrushka Music with fo) i simply hears 0, ina 8enera] h quieting feeling that individuals have never counted for less. Overwhelmed by a technology which makes the individual seem slow and awkward and conditioned by the evidence of human folly with which the mass communications media engulfs him, modern man may have a difficult time remembering that he is in the image of God and has an infinite potential. Increased specialization at work may focus his attention on the part so completely that he loses awareness of the whole. Bombarded by advertisements which proclaim the necessity to remain youthful, he faces his advancing years with trepidation. In sum, his personal contribution may appear to be so insignificant that it does not seem worthwhile to participate at all. "THE OVEN BIRD" To such an individual Robert Frost's "The Oven Bird" has a realistic message. The final line of the poem "... What to make of a diminished thing" suggests that we prepare for the diminution we must all face. This is most obvious when our physical powers begin to fail but is probably even more disquieting when we begin to have trouble remembering or find it taxing to follow complicated directions. The seasons do follow one another, and with changing circumstance there is loss. Yet, however "diminished" our powers or our situation, there is still opportunity. Not only is ability to adapt one of the most valid tests of intelligence, it is also a clear indication of what we have Lesson Department learned. It is depressing to meet a person who, supposedly, has had ten years' experience in a position only to find out that he really has had one year's experience repeated ten times. It is worthy of note that Frost's symbolic bird has an insistent, almost unexpected, song as though he first had to convince himself. He is not "as other birds." His is not a conventional, graceful melody that might suggest acceptance. Perhaps the key to this poem is the word "make" in the last line. If we wait for opportunity to knock, we may be making unrealistic assumptions about our hearing, but if we take what we have, look at it freshly, and are determined to make something exciting out of it, we _ cannot fail. Question for Discussion In Frost's "The Oven Bird" why are the echoes of the Biblical "fall'' so appropriate? "LIFE" George Herbert's "Life" has a similar message, but it adds an explicit religious dimension: I made a posy, while the day ran by: Here will I smell my remnant out, and tie My life within this band. But Time did beckon to the flowers, and they By noon most cunningly did steal away, And withered in my hand. My hand was next to them, and then my heart: I took, without more thinking, in good part Time's gentle admonition: Who did so sweetly death's sad taste convey, Making my mind to smell my fatal day; Yet sugaring the suspicion. 155 February 1970 Farewell dear flowers, sweetly your time ye spent, Fit, while ye lived, for smell or ornament, And after death for cures. I follow straight without complaints or grief, Since if my scent be good, I care not if It be as short as yours. Herbert's use of a bouquet of flowers to symbolize his days is an attractive one and, considering his blameless life, appropriate. Yet by "noon," or middle age, they have already started to wilt. In reflecting on this, he is grateful that he has been reminded of his mortality so gently. The scent of lovely flowers may fade, but if they were fragrant and beautiful while they were fresh and can be turned into healing medicine after they have been dried, Herbert is content to accept them as an image of what he would like his own life to be. Herbert's poetry shows the influence of John Donne but his verses are more artistically constructed than Donne's. Herbert's work lacks the fire that we associate with much religious poetry, but he lets us see the appealing serenity which a mind and life in accord with Christian principles can produce. Question for Discussion What is Herbert probably suggesting when, in the last stanza of his poem, he says he will "follow straight" the example set by flowers? "KEEPING MENTALLY ALIVE" BY HARRY ALLEN OVERSTREET "Keeping Mentally Alive' has a style to match its message. The opening dialogue is almost breezy but it sets the tone for what Overstreet has to say. We tend to 156 identify with the dramatic elements of any dialogue; it is hard not to feel at least partially involved when there is a conversation going on in your presence, and Overstreet hopes to continue a mood of informal discussion after the actual dialogue is over. What is called "mental fixity" in this article is essentially an attitude. For example, if we have a negative, pre-determined concept of what a visiting teacher does, we may be reluctant to accept an assignment that we have defined as insignificant. If, however, we bring our freshest and most creative thinking to the calling of a visiting teacher, we will catch the spirit of this uniquely sisterly opportunity. In such receptivity, we will keep within the general guidelines of our call while infusing it with imagination, and we will find it thrilling. Question for Discussion Although Overstreet. Seems to emphasize accepting the new, how can we remain "mentally alive" in considering that which is old? FROM "GREAT POSSESSIONS" BY DAVID GRAYSON "David Grayson" was the pen name of Ray Stannard Baker (1870-1946). His talents were many. As a journalist he gained the reputation of being America's foremost reporter. As a writer for the periodicals of his day, he contributed over two hundred articles to leading magazines, including one on "The Vitality of Mormonism" for Century Magazine during 1904. As champion of Woodrow Wilson, he won a Pulitzer Prize for his eight-volume work, Woodrow Wilson: Life and Letters. In a very real sense, Baker, the journalist and public servant, turned into "David Grayson," the appreciator of life. The excerpt from Great Possessions, which we have included in our text, is typical of "Grayson" apreciation, for he stressed simplicity, sensitivity, and involvement. Where earlier selections have emphasized participation that reflected adaptability, living fully, and mental vitality, these lines stress one's relationship to his immediate environment. Horace is a captive of his farm. His interests and concerns are bounded by it in the most obvious sense. David cannot resist pointing out that so limited a vision is not even totally successful in mateLesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 --.55 Zone5 Bee - ws Zone3 _.-._-_.60 Zone6. - 85 Zone4 __._.-65 Zone7 _-_- - - 95 Zone 8_ ~ - — - 1.05 DESERET —PREWwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 AROUND THE WORLD with W. Cleon Skousen London India, eHong Kong e Holy Land Japan Expo e Cairo e May 25 Departure OTHER TOURS FOR '70 EUROPE e SOUTH AMERICA e SOUTH PACIFIC DOMESTIC HAWAII e CARIBBEAN # SCANDINAVIAN MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah 328-3161 Gentlemen: O Please send me _ the brochure on your Round the World Tour {] Send me your brochure on your MURDOCK TRAVEL Tour for 1970 157 February 1970 rial terms, for he has received more for writing an article about Horace's field than Horace has from the hay he has harvested there. Perhaps the most memorable point in this selection is Baker's contention that one can be both practical and aesthetically sensitive. Both mind and body thrive when they are brought into a full, complementary relationship. Question for Discussion How might Grayson in Great Possessions have interested Horace in values which are not explicitly material? "STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING" BY ROBERT FROST "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" may now be among the best. Known poems ever written in America. It is appealing to both the critics and the public at large; to both children and adults. It tells of a driver and his horse stopping in the woods during an evening snowfall. Distracted by the "dark and deep" loveliness of the scene, the driver would linger for a moment to "watch the woods fill up with snow'; but the little horse, in his impatience to be on his way, "gives his harness bells a shake" and the driver is reminded of promises he must keep and that there are still "miles to go" before he can sleep. Among the meanings this short lyric suggests is that it costs effort to become a responsible person—there is a pull that would take us from the "promises" we have made and the moral commitment that keeps us involved in what we know we should do. This 158 its fun to travel with FALDMO TOURS Yellowstone Snowmobile Tours Weekend Tour—Feb. 6-8 Washington's Birthday—Feb. 20-23 Death Valley Easter Tour March 27 to 30 Includes Lehman Caves & Las Vegas Hawaiian Tour April 20—May 5 Deluxe Lei Day Hawaiian Tour Sessions at L. A., Hawaiian, and Oakland Temples $539.00 Apr. 20—17 days Nov. 7—17 days Write or phone for itineraries FALDMO TOURS-— 295 7526 68 South 600 East Bountiful, Utah 84010 EST MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music — Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments Learn g Career With a future Question for Discussion The rhyme Scheme of "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" is very Precise (AABA, BB ',, Why is this 4Ppropriate to the message m? We Offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and Modern €quipment. Professiong/ instructors will insure your SUCCess jn a rewarding Profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved "THE CANTERBURY PILGRims" Our fina] selection, Hawthorne's « he Canterbury Pi]- grims" Presents ys With Severa] characters Who have not f, a those that they have Just eard recounted. Yet they Move o tened, have failed? 159 Rose Eide; Ada Mortensen 99 97 96 95 94 93 160 the birthday. Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, State, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Ruth Elizabeth Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Martha Elnore Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah Mrs. Hattie Merrill Funk Logan, Utah Mrs. Rosa Cooper Wanslee Foote Safford, Arizona Mirs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Ringel Steed Ogden, Utah Mrs. Gertrude Krogue Christensen Bloomington, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Dingeldein Tuck La Mirada, California Mrs. Annie S. Moore Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Flora Blackman Manchester Huntington, Utah Mrs. Marion A. Chausse Petter Billings, Montana Mrs. Marie Goddeaus Ballstaedt Salt Lake City, Utah 92 91 90 Mrs. Rosina Sophia Spiers Douch Hesperia, California Mrs. Annie Lillie Clark Walker Providence, Utah Mrs. Ella Ette Stephenson Hill Burley, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Sylvester Jensen Richfield, Utah Mrs. Alvilda Scorup Anderson Salina, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen Davis Atkin Ruth, Nevada Mrs. Sarah A. Dowell Ball American Fork, Utah Mrs. Marie Franken Beyer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie White Douglas Payson, Utah Mrs. Alice Owen Green Kaysville, Utah Mrs. Effie Twitchell Large Fort Washakie, Wyoming Mrs. Gienevra Marchant Laughlin Peoa, Utah Mrs. Myrtle Ann Pursell Luff Burlingame, California Mrs. Louise Emma Lucy P. Mielke Salem, Oregon Mrs. Serena McGuire Pomeroy Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Ella Smith Sanford Laundale, California NEW from DESERET BOOK — Straight Answers About Hm 2 wa A ¢ i i - a | i ort f / Lay a | ' ao \ y oe 3 9 a pi ' al; ay 3 O by Elder Mark E. Petersen | = Here is a book that every family should have. Beginning with the story of Art Linkletter's daughter and her untimely death related to the use of LSD, the book continues with a presentation of the facts about drugs, drinks, liquor, and tobacco, and their relationship to the tremendous increase in insanity, crime and moral decay in America today. THIS IS NOT A MORALIZING PRESENTATION BUT RATHER THE CLEAR SCIENTIFIC FACTS AND THE POSITIVE APPROACH FOR YOUTH AND FAMILY TO FOLLOW. Priced so low that everyone can afford it. Paperback 35c Hardbound $1.95 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, or 777 South Main, Orange, California Please send me............ Copies of DRUGS, DRINKS AND MORALS WotalCost$..00.| enclose check [[] money order [] Charge established account (] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. A 2 oa < 2 ry oe © N ZS February R. S. Mag. 70 | DESERET BOOK COMPANY "pook History of RELIEF SOCIETY Relief Society Handbook of Instructions The offical guide to successful Relief Society organizations, this book sets the guidelines, clearly defines procedures, and provides answers to many questions. $.50 "'Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' This book, by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 History of Relief Society 144 pages of colorful Photographs and interesting facts about Relief Society from the time of its organization. This book is valued by Relief Society sisters. The world over. $4.00 Music Leadership in Relief Society Florence Jeppersen Madsen, truly a music expert, covers all phases of music in Relief Society in an informative, easy to understand manner. All organists and choristers would benefit from study of this book. $.90 Relief Society Seals In Relief Society colors of blue and gold, these gummed seals serve many purposes. They are available in packages of 100. $.50 All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 re ——ae So The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: IIlustrations: WALK TENDERLY THE EARTH Walk tenderly the earth And note the springing grain, The swift upshooting blade and bud Where lately snow has lain. The shine of new green leaves Upon the bended limb. Walk tenderly the earth Remembering him. Walk tenderly the earth In blackened loam or sand, On gentle slope or steepest crag, Or on the moist, rich land. Within the bright of morning Or in the evening dim, Walk tenderly the earth Remembering him. Walk tenderly the earth And hear her choirs sing, The silent symphonies of stars, And meadows antheming. Along a wooded violet stream Or sudden canyon's rim, Join tenderly the earth In praising him. —Helen M. Livingston Canyon Country, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press In a Time of Blossoming Luoma Photo Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 161 var andl Sar | look forward to the arrival of The Relief Society Magazine with as much anticipation as | do to the visit of a relative who lives in a distant city. Whatever | am doing has to wait as | hurriedly turn the pages to see what is hidden therein. At times | cannot turn the pages fast enough. My eye spots something of particular interest, and in a more liesurely time | thoroughly digest it. Maurine Parker, Rupert, | Thanks so much for the great lengths | am sure you go to in giving us such a wonderful Magazine. The contributions of the sisters—the art work (by Mary Scopes), the poetry, the testimonies, the meaningful fiction, and the inspiration of the homemakers all ages are such a blessing to women, both in and out of the Church, and their families. Susan J. Smart, Springville, Utah | wish to express my love and appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. Many my friends are nonmembers, and the Magazine is a wonderful missionary tool. One dear friend remarked to me that she enjoys the stories more than those she reads i any other magazine. To her the ''Mormon"' writings have a profound message for women, regardless of their religious background. How right she is! Dona Carpenter Hood, Anaheim, California | want you to know how much | do appreciate the beautiful presentation of my article "A Season for Christmas' in the December Magazine. Receiving a copy is one of the delights of my season, and the beautiful cover is an inspiration to all our guests as they see it on my table of Christmas books. Ruth C. Ikerman, Redlands, Califor Even though | am a full-time employed secretary and cannot attend Relief Society meetings, | would not want to miss receiving a copy of each Magazine. | enjoy t wholesome reading material the Magazines contain. Sometimes | must wait for an opportunity to read my copy, since my teenage daughter is eager to get it first. Can hardly wait for the next issue to come so that she can read the stories. | think the fiction stories are most outstanding reading for our youth as there are so many wonderful | truths in them, and the messages will improve their lives if applied. Ruth H. Peterson, Thayne, Wyoming The Relief Society Magazine is always a source of inspiration, encouragement, and hope. | would like to thank the editors and the publishers for their devoted service in" giving us the Magazine. | have been a Magazine representative for three years. ' Relief Society Magazine will ever be a living testimony to me." Thora B. Smith, {daho Falls, Id Two and a half years ago my former neighbor Iva Shelly of Lone Pine, California, me a gift subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. Since the arrival of the issue, | have found much inspirational value in the Magazine to help me to be a wife and mother, and also a deeper love for the tasks set out for me to do. Residency in Lone Pine, | became acquainted with several Relief Society wo attended some of the aa _ my 'subscription is being transferred to home » _ = Mrs. Vern Hancock, Ashiand, 162 The Relief SOciCty Magazine Volume 57 March 1970 Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 165 In Memoriam—President David O. McKay 168 Charity Which Never Faileth Bruce R. McConkie 174 'My Yoke Is Easy and My Burden Is Light'' Alice C. Smith 177 Red Cross and Volunteering Emil E. Henderson 182 Relief Society World-Wide: A Decade of Accomplishment Mayola R. Miltenberger Fiction 212 Mama's Silkworms Mary Ellen McKune 216 Common, Ordinary Grandmother Virginia Bell 223 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 3 Hazel K. Todd General Features 162 From Near and Far 178 Editorial—A Divine Gift Marianne C. Sharp 180 Notes to the Field Bound Volumes of 1969 Magazines Brigham Young University Second Annual Festival of Mormon Arts 181 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 228 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 192 Twelve Months of Homemaking Myrtle R. Olson 198 Stitchery From Walnut Creek Stake Muriel P. Cottle 199 Useful and Ornamental for the Home and for the Office Valma T. Hakes 200 Children Prefer Color 201 Sea and Mountain, Forest and Flower Claire W. Noall 204 Wall Hanging of Symbolic Beauty—''And Tell of Time" 205 San Lorenzo Branch, San Jose West Stake Presents ''Back to the Mormon Pioneers" 206 The Flowering Dunes Dorothy J. Roberts and Tella Strang 208 A Springtime Buffet Mary J. Wilson 222 Hobby Features—Agnes J. Buttars and Noreen K. Rodgers Lesson Department 236 Homemaking—''He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son' Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 161 Walk Tenderly the Earth, Helen M. Livingston; 173 Between Him or Her and Thee Alone, Leanor J. Brown; 215 In the Silence of a Room, Margaret B. Shomaker; 221 Easter Song, Linnie F. Robinson; 238 Happiness, Sylvia Neale. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.50 a year; foreign, $2.50 a year; 25¢ a copy. Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City. Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited 'manuscripts. 163 In Memoriam PRESIDENT DAVID OMAN MCKAY (September 8, 1873—January 18, 1970) For nearly nineteen he Church, and for prior to being sustained as of The First Presidency, He Council of the Twelve in in-law, Sister Mildred C. M K 165 March 1970 McKay have maintained a hospitable, righteous, and happy home, where love for one another, love of family, of friends, and love of God have prevailed. He has clearly defined for women their divine mission on earth: Though woman's life is filled with almost everything which is good and lovely, it is not difficult to choose the two activities that are paramount in _ her world.... Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill.... Next to motherhood, woman attains her highest glory in the realm of compassionate service. ("The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1940, pp. 17-22.) In seeking his counsel, the General Presidency found him approachable, affable, courteous, understanding of their needs and problems, but always clear and firm in his directives which reflected the inspired guidance of the Lord, to which he was entitled as God's chosen leader of his Church. President McKay's respect for woman was evident in the lofty position he accorded her in the Church as well as in his everyday relationships with her. In a comparatively recent meeting with him, as President Spafford rose to leave, President McKay with great effort due to his physical condition started to arise. One of the brethren reached out to restrain him, saying it was not 166 necessary for him to stand. Promptly President McKay replied, "I always stand when a lady leaves the room." Today Relief Society has perhaps the most beautiful headquarters building of any woman's organization in the world. It was in September 1945 that President George Albert Smith, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay authorized the Relief Society Presidency to launch the building program. It was a happy day in October 1952 when President David O. McKay advised the Relief Society Presidency, just prior to the opening of the Relief Society General Conference, that The First Presidency, President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., had granted Relief Society the choice site on the corner of Main Street and North Temple on which to erect the headquarters building. It was with rejoicing that the Relief Society women assembled on October 1953 in the shadow of the temple for the ground breaking ceremony, with President McKay turning the first shovel of dirt. On that occasion President McKay reminded us: No matter how commodious it may be, no matter how well-furnished the rooms, no matter how great the convenience of the furnishings, the house Se itself with all equipment is but a means to an end, and that end is the establishment in the hearts of the membership of the Church of a testimony of the truth of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.... It is the means to a glorious end, the salvation of our Father's children.... And so this house becomes a means of furthering the work of the great Relief Society, the very heart and purpose of which is to bring happiness and peace into the homes and the hearts of the Latterday Saints. (The Relief Society Magazine, 1954, p. 805,) It was a sacred and impressive occasion when President McKay on October 3, 1956 offered the dedicatory prayer from the Relief Society Building. We commend to Relief Society women the world over a careful reading of this prayer which appears in the Relief Society Magazine, November 1956, page 788, from which are quoted a few excerpts: More potent for the good and happiness of the Church members than we realize are the Priesthood Quorums for the men, and the Auxiliary organizations for the women. These Thou hast placed in the Church for mutual service. In serving one another, we serve our Lord and Savior, who himself hath said: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." On this memorable occasion, we praise thy name for the organization of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for the thousands of loyal, faithful, beautiful women who compose its In Memoriam—President David O. McKay eee membership. Their devotion to duty is never-ending; their loyalty to Thee and to Thy Priesthood unquestioned; their administrations to the sick and to the needy, untiring; their sympathetic, gentle services give hope to the dying, comfort and faith to the bereaved. O Father, bless these, thy choice, beloved Handmaidens! The Lord has blessed his handmaidens. He has blessed his Relief Society. He has blessed it through his divinely guided Prophets and Presidents since the day of its founding. The earthly mission of President McKay is finished. His responsibilities now must pass to other hands, but his contribution to the growth and advancement of the Church, the guidance he has given Relief Society, and the honor and respect he has accorded the women of the Church will ever remain a light and a blessing. Our hearts reach out in love and sympathy to Sister McKay whose influence on his life as wife and mother of his children and companion in service to the Church has been a blessing to him. Her devotion to Relief Society has been an enduring one, and her example of righteous Latter-day Saint womanhood has been a guiding light to countless Relief Society sisters. It is our earnest prayer that the comforting influence of the Lord will ever abide with Sister McKay and every member of the McKay family. 167 | Charity Which | Never Faileth | Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of the First Council of Seventy [Address Delivered at the Officers eeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] been a fulfillment of the Fi%mise that Where two or three are gathered influence and the Suldance of Organization Over Spafford So ably Presides. Long Service in a heaven-originated, a Priesthood-led, and a 80spel-oriented organization changes the lives of people and, Providentially for me, it has changed the lives of those who are nearest and dearest to for them it can do and has done for great hosts of you. Now for a Set the tone for what T hope I grandmother, E McConkie, was a ward Relief Society President in Moab, Utah, of the Moab nonhad Mother was President Relief Society, J a [a member who Opposed the Church] Married ag Mormon girl. Ome. One day she returned home especially da i Charity Which Never Faileth Now, I think that the Lord first tried her faith, When he had INI ext, I shall read the experlence of another widow, the Widow of Zarephath. This woman lived asa consequence, a great famine fell upon all the land. The record Says: -.. The word of the Lord came unto him [that is, Elijah] Saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there: Behold, | have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the die. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; 80 and do as thou hast said: but make me... She went and did according to the Saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and her house, did eat many days. 169 March 1970 Shortly after this Elijah raised the woman's son from death. Here again, I think the Lord first tried her faith. When she had proved herself worthy by manifesting that charity which never faileth, she gained the preserving care of the Almighty for herself and her household. Now, the fields of compassionate service have not all been plowed. Members of the Relief Society over the years have done wondrous work in this respect— the naked have been clothed; the hungry have been fed; the sick have been cared for and healed; but there are many occasions ahead for added service. We live in a perilous world situation. Things are not going to get better. They are going to get worse until the day of the coming of the Son of Man. And the tests that are being given to the members of the Lord's Church will, in my judgment, increase in severity and intensity. And because of this there will be more opportunities than there hitherto have been to labor on the Lord's errands, to render service to our fellow men, and to do the things, patterned after these two examplesthat I haveread, which will enable us to work out our salvation. Y Ns the present moment we are engaged in war in Viet Nam and elsewhere. There are wives of servicemen, daughters of servicemen, and mothers of servicemen who would need the compassionate care and attention that only the sisters of this great Godinspired organization are capable of giving. And these conditions that now prevail on the earth 170 are going to multiply and abound and increase and give rise to needed added compassionate service to a degree and an extent that we, in my judgment, have never hitherto known. Now, what is it that the Relief Society does for the women of the Church? What did it do for my grandmother, the widow of Moab? What did it or its equivalent organization in ancient Israel, do for the widow of Zarephath? It is perfectly clear to me that the Relief Society was given of God for the temporal and spiritual blessing of the members of his kingdom, not alone of his daughters, but of his sons, and that it is the divine agency which aids in bringing the members of his Church to full salvation in his kingdom. May I remind you of what James said? Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. (James 1:27.) We build on the atoning sacrifice of Christ. We know that by the grace and goodness of the Lord, salvation is available. But, then, in order to reap the blessings of eternal life, we have to do two things, both indicated in this revelation. First we have to keep the commandments of God, and second, we have to serve our fellow men. There is something more than the general theme of obedience that is involved in acquiring the attributes of godliness here and reaping eternal reward hereafter. That something is service to our fellow men. Christ the Lord was himself the perfect pattern in this thing; he said "I am among you as one that serveth." It is true that a woman's chief and most important work is in the home and with her family, and that as President McKay says, "No success compensates for failure in the home." But it is also true that every woman needs outside interests, that she needs a God-given way to use the charitable talent with which she is endowed, that service to one's fellow men is essential to salvation, and that the Relief Society is the organization God has established to enable women to serve and to be guided in those channels wherein they can fill the full measure of their creation. Whren we talk about gaining salvation, about acquiring the attributes of godliness in this life so that they can be multiplied and perfected and given to us in full in the life to come, we are talking about the family unit. God, our Heavenly Father, lives and presides in the family unit. We are literally his offspring. We are his children. We are members of his family. And he ordained the laws and the system whereby we could advance, progress, and become like him. To become like him, we have to have the same character, perfections, and attributes that he possesses. And we have to live in the family unit as he lives in the family unit. And so he has given us, in this life, eternal family units, units that begin here with the potential and the possibility of continuing hereafter in the same relationship that exists where he, himself, is involved. And he has given us the opportunity toexperiment and labor and struggle and work and try in our Charity Which Never Faileth relationships with our fellow men to acquire those capabilities, those attributes, that measure of integrity and honesty and charity and decency and _ uprightness, that will enable us eventually to become like him. (Paul's expression is that we have to work out our salvation with fear and trembling before God.) The process of working out our salvation is one of acquiring the attributes of godliness, and this grows out of service and obedience. The matter of obedience is simply a matter of keeping the standards of personal righteousness that are involved; but the matter of service is a matter of getting out of ourselves and getting into the lives of other people, of touching the hearts of men, of taking to them the principles of the everlasting gospel, of helping them perfect and cleanse their lives, after they join the Church, of offering them temporal as well as _ spiritual blessings. It is just as essential that man eat temporal food as that he eat spiritual food. Without temporal food we will die physically, and without spiritual food we will die spiritually. The Relief Society organization is so geared, and so ordained as to work ably in both of these fields. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. Words of your great Relief Society poetess, Sister Eliza R. Snow! 171 March 1970 Now, in connection with this matter of Salvation, since there will be more women who will inherit full salvation than there will be men, it follows automatically that there are more women in the world who have spiritual talent than there are men, and that women, accordingly, are in a position to labor and work in the compassionate services field in a far more effective and able manner than men ever could work. We have noted, as [ read, of the deeds of two people. Sister Alice Colton Smith mentioned her mother and grandmother. The same thing is true in principle where you and your ancestors and thousands upon thousands are concerned. These compassionate tendencies have been manifest for the blessing and glory of the server and for the one to whom the service has been rendered. May I just take a moment to mention to you that we have some great illustrations in the revelations where sisters are concerned. Mainly the Scriptures talk about what men have done because they deal with the organization of the kingdom and its general operation. But, providentially, the Lord has left us in the revelations enough scriptures to give us patterns for living. The patterns for living where women are concerned are such as these: We have the record of Mary, the mother of Christ. Gabriel ministered unto her. She was Overshadowed by the power of the Holy Ghost. She bore the Son of God. Her psalm of praise 172 ranks with the greatest psalms ever uttered, and, in my judgment, she is the perfect example of complete submission to the will of the Lord. Her statement to Gabriel when the annunciation occurred was: aa Behold, the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word." (Luke 1:38.) And that ranks with what Christ himself said in the pre-existent sphere—"Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." (Moses 4:2.) Eve is another. She is, in fact, the pattern for all women. She knew the plan of salvation; she preached the 8ospel; she prayed for blessings; she bore children; She taught the gospel. And one of the greatest single-sentence Sermons that we have in all our revelations was spoken by Eve: i Were it not for our transgression, we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Moses 15: 11.) In the light of our knowledge is the plan of salvation. Is it any wonder that our hymn says Mother of our generations, Glorious by great Michael's Side, Take thy children's adoration; Endless with thy Lord preside.... Now, we might go on with Sarah, with Rebecca, with Rachel, with others, but time does not permit. But out of it al] we come to the conclusion that everything that it is possible for man on earth to have—of a spiritual, €nnobling, edify g, Sanctifyin Then shall + © King say unto them nature—hag been a lS available on his 6ht hand, Co ' Ye blessed of or the ome f eL ord' my Father, Inherit the king ™ prepared ingdom h ca ecome or you from th Oundation of the World For | n hungr d, a Ye gave aughters of J us C Tist They me meat: J Was thi Y, and ye gave take upon them the d's Name. Me drink: | Was a st anger, and ye took They ap entitled Personal me in. Revelatio Y can get all of Naked, and y, clothed me: I was Sick, 04 and ye Visited: I was N prison and the Visions and Suldance that ye came unto me men receive When Rebecca had Then shal] the righteous answer him, ". Unto her ' SIs 23:2 and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? She received the answer. T When saw hee sick, o> in prison » OUr time jg up. I Would ang came unto th Just like to as You this question me the King sha answer and ga aS I come back NOw to the theme unto ee Verily; ay fee, you, - that J mentioned and the ex- #much as ye ee Gone i geese think ye that this revelation In the name of the Lord Jesus Speaks? Christ, Amen. Alone; and if he Or She Confess thou Shalt be re. Conciled," (D&C 42:88.) Sit down: break bread with me We've need of tal we two Gives Swift release and anger does abate. To tell One friend, how quick to tel] another So sweet the role of Self-appointeg judge,,: u 173 "MY YOKE IS EASY AND MY BURDEN IS LIGHT" Alice C. Smith Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969.] Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (Matt. 11:28-30.) @ Across the centuries from the shores of the eastern Mediterranean comes this warm invitation from our Savior. As Jesus climbed the dry hills of Galilee or trod the dusty roads of Judaea, he met poverty, disease, and afflictions of every kind. He found the sinner repentant and unrepentant. He met the suffering. And out of these experiences and his vast understanding came his compassionate solicitation, "Come unto me." In 1830, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared that God is "... The same unchangeable God...." (D&C 20:17.) and so, it is no surprise that on July 28th in 1843, sixteen Relief Society sisters were appointed "to search out the poor and suffering... To relieve the wants of all." (National Woman's Relief 174 Society... Historical Sketch, Amy Brown Lyman, p. 29.) Sixteen in a world of millions! But there had to be a beginning. In 1843, sixteen; today, well over 100,000; tomorrow 200,000; the day after tomorrow two million. A few weeks ago I met a wonderful friend of mine. She has been active in Relief Society for many years. I loved her. I was delighted to see her. I wanted to know all about her. I asked her what she was doing in the Church now. There was a_ noticeable pause, and then she said, "Oh, I'm just a visiting teacher." Just a visiting teacher! I thought, after we parted, how would she feel if the Savior came to her next visiting teacher meeting and said to her, "I want you to be my emissary. I want you to tell all the women in your district that I love them and that is not Someone, or she Should not Iam Concerned about what hap- © someone who rushes jn the Pens to them and their families. Last day of the Month and Says, I want you to be my helper, to "Tye just a few minutes—] know Sing and Privilege 81ven to them ew 480 as I w s by their avior? Caving the Chapel] after a Relief O the yj lting teacher then Oclety mee Ing Visiting IS given the great responsibilit teacher Stopped me. "Alice " OF searchin Out those in need. She Said, "yo have everythin Oreover, she tells al] her Sisters You nee Ish J could qd Y her visit tha Someone cares Something for you." and that Go Cares You do dog ething for he Visiting teacher Should be me every month," id, " © best frieng veryone in ring me a Message of love. I g Most intimate friend, but the best your Concern for me and my Yiend, family." But She didn't seem € everyone here has a entirely Satisfied. It is SOmeone Who is Interested duties keep you so busy You never in everything that happens to have time to bake bread, her friend. It is Someone who althere Is Something Special I can Ways helps when needed. Do for you." hen J 80 to the door and see Five years ago Wwe returned evoke such 4 response in everydoor and there Stood this same One over whom whe watches. She Visiting teacher (now long since March 1970 released) with a loaf of freshly baked bread and a jar of raspberry jam and the explanation that she had seen us drive by just as she was about to take the bread out of the oven. I love the emblem of the Relief Society with its motto, "Charity Never Faileth," but my own private emblem of visiting teaching will always be a loaf of freshly baked homemade bread. We are "to relieve the wants of all." In our confused and complex world, as in the world of Jesus, there is loneliness, despair, sin, sorrow, and suffering. We do not know which day will find these in the home of our friends. We must be prepared. Compassion is a way of life. Darlene, young, pretty, charming, the mother of a young baby, developed multiple _ sclerosis. Swiftly the disease progressed so that she couldn't even take care of her baby. It was at this time that she was visited by two compassionate visiting teachers. "Pour oil and wine to the wounds of the distressed," counseled the Prophet Joseph Smith. They continued to call and to help. Her other friends, at first attentive, visited less and less often as the years went by. Her husband deserted her. Darlene grew bitter. She met overtures of help with angry hostile words. Why should she lie in bed helpless when others traveled, worked, and played as they wished? Why should she lie in bed and grow weaker and weaker? She railed against her fate, and as she did, her friends ceased to come. One of the visiting teachers moved away, and the other was 176 released, but her loving care did not stop. Through the years she visited frequently, offering her continuing care. She saw through Darlene's angry, hostile words. Even when they were directed against her, she did not forsake the hurt and suffering one. Recently Darlene's family moved to Utah. Darlene, now completely bedridden and still under forty, moved here also. Was that the end of her old visiting teacher's care? No. A long distance telephone call to a member of the visiting teacher's family in Utah: "Please go see Darlene. Tell her that I think of her and love her. Please go see her whenever you can." Compassion is a way of life. Years of care and distance make no difference when a visiting teacher is a _ loving best friend. The visiting teachers' messages are important. The rules that govern our visiting teaching are important, but beyond and above them all, and far more important, is the understanding, concerned, and _ loving heart. Never were visiting teachers more needed. The visiting teacher may never meet a Darlene, but every month she finds those who need love and acceptance. Loneliness plagues our world. Loneliness wears many faces. We may not suspect its presence. But it is often there. Every year the Church grows bigger and as it does, the need for visiting teachers grows greater. What will be their future? They will help combat the loneliness which plagues our world and impersonality of the big cities. They will look after the stranger, the widow, the orphan, the wounded, and distressed. They will look after all sisters with loving, concerned care. They will be needed as my grandmother was needed when she left her warm, pioneer bed on stormy nights to drive miles with a horse and buggy in response to a cry of need. As my mother during the depression found the hungry, so will they. As my visiting teacher brought me a loaf of freshly baked homemade bread and love, so will they. They will help relieve physical, emotional, and mental suffering. They will aid the sinner and comfort the sorrowing. They will carry a message of gospel love to all the sisters throughout the world every month. As their Red Cross and Volunteering Emil E. Henderson "My Yoke Is Easy and My Burden Is Light" warm, tender care spreads its web around our earth, they will become a standard to the nations. Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (Matt. 11:28-30.) God bless the visiting teachers. For when all work together the voke is easy and the burden is light. By this shall all men know that we are our Lord's disciples, if we have love one to another. May it ever be so, I pray in the name of our loving Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. @ At this time great emphasis is being given to the idea that the individual volunteer holds the key to solving many of the nation's problems. We have learned that government cannot reach all the recesses of human need. Just as the effort of the individual seemed inadequate against the wilderness in pioneer times so does the single effort fall short of significant solutions of community ills in our day. Thus, we meet the challenge by organizing groups of volunteers in Red Cross, the Church, and other community agencies that collectively we may meet the needs of the neglected, the troubled, the handicapped and the ill. Volunteering even goes further than meeting needs of the unfortunate. People under this banner teach classes and provide leadership and instruction in character building and recreation activities in many facets of the community including civic and church programs. We need to make a sincere effort to serve and involve the entire community. Helping all its people to meet their human needs is one of the most important tasks facing our nation today. It is an exciting challenge that calls for creative response by all keen-minded, socially alert individuals and groups. By virtue of its scope and social significance, it is also a task that requires maximum effort on the part of everyone. In the vast field of volunteering all kinds of needs must be met and there is a place for people with all manner of skills. All of us have something to offer that will be a significant contribution in the broad field of service to others. The American National Red Cross has committed itself to total involvement in this national effort. We encourage greater effort on the part of all people that we may bring hope and comfort to all in need of the hand of fellowship, thus fuifilling the admonition ''... Lmasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the = of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me''. (Matt. 25:40.) 177 EDITORIAL/A Divine Gift @ 'What would you do," Sarah earnestly inquired of Emma, "'if the Lord offered you a gift?" Emma looked at Sarah as if she thought she had taken leave of her senses. ''Why, I'd accept it.'' Sarah looked at her almost triumphantly. ''You would, wouldn't you? Well, that is the way | feel about my membership in Relief Society. It is a gift to me, and a gift to you, and we both have accepted the gift. And it is a gift offered to every woman who is free from censure, and received by vote, and it is guaranteed to bring blessings of joy into a woman's life as she follows its teachings, and ministers to others." Relief Society is a divine gift and according to the natures of women. It draws out the sympathies of a woman's heart and expands her soul. Of first importance in a woman's life is her family. Relief Society helps her to perfect her family relationships. She receives encouragement and enlightenment through her attendance to honor the priesthood in her home and train up her children to do likewise. She studies the doctrines of the Church and strengthens her testimony—the wellspring to her actions. She learns better ways of housekeeping and homemaking. She learns to appreciate literature, music, and art, and prizes the culture found in her own home and beautifies and enriches the life of her family by introducing new refinement into the furnishings and daily family life. Relief Society is a catalyst which takes women of different nationalities, viewpoints, training, culture, even understanding, and, as the woman's auxiliary of the Church, the divine gift of a loving Father binds and welds them together. Recently a meeting was held of sisters from Hong Kong, Japan, Australia, Germany, Hawaii, New Zealand, South Africa, Great Britain, Bolivia, Brazil, and Norway. They were in Volume 57. March 1970 Number 4 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer Salt Lake City for Relief Society Annual General Conference. The only barrier was difference in language. The same sisterly spirit animated every voice. They were all converts of the Church and had been given the Holy Ghost. Then they had welcomed and accepted the Father's divine gift to them. Through its teachings and practices they were progressing along the straight path. Not alone, but accompanied and encouraged by the great sisterhood of the Church. These sisters had been called to positions of leadership by the proper priesthood authorities. The mantle of authority had fallen upon them in their respective positions and among their native sisters. Ringing in their ears was the Prophet's voice: ''This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls."' A great responsibility rests upon the Relief Society member, be she one who leads or one who follows. Her membership places upon her either the direction of affairs or the acceptance of direction. Heavenly Father uses his gift to mold and fashion his daughters' spirits, both by ministering and by being ministered unto as the occasion demands. The training in Relief Society is unique. The rewards are soul-satisfying and are showered upon the member's family and not confined to her alone. President Hugh B. Brown declared, "'The Relief Society, and all the members thereof, are or should be, willingly harnessed to the task of serving their fellow men. And this is a continuing obligation and a continuing benediction." On the 128th anniversary of Relief Society, the Savior's words remind every Relief Society member, ''Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.'"' (Matt. Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen E. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore 179 25:40.) _—MCS. BOUND VOLUMES OF 1969 MAGAZINES Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1969 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 238.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1969 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 30¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. Brigham Young University Second Annual Festival of Mormon Arts The Second Annual Festival of Mormon Arts will be presented for six weeks at Brigham Young University beginning March 18, and continuing through April 30. Included in the programs and displays will be past and contemporary art, ballets, choral concerts, plays, poetry symposiums, symposiums on arts, dramatic and musical productions, an opera, and concerts by the Tabernacle Choir, the opening event, and the Utah Symphony Orchestra, the concluding event. Bishops and stake presidents will be honored (an annual event at BYU) during April Conference with an assembly of drama and music. Details can be obtained by writing Dr. Lael Woodbury, Chairman, Mormon Arts Festival, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601. 180 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. LaVern W. Parmley, General President of the Latter-day Saint Primary Association, received an "Outstanding Citizen Award'' from Region Twelve of Boy Scouts of America in November, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was cited for her many years of service to the youth of the region. Mrs. Parmley was the first woman ever to serve on a national scouting committee. She said that fifty thousand cub scouts are being trained in the Primary and that eighty-five per cent of the boys are being graduated from Primary as Second Class Scouts. Mrs. Frieda Ward is the capable administrator of the Spafford Memorial Children's Hospital at Jerusalem. She is the daughter of the late Bertha Spafford Vester, founder of the hospital, who also sponsored foundling homes, clinics, and soup kitchens. The hospital cares for Arab and Israeli children and any others in need of help. It is supported by a fundraising organization, of which noted explorer and lecturer Lowell Thomas is president. Sylvia Porter, brilliant syndicated columnist on financial matters, recently wrote five frank articles analyzing the economy of 1969 as compared to the 1929 stock market crash in the United States, followed by a world depression. No rules protected the stock-buying public in 1929, she points out. Now there are stringent protective rules. Also the self-regulatory powers of the markets and exchanges have become progressively tighter. The disclplinary powers of these self-regulatory agencies have never been tougher. Therefore, a market crash today is far less likely than in 1929. In 1969 Janet Lynn, fifteen, became the ladies Figure Skating champion. Also Diane Crump, the first girl jockey in a Hialeah horse race, came in tenth. Eight girls enrolled in the Temple University ROTC program. Vivien Kellems, seventytwo, waged a war against unfair taxes for single persons. Shirley R. Heinze and Frances V. Chaffin were the first women to be graduated from the United States Army Command School. Both served in Vietnam. For the second time in history, the president of the United Nations is a woman, Angie E. Brooks, Assistant Secretary of State for Liberia. Dr. Lois M. Jones, Kay L. Lindsay, Eileen R. McSaveny, and Terry Lee Tickhill became the first women to be given a natural science grant to study the Antarctic Regions. Mrs. Cynthia Clark Wedel was elected president of the National Council of Churches, another historic first. Miss Maxine Jones, of Provo, Utah, entered the University of Utah Medical School's Rehabilitation Center almost totally paralyzed from an automobile accident. After six months' therapy and heroic personal effort, she could move her arms freely and walk with the aid of a crutch. She expects to become completely normal and hopes to establish a foundation for more studies on nerve tissue regeneration, to help other such cases. The Center is the only "wide team' approach rehabilitation center between the Mississippi and the Pacific Coast. 'Wide team'' means that patients receive help, as needed, from physical, speech, occupational, and other kinds of therapists, and from social workers, psychologists, ~ nurses, and physicians. In this team are a number of Latter-day Saint men and women.: 181 Relief Society World-Wide Decade of Accomplishment 1968'69 ANNUAL REPORT "The secret of success is constancy to purpose." —Benjamin Disraeli "Constancy" and "success" become key words as the accomplishments, the program, and the organization of Relief; 4 Society in 1969 and the decade just closed are evaluated and reviewed. As in human development, the growth process of an organization may be day, but from the vantage point of time one is able to measure true increase. Be noted from the following report, steady, marked—even phenomenal progress an place in the past ten years. Imperceptible if viewed from day to In the case of Relief Society, as will d accomplishment have taken 183 MEMBERSHIP Three hundred twenty-five thousand individual women—women of different aspirations, hopes, needs, with varying capabilities, backgrounds, nationalities—but of common purpose—now hold membership in Relief Society. These Relief Society women are faithful, obedient, devoted, sisterly women—women characterized by a desire to learn, to develop talents, to acquire new skills, to enhance existing capabilities, to increase their understanding of the gospel and spiritual matters, and to serve their Church. Three hundred twenty-five thousand forty-two women represent an increase of 13,171 over 1968 membership figures and 110,840 over 1960. In spite of this remarkable membership increase, the question may yet remain—where is Relief Society as 1969 passes? The forthcoming figures will show advances in nearly every facet of Relief Society work, but are figures alone a sufficient evaluation? True measure of growth or success of the Relief Society organization can be gauged best by the impact of Relief Society upon the individual member. Has each one's testimony been strengthened by Relief Society; has self-development occurred; have her homemaking skills been enhanced; benevolent service opportunities been accepted; community interests been heightened; Church assignments been eagerly, faithfully, and efficiently accepted and carried out—has the "inner woman" been nurtured by reason of the program of Relief Society? If the answer is "yes," then there truly has been a full measure of achievement in 1969 and in the decade. ORGANIZATIONS What a chronicle could be written regarding the inspiration, the planning, and conferring, as the 7,298 ward, stake, mission, district, and branch organizations have been formed by the priesthood and their work carried forward by Relief Society leaders. As each organization has developed, leadership opportunities have also been made available. During 1969, 215,278 women were involved in directing Relief Societies throughout the world. SERVICES "If you would have God have mercy on you—have mercy on one another... +" —Prophet Joseph Smith from Relief Society Minutes, June 9, 1842. From the very first, the most fundamental work of Relief Society and the one by which it is most widely known has been the love-inspired services, the sympathetic, tender, merciful assistance to those in distress; visits to the homes of the sisters and related activities in which something has been done by one for another. Who can properly measure what it has meant in the lives of people as 36,667 eight-hour days care of the sick (1969) were freely given, or as comforting assistance was rendered at time of death for 15,315 families; 773,072 hours of other compassionate service given, such as caring for children during illness of mothers or caring for aging sisters. Such is the record of ministrations of benevolent service for 1969. Add to-this 5,237,739 visits by visiting teachers who go from home to home month after month not only giving, as Eliza R. Snow once said, "A kind expression—a few words of counsel, or even a warm and affectionate shake of the hand..." but also presenting the messages and in many ways assisting the home. What a leavening, uplifting influence in the world—what a power for good! As Sister Spafford reminded Relief Society in her 1969 Conference address, "We look back so that we may go better forward." Macpeck, Welling / General Secretary-Treasurer 184 1968-69 WORLD AREAS OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS In Stakes In Missions Grand Totals zations Organizations Organizations Afghanistan Andes Argentina Australia Austria Bermuda Belgium Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia* Costa Rica Cuba* Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Iran ireland 57 19 103 62 39 423 2,038 734 5,348 1,556 1,002 127 Organi- - ~ Members Members Members 185 Pei eos Pong Lebanon Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Paraguay Peru Philippine Islands Poland Puerto Rico Samoa Saudi Arabia* Scotland Singapore Spain* Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Taiwan Thailand Tonga Turkey Union of So. Africa United States Uruguay Vietnam* Wales 21 57 18 14 4,101 609 241 2,047 517 126 286 351 272,260 315 25 HADOWNMNNUO AN St onl ~ ae N "SA OUNMNMNNMNUOANN o op) 214 Grand Totals 4,537 287,980 1,852 325,042 *No annual report received vst S8I 1968-69 WORLD AREAS OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS Afghanistan Andes Argentina Australia Austria Bermuda Belgium Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia* Costa Rica Cuba* Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland France Germany Greece Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong lran lreland Italy Japan Korea Kwajalein Lebanon Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Paraguay Peru Philippine Islands Poland Puerto Rico Samoa Saudi Arabia* Scotland Singapore Spain* Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Taiwan Thailand Tonga Turkey Union of So. Africa United States Uruguay Vietnam* Wales *No annual report received 103 62 39 21 57 18 14 423 2,038 734 5,348 1,556 1,002 127 609 241 2,047 517 126 286 351 272,260 315 : in jus. A Japanese sisters exhibit handiwork at Homemaking meeting. / is An artistic example of Philippine handiwork. STATISTICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORT 1968-69 September 1968 to August 31, 1969 One-Y end Ten-Year MEMBERSHIP In Stakes In Missions Membership—Total *Includes 3,065 Non-LDS Members 1968 Increase or 1969 Decrease Change 272,825 39,046 *311,871 **Includes 108,782 2,067 110,830 15,155 1,984— 13,171 287,980 37,062 #325 042 3,241 Non-LOS Members i 187 LDS FAMILIES (Visited by Visiting Teachers) In Stakes In Missions LDS Families—Total *Decrease due to new rule in determining familie NON-LDS FAMILIES (Visited by Visiting Teachers) In Stakes In Missions Non-LDS Families—Total ORGANIZATIONS Stakes, Missions, and Districts Stakes Missions Mission Districts Total Wards and Branches In Stakes In Missions Total Total Organizations LEADERSHIP Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers Total 520,990 106,008 S to be visited 7,628 1,404 462 74 328 4,256 1,917 5,157 1,601 23,328 12,839 25,579 139,047 626,998 9,032 864 6,173 7,037 207,551 517,763 88,029 9,726 1,743 487 77 345 4,537 1,852 5,330 1,572 23,817 13,463 26,475 144,621 605,792 11,469 909 6,389 7,298 215,278 3,227—* 17,979—* 21,206—* 2,098 339 2,437 154,212 14,610 168,822 Not Available Not Available 172 22 Not Available 1,656 61 1,717 1,746 727 6,398 4,011 8,042 51,449 72,373 281 An artistic example of Philippine handiwork. N STATISTICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORT 1968-69 September 1968 to August 31, 1969 One-Year Ten-Y. 1968 1969 Increase or Change MEMBERSHIP Decrease In Stakes 272,825 287,980 15,155 108,782 In Missions 39,046 37,062 1,984— 2,067 Membership—Total *311,871 ** 325,042 13,171 110,830 *Includes 3,065 Non-LDS Members **Includesg 3,241 Non-LOS Members XN LDS FAMILIES (Visited by Visiting Teachers) In Stakes 520,990 517,763 3,227—* 154,212 In Missions 106,008 88,029 17,979—* 14,610 LDS Families—Total 626,998 605,792 | 21,206—* 168,822 *Decrease due to new rule in determining families to be visited NON-LDS FAMILIES (Visited by Visiting Teachers) In Stakes 7,628 9,726 2,098 | Not Available In Missions 1,404 1,743 339 | Not Available' Non-LDS Families—Total 9,032 11,469 2,437 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes, Missions, and Districts Stakes 462 487 25 172 Missions 74 77 3 22 Mission Districts 328 345 7 Not Available' Total 864 909 45 Wards and Branches In Stakes 4,256 4,537 281 1,656 In Missions 1,917 1,852 65— 61 Total 6,173 6,389 216 1,717 Total Organizations 7,037 7,298 261 LEADERSHIP Stake Officers 5,157 5,330 173 1,746 District and Mission Officers 1,601 1,572 29— 727 Ward and Branch Executive Officers 23,328 23,817 489 6,398 Other Officers 12,839 13,463 624 4,011 Class Leaders 25,579 26,475 896 8,042 Visiting Teachers 139,047 144,621 5,574 51,449 Total 207,551 215,278 7,727 72,373 189 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers Total VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers—Total Visiting Teacher Districts—Total Family Visits Home Not Home Total Per Cent at Home Communications in Lieu of Visits Average Number of Visits Per Family CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by Relief Society on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by Relief Society Members Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Relief Society Members Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 31,505 9,171 3,284,809 1,778,268 40,676 139,047 75,095 5,063,077 64.88% 177,019 95,826 93,195 755,898 60,546 216,618 [5.351 | 8.08 35,030 8,099 3,360,574 1,877,165 43,129 144,621 78,742 5,237,739 64.16% 179,425 8.06 83,814 83,513 611,755 55,650 180,303 4,621 3,525 1,072— 2,453 5,574 3,647 75,765 98,897 174,662 72% — 2,406.02— 12,012— 9,682— 144,143~— 4,896— 36,315— 730— 8,017 1,474 19,491 51,449 29,646 869,990 629,007 1,498,997 2.45%— 99,279 Not Available 1,657~— Not Available 161,92]~— 884 40,430— 66 681 88t MEETINGS Stake and Mission Meetings Stake and District Board Meetings Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings Total Ward and Branch Meetings Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings Other Functions Total Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Sessions at Regional Conferences Total Meetings Held AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members In Stakes In Missions Total Spiritual Living Homemaking Social Relations Cultural Refinement Other Relief Society Meetings Visiting Teacher Meetings—Total Relief Society Leadership Meetings—Total *Average Number Attending these meetings. VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers Total VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers—Total Visiting Teacher Districts—Total Family Visits Home Not Home Total Per Cent at Home Communications in Lieu of Visits Average Number of Visits Per Family CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by Relief Society Members on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by Relief Society Members Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Relief Society Members Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families One-Year 1968 1969 Increase or — Decrease e 4,956 3.974 982— 415 3,986 3,220 766— 382 8,942 7,194 1,748— 797 201,217 205,778 4,516 53,184 41,041 42,560 1,519 13,925 18,796 17,643 1,153— 533 13,860 14,782 922 |Not Available 274,914 280,763 5,849 75,610 1 1 114 121 7 {Not Available 283,971 295,273 11,302 110,305 114,500 4,195 49,958 17,531 15,294 2,237— 792 127,836 129,794 1,958 50,750 *(133,498) *(135,205) 1,707 50,026 (129,741) (133,914) 4,173 55,245 (123,128) (125,999) 2,871 48,786 (124,977) (124,059) 918— 49,487 71,696 72,533 837 26,007 31,032 27,732 3,300— 6,244 31,505 35,030 3,525 8,017 9,171 8,099 1,072— 1,474 40,676 43,129 2.453 19,491 139,047 144,621 5,574 51,449 75,095 78,742 3,647 29,646 3,284,809 3,360,574 75,765 869,990 1,778,268 1,877,165 98,897 629,007 5,063,077 5,237,739 174,662 1,498,997 64.88% 64.16% 72% — 2.45%— 177,019 179,425 2,406 99,279 8.08 8.06.02— | Not Available 95,826 83,814 12,012— 1,657— 93,195 83,513 9,682—1 Not Available 755,898 611,755 144,143— 161,921— 60,546 55,650 4,896— 884 216,618 180,303 36,315— 40,430— 5,351 4,621 730— 66 190 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick—Total Visits to Sick and Homebound—Total Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services—Total Bodies Dressed for Burial—Total Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted—Total Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses In Stakes In Missions Total HOMEMAKING Sewed Articles Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Total Non-Sewed Articles—Total Articles Completed—Total Sewing Machines Owned by Societies In Stakes In Missions Total RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE English Edition Spanish Edition Total 1968 1969 One-Year Increase or Decrease Ten-Year Change 25,738 393,916 739,536 899 11,223 3,479 740 4,219 32,475 84,466 88,977 3,982 333,355 297,954 841,209 608,128 1,449,337 5,595 969 6,524 277,386 5,458 282,844 36,667 386,549 773,072 924 15,315 3,666 654 4,320 35,193 85,434 84,940 3,715 355,445 321,458 886,185 645,980 1,532,165 5,773 934 6,707 281,790 6,839 288,629 10,929 7,367— 33,536 25 4,092 187 86— 101 2,718 968 4,037— 267— 22,090 23,504 44,976 37,852 82,828 218 35— 183 4,404 381 5,785 7,117 63,995 550,978 284 6,670 1,275 14 1,289 12,492 37,649 14,176 642 163,940 179,423 408,322 468,050 876,372 1,895 396 2,291 110,788 INot Available = One-Year 2 1968 1969 Increase or _— ange COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Decrease g Days Care of the Sick—Total 25,738 36,667 10,929 7,117 Visits to Sick and Homebound—Total 393,916 386,549 7,367— 63,995 Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services—Total 739,536 773,072 33,536 550,978 Bodies Dressed for Burial—Total 899 924 25 284 Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted—Total 11,223 15,315 4,092 6,670 Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses In Stakes 3,479 3,666 187 1,275 In Missions 740 654 86— 14 Total 4,219 4,320 101 1,289 HOMEMAKING Sewed Articles Quilts 32,475 35,193 2,718 12,492 Children's Clothing 84,466 85,434 968 37,649 Women's Clothing 88,977 84,940 4,037— 14,176 Men's Clothing 3,982 3,715 267— 642 Household Furnishings 333,355 355,445 22,090 163,940 Other (Miscellaneous) 297,954 321,458 23,504 179,423 Total 841,209 886,185 44,976 408,322 Non-Sewed Articles—Total 608,128 645,980 37,852 468,050 Articles Completed—Total 1,449,337 1,532,165 82,828 876,372 Sewing Machines Owned by Societies; In Stakes 5,555 5,773 218 1,895 In Missions 969 934 35— 306 Total 6,524 6,707 183 2,291 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE English Edition 277,386 281,790 4,404 110,788 Spanish Edition 5,458 6,839 381 jNot Available Total 282,844 288,629 5,785 | L_— Ad a - -: SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses In Stakes 2.894 In Missions 718 a 2 514 Total 3,612 3,519 aa ~- Approximate Number of Singers: F = > In Stakes 43,920 43 pass j 937 383—. In gions 7,576 6,149 1,427— ye a 51,496 49,686 1,810— 122 W(/5o ENS BAFEN ULES A fe. W ° (+4 ' H aq ' } |: te '< Twelve Months ¥ aaa of as Homemaking - = SS Myrtle R. Olson, Chairman, Homemaking Committee 4, vee OS General Board of Relief Society Aa SS Oy SS, AIT 6) (E 6) (0 6\(0 RN AA Ae Displays at Relief Society Annual General Conference October 1-2, 1969 ® As each individual entered the Parleys Stake Center, Salt Lake City, Utah, I am sure she felt that the theme of the display—"Twelve Months of Homemaking"—had been effectively carried out by each participating stake. JAPANESE GARDEN East Jordan Stake Helen M. Burgon, President The foyer had been beautifully decorated by East Jordan Stake and depicted a Japanese garden. At the entrance each person came through the typical tori gate. A backdrop hung on the walls, painted with a lovely Japanese scene of trees and mountains. As one advanced through the garden she saw a miniature bridge and pool, and a Japanese statue in the midst of bamboo and evergreens. A beautiful cherry tree, with blossoms, further added to the charm of the garden. At the end of the garden each one passed through a thatched room into the "Inn of the Twelve Happinesses" where the "Twelve Months of Homemaking" were viewed, as well as other displays, and an array of decorated tables featuring ideas for the home and for Relief Society socials. The items pictured and described in the following color section were featured in the displays. DOLL FURNITURE University Second Stake Audrey Zwick, President This display was arranged by a student stake. The attractive doll furniture was placed on a play rug illustrating a blueprint of a house. The miniature furniture for the bedroom, dining room, and living room had all been made by the young men of the stake. The young sisters used much ingenuity in designing and making the dolls and other handicraft. TRANSPARENCIES BY J M, HESLOP 192 BRILLIANT FLOWERS FOR ADORNING A WALL Highland Stake—Eva A. Sipkema, President Representative design by Ina Cannon A woman's own imagination and creativeness can be used to design a lovely picture such as this. Two-thirds of a yard of velvet, polished cotton, or other attractive material could be used as background. The leaves and stems were first embroidered on the material. The flowers were made on a loom (the same type as is used to make straw flowers) in three different sizes and in blending colors. The flowers were glued onto the material. Odds and ends of yarn can be used for making the flowers. The completed design is then mounted in an appropriate frame. A SCENIC WASTEBASKET Monument Park West Stake — Orlene J. Pulsen, former President Creative Handicraft by Afton Nelson This "travelogue wastebasket" makes an attractive addition to any young person's room. Sister Nelson's son rode his bicycle on an extended vacation in many parts of the United States. He mailed postcards to his mother from places visited on the tour. His mother saved the pictures and covered a wastebasket with them. They were attached with a coat of good white glue, and, when thoroughly dry, three coats of shellac were sprayed on the wastebasket. Every time the son looks at the basket he remembers his enjoyable trip—and the thoughtfulness of his mother. A SHADOW BOX FOR TREASURES Bountiful South Stake Ivonne J. Rigby, President Creative Handicraft by Coy Tyson The wooden box was painted with green water-base paint and finished with six coats of clear varnish. The lid was placed upside down and decorated by means of a decoupage process. (See "Make Your Heirlooms With Découpage," by Winifred D. Anderson, March 1969, page 202.) Designs may be cut from prints of colorful pictures, classical or modern, from magazine illustrations, from greeting cards, or other sources. The basic, and larger design is placed on the top of the lid, with individual motifs cut from a duplicate pattern for placing on the inside of the lid. 194 CHRISTMAS IN IDAHO FALLS STAKE = Alice B. Jones, President This beautiful display illustrates a spiritual theme for Christmas and portrays the Magi, the manger scene, and Mary riding on the donkey. The family Bible presents a reminder of the scripture telling of the birth of the Christ Child. A shining wreath of pine cones, sprayed with gold, enhances the background. The tall ornament is made of four snifters glued together and attached to a glass plate with water soluble glue. Ball tree beads and gold ornaments are used for making the looped chain decorations. Nativity figurines are placed inside the snifters. The nativity scene is made with a hexagon and three triangles cut from glass, having the triangles glued to every other side of the hexagon. The edges of the triangles have gold cording glued on them and a piece of styrofoam sprayed with gold for the base of the arrangement with gold sprayed straw on top of the base. Small gold nativity figures are placed on the straw. The Christmas tree design is planned especially for children and decorated with small Santa Claus figures—providing color and emphasizing the festive, gift-giving spirit of Christmas. The attractive merry-go-round makes a delightful centerpiece for a children's Christmas party. Constructed on a cardboard base of two circles, using stick candy for poles and gumdrops to decorate the canopy, the colorful merry-go-around is an invitation to fun and the joyful appreciation of children. (continued on page 212) TABLES TELL AN "INVITING" STORY PATIO TABLES Canyon Rim Stake, Wilma B. Merrell, President Fringed royal blue placemats were arranged as color accents on this patio table. Rattan plate holders supported the paper plates which were decorated with yellow and blue flowers to harmonize with the blue and yellow centerpiece made of gumdrops. Root beer bottles had been attractively covered with blue aprons to match the placemats. Each apron displayed a white straw in the pocket. Small flower pots filled with gumdrop flowers carried out the colors and the pattern of the centerpiece. A speckled ''bunbird" made of reenforced cloth held the rolls. A drinking straw made a long beak for the "bunbird." A WHEAT TABLE WITH GOLDEN ACCENTS This lovely table has for a focal point an old-fashioned lamp holding long, graceful stems of bearded wheat, golden as the bread in the serving tray. Moss-green ribbon tied in an attractive bow is placed around the lamp. A fabric-covered tray adds color to this ""memoried"' table setting. A SOCIAL TABLE FOR AUTUMN Denver West Stake Betty Z. Curtis, President Fruits of autumn and music for the season made an appropriate theme for this "Simply beautiful" table setting. The lovely figurine holding the violin in her hand is the focal point for the colorful artificial grapes in the center of the table. Tiny sheets of music appear among the grapes to enhance the theme. Colored napkins, blending with the grapes, enhanced the table. A_ beautiful cloth, with appropriate _ silver and china completed this setting for autumn—or any time. 196 BLUE AND GOLD FOR A RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL Parleys Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah Mary B. Riley, President Table Setting by Winona Powelson A collapsible hatrack (which can be purchased for approximately $1) was sprayed yellow and placed in the center of the table, with small baskets of blue flowers arranged in each "'v" of the rack. A tall bouquet was placed in the center, displaying flowers made from a blue lining material. Each flower was composed of five petals glued on wire. The stems were made from wire wrapped with florest tape. A yellow butterfly graced each basket of flowers, and a yellow candle was glued on each peg of the rack. The rings which held the attractive yellow napkins were made by gluing Relief Society seals together to form a circle. A TABLE FOR "COMMUNICATIONS" Hillside Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah Leah C. Wood, President Table Setting by Laura Cutler A piece of wood approximately six inches square, sprayed in gold, formed the base for this design. A miniature telephone pole made from wooden dowels and sprayed gold was fitted into the wooden base. The pole was decorated with various tints of nylon net and artificial begonias. A green cord was attached to the telephone pole, and at the other end of the cord was a miniature pink telephone. meray ty STITCHERY FROM WALNUT CREEK STAKE, CALIFORNIA Muriel P. Cottle, President Nearly all the brilliantly colored and carefully stitched items in this display were original in design and exquisite in workmanship. The project was designed to encourage the sisters to do creative stitchery and it has been very successful.; The attractive quilt was made as a group accomplishment, with blocks three inches square, designed and embroidered by various Relief Society women. The blocks were made on a foundation of old _ blue jeans and crocheted together. The miniature picture on its tiny easel with its mouse mama and baby is a constant delight to children and grown up children as well. The desk set was covered with velveteen and trimmed with gold braid and brocade ribbon, making it very elegant. The trimming was glued to the velveteen with good quality white glue. For an attractive and useful addition to a child's room, this set could be covered with oilcloth and a less ornate braid used. USEFUL AND ORANMENTAL FOR THE HOME OR FOR THE OFFICE Scottsdale Stake, Arizona Valma T. Hakes, President The owls are watching you! These charming "watch birds" were made _ from various sizes of pine cones, acorns, bark, and driftwood. The heads were made from pine cones cut in half, the flat sides being used for the face, and the acorns, used for making the eyes, were painted white around the edges and black in the center. The wings were made from pine bark shaped with scissors. The body was glued to the driftwood first, then the head, eyes, wings, and horns. The horns were separate petals cut from pine cones. * « ~ CHILDREN; 5. PP:: a mn '@ » ) R | COLOR Ya, ) my ". Ls * y y 2 =; - «. ~ 2:; — + Children's. Clothing wl Cottonwood Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah—Carroll P. Sevy, President A large backdrop which covered, the wall space had been painted with lifesize pictures of children going to school, with the "little old red schoolhouse" in the background. On the figures was placed the children's clothing. Quilt With Raggedy Ann Dolls—South Bear River Stake, Utah Irene P. Kerr, President The Raggedy Ann dolls in the center of the quilt were so realistically designed and stitched that one almost felt that a child could take the dolls from the quilt and play with them. The colorful afghan displayed with the quilt was made on a hairpin lace frame from various colors of yarn. A Table for Toys—Kearns Stake, Utah—Faye J. Woodward, President The cuddly bunnies on the top of the table were made from white plush material. A wise old owl also sits on the table, and around the edge, below the bunnies, are dolls cut from thin wood. These are like paper dolls but more durable. Felt was glued on the bodies of the dolls and the faces were hand painted. The dolls were dressed in authentic costumes representing many nations. | SEA and MOUNTAIN, FOREST and FLOWER Text and illustrations by Claire W. Noall There was the sea and the mountain with the forest and the flowers in between. For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength... Out of the south cometh the whirlwind... Out of the north... Frost is given... Hearken... Stand still and consider the wondrous works of God. (From Job, Chapter 37.) _ The seas formed. Mountains rose and were forested. Storms—lightning, age, and the saw—topple great trees. Rivers carry them. But the seas may return them denuded to the shore. (Pacific Ocean, La Push, Wash.) Over the years the seasons depart and return. Seeds ripen, and after fruition snow falls, nourishing in their beds minute gems—the bright flowers of the grass. And the hills are made gentle with spring. (Stanislaus National Forest, Sierra Nevada Mountains, California) The magnificent earth brings forth great yields of forest, grass, and seed. In the eternal round, shrubs come to their greening in a bowery of leaves and a splendor of blossoms. (Redbud Tree in Three Rivers Canyon, Sierra Mountains, California) Forests live in cool green splendor and count their years in centuries. The tall spires of the giant fir and cedar measure their height from the meridian of time, upward through a_ single shaft, their spires reaching heavenward, unrivalled in dignity and endurance. Will man— with dominion over the earth—its waters and its woods— be able to reflect in his own life the divinity that shaped his world—the plan that gave him agency and choice—and offered a measure of heaven in space and time upon the earth? (Douglas Firs, MacMillan Park, Vancouver, Island, British Columbia) 202 Where rain does not fall, sands accumulate, sift, and harden. For long periods, the low hills and the desert valleys may appear barren except for thorn, low-lying bramble, and forbidding pattern of leaf and stem. A miracle may then become manifest. Dunes and hollows will form their own designs of light and shade, pattern and color. (near Tucson Arizona) Through the force of frost, ice, and water, streams sculptured their various ways from glaciers to the sea. In light and shadow they molded depth and pinnacle, precipice and channel. But at times the mystery of running water ripples in quiet pools. (Merced River, Yosemite National Park, California) "AND TELL OF TIME" Unique and ornate clock, with the flight of birds telling the passage of time and greenery for the constant seasons. Made by Coy Tyson Bountiful South Stake | (Utah) Homemaking Leader | | TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP WALL HANGING OF SYMBOLIC BEAUTY This lovely wall hanging was presented as a gift to Relief Society by Alice Randall, a Chippewa Indian of Crandon, Wisconsin. The design was taken from a ceremonial drum belonging to her tribe that is over one hundred years old. Sister Randall was Indian Mother of the year in Wisconsin for 1967. The pattern was perfected on a rug loom which Sister Randall has in her home. Similar designs are woven for use on tote bags, pillow covers, and other useful and beautiful articles, as well as the symbolic wall hangings. TRANSPARENCY BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS 204 SAN LORENZO BRANCH, SAN JOSE WEST STAKE PRESENTS "BACK TO THE MORMON PIONEERS," July 1968 Beverly Muir, Chairman Bernice Hutchinson, President, San Jose West Stake Relief Society For this unique outdoor occasion, the booths were made of logs and the Relief Society sisters and their families wore pioneer costumes. Demonstrations of pioneer crafts included spinning yarn, dying wool with natural dyes, weaving, quilting, hairpin lace, and braided and hooked rugs. Bread was made, butter was churned, "jerky" meat was processed, soap was made, and corn was husked. Antiques of the pioneer era were displayed. There was a table loaded with home-baked bread, pies, cakes, and cookies. Homemade ice cream was served. Pioneer songs played from an amplifier, set a nostalgic mood and the finale of the evening was an old-fashioned square dance. 205 THE FLOWERING DUNES Dorothy J. Roberts and Tella Strang Transparencies by the authors Butterfly on Pentstemon Blossom = yr " Sond Verbena Primyroses <teridho Deer, Utah Bird's Nest In A Sheltered Plaga Dunes and Distance and Beautiful Bushes Monument Valley, Utah In the late spring rains pour on the Jericho sand dunes, an untamed part of the Great American Desert, which includes the Great Basin between the Rockies and the Sierra Nevada Mountains from Oregon to Mexico. Suddenly the blossoms appear. The entire spring is gray with rains. Great billowy clouds turn coral at sunfall, are set with double rainbows. ( continued on page 211) A Springtime Buffet Mary J. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society LET MARCH BE GAY As we weary of the frosty winter's way, And feel the sharp and piercing wind Foretokening storm is on its way, Let us refresh our souls in gaiety. 208 Make light the hearts of friends— Let love and harmony combine with Delectable dainties spread for their delight. Awake to the awareness there are songs in flowers. —Oa J. Cannon FRUIT COMPOTE 2% gal. Lemon sherbet (must be the kind made with water) 4 c. Strawberries, cut in two 4c. Grapes, cut in two 3c. Apples, peeled and cut in smail cubes 3 bananas (frozen blueberries or any other fruit may be substituted) Fold fruit into sherbet just before serving. Serves 60. PARTY DRINK 1 6-0z can frozen orange juice concentrate 2 6-0z. Cans frozen lemonade concentrate 9 c. Water 1 qt. Vanilla ice cream 3 pts. Pineapple sherbet Combine concentrates and water. Just before serving, beat in ice cream and sherbet. CUCUMBER SANDWICHES Chop or grate a cucumber and drain well. Cream 3 oz. Of cream cheese with salt and chopped chives to taste. Add cucumber and spread rounds of bread for open-face sandwiches. DATE BREAD 1 pkg. Dates, chopped (4 ounces) 1% c. Water 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Melted butter 1 egg, well-beaten 2% c. Flour Y tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Soda lc. Nuts vanilla Boil chopped dates, water, and sugar together for 15 minutes and cool. Combine with remainder of ingredients. Bake in 325° oven, 1 hour for loaf pan, 45 minutes for dripper pan. MANDARIN ORANGE SANDWICH Butter a thin round of bread and spread with salad dressing or softened cream cheese. Fold, as you would a Parker House roll, over a well-drained mandarin orange section. A Springtime Buffet CRAB TEA BUNS Y% |b. Butter Y% |b. Mild processed cheese 1 can crab meat (8 ounces) Make small size hamburger buns and split. Melt butter and cheese together and blend in crab meat. Spread on hamburger buns. Prepare ahead and put under broiler the last minute. CHICKEN BISCUIT FINGERS 1 c. Chopped cooked chicken '% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 beaten egg 1 tbsp. Milk Combine chicken, salt, lemon juice, parsley, and mayonnaise. Make rolls of mixture about the size of a small pickle. Make half of a 2-crust plain pastry recipe. Roll pastry % inch thick. Cut into two-inch squares. Wrap chicken mixture in pastry then press the ends tightly with a fork. Prick top. Brush with egg and milk mixture and bake in hot oven (400°) for 8 to 10 minutes. (Makes about 50.) LEMON SQUARES Ye c. Butter Yc. Powdered sugar 1 c. Flour Mix and pat into a 7% x 11 inch pan. Bake 10 minutes at 350°. Filling 2 eggs, beaten 1 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Flour '% tsp. Baking powder juice of 2 lemons and rind, if desired Spread on top of the mixture you baked first and bake for 25 minutes at 300° Icing 2 tbsp. Butter 3 tbsp. Milk 14% c. Powdered sugar vanilla Heat butter and milk and add powdered sugar and vanilla. Spread on top of baked filling. Cool and cut into square or oblong pieces before removing from pan. 209 March 1970 PECAN TASTIES Cheese Pastry 1 3-0z. Package cream cheese '% c. Butter lc. Sifted flour Let cream cheese and butter soften to room temperature, then blend. Stir in flour. Chill slightly, about 1 hour, and shape into 2 dozen l-inch balls. Place in tiny ungreased %-inch muffin cups. Press dough on bottom and sides of cups. Pecan Filling 1 egg % c. Brown sugar 1 tbsp. Soft butter 1 tbsp. Vanilla dash salt % c. Broken pecans Beat together €8g, Sugar, butter, vanilla, and salt, until just smooth. Divide half the pecans among pastry-lined cups. Pour in egg mixture and top with re. Maining pecans. Bake in a slow oven (235°) 25 minutes or until filling is set. Cool. Remove from pans. ES TOFFEE 1 Ib. Whole pecans pecan pieces 2% C. Sugar Ye c. Water % c. White corn syrup 1 Ib. Butter 2 Ibs. Milk chocolate Spread whole pecans on 2 cookie sheets. Cook sugar, water, corn syrup, and butter to 282° (between soft and hard crack) and pour over pecans. Break 1 {b. Chocolate (chocolate bars may be used) into pieces and place on hot candy. When it begins to melt, spread evenly over the candy. Sprinkle finely chopped nuts over chocolate. Let Stand until cool and turn Over. Break second |b. Chocolate into pieces and place on cold candy. Place in oven at lowest temperature spreading chocolate as it melts. Remove from oven and sprinkle with pecan pieces. Before candy sets hard, cut it in small squares. After candy cools completely it becomes brittle and can be broken into pieces, 210 CARAMELS 2c. Whipping cream 1 c. Half-and-half 2 c. Sugar 1% c. White syrup % tsp. Salt nuts Combine whipping cream and half-andhalf. Combine sugar, syrup, salt, and ] cup of cream. Cook until large bubbles appear and mixture is slightly thick. Add second cup of cream and repeat. Stir just Occasionally when first two Cups of cream are cooking. Add third Cup and cook until a firm ball will form (by firm, it means one that can be picked up and hold its shape), Stirring constantly, as it burns easily at this stage. When done, stir bottom and sides of pan before Pouring into buttered pan which has been sprinkled with nuts— pecans, black walnuts, or any available kind. Cool, cut into squares, and wrap in wax paper. Variation: Pour caramel into a jelly roll pan. Make a panocha recipe, adding pecan nuts, and spread evenly over the caramel. Roll up, cut in fourths, and stretch each piece to the length you want the rolls. Wrap in wax Paper and aluminum foil. Caramel rolis will keep indefinately in the refrigerator. PECAN CRUNCH 1 c. Sugar 1 c. Butter Ya c. Water 1% c. Pecans Cook sugar, butter, and water on high heat in heavy pan, covered, until it Starts to boil. Remove lid and stir constantly with wooden spoon until caramel color. Remove and add nuts. Pour in flat pan 13" x 12". (It works well to melt the butter and then mix it with the Sugar and water in a bowl. Pour into Presto cooker without the Sauge for bringing to a boil. Cook to caramel color on high heat, which takes from 4¥%2 to 5 minutes after it starts to boil. Remove from heat and add pecan nuts then pour into pan to cool.) MINTED HOLIDAY NUTS Yc. Commercial sour cream 1% c. Sugar 8 drops oil of mint or % tsp. Mint extract 4c. (13 0z.) walnut halves Place cream and sugar in a saucepan and stir well. Set saucepan on low heat A Springtime Buffet and boil to 224° (very soft ball). Add mint and nuts and stir rapidly with wooden spoon. As soon as mixture starts to whiten and become sugary pour out into jelly roll pan and, with two forks, separate into single nuts. Cool and serve. May be placed inplastic bag or container and frozen. Yields 4 to 5 cups. VED A PART OF ME It may be in a crowded thoroughfare She leaves a bit of smile, her copper hair Catching flecks of sun, like shards of faith; Perhaps in evening's quiet, like a wraith Of loneness she will make the day's long strife A meaningful appraisal of her life; Or morning at the organ while her fingers Feel a melody, a song that lingers... It may be little, great, or of no worth, Somewhere, this day A part of me in her walks on the earth. —Mabel Jones Gabbott THE FLOWERING DUNES (continued from page 207) By June the honey-colored sands are patterned with the glory of the warm rose-tinted blossoms and the rich, green leaves of those beautiful, trailing plants—the sand verbenas. Like a wide flowered quilt thrown over the dunes, they glow under the blue and white skies in that season that separates the springtime from the summer. The sand verbena, with its long tap roots deeply driven into the desert can survive endless drouth, but rains eventually rouse the slumbering desert into a brief but magnificent flowering, wakening seeds that may have slept for decades into a gold and flaming hour. Death and life forever commune on the shifting dunes. Here a fence dives into oblivion in a curve of sand. Flowers, lilywhite, pale orchid, blue, rose, ring an old weathered-to-silver tree trunk, so hollow it is almost lace. The nest of a kingbird hidden in the hollow, holds four brown and white eggs. Bettles leave the delicate embroidery of their goings and comings around the clusters of verbenas. And under all pulse the eternal, beautiful scallops the whispering winds have carved in the sand. In the wide and wonderful "Great Basin,' where Indians wandered and Spanish conquistadors rode followed by the waves of western migration—the explorers, fur trappers, gold miners, cattle men, sheep men, farmers, each with his dream of conquest or settlement—there are hidden remote dune-lands where nature spreads its unbelievable beauty unconquered by the might of man, giving its own particular radiance to the joy of the earth. 211 Mary Ellen McKune = "I believe it's time we gave those mulberry bushes something to do," Mama declared one evening, just as Michael and I were on our way to bed. It had been two years since Mama had bought the little bushes from President Brigham Young and planted them in the front yard close to the house. Now I was eight, and those "little" bushes had grown taller than I was. "What do you mean?" Michael and I both asked, but Mama would only say, "Those leaves will be delicious for our worms," and when we broke into giggles, she repeated "delicious, I say." If only it had been a joke! The next morning, as Mama was spooning the last of the oatmeal into baby Sukey's breakfast bowl, my six-year-old brother suddenly remembered her enigmatic statement of the night before. "Are you really going to get some worms, Mama? Like Sister Bigelow?" I sighed to myself. Little 212 brothers and their stupid questions! Worms, indeed! "Sit down and finish your breakfast, son." Father liked a calm table. Michael wriggled back. Onto the chair, but made no pretense of eating. His eyes were all for Mama. She sat down unhurriedly with her own bowl of oatmeal. "We're going to raise silkworms, Michael." That's when I started to listen. Mother didn't look twinkling and funny this morning, but serious when she talked of the worms. "Silkworms? What are they?" I asked. "T know!" Michael was up on his knees again. "They're big long!" Aghast, I think I dropped my spoon into my bowl. At least I remember hearing the clatter. "Are they really, Mama?" Father answered. "Actually, they are about three or four inches long at full growth—" "And they have fifty legs and they crawl all around eating up leaves and sometimes they get on people and scare girls!" "That's enough, Michael. If you re through, get on out to your garden work." Michael bounced out of his seat and skipped toward the kitchen door, singing something about "creepy, crawly worms." I followed more slowly, my stomach heavy and my two forefingers measuring off an imaginary three or four inches. After school, I was listlessly ~ scuffing up dust from the street we lived on and wishing heartily that we had never joined in the whole neighborhood's planting of those old mulberry bushes! Now, when I got home, there would be a box of worms waiting for me! "Sara, come on!" Margery Johnson teased, slowing down beside me. "I said let's race, and you didn't even hear." "Margery, what are silkworms like? Michael said they are like big white caterpillars." "IT don't know." Margery pushed one of her gorgeous blonde plaits back over her shoulder as she swung into step beside me. "Maybe they eat silk." "That couldn't be it. We don't have enough silk to feed them. Besides, what would be the use of that?" I realized then that Margery didn't know any more than I did. "My mother said Brother Suddeth was bringing some over to our house today. A whole box of them!" "Ick! Worms!" Margery shuddered, then giggled. "I'm glad we're not getting any." She could afford to be lghthearted, I thought, as I pushed open the gate to our front yard. I didn't feel like answering her "Bye!" It sounded too cheerful, and my mind was on— "Mama's got the worms!" Michael shouted before I got the door half open. He was on his way out with a piece of bread and jam in his hand, and of course he swung the door wide open. "They're in the kitchen, want me to show 'em to you?" How obnoxious! "No, thank you." I felt my nose wrinkle; 213 March 1970 only a boy would be all excited over a bunch of worms! "Shut the door, Michael!" I yelled, but he was gone. AAI could think of as I hesitated in the cool front room was Michael's vivid description at breakfast. The worms filled my mind's eye, crawling about the kitchen. Three inches long, Father had said, fat and white, with legs like caterpillars. I was near tears when I put those thoughts aside and started for the kitchen, where I could hear the reassuring rattle of Mama's dinner pans. I set my books down carefully on Grandma's polished round table from England, and pushed open the kitchen door. I stepped into the sunshine of the room and casually looked around. Mama stood at the stove; the woodpile was nicely stacked; the pantry door was ajar, and I could hear baby Sukey playing in there. Nervously, I let my eyes travel over the bright room. There it was: an unfamiliar wooden box on the floor in the corner. I hurried to Mama. "Mama, are there really worms in that box?" Mother worked over her stove, with what seemed to be brave unconcern about the squirming, wriggling contents of the box in the corner. She smiled. "Look and see for yourself." The box was covered, and I stared at it in the corner by the pantry for so long that Mama turned around from her pots. "Why, Sara, what is the matter?" "I don't want to look at them. They're crawling around in there, and they're ugly." Tears stung my eyelids, and I swallowed hard. Mama smiled again, and put 214 down her big wooden stirring spoon. "Sara, do you know what silkworms are for?" "No." I shook my head, and stifled a sniff. "Those worms are going to work for us. They are going to make fine, soft threads that we can have woven into silk." Mother stroked one of my short, brown braids. "You know how soft and lovely silk ribbons are." I nodded. "Well, now we can make our own silk. When those caterpillars make their cocoons, you and I and maybe Margery Johnson will unwind the cocoon threads and spin them together, and they will be lovely silk threads! Then we'll get some silk ribbons woven from them. And if we want more worms next year, there will be more silk, enough to make a bonnet, and lovely lace hankies, or even a silk dress!" "A whole dress of silk?" I began to perk up and show a female interest. "Maybe. If those little worms work hard." Mama got up from her chair and moved toward the worm box. "Come and look at them now." "But they're not little." I hung back, remembering my sinking stomach. "They're fat, and squirmy." Mama had removed the cover of the box. Inside there seemed to be a lot of dark leaves, all cut up. "Come here, Sara." I moved slowly to the corner and peered into the open box. It seemed to contain nothing but the tangled mass of mulberry leaves. "Where are the worms?" "Look harder." There seemed Mama's Silkworms to be a little laugh in Mama's | relieved, by the smallness of the I looked harder. There did were nothing like Michael's and seem to be faint black specks on Father's descriptions. "How do I the leaves. And something cerfeed them?" tainly seemed to have eaten pieces "T'll do it while you are at of them. Then one of the little school. What you will have to do black specks moved! With my is gather mulberry leaves in the curious nose almost in the box, morning, afternoon, and evening, the speck showed itself to be— and put them in the box, broken a silkworm! Up. Mind they're not damp. The "There they are! I can barely worms will know what to do." see them! Michael said they were "Eat and grow!" Michael big and ugly!" I scarcely looked burst into the kitchen. At Mama, but I'm sure there was "Let's put the cover back on some relief on her face. "I'm _ the box. It's so the spiders won't glad we don't have that kind. Get in." Ours look like little ants!" "No, let me look at them some Mama smiled again. "They've_ more." I looked dreamily back just hatched from tiny eggs. 'm_ into the box, at my new little going to let you feed them, every worms. "They'reso little! They're day." not ugly at all." "May I?" I couldn't take my And my tiny, voracious worms eyes off the little specks. I was just ate and ate. Enchanted, not to say greatly IN THE SILENCE OF A ROOM She goes about her daily tasks, Dusting here and there; No childish laughter at her door, No light brown hair to brush and comb, The window pane now shining bright— No finger prints are there. She sighs—her eyes grow moist, The postman passes, The phone is silent, No knock upon the door. Then day is cupped Within the shadows of the night. She kneels, please bless my child, She softly says and silence fills Her room. —Margaret B. Shomaker 215 voice. Silkworms, and the fact that they Se my id y hh) (i t\ ij EH Virginia Bell _ — ® Elena Powers sighed, pushed her glasses back upon her slightly tilted nose, and peered intently through the flying windshield wipers at the slick, black highway. Three trips to Virginia and still no trace of great-great-grandmother. "It's getting expensive, too," she muttered to herself, noting with annoyance cars streaking past her at speeds far too swift for safety. Water washed over the hood of the little car, danced on the highway's dark surface, contemptuously swished up from the tires of passing cars, and flooded the borrow pits now running with muddied streams. Ahead a huge white sign reminded the traveler of working highway taxes, a small diamond-shaped yellow _ sign urged caution, and behind that a pair of flickering scarlet lamps lit a detour sign. 216 4 - ' — 1 eka wa ot % ~ wh «> + | 3 er Slipping the gears of the little car into low, Elena slowed down and swerved with other cars into a two-lane graveled road. The road sign read 'Welcome to Evergreen, Virginia." If it weren't for the Lord's commandment, "Seek after the dead," it wouldn't be worth it. Evergreen! Humph! A lock of Elena's graying hair fell over one dark eyebrow. Well, Napoleon had his Waterloo, Elena must have her Evergreen. Greatgreat-grandmother Nicholson had lived in Virginia once, reared a family, feared God, washed on the board, and made delectable shortcake. That's all that Elena knew. But that wasn't genealogy. Courthouse' records revealed nothing. State archives hadn't kept records until 1880, how could Elena find her! Three fruitless trips to Virginia had been disheartening. Who would remember a little woman with bright eyes, and a constant smile? Who was alive to remember? A few words passed on from one generation to the next were all that Elena had. Catherine Elizabeth Nicholson, 185_? Evergreen was small, green, and now drenched in the downpour, but sparkling from the brazen rays of a bold sun peeking through the gray, shifting clouds. Flowers, large-blossomed and drooping, were bright against the houses. Background greenery and an occasional red brick house made the small town picturesque. Elena signaled for a right turn and pulled the little car to a stop. The rain had ceased and though it was wet, a happy feeling seemed to sweep over Elena. So she hadn't traced down Catherine Elizabeth yet, she could still get out and enjoy the Virginia countryside. She might even go to the city cemetery. Sometimes exciting revelations were written on the old stones. She would ask where the cemetery was located at the first public place. Elena's steps were brisk. She was small and trim, dressed comfortably and _ stylishly. She watched with satisfaction between dime store trinkets and hardware tools for another sight of the graying head and rosecolored sweater. That's when she saw the willowware. She came to a delighted stop, wheeled on a small foot, and went in. Antiques! What fun! Willowware to Elena was like bedtime stories to children. In fact she had always believed that the bright blue and white pattern Common, Ordinary Grandmother did tell a story of a beautiful princess and a thwarted love, even of a flying bird that held her sweet spirit. "May I help you?" asked a tall, brisk saleswoman in a crisp cotton dress, not a bit like the drooping out-of-doors. Without meaning to, Elena studied her. Sharp black eyes like animated currants studied her in return. After a brief pause, Elena smiled quickly and asked courteously, "May I browse?" and then added with sharp interest, "what century willowware?" "Eighteenth. Would you like to look closer?" In no time the two of them were in warm conversation over crystal, willowware, and seventeenth century china. "Were you especially looking for glassware?" Elena laughed a little ruefully, catching her lower lip between her teeth, "No. Really, I'm looking for my great-great-grandmother!" "Does she live here?" the lady asked absently while she ran an inspecting finger over a silken lampshade. Then, glancing at Elena's amused face, she commented in embarrassment, "Oh, of course not, she would not be alive, would she?" With a smile, Elena turned back to the antiques, and moved slowly through the crowded aisle. "Oh, what a lovely frame!" She held up a walnut framed picture and stared with admiration at its intricate design. "What a lot of talent and work went into that!" The frame held a family group picture with the family posed in front of a cabin—an old woman 217 March 1970 in a rocker in front of the group, a dog, and a riot of flowers at the side. She had seen dozens of such old photos, but the frame interested her. The tall, slim clerk, in her crisp cotton dress, waited expectantly. She probably didn't get many customers, Elena decided. There surely wasn't a detour off the main road into Evergreen every day. "I'll take it!" she said firmly. The frame was wrapped in brown paper and tied with gratitude Elena thought to herself as she placed the package into the seat beside her. Now for the cemetery! Promptly a frown made a furrow between her dark brows. She had forgotten to ask where it was! How forgetful of her! Ruefully she retraced her footsteps; almost as ruefully the tiny bell on the door of the antique shop sounded her return. "Back again!" Elena's smile met the clerk's own who looked up from her dusting to say in surprise, "May I help you?" "I'm sure you can!" Elena hesitated. "I feel rather foolish. I meant to ask you in the first place, but," she waved a hand, "these lovely old things helped me to forget. Can you tell me how to find the city cemetery?" The directions were given while the clerk dusted a row of flowered shaving mugs, each trimmed with a gold band or scalloped edge. "Still looking for grandmother?" the clerk's blackcurrant eyes softened and her voice was gentle. "Yes. Well... At least a trace of her." Elena's blue eyes darkened with thought, but she thanked her cheerfully, and with 218 the clerk's wish for good luck following her, she left the shop to the tinkle of the tiny bell. This time the matching figure in the store window did not turn to see a graying coiffure or rosetinted sweater. It was easy to find the cemetery. Bright flowers nestled close to native stone, and round, green shrubs nodded against gray marble. From the roadside to the knoll, the cemetery sloped gently away. It was easy, too, to tell the old part of the cemetery from the new. The old cemetery, with its tilting crosses and weathered wooden foot markers was flush with the wrought iron gates while the new cemetery lay symmetrically to the north on the sloping hill. Elena lifted the rusting iron gate to release its catch and was soon walking between the grassy mounds, stepping gingerly, almost reverently. She noted with tenderness the roses, the doves, the crosses, and the sweet words of everlasting devotion that were carved on rugged stone to show that someone cared. "Rogers, Sylvester, Johnson," Elena murmured the names softly as now and then she bent down to see the inscriptions more clearly. "Simpson, Wells," Elena made a mental note to tell Sister Stevens. Who knows? This might be the missing Wells that Sister Stevens needed to complete her first pedigree chart. The light green grass was drooping with the recent rain and she noted with chagrin dark stains on her white pumps. Oh well, she took a few mincing steps, wriggled her damp toes uncomfortably and then giggled softly—she would havesomething to take back to Ohio, if only a pair of soggy white pumps! But the giggle was only a fleeting thing in the midst of her meditation. "Shaw, Thompson, Baby Thompson—" tears brightened Elena's eyes. The tiny stone had been carved with flying cupids and delicate lilies, "Our Beloved Baby." Someone had truly cared. So engrossed was she _ that she was nearly past the stark white cross with green moss shading its inscribed surface when she saw the first four letters that followed the word, MOTHER, C-A-T-H. Quickly Elena knelt, snatched a file from her purse and with trembling excitement, began to scrape Common, Ordinary Grandmother the moss from the deeply etched letters. CATHERINE E-L-I-ZA-B-E-T-H... No wonder she had felt so exhilarated! The search was over! What a wondrous thing had happened! A rainy day, a detour to a little town, an obscure country cemetery in a green, green valley, and here it was! Small prayers of thankfulness mingled with excited breaths as even more swiftly Elena's excited fingers scraped the green moss from the corroded lettering. The full name was uncovered, but to Elena the words didn't make sense. For a moment she could only stare, disappointment a dull, heavy thing settling in her chest. "Catherine Elizabeth Mathewson." She was hardly aware of the wet grass soaking through her skirt to her nylon covered knees, nor was she aware of the singular beauty of the white stone that she had cleared of moss. Finally, with quivering hands resting on the stone she pushed herself to her feet. Absently she pushed the glasses back up on her nose. Well, it was not right to lose her sense of humor over it. She had found one Catherine Elizabeth. With a toss of her head, she smiled almost shyly as she spoke aloud, "How many more of these will I find, Mother Mathewson, before I find Grandmother Nicholson?" Somehow the little cemetery had lost its enchantment. Now she knew without doubt that she wasn't going to find her greatgreat-grandmother here. Anyway hadn't Aunt Ila said that Grandmother Nicholson had _ passed away in the mountains some- 219 March 1970 where? Elena looked around her. How could she have forgotten that? This was scarcely mountainous country, not these gentle hills! How sad to go back to Ohio again without finding anything. She had spent three days this time. She had been all over Central Virginia and had uncovered nothing at all. She remembered with a short laugh how the old mayor of one small town had said, "How do you know she's a Virginian anyway?'and before she could answer, he had flushed crimson with foreknowledge of what he knew she would say, then he had narrowed his twinkling eyes, assumed a sly expression and had leaned close to her to say, "If she cooked with cinnamon she's a No'thener, but if she cooked with nutmeg, she's a Southern lady!" and then he had laughed till his old stomach had shook, and his eyes, lost in wrinkles, had been flooded with tears. Elena supposed it had been a good joke, but the difference between a Virginian cook and a New England chef didn't seem to be a fact that one could record on genealogy sheets. She decided as she left the peaceful cemetery that the biggest joke was that she had come to the wrong area. She was going to have to go, that's all there was to it. She was a small, sad figure passing through arusty wrought iron gate whose clank she didn't hear for the deep sigh that escaped her. Bright sunshine had dissipated the clouds and even dried the puddles when Elena left the little town. "It was expensive!" she agreed to herself, but in a way, 220 she felt as though the trip was already over and the heaviness of disappointment gave way to an unexplainable acceptance. "Oh, well, Great-great-grandmother Catherine, next year I'll give it another whirl!" Such a special person as dear, spirited Catherine could not just exist without a trace. Every year for the past three, she had flown into Virginia during the spring vacation and every year she had failed. The little car pressed the black highway under its wheels and whipped into Ohio in record time. There was time enough for Elena to get a good night's rest before going back to school. As she bathed, she meditated upon her present state of mind. In other years she had been despondent over her failure, why didn't she feel that way now? All she had done that was different was to take a detour into a country town, visit a cemetery in that same town, buy an unnecessary picture frame, and come home. That was it! Elena sat bolt upright in the tub, splashing warm, lazy bubbles over the white smooth edges. In her house coat now, with wet tendrils of hair clinging to her cheekbones stirred to a lovely rose by excitement, she fumbled with trembling fingers at the strings that held the brown paper about her picture frame. The old walnut frame slipped from the paper into Elena's disappointed view. Why it was ugly! What had she seen in it? And the people? They were just a common ordinary family that no one had cared enough about even to preserve their pictures. Still she couldn't just throw away $15, so she removed the picture to better look at the antiquated frame. It had probably hung on an unpeeled cabin wall with bits of drying bark falling on it now and then when an over-eager housewife cleaned the dusty log walls. The picture was out. Elena hurried to the wastebasket to throw away the yellow and cracked photo. "Oh! Writing on the back!" she spoke aloud to herself. They had cared enough to make note of who the old lady was and probably even the dog's name would be at the foot of the list. Or maybe even at the head? She was still laughing softly at her own observation when the words leaped out at her bright with power as a revelation from another world. Catherine Elizabeth Nicholson, John Earl Nicholson and his wife, Elaine, the year 1877. Tears scalded Elena's eyes and splattered her glasses, Common, Ordinary Grandmother so that she sat down with the old photo on her trembling lap and dabbed ineffectually at her streaming eyes. "Seek after the dead," the Lord had said. Elena ran a finger over the common, ordinary face of Catherine Elizabeth and found her suddenly beautiful. Just as suddenly, firmness was etched in the little woman's chin, and intelligence glowed in the large, dark eyes; a hand on his mother's shoulder revealed John Earl's respect for her. Great - great - grandmother Nicholson! The search was over! Years and ages recorded on the back of the photo made it all easy. For a moment, Elena was very still, her heart seemed to be listening intently while she pushed her glasses back up on her nose. Yes, God wanted the dead sought after and the hearts of the children turned to their forefathers. But who had been looking for whom? CO EASTER SONG | have come back along this path again To seek the quiet of these gold-trimmed trees, Whose black eroded roots and falling leaves, Speak to my soul clear as a sculptured frieze. So, let me rest and muse, as trees grow bare, And grieve for things | loved and cannot find— Heart hunger for the lost and greening spring, The summer growing of the ardent mind. | could not bear this golden loss that falls To fade and wither on the ground and stream, Unless | knew there waits a singing day— Another budding with a fairer dream. While breath shall last in me my faith be swift To know that spring will come—the dear Christ's gift. —Linnie F. Robinson 221 Hobby Features Agnes J. Buttars, Cornish Ward, Benson Stake, Utah, has spent much of her life making others happy with her gifts of lovely quilts, crocheted and knitted articles, and other creations of handwork. She has spent her lifetime serving Relief Society. She served ten years as ward president, and twelve as secretary-treasurer, during which time she took great pride in her accurate reports. She has also served many years as a visiting teacher, and has given valued service to the other auxiliaries of the Church. Sister Buttars Ys the mother of five children. There are twenty-four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Besides her lovely family, she is enjoyed by a large circle of friends. Noreen K. Rodgers, Covina Ward, Covina Stake, California, has made a hobby of Relief Society. She has served in all of the auxiliaries of the Church, including homemaking leader and historian in Relief Society. In 1965 she was seriously injured in a fall, and was paralyzed from the shoulders down. As she had been active and had never sat down without handwork, Sister Rodgers felt keenly the loss of the use of her body. Finally, painstakingly, with feeling only in her left thumb, she has taught herself needlepoint, and is currently making a cover for the ward Relief Society history. Sister Rodgers receives much encouragement from her many friends and her husband and three sons. To them she is an example of faith and determination. 222 la Spends theNight LS Peel K. Ode Chapter 3 Synopsis: The night Jerusha was to spend with the Wilsons when her car broke down near their home has stretched into a permanent situation. She has been introduced to this new religion of theirs and is finding it interesting. Her presence in the home has already manifested itself in many ways, some of which are obvious to everyone. Joe still resents her presence and Amy avoids contact with her. Both situations she is determined to change. @ "He just didn't seem to be interested,' Mrs. Johnson said, answering Jerusha's question regarding the Wilson's hiring a housekeeper. "Always said he thought they were getting along all right if anyone mentioned it to him." Jerusha chuckled. "I surely barged in and changed his mind, didn't I?" "For which we're all very grateful," Ruth said, patting Jerusha's hand. "Oh, we did what we could, ge a "wan helping the childréif with their clothes and taking food over once in awhile, inviting them to dinner." She paused a minute. "He's quite independent. It's difficult...." "He needs a wife," Jerusha said. "He doesn't seem to be interested in that either. Paul and Dorothy Wilson were very close." "But she's gone." "That's true," Ruth said, 'for this life she's gone." Jerusha looked at her curiously. "Now that's a peculiar remark." Ruth smiled. "Ill explain it sometime," she said. "Tf he isn't interested in a wife himself,' Jerusha continued, "maybe we could whet his interest a little." Ruth laughed. "You're quite a person, Jerusha. Too bad you couldn't be his wife." 223 March 1970 "Nonsense!" Jerusha snorted. "T'm happy to be his mother." At the Wilson farm she thanked her hostess warmly for the very pleasant day and started through the gate. But she caught a glimpse of Amy's pink dress as it disappeared behind the house by the willow tree. She stopped, her hand on the gatepost. Summer would soon pass, and little Amy would be going to kindergarten. So much time would be lost to her each day to build a relationship. Somehow it seemed important that she not lose even a single day. Skeeter came and rubbed himself against her legs. She patted his head, and the dog wagged his tail in appreciation for her attention, and looked up at her with his mellow and pleading eyes, asking for a romp. She picked up a stick and threw it toward the willow tree. The dog dashed after the stick which bounced off the trunk of the tree. She heard a tinkly little laugh as Skeeter, in his overeager excitement, yelped loudly. Amy ran to his rescue. "Poor Skeeter," she said, patting his bruised head. "You didn't look where you went." She sat down and pulled the dog down beside her with her arms about his scrubby body. Skeeter eased onto his haunches in a friendly manner, his breath coming in fast hot pants while his tongue went up and down over his teeth. Amy bent her head down at an angle and looked solicitously into the dog's face. "What makes you do that, Skeeter?" she asked in an intimate tone. Jerusha had covered the distance quietly and stood smiling down at the touching picture. "I 224 think he's saying it's warm and his run made his breath come like that, so he hangs his tongue out to cool off," she said. Amy ducked her head quickly into the dog's shaggy hair. Almost holding her breath in apprehension lest the child run, Jerusha slid down quietly onto the grass on the other side of the dog. "I think Skeeter likes you," she said, "he forgot all about the stick when you came to help him." Amy turned her head just a little and peeked out over the dog's shaggy hair. "T like you, too, Amy," Jerusha said carefully, "I would like to be your friend like Skeeter is." For a breathless minute there was silence, only the dog's audible breathing. Then Amy asked, with her eyes still peeking over the hair, "Are you Skeeter's friend?" Jerusha's heart swelled. "Yes," she said, still a little warily. "Skeeter and I are the best friends in the world!" Amy pulled her head slowly out of the dog's hair. "I'm glad you're my friend," she said. Jerusha's heart beat a happy tattoo on her ribs. Carefully, oh, so carefully, she reached over and touched the child's golden hair. Amy did not draw away. "Tl tell you what," Jerusha said, "let's you andI gomakesome cookies. And we'll make a big fat one with a funny face on it for Skeeter." Amy laughed, a tinkling little elfin laugh that was music to Jerusha's ears. "Oh, goody!" she cried clapping her hands. "Can I make the big fat cookie for Skeeter?" "Indeed you may!" Jerusha sang, taking the small hand in hers and beaming with moist eyes. "And you may feed it to him, too!" "If we had some _ paint," Jerusha said to Paul one morning as he happened by the kitchen for a drink of water while she was sifting flour into the pan for breadmaking, "I would see if I could get Joe to paint the house and fence." Paul looked at her quickly with interest. "I've been thinking that they need a new look to match the rest of the things getting spruced up around here," he said. "I just noticed something's happened to the couch. I'll get the paint." He hesitated. "But, do you think I'd _ better ask Joe to do it?" Jerusha set the sifter down. "Please don't," she said. "I would like him to do the painting because I asked him to." She stood silent for a minute with her eyes fastened on the flour sifter, and then she added significantly, "Even if it takes the rest of the summer." A slow smile of understanding spread over Paul's face. "Of course," he said. "I will get the paint when I go into town this afternoon." He looked at the glass in his hand thoughtfully. "Td like to ask for something else," Jerusha said frankly. He looked at her curiously, "Vas?" "Suzey's growing so fast, most of her clothes are lagging behind. If I had some material, I could get her ready for school." Paul set the glass on the cupboard. He turned to her humbly. "Jerusha," he said, his eyes misty, his fine honest face touched with Jerusha Spends the Night emotion, "I'm sure your car broke down on purpose before our gate. We needed you so much." "Well, that's a right pleasant thought, Paul Wilson," she said. "Now, how about some cloth for your daughters? I might just as well make Amy some dresses, too. You realize, of course, she goes to kindergarten this year?" "Tl tell you," he said, a sudden burst of buoyancy about him she had not noticed before. "Why don't the three of you come with me and get whatever you need?" Jerusha looked at the pan of flour. "Splendid idea! Tll just save this breadmaking for tomorrow." It was a wonderful afternoon. Little Amy clung to her hand like a leech. Since Amy had finally accepted her, Jerusha found the little girl by her side constantly. All the hidden hunger for the mother she had been denied, seemed to bloom out in acceptance of her newly found friend. And Jerusha, an emptiness in her own life she had never known existed for this relationship, welcomed the child with open arms. They made cookies together, sewed clothes for her doll, and took walks down the lane or through the fields. At night Jerusha held the little girl on her lap and told her fantastic fairy stories with charming interpretation so that she giggled with delight. "Tell me about the Clippety, Clackety Clop Man," Amy would say. And Jerusha would stroke her golden head and begin. And it never came out just the same way twice. She would say, "Once upon a 225 hippety-hop time," or "once upon a bumpety-lumpety time," or "once upon a_ bread-and-butter time, there was a clippety little man with a round fat tummy and two clippety short legs with cloppety feet, so that they called him the Clippety, Clackety Clop Man, and...." So the story would go on until Amy grew drowsy or fell asleep in her arms. Then Jerusha would tuck her into bed and kiss her golden hair and whisper, "Just a slippery fairy-elf child, but I caught you!" So the afternoon came and went, and they had a perfectly magnificent time, the three of them, Suzey and Amy and Jerusha, while Paul attended to his business and bought the paint. Suzey was so happy. Never, since her mother died, had she had material for clothes. Her father had given her money for things, and women in the ward had brought her various articles, but never a 226 buying spree like this. All except one piece, Suzey was allowed to choose for herself. But one piece of gold and brown velvet, Jerusha chose a little extravagantly herself, "To match your hair and eyes," she smiled at Suzey, wideeyed with pleasure. Amy beamed happily at the lovely cloth, whispered expressions of joy to Jerusha and clung to her hand possessively. They came home, and Paul set the paint in the garage on a shelf. "For you and Joe and the house," he said to Jerusha in his quiet unassuming way. Dennis and Skeeter had been catching grasshoppers again. He came into the house, his overalls green with grass stains and smeared with grasshopper juice. Jerusha looked at him fondly. "TI know just what you've been doing," she said unreprovingly. "T can tell by the looks of you." "How?" he said innocently, going over himself in a_ bewildered way. "Who enjoyed the feast this time, the ducks or the birdhouse tenants?" "T divided them up." Jerusha chuckled and looked at him appraisingly, "You know, feller, you and I need to have a day together in town this summer before school starts. You can't go to school in pants covered with grasshopper juice." Every day Jerusha looked at the paint in the garage hopefully. But every day Joe avoided her. There was something else about Joe that worried her. He was irritable with Suzey and Dennis. He seemed jumpy, and he disappeared often with friends who didn't come into the _ house. Sometimes she caught him staring at her sullenly, even almost pelligerently when he didn't know she saw. "He thinks I'm some old coot," she said to herself, "come to push the family ground." She paused and thought it over. "Maybe | am," she said half aloud, "but Tl) not give up yet!" Then, one day while she was working with the roses, she looked up to see Joe standing against the willow tree watching her. The straggly overgrown rose ped had become qa thing of beauty now. All the remainder of June it had put on its bloom in appreciation of the care given it. And even now in the hot July sun, there were still a few and left, barn. She worked on for awhile, thinking. Then she clipped off a peautiful Peace rose and carried it with her toward the barn, concocting some errand that might take her there. She came around the corner of the building and stopped short. Joe was leaning against the barn smoking 4 cigarette. He jerked it from his mouth and turned on her angrily. "Snoopin'!" he cried, his dark eyes flashing. "Now I guess you ll go tattlin'!" Jerusha gathered her wits quickly. She had been to church enough to know smoking was not looked upon with good will, and she was sure it would be very disconcerting t0 his father. "Oh," she said calmly, ignoring the discourteous accusation and also the cigarette, "JT have nothing to tell. That would be your Jerusha Spends the Night business. I was just coming for a fresh egg to put in the cake." She paused and looked at the rose in her hand, trying desperately to ease the strained atmosphere. "Have you noticed how lovely the roses are?" she asked casually. His belligerence seemed a little confused. "I guess you think you can wrap me around your finger like the rest of them!" he said irritably. My finger at all. You have too much pride for that." i tated. "I—I just had an idea you might want to use some of that spunky pride to paint the fence and house with." He turned on her then, and she saw the fire she had imagined the first day. "There you £0 trying to bribe me! What'd you come here for anyway? We were doing all right. Why don't you leave?" Jerusha thought that one over a minute. "Well," she said thoughtfully, "sf I did, I would be leaving unfinished something I started." There was just the hint of a smile. "You know, Joe, you could have fun in this new adventure, if you'd just let yourself. And it won't last forever. Things never do, because there are new ones that come along to take their places." Angrily he turned to leave. "Don't try to preach to me!" And he strode away arrogantly around the barn. Jerusha heaved a sigh. "Well," she said aloud to the barn, "I guess there'll be no painting today." (To be continued) 227 use) =ROM THE FIELD vie Relief Society Activities Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents Deseret Industries Fashion Show October 27, 1969 Members of the Portneuf Stake Relief Society Board, left to right: Elda R. Neilsen, Homemaking Counselor; Ona D. Witaker, chorister; Belva T. Hadley, visiting teacher message leader; Dora M. Johnson, Education Counselor; Helen G. Toler, President; Melba H. Olsen, Magazine representative; Helen H. McDaniel, Secretary-Treasurer, Merna T. Larsen, homemaking leader; Erma H. Brimm, social relations class leader; Marie H. Tippetts, cultural refinement class leader; Margaret W. Symons, spiritual living class leader. Sister Toler reports: "Our stake president had stressed that the sisters should patronize the Deseret Industries whenever possible. The sisters in the picture are wearing dresses which they purchased there and modeled at a fashion show at stake leadership meeting. "In November, a food fair of home-canned food was held at leadership meeting. Each sister participating received a gold ribbon with the Relief Society seal and the words 'Food Fair' on it." — East Ogden Stake (Utah), Mount Ogden Ward Singing Mothers Perform Often Front row, second from left: Phyllis Shorten, President, Mount Ogden Ward Relief Society; fifth and sixth from left: Edna Despain, visiting teacher message leader; Eileen Kapp, Magazine representative. At right: Mary Hayes, Singing Mothers director. Back row, left to right: Janice Jones, organist; Helen DeBry, Secretary-Treasurer, seventh from left: Stensa Newman, First Counselor, tenth: Linda Helsten, chorister. Helen A. Harding, President, East Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers in the Mount Ogden Ward have been busy and organized for over five years. They perform for sacrament meetings, ward conferences, and other special occasions as well as Relief Society activities. "'These sisters are very dedicated and are known for their exacting musicianship. They have set aside one hour before each Relief Society meeting for practice, and they enjoy their association with one another very much." 228 a March 1970 Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society, Holds Conference First row, left to right: Maria Luisa Garcia de Gutierrez; Trinidad Mendoza de Heredia; Angela Garcia Dominguez, First Counselor; Paula Jacome de Lopez, President of mission Relief Society; Catalina Hernandez de Ozorio, Second Counselor; Carmen Sanchez; Clara Boren, Supervisor. The other sisters in the picture are officers and representatives from six districts. Sister Boren reports: ''Six districts were represented at the first Relief Society conference held in the mission. It was a very busy day with instruction in leadership, homemaking, and record keeping being offered. In the evening, a carnival and bazaar attracted 300 people, many of them investigators. It was a very rewarding and worthwhile experience, and the sisters were enthused and excited by its success. They are anxiously awaiting another conference.'' Yuma Stake (Arizona), El Centro Ward Holds | Successful Bazaar, October 11, 1969 El Centro Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Louise McElhaney, homemaking leader; Maridene Grant, Homemaking Counselor; Emily Sessions, President; Nellie D'Albini, Education Counselor. Elsa M. Blair, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Many useful and | attractive articles were featured at the bazaar held in the El Centro Ward of our stake. The most popular item was fur pictures for children's rooms. Other popular items were stuffed musical toys, bread dough jewelry, and burlap flowers. "Under direction of Sister Maridene Grant, the bazaar was cleverly displayed in a storybook theme, featuring a boot, the house of the Old Woman in a Shoe, from which hung tiny dolls. Teddy bears and Raggedy Ann dolls were displayed at the home of the Three Bears which was surrounded by trees from which hung handmade laceedged handkerchiefs and other items." North Tooele Stake (Utah), Eighth Ward Presents ''Cinderella'' Fashion Show September 27, 1969 Denise Williams portrays Cinderella in her work costume and in her wedding gown. Leona S. Pocock, President, North Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Eighth Ward of our stake presented a fall social in the form of a fashion show centered around a Cinderella theme. "The story of Cinderella was revised and used as a script which added humor and interest and tied the fashion categories together. There were fifty-five home-sewed fashions made by the sisters, ranging from casual wear to formal attire. The evening was climaxed by the modeling of nine lovely wedding gowns and Cinderella marrying her prince. "Elizabeth Clyburn is Relief Society president of the Eighth Ward." 232 March ] 970 "Spiritual Sabbath Experience," May 18, 1969 Amy Y. Valentine, former President, Bri Society, reports: 'The Singing Sisters of Elder Thomas s. M ission Holds Retief Soci » September 27, 1969 Central States Mission Relief Society Holds Convention, September 6, 1969 eme for the event was 'The Keys to a Successful} Relief Society.' Homemaking displays and demon. ] ession. 234 Brigham Young University Seventh Stake Sing; isters Enjoy EP att 7 mA tittidd | "ie Us Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 9 Ta "He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son: But He That Sleepeth in Harvest Is a Son That Causeth Shame." (Prov. 10:5.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman appropriate utilization of available foods. INTRODUCTION Are we among those who subscribe to the philosophy that "the world owes us a living" or that there is real merit in getting "something for nothing"? Widespread among the peoples of the world today are various ideas such as these which, if we espouse them, undermine our self-reliance and jeopardize our ability to take care of ourselves. If we are mature and realistic in our thinking, we will know that life is not easy, that we must, in reality, earn our bread by the sweat of our brow, as the words of the scriptures tell us. We will know that we cannot rely or depend on others to take care of us and our families in time of need, but that we must put forth every 236 effort to be self-sustaining in any eventuality. The following words of President Brigham Young are just as applicable today as they were when he spoke them: My faith does not lead me to think the Lord will provide us with roast pigs, bread already buttered, etc. He will give us the ability to raise the grain, to obtain the fruits of the earth, to make habitations... And when harvest comes, giving us the grain, it is for us to preserve it—to save the wheat until we have one, two, five, or seven years' provisions on hand, until there is enough of the staff of life saved by the people to bread themselves and those who will come here seeking for safety. Will you do this? "Aye, maybe I will," says one, and "maybe I won't," says another "... The Lord has said it is His business to provide for His Saints, and I guess He will do it." I have no doubt but He will provide for His Saints, but if you do not take this counsel and be industrious and prudent, you will not long continue to be one of His Saints. Sow, plant, buy half a bushel of wheat here, and a bushel there, and store it up till you get your five or seven years' provisions on hand. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 293- 94 [hereafter referred to as JD}].) AVAILABILITY OF FooDS Our families have been encouraged to preserve seasonal foods —fruits, vegetables, grains, and nuts—when they are abundant, by home preservation methods. These foods can be made available in the following ways: iL. 2. B 3. By planting gardens at home whenever possible. Y participating in home and/or group canning. By purchasing from farmers, fruit growers, and markets when seasonal fruits and vegetables are plentiful. By fishing and hunting in season. By drying excess supplies of driable fruits and vegetables—prunes, apples, pears, apricots, corn, peas, etc. PROPER UTILIZATION OF FOODS To maintain high quality in home-stored foods, the following recommendations are made: it In storing wheat, the General Church Welfare Committee has recommended that dark hard winter wheat of a good grade with a moisture content of 10% or below should be obtained. (Methods of preparation and storage are readily available.) The initiation of a rotation plan for stored foods is advisable to insure against Spoilage. ( Cans, jars, and packages should be dated.) All stored food should be kept away from continual exposure to light and Stored in a dry, cool, but well above freezing temperature. Fruits, vegetables, and meats properly processed in glass jars will keep in a cool, dark, dry place fully as long as canned goods. Lesson Department Happiness is total blecttie living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOUR March 15-2] NORTH PACIFIC COAST TOUR June 11-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 HAWAIl ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 237 March 1970 4. Root vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, turnips and cabbage, and fruits such as apples and winter pears can be stored in cool cellars with dirt floors or in properly ventilated pits or bins. 5. Dried foods—beans, peas, rice, etc. —should be sealed in airtight containers for best keeping. 6. In storing powdered milk, the dry non-fat or skim milk is preferable, as it is less expensive than whole milk, has all the nutritive values of whole milk (except the fat), and will store much longer—approximately three to five years if kept dry at 40 degrees F.; one to two years under higher temperatures not exceeding 70 degrees. 7. Sugar, honey, and other sweeteners will last indefinitely if stored under the proper conditions. CONCLUSION There should be no reason for any of us to be unaware of our responsibilities or for our failure to properly utilize available foods. Even those who live under what might be termed adverse climactic conditions can, with the proper adjustments and _ adaptations, work out a successful, or at least an adequate food preparation program. All families may find help and suggestions in our discussions which will alleviate some of their problems. Valuable suggestions are available and many have been given by those who have made a careful study of the emergency needs of our families—the directors of the General Church Welfare Program, the extension services of our universities, the United States Department of Agriculture and of Health, Education and Welfare; our civil defense programs, and other organizations and individuals who are concerned with our welfare. These have all been consulted in the 238 preparation of our homemaking discussions. Since storage conditions differ in geographical areas, State extension bulletins should be consulted for accurate information about the best local storage practices. Storage fads may be avoided by consulting these sources. AD HAPPINESS Happiness is many things, Both inborn and acquired, It comes to him who seeks it least Self-sacrifice inspired. It dwells in every humble heart, Finds room with troubled care. Soon chases out depression, doubt, And conquers all despair. —Sylvia Neale Northampton, England New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2.. 55 Zone5 _-_-~-.75 Zone3 -~----.60 Zone6 __~-~-~-85 Zone4 _..--.65 Zone7 _-.--.95 Zone 8 _- - - - -1.05 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 One year's food supply $142.95 ite ($158.95 value 12 same size Prepacked cases #10 cans—low moisture foods 5 fruits, 6 grains, 3 Protein foods, 8 vegetables plus juices, desserts, Sugar, seasoning and assorted menu extras. Balanced food supply in convenient-to-store cartons iS scientifically prepared to fill the nutritional needs of one Person for one full year or a family of 4-6 three months. Pick up in Salt Lake or we will ship freight collect. Gross shipping weight: 365 Ibs. Salt Lake area, inquire about free PERMAPAK = 40 East 2430 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 + Phone (801) 486-9671 "*Singing Mothers"' "Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS. 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments AROUND THE WORLD with W. Cleon Skousen Cairo e Holy Land e Hong Kong e Japan Expo May 25 Departure London e ~ India OTHER TOURS FOR '70 EUROPE e HAWAII e SOUTH PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA e DOMESTIC CARIBBEAN e SCANDINAVIAN 14 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah 328-3161 Gentlemen: Oj Please send me the brochure on your Round the World Tour Cl) Send me your brochure on your Tour for 1970 NAME oo. — ADDRESS 239 demonstrations. RS 370 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, Street address, city, State, and Zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 Mrs. Mary Lou Driver San Diego, California 99 Mrs. Mary Ann Limb Young Manti, Utah 98 Mrs. Anna Clary Wakley Bloxham Downey, idaho 97 Mrs. Elizabeth Beasley Clendennen Eden, Texas 95 Mrs. Eliza Ottellia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ann Owen Jones Sandy, Utah Mrs. Lina Bergner Lehmann Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susanna McKnight Roberts Caldwell, Idaho Mrs. Dora Maude White Whitehead Santa Monica, California 94 Mrs. Lettie Ogden, Utah 93 Mrs. Maude Bowman Kurtz New Haven, Connecticut Mrs. Susette Hafen Leavitt Santa Clara, Utah Mrs. Bell Allred Sorensen Salina, Utah 240 Saunders Taylor Ferrin 92 91 90 Mrs. Alice Mary Finlayson Hill Payson, Utah Mrs. Jennie Steele Lawrence Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Knoth Uh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susie Christene Saircloth Wheeler Cincinnati, Ohio Mrs. Abby Eveline Estella Clements: Bagley Sacramento, California Mrs. Blanche Nelson Bell Glendale, California Mrs. Josephine Dorcas Meseroy McKinlay Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Lucy Pierce Mortensen Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Annie Morrison Mortenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Lucina Clark Stevenson Springville, Utah Mrs. Jessie Luella Doss Allen Lake Wales, Florida Mrs. May Reid Clark Manti, Utah Mrs. Rose Hammond Long Ellis Tooele, Utah Mrs. Sarah Mandana Dalley Hales Maywood, California Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Burris Lindquist Fremont, California Mrs. Lucinda Margaret Lee Lund Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Serena McGuire Pomeroy Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Elsie Meeks Halladay Simkins Heber City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Madsen Startin Provo, Utah m On. He p esents m em numerous pr blems by e Ok, this confronted With in rearing childy, be Page a day in Just one Vice is brief, but Potent. Minute's time, a Compilation of the JUST A Minty author's Popular tadio talks by Dr, Elliot Landay ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANy East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif, 92668 Please aoe Copies of "Just A Minute". Total ll Fe | Must j ude gp book 9 ered for dling d mailin Plus 9%% sai X fro h residen rdering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from Cali lisheq account — ee ne—— = = os=—- R. S. March 79 ~~ ees fornia r€sident Ordering f range. Paig by Check, Om ney ord, org Charge estab Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah THINGS LOVELY. We seek after these things. ° eum Smith cA vava for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store: BYU Bookstore: Ricks College Bookstore Deseret Bookstore The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord Praise Be to Thee | Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide Relief SOCISTY Magazine APRIL 1970 ST BEAUTIFUL — i ter move like folded silk, a foamy cuff of creamy lace.: This is most lovely of all things, the ultimate in beauty and in grace. The sky, reflected, made me lift my eyes: What soft, exquisite, colorful delight, projecting morning, iridescent, gold, _ holding the sun and giving back its light. A bird in motion held my seeking gaze, the gray-white image of each lifted thing: _ A gull in flight, its glorious white breast, its" a gliding arch of Lo a said XY,, wa <= a "< $ a gently greening,, i omy eS —— a. Row of poplars: yearning toward the Soul = 's ultimate... To me. -— — ' - ¥ "—— —Christie Lund Coles The February Magazine is an especially excellent issue. | have tried the sourdough recipes (by Edythe K. Watson) and my family thoroughly enjoys them. | especially enjoyed the address by Queen Halaevalu Mata'aho of Tonga—''Weaving the Fabric of Home Life." The essay ''The Creek Taught Me," by Anny M. Campbell had a meaning for me also, for we had a similar experience that seemed to bring our family closer together. | read several of the articles to my husband and we have shared the ideas presented in the February Magazine. Barbara L. Oliphant, Ivins, Utah The article ''Always Set a Good Table" (by Betty Jan Murphy) in the January Magazine really hit home with me. Sometimes my table has been looking like the one with the carton of milk, ketchup bottle, etc. Since reading the article | have made an ''all-out'' effort to make my table as attractive as possible. Aside from my family's compliments, | have been surprised to see the hundred per cent improvement in my seven-year-old's table manners, and a more relaxed atmosphere at the dinner table. Fran Pacifico, Parkside, Pennsylvania | love the lessons, stories, poems, homemaking ideas, pictures, and recipes featured in the Magazine. Sometimes | am tempted to cut some of the recipes out when | don't have time to copy them—but that would spoil the Magazine which | want to keep nice looking. Mrs. Verna K. Johnson, Idaho Falls, Idaho The Magazine comes to me as a gift from a dear friend, Mrs. Nancy Anderson of Norwaik, California. Every issue is just wonderful from cover to cover. The articles, stories, and poems are inspiring; the art layouts and illustrations are delightful. Many of the recipes have become family favorites. Most precious to me, though, are the lessons. | am not a member of your Church, but four of our seven children are active and enthusiastic Latter-day Saints. It is my constant and fervent prayer that some day it will be possible for the rest of my family, including myself, to be baptized into the Church. Beth Raehl, Larsen, Wisconsin The February issue of the Magazine has just been most carefully and eagerly read— and what wonderful things | found to feed my soul. The words of wisdom from the Queen of Tonga were so beautifully expressed and so true. | was thrilled to read her words and wondered why | had never heard the relationship in the home expressed before in just this simple and forceful way. Thank you also for adding my poem ('On Priorities') at the end of the article. It was a real honor to me. Mabel Gabbott, Bountiful, Utah How happy | was to read the article written by Sister Tuddenham about ''Granny" in the October Magazine. It brought back such lovely memories of our association with her and the sisters of the Cairns Branch of the Australian Mission. | remember the very evening the dance was given. Each branch had prepared a number to bring to the district conference for a Saturday evening performance. What a hit Granny made with her ''troupe.'' We all learned to love Granny. Laurine A. Ensign, Fresno, California What a wonderful message to wives and mothers is given in the February Magazine by the Queen of Tonga, Halaevalu Mata'aho. Surely her husband must love her very much. Thanks to the sisters who work in the worthwhile endeavors that help countless women the world over. Goldie L. Stark, Pocatello, Idaho Please send me The Relief Society Magazine. | am not of your faith, but | do enjoy the stories, recipes, and the ideas each month. | have been reading Mary Beagley's Magazines, so | am sure | shall enjoy the ones of my own subscription, and | will pass them on to my neighbors. Mrs. Donald Fitch, Travis A. F. B., California 242 The Relief Society Magazine volume 57 Apri! 1970 Volume 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 244 President Joseph Fielding Smith Called to Be Tenth President of the Church 248 President Harold B. Lee Called As First Counselor 250 President Nathan Eldon Tanner Recalled As Second Counselor 252 President Spencer W. Kimball to Serve As Acting President of the Council of. The Twelve 254 Scouting as a Preparation for Leadership Belle S. Spafford 257 Award Winners—Relief Society Poem Contest 258 Afterglow—First Prize Poem Virginia Maughan Kammeyer 260 Winds of San Juan—Second Prize Poem Hazel Loomis 262 Apples of Gold—Third Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 267 Award Winners—Relief Society Short Story Contest 268 Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie—First Prize Story Sylvia Probst Young 275 A Place in the Picture—Second Prize Story Sara Brown Neilson 281 A New Season for Christy—Third Prize Story Joan B. Kear! 288 Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check Fess Parker Fiction 297 A Pan of Apples Mae R. Winters 302 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 4 Hazel K. Todd General Features 242 From Near and Far 264 Editorial—The Family Home Evening Louise W. Madsen 266 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 308 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 320 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 290 Gifts Designed With Little Girls in Mind Edythe K. Watson 293 Feather Light Rolls Winnifred M. Cannon 294 Never an April Comes Virginia D. Nielsen 296 Tamales From Guatemala Maria C. De Illescas 301 Hobby Features—Vilate A. Crow and Clara L. Hall Lesson Department 316 Homemaking—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 241 Most Beautiful ChristieLund Coles Be Late A Little, Mabel Jones Gabbott 256; Improbability, Oneita B. Sumison 280; Spring Bouquet, Kathleen Fulton 288; Longer Days, Alda L. Brown 289; Sunrise in La Paz, Jayne D. Van Epps 292; Which Is Which, Ethel H. Harp 293; Barbara's Morning, Betty W. Madsen 296; When Cattle Pass, Peggy Tangren 307; Reflection of Light, Wilma Morley Despain 318; Time for Planting, Margaret B. Shomaker 319. Pa Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.50 a year; foreign, $2.50 a year, 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report Change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless retum postage is enclosed. 243 Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited ripts. President Joseph Fielding Smith Called to Be Tenth President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints January 23, 1970 fter a lifetime of de- _/) voted and dedicated 4 J service to the Church, President Joseph Fielding Smith has been set apart to be the President of the Church. He has served as an apostle since 1910, and has visited the stakes of the Church in turn by whitetop, by automobile, by train, by ship, and by airplane. This great responsibility has come to President Smith with a rich background of experience and a meaningful heritage. His grandfather, Hyrum Smith, was martyred at Carthage, Illinois, with his brother, the Prophet Joseph _ Smith. His father was the sixth President of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith. President Smith has been an adviser from the Council of the Twelve to the General Board of Relief Society since 1944. He has always been ready and willing to fulfill that assignment. It has been a privilege over the 244 uatiinetitsino ee i nana eo Co SL eraetias i POR RUCESEpe Heb uueusUceselen) ELIE TEVUCUSVEN CTT TT A SL obese Haeitietitee =e er tt! Reve Lhelasiae dasa nee Ra je Ti ropin TYTN YY TY YT YY TYE YY VYTYTYVYTYY | J Wah. L I TOOT ean TRARAAADADADAAAR ARAB AAR AS eee FN Ge TENE uu JW. Ts a yyy rir it The Dr vasene anes epransarragrtecess sve esaenapnanl - years to accompany new board members to his office to have them set apart. President Smith's blessings have revealed the deep feeling he has toward Relief Society, and his acceptance and understanding of Relief Society in the lives of the women of the Church. Its divine birth and the blessing it is to the souls of men, characterize the content of his blessings. President Smith's mother, Julina Lambson Smith, served nineteen years on the Relief Society General Board and was a Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society under President Clarissa S. Williams. While Julina Smith's husband, President Joseph F. Smith, was President of the Church, the Temple Clothing Department for the Church was assigned to the General Board of Relief Society and _ established and developed under her direction and watchcare. 2 » Uitk 1 Sz webbots TL voOTUe RUG! Qo SOOO CTO OL: ee A" fh rgnen Ye r. {RAO AA MAA VAS LOCO Ora Clary. ) = = B: 3: B b a: R: "* 2 BEGET RS ee or OV 7) (7) = A Gh pe: oo President and Sister Smith have often traveled together as he fulfilled conference assignments, and they are beloved throughout the Church. President Joseph Fielding Smith Called to Be Tenth President a President Smith's first wife was Louise Emylia Shurtliff, who was the mother of two daughters: Mrs. Henry (J osephine) Reinhardt and Mrs. Elden C. (Julina) Hart. She died in 1908. By his second wife, Ethel Georgina Reynolds, he had five sons and four daughters: Joseph Fielding, George Reynolds, Douglas Brewster, M McConkie, Mrs. (Lois) Fife. Sister Ethel Smith served fourteen years as a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and died in 1937. His third wife, took over the care of his large family and supports President S in all his daily activities. Sister Jessie Evans Smith has been generous in the service she has given and in her rich talents which she has shared in the interest of Relief Society. Much inspiration and enlightenment have come to Relief Society members throughout the world through studying the addresses which President Smith has delivered for many years at the Relief Society Annual General Conferences. His kindly and considerate character has tempered the directions, admonitions, and warnings which he has given as an apostle of the Lord to his daughters. In 1952, President Smith was unable to deliver his annual message to Relief Society at the Relief Society Annual General Conference. Elder Matthew Cowley was asked that morning to speak in his place. We are indebted to Elder Cowley for this evaluation of President Smith which will find an echo in the hearts of Relief Society members everywhere: I want to say that I have never met a more kindly, more considerate, more i than President Joseph Fielding Smith He is one of the most loving characters I have ever been associated with, and trust long life to continue his great mission here in the earth in delivering his powerful discourses to the children of Zion. (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, p. 6.) Relief Society members have studied over the years, some of the works of President Smith. The Way to Perfection and The Progress of Man brought much enlightenment to the sisterhood and Essentials in Church History has been a reference book for many courses. President Smith's daughters have served as Relief Society stake presidents. Their home lives have reflected the virtues to be found in a priesthooddirected home which has 2 Relief Society mother. The Relief Society members throughout the world are blessed to have Relief Society 8° forthe guidance of who is filled with which never faileth. 247 248 GS] ient Harold B. Lee Called As First Counselor to President Smith January 23, 1970 @ Relief Society sisters throughout the world rejoice at the appointment of Elder Harold B. Lee to become First Counselor to President Joseph Fielding Smith in the First Presidency of the Church as of January 23, 1970. President Lee has served as an adviser to Relief Society from the Council of the Twelve since 1963. He has a thorough understanding of the work of Relief Society and has given invaluable advice to the General Presidency over the years. He was called to the Council of the Twelve in April 1941, and becomes the senior member of that body with the calling of President Smith as the prophet, seer, and revelator of the Church. President Lee has been prominent in the organization and administration of the Church Welfare Program, and since 1960 has served as general chairman of the Church Correlation Program. President Lee was born in Clifton, Idaho, March 28, 1899, one of six children of Samuel Marion and Louisa Emeline Bingham Lee. He was reared in Cache Valley, Idaho, on a farm and received his education at Oneida Stake Academy and Albion Normal School where he received a teaching certificate. At the age of seventeen he was teaching and serving as principal of a small school in Southern Idaho. His own school activities were varied and interesting. He played in the school band, on the basketball team, was a debater, and played in an orchestra. In November 1920, he was called to labor as a missionary in the Western States Mission. Following his mission he took up residence in Salt Lake City and attended the University of Utah. On November 14, 1923, President Lee was married to Fern Lucinda Tanner in the Salt Lake Temple. They had two daughters, Helen Lee Goates, and Maurine Lee Wilkins, who passed away in 1966. There are ten grandchildren. Sister Lee passed away in 1962. President Lee was married on June 17, 1963, to Freda Joan Jensen who is a member of the DESERET NEWS PHOTOGRAPH Sister Lee, a member of the General Board of the Primary, sustains President Lee in every calling. Primary General Board and who sustains him in all his labors. Prior to his call as a General Authority, President Lee was a prominent educator, and served on the Salt Lake City Commission. In 1930 he was sustained as president of the Pioneer Stake, at that time, the youngest stake president in the Church. This was during the depression years, and it was here, under his leadership, that the Welfare Program demonstrated its worth. In 1937, at the request of the First Presidency, he became the managing director of the Church Welfare Plan. An Relief Society sisters throughout the Church remember the many addresses President Lee has delivered at Relief Society Annual General Conferences which have been published in The Relief Society Magazine. They remain available for study, enjoyment, and inspiration. The sustaining power of Relief Society members is exercised in behalf of President Lee. 249 DESERET NEWS PHOTOGRAPH # Relief Society members worldwide honor President Nathan the Second Counselor in the First was first called to this position Recalled As d by President David O. McKay in President Joseph Fielding Smith. General Authority since October 1960 when he was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the 250 President Nathan Eldon Tanner Second Counselor in The First Presidency January 23, 1970 Eldon Tanner as he continues as Presidency of the Church. He October 1963, and has now been given this same responsibility by Elder Tanner has served as a DESERET NEws PHOTOGRAPH dency. President Tanner was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, on May 9, 1898, a son of Nathan William and Edna Brown Tanner. A]- ardston, the Knight Academy in Raymond, and the Calgary Normal School, from which he was graduated in He secured a teaching position in Hill Spring, near Calgary, and President and Sister Tanner have recently celebrated Sara Isabelle Merrill. They are their Golden Wedding Anniversary. Mrs. C. R. (Ruth) Walker, Mrs. This position that he was called W. S. (Isabelle) Jensen, Mrs. H. To be a General Authority. His (Zola) Rhodes, Mrs. G. |, first assignment was an appoint- (Beth) Spackman, and Mrs. L,. Ment as president of the West (Helen) Williams. European Mission. His adminisIn 1929 the Tanners moved to tration was marked by great and Cardston and Elder Tanner berapid growth of the Church in came principal of the high school. The missions of that area. He was always active in Civic and Sister Tanner has been a lovcommunity affairs and was ing and beloved helpmeet to eventually elected to the Alberta President Tanner throughout Legislature, and became Speaker their fifty years of Marriage. She of the House. Has served devotedly in Relief Elder Tanner is an active Society, including Service as a Scouter and holds the highest counselor in a stake Relief SoStates. He is devoted to the youth Relief Society sisters throughof the Church. Out the world wil] be gratified to President Tanner became the have President Tanner's continrst president of the Calgary ued influence and guidance as he Stake, and it was while holding — serves in this high position. 251 @ With the naming of President Harold B. Lee, senior member of the Council of the Twelve, to the First Presidency, E]- der Spencer Woolley Kimball has been named acting President of the Council of the Twelve. President Kimball is a noteworthy speaker, especially among the younger members of the Church. He was ordained to the apostleship and sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve in October of 1943, and has devoted his life since that time to being a special witness of Jesus Christ. President Kimball was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, March 28, 1895, one of eleven children of Andrew and Olive Woolley Kimball. One of his grandfathers, Heber C. Kimball, was a Counselor to President Brigham Young. His heritage is rich in devoted Church service. He was educated in the public schools and Gila Academy at Thatcher, Arizona, and at the University of Arizona. He has an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Brigham Young University. President Kimball served a three-year mission in the Central States Mission, finishing his mission as a district president. Upon completion of his mission he returned to Arizona, where he met and married Camilla Eyring, November 17, 1918, in the Arizona DESERET NEWS PHOTOGRAPH Sister Kimball has been a devoted companion and helpmeet to Elder Kimball in his many important callings. Temple. They are the parents of three sons and one daughter: Mrs. Grant M. (Olive Beth) Mack, Spencer L., Andrew, and Edward Lawrence. There are twenty-seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. President Kimball has traveled widely among the Indians. He has been a delegate to national and international meetings in behalf of the Lamanites. Church members throughout the world will benefit from Elder Kimball's zeal and devotion to his new calling. 253 @ The boy had the pallor of one who is indoors too much; he was pudgy, slow moving, and somewhat effeminate in mannerisms. Even his fingers were pink and clean, giving no hint of the grime, which usually comes with the © i rough and tumble activity com- *3T¥ mon to most twelve-year-old boys. He was the only child of a widow who had showered him with attention and had clung to him for comfort following the a \ death of her husband when the boy was young. The lad had been a frequent topic of anxious conversation between the bishop of his ward and the scoutmaster, both of whom felt he needed to be encouraged to form friends with other boys his age, and engage in activities provided for them. How could it best be accomplished? Scouting As a Preparation for Leadership President Belle S. Spafford A week's summer camping trip with the scout troop seemed a logical beginning, but the mother was sure her little boy could not endure the rigors of such an experience. Patient reassurance from the bishop and scoutmaster that extra care would be given him finally al- — layed her fears to the point she reluctantly gave permission for the boy to go. It was now the scoutmaster's turn to worry—with thirty other boys to watch over, how could he do justice to this one who needed so much individual attention? The answer was found in the person of one sixteen-year-old 254 Eagle Scout who volunteered to serve as a big brother to the younger boy. All during the week the Eagle carefully taught the Tenderfoot the wonders of nature, the freedom and exhilaration of the out-of-doors, the pleasure of developing physical dexterity, the joy of learning new skills, and of being one of the boys. According to those relating this experience, that camping trip with its opportunity for peer association and the special attention of the older scout was the turning point for the boy—it headed him toward manhood and helped his mother to recognize his need to be free to mature. Was scouting important in the life of this boy? Those who knew him said emphatically, "yes." One day not so many months ago two Relief Society leaders stood on a shabby street in the heart of one of the most dismal and hopeless ghettos in New York City. They had been escorted there by several national leaders of the Boy Scouts of America in order to observe a troup unit in action in that setting. The hour was the closing time for the school located at the top of an incline in the street upon which they stood. All of a sudden, a flood burst out onto the street—not of water but of children who came scuffling and tumbling from the school. As this wave of humanity came down the street threatening to engulf the two women and their hosts, it began disappearing, as if by magic. The children were absorbed into the poor, dilapidated buildings. In a few minutes here and there, one would see their little faces appear at the dingy windows high above the street. 5 The two Relief Society women were escorted inside the "troop shack," a somewhat utilitarian, ground floor room furnished with large tables, some benches, and shelving which seemed to hold unnumbered attractions for boys —books, arts and craft supplies, ropes, and other scout materials. The two women listened intently as the Puerto Rican scoutmaster for the area described in broken English the activities of his troop and the national scout leaders correlated these with the Scouting As a Preparation for Leadership over-all goals of scouting. The latter explained that it was a hope of the Boy Scouts of America to penetrate deeply into poverty areas where riots, crime rates, drug abuse seem to escalate, so that boys may be strengthened in mind and body in preparation for responsible citizenship. As this dialogue continued, into the room a number of boys began to filter and, as they came, they began activities with which they were obviously familiar. Among them was a young Puerto Rican boy clasping in his arms a small violin. With him was his mother. They had come to share with the scoutmaster the good news that the boy had been selected to learn to play the violin at school with the hope, in time, of playing in the school orchestra. It was evident they considered the scoutmaster a friend who would share their excitement at this good news. Was scouting significant to that boy and to his neighborhood? Vitally! I was one of the two Relief Society women: involved in this account, having been invited to the national headquarters of the Boy Scouts of America not only because of my Relief Society position but also by reason of the large numbers of women with whom I am affiliated as President of the National Council of Women of the United States. The Boy Scouts of America leaders desired that I receive orientation regarding the scouting program, its goals and long-range plans, with the end in view of bringing these to the attention 255 April 1970 of women and of urging closer ties with the BSA, particularly by mothers having sons served by scouting. Our hosts explained that too many mothers both in the ghettos and across America are content to enroll their sons in scouting and send them off to scout meetings with confidence that it is a safe place for the boys to spend their time. Scouting cannot be completely successful without mothers becoming more aware of the purposes of the organization—so said our hosts. As was stated in a pamphlet published by BSA in 1969 entitled "Boy Power—Man Power," scouting wishes to be a co-partner with "families and institutions of the nation to help prepare a new generation with the skill and confidence to master the changing demands of America's future and prepare to give leadership to it." (BSA Pamphlet: "Boy Power—Man Power," 1969, p. 5) Those leaders who form the underpinning of scouting in America are men of. Character, of integrity, of great. Vision, and dedication. They are men of faith who have deep moral convictions; they are innovative and courageous—a_ truly moving, effective force for good in our nation! I am convinced that the program, the goals, the purposes, and the Boy Scouts of America are worthy of the active support and involvement of women everywhere. Scouting is far more than a recreational program with emphasis on physical fitness—it is a. Great social movement motivated by high-purposes and goals. BE LATE A LITTLE Let spring be late this year; let it delay Its coming, its singing, surging throb, its heady Greening under, over... Just one more day Be late. Tomorrow, maybe I'll be ready. Too much of hurt in: me would seek the dark, Would hide a little longer all my tears, Would turn from spring, from song of meadowlark, To grieve my broken dream, to stay my fears. And yet the new grass covers winter's theft Where searing frost broke continuity, And cleansing sunshine burns out all alloy; Perhaps the spring will heal where I'm bereft, Renew self-faith, repair inadequacy; Oh, spring, wait, just till | can bear your joy. 256 —Mabel Jones Gabbott 1969 Relief Society Poem Contest ® The General Board of Relief Society is happy to announce the names of the three winners in the 1969 Relief Society Poem Contest. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Virginia Maughan Kammeyer, Alderwood Manor, Washington, for her poem, '"'Afterglow."' The thirty dollars for second place goes to Hazel Loomis, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Winds of San Juan.'' Twenty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her third prize poem 'Apples of Gold."' The poem contest is conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society. It was first begun in 1923. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage and promote creative poetry writing among the sisterhood of the Church. Prize-winning poems become the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except by permission of the General Board in writing. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted to the contest, paying for them at the time of publication. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. This contest has become international in scope, with 415 entries received from many parts of the world. Entries were received from England, Australia, Canada, South Africa, Scotland, Ireland, New Zealand, Austria, and Guatemala. From the United States, thiry-nine States were represented, with large numbers of poems coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, and Florida. The winners are congratulated by the General Board and appreciation is expressed to all entrants. Mrs. Kammeyer is a first-time winner in the contest, but her poetry has appeared several times before in the Magazine. Mrs. Loomis is familiar to our readers, having placed once before in the contest, and having had her work appear many times. Mrs. Bailey has placed eight times in the poem contest, and her poems and stories appear often in the Magazine. She has placed four times in the story contest. The General Board extends its appreciation to the judges and to the members of the Board who served on the contest committee. The prizewinning poems, together with brief historical sketches of the winners are published in this issue. 257 First Prize Pagm AFTERGLOW Virginia Maughan Kammeyer Pastoral Do you remember how the summer stayed; and does it seem to you that it was always afternoon? The apple trees were bathed in amber light and emerald shade that timeless June. The loaded carts reeled down the freckled lane, and we would run behind them, kicking velvet dust, and watch as bursting loads were forked and thrust into tall stacks. Do you recall? The heavy-headed roses touched their lips to the cool porches where we liked to pass, and there were violets scattered in the grass beneath the many-fingered pine and fir— At least, | think there were. And after, when the day was lavendar, and little insects played a fiddle string, and gypsy moths flew round our heads on creamy wing, then do you recollect how we would sing? Pathétique Where are they gone—the hollyhocks we plucked to fashion into dolls, the golden fruit we sucked? Where are the roses, once incarnadine—the fingers that encircled yours and mine? Green mound, green mound, where summer rain is spread, the autumn frost, the winter's cumbrous snow— Where are the occupants of the dark bed? Is there another, near, sun-lit reality, where kind winds blow? Fugue Do children somewhere play at hide-and-seek? (Those that seek me early shall find me.) Are there moon-lilies by a pasture gate? (Consider the lilies of the field how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin.) Do tall trees write upon a roof's rough slate? (The boughs thereof were like the goodly cedar.) And are there kitchen fragrances too good to speak? (Spikenard and saffron; calamus, and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense; myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices.) Oh, sister, do you feel a gentle touch upon your cheek? (The pillars thereof of silver, the bottom thereof of gold, the covering of it of purple, the midst thereof being paved with love.) Requiem When we have drawn our last, frail shattered breath, do you suppose that we shall see once more, as we walk in the creaking gate of death, that parlor lights shine through the afterglow? And will we see the shepherd coming home, and hear a sweet voice calling from the door? 258 VIRGINIA MAUGHAN KAMMEYER (author of ''Afterglow,'' First Prize Poem) "| deeply appreciate having been chosen first prize winner in the Relief Society Poem Contest. Thank you so much for this honor. "As for facts about myself: | live with my husband, Fred Kammeyer, in Alderwood Manor, just north of Seattle, Washington. We have six children. A daughter is attending Ricks College, and a son is on a mission in Germany. | teach in Relief Society and in the Mutual Improvement Association, and am a member of the National League of American Penwomen. "The Relief Society Magazine, The Instructor, and The Improvement Era have been kind enough to publish my articles, stories, and poems. A series of my humorous poems under the title 'Life Among the Mormons,' ran for thirteen months in the Era. "t wrote 'Afterglow' for my children to let them know how it used to be for my sisters, brothers, and cousins to remember—and for my mother for very special reasons." 259 Second Priz Poem 260 WINDS OF SAN JUAN Hazel Loomis To you | came, Arms wet with longing, With father, mother, children all In youthing roots Set down to grow. A stripling orchard— House, resin weeping from its wood, A stair (my harp to play upon) And from its topmost rung, A sudden room—world large— For dark came early There. Mother, our evening star, climbed And there the wool of night was soft and deep And with the windward stream of wild plum blooms We knelt our whispered praise. Awake. And | was pitted with the sod! The work of blade and ditches, books, and barns. The always mother singing—sewing, The always father fencing—planning, The always Zion in their visioned gaze. The river of my days probed deep The milk of your prophetic earth And from the jigging—jogging Friday dance Into remembered Saturday of time, Then in the sable warmth of Sabbath | stood with you on holy ground! The vigor of your wind is hot upon my face My blood runs crimson as your oak And goes sledding on your crystal winter night. | shall not weep at death Or dying of the light.... For | have viewed The resurrection of your dawn. | come to you with dew From off the high hill's planting. | bring my tithe (would gladly give my all). Take me, oh, gentle wind, to that hallowed upper room, Wash me again in spikenard Of wild plum bloom! and poems, especially during my 'teaching' years in Casper, Wyoming. Several years ago, after a residential transfer to New Jersey, | reviewed concerts and operas for newspapers and magazines in that area. | have written travel articles on my experi- 261 Third Prize Poem APPLES OF GOLD Alice Morrey Bailey "A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of Silver..., (Proverbs 25:11) Words fitly spoken have rolled Like filling bushels into my mind's hold Since my remembering, Patient teachers of the book and rule, Of sky and stone and sea have been my school, Beloved masters of the Word my staves of strength. Wide leaves of books have spread for my delight. The statesman's lofty phrase describes my freedom. | have been wooed with vowel words of wine And heard the petalled syllables of children. Sages have burrowed the roots of my wisdom; Poets have borne me on the boughs Of loveliness. Since my remembering My father's Praise Has budded my young ego and girded my treasure, And the Sweet-cider words of my mother's loving Have hugged me to safety, swelling my measure And filling the Silver pictures of my days With apples of gold. 262 ALICE MORREY BAILEY (author of ''Apple of Gold,"' Third Prize Poem) "One of the highlights of my life was the invitation to represent all Relief Society Magazine writers and Wells Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) in an exhibit of the theme 'The Relief Society Magazine encourages creative writing,' at the October 1969 Relief Society Annual General Conference, appropriately so, as | am one of the many writers who have received encouragement from the Magazine. "|_was born in the small town of Joseph, Utah, to John F. And Laura Rawlinson Morrey. My husband, R. DeWitt Bailey, and | have three children, fourteen grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. | am at present organist for the Singing Mothers of Whittier Ward, teacher trainer in the Sunday School, and editor of the Ward Bulletin. | am retired after twenty years as a Relief Society trained nurse-aid, six years aS a cartographer for the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and twenty years as a secretary-draftsman at the University of Utah. | am now a free-lance writer and sculptor, and am also very much involved in genealogical work. | am vice-president of the Utah State Poetry Society, member of the National Federation of State Poetry Societies, the Utah Sonneteers, League of Utah Writers, and the Associated Utah Artists, former member of the League of American Penwomen, and have spent fourteen years as a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts, having been appointed by three successive governors to represent sculpture.'' 263 EDITORIAL/ The Family Home Evening "You shall set in order your own house."' (D&C 93:43.) a in the early days of the Church, as recorded in the 93d Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord found it necessary to reprove "Erring ones, even though in high authority in the Church."' He placed them under condemnation saying, ''You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction." To several, including even the Prophet, he stated ''And now a commandment | give unto you... You shall set in order your own house...." "What | say unto one, | say unto all... '' the Lord declared. As Latter-day Saints we firmly believe that the Lord speaks to us from the pages of scriptures, that, in speaking unto one he speaks unto all., He has found it necessary in these days to speak unto all through his prophets, the message, ''You shall set in order your own house."' As always when a commandment is given, a way is prepared through which it can be fulfilled. One excellent and approved way of setting our house in order is the Family Home Evening. Parents are commanded to teach their children (D&C 68) and the Lord further counsels ''... That little children also may receive instruction before me as is pleasing unto me.'' (D&C 55:4.) Wise, indeed, are parents who have initiated this practice while their children are small. It is now believed that the ages from two to five are the most important in the learning process. President McKay taught that children have established their most lasting Volume 57 April 1970 Number 4 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 264 habits before they are seven. The Lord has established the age of eight as the age of accountability. It follows, therefore, that the earlier the Family Home Evening becomes a family habit, the more impressive are the teachings of parents. One of the great commandments, ''Honour thy father and thy mother,'' is both a commandment and a responsibility. Responsibility lies with parents who endeavor to make themselves worthy of being honored by their children. Responsibility also lies with children to accept the guidance of parents. This relationship has its roots in family closeness which is fostered by the Family Home Evening program of the Church. So often we hear that some young people are losing respect for the older generation. Learning to respect parents and honor their teachings may come when children are convinced that father and mother know what they are talking about. A child who grows up knowing that his parents can and will answer his questions, take time to listen to him, and show love for him, will have respect ingrained in his character. Parents and children need to open their hearts to each other. Fortunate is the family which finds the' time and opportunity to do so. The Family Home Evening, with its program of gospel jnstruction, participation by every member of the family, involvement in learning together, building each other, satisfying the need of each for recognition and love, is divinely inspired. The women of Relief Society eieni be diligent proponents of the Family Home Evening. —L. W. M. Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Fanny S. Kienitz Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth 8. Winters Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore 265 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Sophie Leavitt, well-to-do mother of three adult children and author of a gourmet cookbook, learned that many welfare recipients were dumping their government-issue flour, dried milk, and other supplies. As a _ volunteer, she went around demonstrating to povertystricken wives how to make zesty meat and rice dishes, biscuits, cornbread and many other tasty items from government commodities. She talked on the radio and demonstrated for educational television. Her recipes now appear in cookbooks passed out to welfare recipients. This generous volunteer has transformed the lives of many women on welfare, handicapped by lack of knowledge and training. Portia Nelson paints, sings, plays the piano, coaches singers, writes lyrics, music and dramatic scripts for television and moving pictures. She has also been highly praised as an actress by eminent critics. She attributes her versatility to her childhood activities in a Latter-day Saint home and community on a ranch eighty miles north of Salt Lake City. ''Mormons believe you learn by doing, so their children get up and say a piece, or sing or play an instrument. | was putting on shows when | was just a child,'' says Miss Nelson. Dr. Mina Rees, who became a mathematician 'because it was fun,'' has now been chosen the first woman _ president-elect of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. This is the largest scientific society in the United States. She also heads the graduate division of the University of New York. 266 Dr. Rita Hauser, thirty-four, of New York City, mother of two small children, is an international lawyer, linguist, and political economist. She and her husband, Gustave M. Hauser, were the first scholars sent from the United States to France in a new comparative law program sponsored by the Ford Foundation. Dr. Hauser believes dissent among college students, when nonviolent, is healthy, but it should be confined to ideas of genuine value to society. Under those conditions students should be listened to; their ideas merit consideration. Joan Beck, who writes a syndicated column read by millions, ''You and Your Child," has now written a challenging book, How to Raise a Brighter Child: The Case for Early Learning. This is called a ''blueprint' for increasing your child's brain power without ''pushing." Pamela Dee Tedesco, an active member of the Arcadia Ward, Pasadena Stake, California, and an honor student majoring in sociology at Pasadena City College, was chosen from among 474 contestants for the enviable role of Queen of the Tournament of Roses Parade on New Years Day, 1970. Flower floats of magnificent, highly imaginative artistry were entered from countless sources and America watched the astonishing procession. Pamela does volunteer work at Maryvale Girls Home, works at a department store, teaches a junior Sunday School class, and particularly enjoys her college institute class. She feeis that her Church activities were an important element in preparing her to win this high distinction. 1969 award winners Relief Society Short Story Contest ) w The General Board of Relief Society is pleased to announce the winners in the 1969 Relief Society Short Story Contest. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her story ''Come Back Mis' Mackenzie.' Sixty dollars goes to second prize winner Sara Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, for her story ''A Place in the Picture.'' Third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Joan B. Kearl, Provo, Utah, for her story ''A New Season for Christy.' The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted in 1942 as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The contest was initiated to encourage the sisterhood of the Church to express themselves in the field of fiction. They are encouraged to read and study short stories and fiction techniques in order to improve their writing skills and appreciation for short stories. The General Board feels that the contest has helped to improve the quality of writing among the sisters of the Church, and is an aid to improving the literary quality of the Magazine. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication except by written permission from the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted to the contest, paying for them at regular Magazine rates upon publication. A winner who has received first prize two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were seventy-seven stories submitted to the 1969 contest, including one each from England, Israel, and Scotland. Utah and California topped eighteen States of the United States in number of entrants. Mrs. Young has appeared many times in the Magazine, and has been a story contest winner two other times, and a poem contest winner four times. Mrs. Neilson has also had stories published in the Magazine, and has been a winner once before. Mrs. Kearl will be new to readers. Gratitude is extended to the judges and to the members of the General Board who served on the contest committee. The winners are to be congratulated for the quality of writing, and the development of their stories. The prize-winning stories are presented in this issue along with brief biographical sketches of the authors. 267 Sylvia Probst Young ms When I came to school that morning Mis' Mackenzie was standing at the south window watching the clouds, high and wispy, moving rapidly across the morning sky. It was a kind of ritual with her, standing at the window for a few moments of quiet contemplation before the day's work started. "It helps me to get things in focus, so that everything can start right," she once explained to me. "Good morning, Joe. You're an early bird." She turned from the window as I came in, and the brightness of her smile made me feel good all over. Mis' Mackenzie (she was really Mrs. Mackenzie, but children usually call a married lady Mis') had been my teacher ever since I 268 First Prize Story Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie had started school, and I was in the sixth grade. In fact she was the only teacher Indian Bend had ever had. Ours was one of those few one-room schools, remaining because of necessity, too far away from any other school in the district to be consolidated. Indian Bend had grown up around the dam, and the Mackenzies had been some of the first people there because Mr. Mackenzie was one of the chief engineers. Mis' Mackenzie, who had been a schoolteacher, consented to teach the school. A few months before the dam was completed, Mr. Mackenzie died quite suddenly of a heart attack. Everyone thought then that Mis' Mackenzie would move away; she had a son living in California, and we all expected her to go there to live, but she didn't. She stayed right on and kept teaching our school. Once I asked her why she didn't go to California to teach, there wouldn't be all the winter snow to buck, and her son and his family wanted her to come. "Why, Joe, how would you all get along without me?" she laughed. Then she looked solemn." I guess it's because I love you all, and I'm something like a plant, I have deep roots here. Then, too, it might be quite hard to get a teacher to come, you know. Teachers can just about choose where they want to go these days." That was Mis' Mackenzie all right, she was always thinking of others. Although she went to California every year when school was out, she always came back in the fall. And, to tell the truth, I don't know what would have happened to our school if she had decided not to return. Mis: Mackenzie was our ideal, and we all loved her, everyone in Indian Bend felt that way about her. She was small and plumpish (Mis' Mackenzie was always on a diet). Her hair was soft brown, and when you stood close to her it made you remember the smell of apple blossoms. I thought the most beautiful thing about her was her eyes, dark and so very expressive, set beneath the little smile wrinkles that framed them. She was fired with enthusiasm, and although she must have been all of sixty, she looked easily ten years younger. She could jog a mile, and bat a ball as far as any of the boys. Equally enthusiastic for work, she spent long hours of extra time helping those who needed additional help, and she expected each of her students to Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie do his very best in everything. "Need me to help you with anything?" I asked, as I crossed the room to my desk. She shook her head. "I was just standing here thinking what a beautiful day it is. The ground on the south side of the schoolhouse has finally dried up, we can jump rope and play marbles at recess." "Yah," I drawled, "but this kind of weather always gives me the spring fever." "Well, you're not so different, Joe," she confided. "I feel the same way. It always hits me about the middle of March, and I get real anxious to see my grandchildren again, even though it hasn't been so long since I was with them at Christmas." "We miss you in the summer, Mis' Mackenzie, but you'll be coming back again?" It was the same old question that we always asked. Her smile was a little indecisive. "Sometimes I wonder just what I should do, Joe. My family are after me all the time to come down there and stay, and somehow I don't like the snowdrifts like I used to. Do you suppose I'm getting old?" she laughed. The other children started coming in then. There were seventeen of us altogether, two or three in every grade. I looked over the group as we took our seats, there was such a wide range of ability and personality that I wondered again how Mis' Mackenzie was able to keep such perfect order and still keep everyone happy and studious. Her greatest challenge, I felt sure, was in the sixth grade, with Deloris and Marybeth. Deloris, 269 April 1970 a head taller than Mis' Mackenzie, and mature for her age, looked more like sixteen than twelve. Her eyes were dark and sultry, and it seemed that she always had a chip on her shoulder—a kind of defensive thing, perhaps because she was the only one of her nationality in our school. Marybeth, by contrast, was fair-haired, small and frail. From infancy she had suffered with a crippling bone disease in her right leg. Now, after five operations, she was able to walk fairly well with the aid of a crutch. But in spite of her affliction, she radiated sunshine wherever she went. The children at school all had a kind of protective feeling for Marybeth, and it was easily understood why she was a favorite of everyone. 270 The day started as most of our school days, with a warm greeting from Mis' Mackenzie, the Pledge of Allegiance, and a few minutes for sharing interests. Nancy Hopkins had brought a rock collection to show the class, and Tom Peters was proudly wearing a brand new wrist watch that his grandma in Illinois had sent him for his birthday. The sun was still warm and bright at recess, and we all went out eagerly to play. Mark Clayson and I were playing marbles on the south side of the schoolhouse. Most of the girls were jumping the rope close by, but we hadn't paid any particular attention to them until there was a sudden, loud commotion, and a chorus of voices, high and angry. Looking up, I saw Deloris standing apart from the others. ' "IT hate you," she hissed out the words. "I hate you, Marybeth Frazer, and I'm glad you're a cripple!" She turned then and ran swiftly into the schoolhouse. Mis' Mackenzie came around the schoolhouse just in time to hear the dramatic outburst, her face paled, and she bit her lower lip. "What was the problem?" she asked gently. All of the girls tried to talk at unce, and it was quite evident that they were all in sympathy with Marybeth. Then, without saying anything more, Mis' Mackenzie went back into the schoolhouse, and when we came in from recess she was writing arithmetic problems on the blackboard. Deloris sat with her head buried on her desk. What had taken place between the two of them we could only wonder. Nobody said a word, but there was a kind of heavy feeling all over the room. Mis' Mackenzie went right on with the arithmetic as if nothing had happened, but Deloris never once looked up, and when we were dismissed for lunch she bolted out of the room, ran all the way home, and didn't return for the rest of the day. After that nothing seemed quite the same. Deloris returned to school, but she was sullen and withdrawn, staying by herself, and answering as briefly as possible when spoken to. It seemed to me that Mis' Mackenzie looked suddenly tired and old, and very sad, like a person who had lost something dear. I wanted to talk to her, but I didn't know just what to say. Then one night an opportunity came. Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie I had stayed to help hang some pictures we had drawn, and Mis' Mackenzie started to talk about the things that were troubling her. "Joe," she said, "I've about decided to stay in California when I go." I was standing on a chair, reaching up to the top of the chalk board, and I almost lost my balance. When I regained my footing I looked down at her. "Mis' Mackenzie, please don't do that," I begged. "We have to have you." "Nobody's indispensable, Joe. There is always someone who can do the job as well or better than the person before him. Besides, I'm getting older, and I'm really tired." I became brave then, ventured the question. "It's because of Deloris, isn't it?" I asked. And She shook her head quickly. "Not Deloris, but my inability to reach her, to help her, to make her grow in understanding. Her antagonism is like a cloud of gloom over everyone in our class. I should be able to help her find herself and help her to realize that we all want to be her friend as well as Marybeth's. I have tried in every way I know, but I have failed. It's in myself that I am disappointed." I tried to tell her that no other teacher could do more than she had done, but a sixth grade boy isn't so good at saying things in just the right kind of way. There was nothing left to do but hope that something might happen to make everything right again. The time passed quickly, and 271 April 1970 almost before we realized it the time for school to close had come. Mis' Mackenzie had promised us a picnic day during the last week, and we decided to have it on the day before school -let out, with the hopes that there would be no rain. Lucky enough the day dawned clear and bright, and promised to be just right for outdoor activities. There was a small baseball park about four blocks from the schoolhouse where everyone had picnics, and that is where we were going for relays, a baseball game, and to eat our lunch. Mis' Mackenzie promised to take along the book she had been reading to us and finish the story of Toronado Jones. I half expected not to see Deloris at all that day, but just before the bell rang she came. Most of the girls had worn slacks, but Deloris was wearing a blue checked gingham dress_ that seemed to give a special glow to her dark eyes. Or, maybe, it was the shoes that made her eyes glow, she was wearing a brand new pair of white shoes. They looked more like the kind to wear to a party, with shining silver buckles and narrow little straps that fit across the instep. They weren't the kind of shoes to wear for an outdoor picnic and game day. But in all her life Deloris hadn't had many new things, and I had heard some of the older folks say that her stepfather was real mean to her. She had worn old shoes all year, so to have a new pair at last must have really lifted her spirits way up, and I guess she wanted us all to see. Mis' Mackenzie and some of the girls told her how pretty her 272 shoes were, and she smiled for the first time in weeks. When we were ready to go, Lucy Reynolds came in with a note from her mother, asking if she could go to the little grocery store to get some twinkies for her lunch. The little store was about a block in the opposite direction, but Lucy promised that she would go as quickly as she could. "May Marybeth please go with me?" she asked. Mis' Mackenzie seemed to be a little uncertain, but she knew that Marybeth would not like it if anyone had the idea that it would be too far for her to walk, so she consented, telling the class that we would walk slowly, and if Lucy and Marybeth hurried they could probably catch up with us. As we walked along everyone -was trying to talk at once, and asking Mis' Mackenzie a hundred questions. When we came down the road to the ball park, old man Brady, who was irrigating his garden, called a greeting to Mis' Mackenzie. He was about the only person in Indian Bend who raised a vegetable garden, but he surely knew how to raise good vegetables. My dad said he learned that in the Old Country. Every summer he passed out his beets and chard and corn and tomatoes to the neighbors. "Looks like you're getting an early start in the garden," Mis' Mackenzie called back to him. "Yah—water is what they need to grow." He leaned on his hoe and looked at us. "School picnic—huh?"' "School picnic," kenzie replied. Mis' Mac- "School's about out, huh? Well, when you come back from California these little plants will have the best tomatoes you ever tasted, Mis' Mackenzie." "You always do raise the best," Mis' Mackenzie told him. He beamed and nodded, and we walked on to the park. Mis' Mackenzie looked back anxiously for Lucy and Marybeth. "IT. Wonder what's'. Keeping them?" she said. "We'll go in and get started on some relays, maybe they'll be here by then." The grass in the little park was green and fresh looking, and we all sat down to rest for a few minutes. Mis' Mackenzie kept looking back, but still the girls didn't come. "IT shouldn't have let them stay behind," she worried. "We all tried to assure her that nothing had happened. "They're probably picking out penny candy, and it takes a long time to do that," one of the boys concluded. "Or maybe the store was full of people and they had to wait their turn," someone else said. Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie Finally we started a stick relay, and the seconds were running, when we heard a call. Marybeth and Lucy were standing on the other side of the road. We saw immediately what had happened, old man Brady's irrigation water was flooding the road. Swift rivulets were cutting through the dirt, leaving deposits of mud and gravel. "We can't get across!'' Lucy cried. ""Marybeth can't cross the road!" We all knew that, of course. Marybeth, with her crutch, was not too sure footed at anytime, so she couldn't possibly attempt a rutted, wet road. Lucy, who was smaller than Marybeth, would do well to get across herself. "We'll have to help them," Mis' Mackenzie said. "Wait right there girls," she called back, "wait right there, and I'll come." But just as she started, Deloris darted out. Across the mud and water she ran—Deloris with the new white shoes. We watched as she picked Marybeth up in her arms, crutch and all, and carried her across, with Lucy stepping carefully beside her. The beautiful white shoes, that had been so proudly displayed a short while before, now oozed with mud and water. They could never look as nice again. But Deloris didn't seem to mind, for suddenly Marybeth and she were friends again, and all of the 273 April 1970 unhappiness of the previous weeks had vanished. Marybeth's eyes glowed with admiration and gratitude as Deloris put her down beside Mis' Mackenzie. "I'm sorry we were so long," she apologized. "Lucy lost her quarter, and we searched until we found it." _ Then she put her arm around Deloris. '"You're one of the very nicest girls in school, and I love you, but I feel so bad about' your shoes. They're ruined, now." Deloris merely shrugged. "I can dry them, and polish them, and they'll be good as new." She was smiling, and it was so good to see her that way. We had the nicest kind of day. We played games and sang, and Mis' Mackenzie read to us. She seemed more happy and carefree than she had been for a long time. It was almost as if a great load. Had been lifted from her shoulders. The next morning we all went to school to get our promotion cards, and to say goodbye. I noticed that Deloris was wearing her white shoes, but they didn't look quite new anymore, even with polish on them. Mis' Mackenzie talked to us for a few minutes, and wished us all a very happy vacation. Then she stood in the doorway to pass out the cards. When it was Deloris's turn to go by, she reached out her hand and shyly touched Mis' Mackenzie. "Come back, Mis' Mackenzie," she said softly, "come back." Mis' Mackenzie's eyes glistened suddenly, and her smile was as bright as the morning sunshine. "I will, Deloris," she answered emphatically, "I certainly will." SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG (author of "Come Back, Mis' Mackenzie," First Prize Story) "| have written for The Relief Society Magazine for many years and have always felt honored to have my work appear in such a highly reputable, widely read publication. Writing, along with working in a flower garden, and companioning with books are my great loves. | have written poetry, stories, and articles for all the Church magazines. My poetry has been published in Utah Sings, The Deseret News, The Salt Lake Tribune, and a national! Anthology. In 1966 | won The Deseret News Christmas Story Contest. This is the third time a story of mine has been selected as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. In the Relief Society Poem Contest | have been among the winners four times. "Usually in a story some of the characters are prototypes of people we know. Mis' Mackenzie was patterned from the life of a dear sister whose selfless dedication as a teacher of children in the Church, as well as in the public schools, will be jong remembered. "Reid W. Young, a former bishop of the Midvale Fourth Ward, and now a member of the Midvale Stake High Council, is my husband, and we are the parents of four wonderful sons. | teach the Gospel Doctrine class in Sunday School. Both Reid and | have filled missions for the Church. Three of our boys have been missionaries also. Now we are the proud grandparents of two little ones—Stephanie Lynn and Robert Reid Young." 274 Second Prize Story A ~ Place In the Picture w Are mothers really afraid of their teenagers? I asked my inner-self as I listened to the exposed motor in Dave's strippeddown car-version roar his exit to school. That was what a psychologist had said at the PTA lecture last night. It was true I had stood silently by as Dave skipped breakfast again and brushed past me in ragged jeans, Over-run desert boots, and a clean, but grease-stained Tshirt; knowing full well he had a math test and that an empty stomach produced low blood sugar detrimental to clear thinking. If he had to dress that way, I thought with indignation, it might make some sense. I sighed and started clearing the breakfast dishes. Scraping out good food had always been against my conservative nature and I Sara Brown Neilson automatically picked up a fork to salvage some of the highly nutritious, almost cold food that I had hopefully prepared for Dave. I wasn't fond of scrambled egg, but choked it down, thinking of the garbage-disposal alternative. Why hadn't I made him get up earlier so he could eat? Why hadn't I insisted he wear some of the respectable clothes that bulged his closet, and done something about the straggling hair, sloppy posture, and weird new philosophies he was analyzing? Could that psychologist possibly be right? Maybe, with all the talk of generation-gap and youth-rebellion, I was afraid to take a stand. 275 April 1970 Thinking through problems had always been part of washing the breakfast dishes, while my mind was still rested and fresh, but this morning even motion seemed distracting. I sank onto a kitchen chair, cupped my chin in the palm of my hand, and stared unseeing out the window. Painfully and with care I began a review of my relationship with Dave to see just what my place was in his picture. Scrutinizing his activities, attitudes, and reactions, left me with the shocking realization that I really didn't have a place —I just didn't count! Sure, I washed clothes, prepared meals, took telephone messages, and cleaned hisroom, but any stranger could do that. And my concerned love in doing it didn't 276 count for much, since he wasn't even aware it existed. A hollow wave of longing left me reminiscing the place of honor I used to hold in his life —the main reason for most of the things he did—telling the truth, eating his carrots, swallowing his medicine—all to please Mom. Now he went into a detailed analysis of the scientific, psychological value of truth-telling when I mentioned it, refused to consume even one carrot, and decided for himself if the medicine I prescribed was necessary. Desperately I groped for the memories of a long-ago picnic, when we had strolled leisurely through the woods discovering gold-flecked stones, shed snakeskins, or an injured bird to fix; and for the precious hours spent together on rainy days when we had molded clay into funny animals or built houses from diced potatoes and toothpicks. I ached for the satisfaction I had felt in teaching him patriotism and honor while we made soldier hats and three-dimensional stars for the neighborhood parade. Of course, my place of importance had started shrinking to make room for sports with Dad, outings with the scoutmaster, practicing with his guitar teacher and goofing around with his friends. And I had been willing, even anxious, for each new experience in his growth. But, did I have to become a nonentity? Couldn't I fit in some place? Where had I lost out?; A glance at the clock spurred me to action and I continued analyzing to the accompaniment of running water and clinking dishes. Stabs of self-pity needled me as I reviewed Dave's present efforts to please everyone else —fix the tape recorder for a friend, sell tickets for a counselor, wash cars for the club. No longer did it matter what Mom thought, or felt, or needed. My influence was gone. "No, Mr. Psychologist," I said aloud to the draining dish water, "this mother isn't afraid of her teenager; she just doesn't exist in his life—except for maid service, that is!" My day went with the usual housewife routines, and I was just finishing a batch of cookies when a roar sounded in the driveway. Dave shuffled in depositing a few mud clods along the way and sprinkling fresh sawdust from the cuffs of his pants. It was obvious he had stayed after A Place in the Picture school for a track work-out to please the coach. Dropping his books on the table, he slouched down on a chair and started munching one of the still warm cookies that were spread out in front of him to cool. How many times had I asked him to clean his feet and shake his cuffs after a work-out? He knew the table wasn't for books—after all I had provided him with a nice desk. He could see it was nearly dinnertime and knew late nibbling irritated me. Then, there were the two freshly ironed shirts I had found in a heap on his bed, apparently discarded in favor of the grease-stained T-shirt. I bore my resentments in silence. "Hey, Mom, did you ever return that stuff I borrowed from Craig?" he muttered between chews. "No, kinda thought you would take care of it," I said, knowing full well it would be left for me. There just hadn't been time from my maid service to do it, I thought bitterly, but I had certainly stumbled over it enough times! Still heaped in his room was the unpacked gear he had used on a week's fishing trip down the Snake River before school started. That had been a full two weeks ago and I was still trying to outwait him. I hated being reminded of the trip because it had terrified me. Knowing the dangers of Snake River, with its swift currents, unannounced falls, and sharp rocks, gave me sleep-shattering nightmares of black, rushing waters swallowing him up, canoe and all. "Boys have to live with some danger," his father had gently 277 April 1970 reminded me, "that's part of growing up. He's a good swimmer and will wear a life-jacket for extra protection." My fears were smothered back in muteness, knowing it didn't matter what I thought, anyway. The sleepless nights persisted, however; and I had even considered resorting to tranquilizers. Instead I took up night nibbling to ease the sickening fear-waves in my stomach, and gained back the five pounds I had struggled to lose. My face showed signs of wear and strain, in spite of the additional weight, and the week he was gone seemed endless. When we unexpectedly heard his familiar voice in the driveway a night earlier than scheduled, the blessed relief left me with a mad urge to rush outside and smother him with kisses. Knowing his distaste for emotional demonstration, I forced myself to follow nonchalantly behind his father and greet him with a casual peck on the cheek. "Hi, we've missed you; how was the trip?" "Groovy, Mom. That river is something else! Can't say as how I wish we were just leaving, though, it wasn't exactly easy... Don't think [ll get up for a month... Good 'ole shower here I come!" He had disappeared around the corner and I knew I'd had it. That was all—the only report I would get of a whole trip. He looked thin and parched and I longed to comfort him. He must have lost pounds! I followed him into the house and automatically turned to the refrigerator. 278 Looking at him now, the picture of health munching on a cookie, I decided he had recuperated completely. A brief knock turned our attention to the back door. Craig had already stuck his head inside. "Anybody home?" "Come on in," Dave invited, "Tl bet you're after a fishing reel, hunting knife, and mess kit! Just thought maybe I could stall around until you came." "That's what I figured, and I hated letting you get the best of me, but my uncle is in town and wants the stuff to go fishing." | | ave wiped his mouth on his sleeve and pushed back the chair. "Have some cookies while I go unload my pack and find it. They're great while they're still warm." I smiled my approval and indicated a chair at the table. "How about some milk with them?" "Don't mind if I do... Thanks, they smell great!" I poured the milk and then picked up a potato to peel. "Hey, that was really a close one Dave had, wasn't it?" Craig said, taking a big swallow. "Guess you feel pretty lucky he's even here." I looked at him curiously. "Close one?" "You mean he didn't even tell you about that hairy ordeal on the river? What a jerk! Just like me, though, hate to make a big deal out of anything." A chill gripped me! So, the nightmares hadn't been' unfounded. "What happened?" I asked struggling for composure. "Well, it was sure sweaty! I still get shook up when I think about it! We were going down the river in a swift current—you know—really swift — when we hit some rapids. It was pretty rough and a kid's canoe turned over in the banging around. He tried to grab onto a rock, but the rushing water took him on over the falls. When we could see he was having a struggle, Dave worked his way down and went in after him. I'll tell you, that took guts... The rest of us were afraid! Well, anyway, pretty soon the kid made it to the bank with the help of his lifejacket, but, golly, Dave was no place to be seen. His life-jacket had been ripped off by the sharp rocks and the falling water kept forcing him under!" I dug deep into the potato and gripped it tighter. "How long was he down there?" "Seemed forever to us, I'll tell you! We started going in to look for him, but the water was so swift it smashed us on the rocks and we had to pull out in a few seconds." He took another swallow of milk and I could feel the thump of my pounding heart. "Well, anyway, as you've probably guessed, he didn't drown. One of us finally spotted him going downstream and rushed out to get him. We could hardly believe our eyes! And you know what? I guess you're the one that really saved his life." By this time I had forgotten my reserve and was _ hovering over him eagerly searching his face. "What do you mean?" He shifted his weight uneasily, conscious of my nearness, » "Well... A... When the falling water kept pushing him back under he was getting desperate and almost out of air. He made another try and still another, until his breath was all gone and things started going black. He was scared, really scared, you know, thinking it was the end and all, but right then— it was funny, he said he heard your voice from when he was just a little kid, telling him never to give up—that the time to fight hardest is when you think you're licked. So he made one more desperate lunge and came up just clear of the falls!" My hands were damp and I could feel perspiration dotting my forehead as Dave appeared in the doorway with the borrowed things. Seeming to sense the impact of the moment, he hesitated, appraising the situation. Then he looked deep into my misty eyes and gradually I felt a bond of understanding warmth flow between us—the 279 April 1970 stirring of a realization that our lives were deeply entwined with the years of learning and sharing. The petty slights, my desires for attention, and the daily irritations had dulled my sensitivity to his true worth and goodness. I was housing a precious soul under this roof—a boy who, in the midst of conflict, frustration, and varied forces, was emerging in his own way with courage, solid values, and a strong regard for my teachings—a boy whose very life I had played a part in saving! Craig gave Dave a punch in the ribs and opened the door to leave. "Next time Ill outwait you!" "Don't count on it," Dave called after him and then slouched back down on the chair to reach for another cookie. I handed him the warmest one I could find and picked up his books to carry to the desk. On the way I patted the top of his head. So... There were a few mud clods on the floor, and a couple of shirts to be pressed... What were mothers for, anyway? SARA BROWN NEILSON (author of ''A Place in the Picture,"' Second Prize Story) "The Relief Society Short Story Contest of 1968 inspired my real beginning in writing, and | have found it to be a hobby that offers great challenge and fulfillment. "A Place in the Picture' is my fourth story to be accepted for publication in the past two years, one having appeared in the January 1970 issue of The Improvement Era. "| am a graduate of Utah State University in Logan, and presently serve as Education Counselor in the Pasadena Stake Relief Society presidency. My husband, Keith, serves on the High Council, and we are blessed with three children: Nancy, living in the San Francisco area with her husband David Waldvogel, who attends dental school; Bob, a senior at Brigham Young University, and David, a freshman at BYU. "'Much of the credit for my writing success goes to my wonderful family who have given me warm and meaningful experiences that inspire writing material." IMPROBABILITY You mean to tell me that it's true One day my floors will be Free from sand, spilled milk, and crumbs, From scattered toys? Honestly? No crayon pictures on the wall? No baby bottles? None at all? No frightened cry to waken me? No sticky handprints? Really? No trikes, or bikes, or roller skates? No kiddie quarrels to arbitrate? No Sunday pants with hole in knee? No more mending? Absurdity! No lessons, practice, little league? No crumbs? No sand? No fatigue? No dentists, braces, cavity? Why then, I'd have no family! —Oneita B. Sumsion New Season For Christy @ It was Sunday afternoon and Susan Barnes was walking to church. The day had been perfect, Susan reflected. Everything had gone smoothly and the old house had rung with laughter and happiness. It wasn't often that everyone could be home at the same time, but they had each made a special effort in order to welcome Christy home _ from Europe where she had _ been studying art. Susan enjoyed having her family home and seeing the change in them. Maturity sat well on those who were now parents, and the grandchildren changed with the rapidity that is peculiar to the very young. And yet the biggest change was in Christy! Feeling the need for some quiet time, Susan had left her family preparing for church. Joan B. Kearl Soon they would join her to partake of the sacrament together and listen to Christy who was the speaker this evening. She admired the brilliant splashes of color on the mountains that made such a magnificent backdrop for the old chapel. Lawns, too, were washed with color where leaves had started to feather down into bright heaps. She felt a sense of sadness. This was the end of autumn; the earth was turning toward winter. Slipping quietly into the center of the third row where she would be able to look into Christy's face later, she looked around the empty chapel. Here, too, was evidence of change. Soon they would meet in the 281 April 1970 new building and some of the familiar things had already been moved. The feeling of sadness persisted. Why did things have to end? She wondered. The five days since Christy's return had been hectic. The phone rang constantly, friends dropped in, Christy went out. Never time for mother and daughter 'to have a serious talk in all the hubbub. Susan needed the peace she always felt in the chapel. She needed time to meditate. Now she closed her eyes and let her mind drift back over the twenty years since Christy had arrived at the Barnes home. From the start she had been different from the other six children. Refusing to wait until Susan could get to the hospital, Christy had been born in the big bed at home. And this had seemed to set the pattern for her life—impatient, impulsive, independent. Susan remembered vividly the little girl who insisted, "Mama, Christy do. Me dress me." And it hadn't taken long before she had mastered the art. She loved nursery school and kindergarten, her quicksilver mind absorbing everything. The years from diapers to high school had flown by in a mixture of short and long, long and short, that included everything from lmbs to hair, dresses to telephone calls. Name the skill or talent and Christy had it. She had been loved, trained, and exhibited by her family since she first rolled over from her round little tummy onto her back. Susan remembered the first 282 time she had been afraid. Christy made the honor roll in high school without even trying, and then Susan realized that things came too easily for her daughter. Whatever it was Christy wanted, Christy got. There had never been a time when she'd had to sacrifice or do without in her whole life. How could she learn to give of herself or really care about others this way? Bob's death had been a test. He and Christy had always delighted in each other. At the hospital he had explained, as only he could, all of Christy's heartrending "why's." Now Susan felt her throat tighten as she remembered Christy's _ bright head on the pillow beside her father's bandage-swathed one. She had gone to the window and turned her back because it was nearly more than she could bear to watch them. "Kitten," Bob's voice was soft but Susan could still hear the words. "Kitten, your mother made a heaven on earth for me. Choose your partner wisely when your time comes." His voice grew weaker. "Remember, this.... Life isn't the end for us." Christy was grief ~stricken after the funeral. For days she refused to see her friends, answering the phone. She grew peaked and pale. Susan was grateful when Christy made a great effort and slowly pulled herself together, but it was a long time before things were back to normal. And then one day Christy brought Don Taylor home to meet her mother. Susan had known, just from the way Christy looked, that Don was special. He not even - came from a wealthy Philadelphia family, his manners were charming, and he was devoted to Christy. The two young people spent all their spare time together and Susan was happy with the way things were going. That is, until she found out that Don wasn't a member of the Church. She cautioned Christy to go slowly, emphasizing the importance of temple marriage. "Don't worry, Mom," Christy said, putting her arm around Susan's shoulders. "Don loves me and I know he'll join the Church for me." Susan was shocked. "Darling," she said, "when he joins the Church it must be because he knows it is true, and for that reason only." A New Season for Christy But Christy had already made her plans. A few nights later, when she went to say goodnight after a date, she held out her left hand to show the beautiful diamond that sparkled on her third finger. "We're going to be married in six weeks, Mom. Not a very big wedding. Mostly family and close friends. We're going to phone the Taylors in the morning." Susan felt the bitter taste of panic rising in her throat. Impulsive, independent, impatient Christy. So young, so sure of herself. "Yes, your ring is_ lovely, dear." She tried to keep her voice steady. "I know you're excited, but you have got to get some sleep now." Reaching for her robe April 1970 and _ slippers, Susan couldn't remember when she had felt so cold. "I'll fix you a glass of warm milk to help you relax. You get ready for bed and I'll bring it in to you." After she kissed Christy, Susan lay wide awake in the big bed. Never before had it seemed so empty. Never before had she needed Bob so much. Slipping to her knees she poured out her doubts and fears to the Lord, praying long and earnestly for courage and wisdom. Finally, exhausted and cold, but without the earlier feeling of panic, she returned to her bed. In the early hours of morning she drifted into sleep. The next few days she talked with Christy many times, but always the answer was the same— 'We love each other and want to be married now." Once Christy even accused her of "wanting to hang on to me." Seeing the hurt look on Susan's face, she had apologized immediately. "I'm sorry, Mother. I didn't mean that." "All I'm asking is that you wait a little while. Until you know each other better," Susan said. "If you really love each other it isn't necessary to rush into marriage. True love lasts." But Christy existed in a romantic haze all her own, impervious to the outside world. "I can convert Don after we're married and we can still go to the temple, Mom," she said. "Don't worry so much. Everything will work out just fine. It always does." But Susan couldn't share her daughter's optimism. "Christy," she said, "will you 284 fast and pray with me tomorrow? Please, dear. Let us take this to the Lord." And because Christy loved her mother and had never been willfully disobedient, she agreed. "The following night Susan awakened from the first real sleep she'd had in_ several nights. Christy was standing by the bed. "What is it, dear?" Susan turned on the light. "Are you all right?" "Something woke me up. And it wasn't a dream." Christy's face was pale in the soft lamplight. "Get under the covers with me for a minute." Susan saw that Christy was shivering. "There, that's better. Do you want to talk about it?" "Someone was calling me. It was a woman's voice and she spoke a foreign language, but I knew she was saying that she needed me. At first I thought it was a dream and tried to go back to sleep. But, Mother, the same thing happened again twice more. Just that voice calling to me for help." "Were you afraid, Christy?" "No, I wasn't. It didn't give me a_ bad feeling." Christy's voice was filled with awe. "What do you think it means?" "T don't know, but we could ask the Lord." "That is what I wanted you to say, Mother. Will you ask him?" "No, I don't think that would be right. The voice called you, but we will kneel together." The two heads were. Bowed for a long time but when they finally got back into bed the only answer they received was a feeling of peace and calm. They slept within a few minutes. Susan opened her eyes to find Christy, propped up on one arm, looking at her. "IT. Love you, Mother," she said. Leaning forward, she kissed Susan's cheek. "I'm sure the Lord answered our prayers last night. Several days ago you said if I went to Europe for six months you would not oppose any plans I made on my return. Well, that is what I'm going to do." She plumped the pillows behind her back. "It isn't what I want to do. I want to stay here and go through with the wedding plans, but I know you are worried about me. I've been lying here thinking it all through. Pll talk with Don first thing and then take the first plane I can get to Rome. The sooner I leave here, the sooner I'll be back." She spoke quietly and matterof-factly. "Any special reason for choosing Rome?" Susan asked. "Well, I have a feeling the voice was calling me in Italian." She smiled self-consciously. "Maybe someone over there does need me. Anyway, I've decided to start there. Good thing my passport is in order." Two days later she was in Rome. The first letters were filled with homesickness and Susan's heart ached for her daughter, but soon they changed as Christy became involved in her studies. Then they changed again as she became involved in people. Susan A New Season for Christy remembered how proud she had been when the letters showed Christy unconsciously filling a mission. She was teaching the gospel to a young couple who became interested after Christy explained why she didn't have wine with her meals. One letter said, "I wanted the missionaries to teach the lessons, but Mario and Elaina wouldn't hear of it. They want me to teach them, Mother." Another letter received a little later said, "Last night I taught them about eternal marriage. They both cried and said it was the most beautiful thing they had ever heard. This morning they came really early and asked me to make arrangements for their baptism. I called the branch president and he is coming over this evening to talk with them. Mother, Elaina has a terminal disease and they want to be together forever. Isn't that wonderful?" There were big blotches on the paper and the ink had run in several places. Susan imagined Christy's tears staining the paper. More letters followed. Mario and Elaina were baptized. They were saving to go to the temple in Switzerland. They were expecting a baby and Elaina's health was improving. Many months later a letter arrived from Switzerland saying, "They were married and sealed in the Swiss Temple today. I drove up with them but, of course, I didn't go into the temple. They are so happy." A baby daughter was born whom they named Christina and called Christy. Two months later Elaina died.: "Mario says they knew she didn't have much 285 April 1970 time, but this isn't the end, just a change for awhile. Mother, that is what Daddy said to me just before he died." A week later Susan received a cable. '""My work done. Elaina doesn't need me any longer. Please meet plane 1.55 P. M. Your time tomorrow. Love Christy." The six months agreed upon had stretched into fifteen! Christy had seen Don every night but no plans were mentioned. Last night when Christy came in to say goodnight she held out a bare left hand. "TI gave the ring back to Don," she said. "But do you mind if we don't talk about it right now?" Susan blinked back tears as she kissed her daughter. She knew Christy would talk about it when she was ready. * * * * * "Grandma, are you sleeping?" Susan opened her eyes to see her little granddaughter looking up into her face. She was surprised to see that the chapel was nearly filled. "No, dear. I'm not sleeping." "Then why were your eyes shut?" "T was thinking, Julie," she answered softly. With an effort she brought her thoughts back to the present and soon Christy stood before them all.. "T want to tell you a story," she said. "One day, soon after I arrived in Rome, I went sightseeing. I rented a little car and managed to get myself hopelessly lost in - all the twists and turns in that great city; When I finally did get -back, I found I had locked the key inside the apartment 286 when I left that morning. It was dark and I was tired and discouraged. As I stood there on the doorstep a young woman asked if I was in trouble and if she could help me. Her English was broken, but we could understand each other. I explained my predicament and she said, 'You wait. I come soon.' In a few minutes she was back with a key and opened the door for me." So that is how she met Elaina, Susan mused. "T thanked her, grateful to go inside and rest," Christy continued. "I was lucky that someone else had a key." "Latter-day Saints are seeking admission into the home of Heavenly Father. Keys are made available to each of us, but sometimes we get lost along the road leading to exaltation. In Rome I had to fight a strange city that seemed to have no traffic laws, an unfamiliar language, and twists and turns that seemed to take me nowhere. As _ Latterday Saints we fight temptation, sin, and weakness all our lives. If we do get off the straight and narrow road it is possible to get back onto it. But what happens if, when we finally stand on the doorstep of our Heavenly Father's house, we find we have no key? No one else can open that door for us. We must have our own key." Christy's voice quivered in earnestness. She leaned on the podium in an effort to get as close as possible to the congregation. "The first principles of the gospel, faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands by those in authority," she con- tinued, "is the key that will gain us admission into the celestial kingdom. "But is that enough for us? No. It certainly is not." The clear voice rose in volume until it filled every part of the silent chapel. "We want to go into the highest degree of that kingdom and become sons and daughters of God, heirs of his kingdom." The congregation. Felt the spirit which flowed from Christy and leaned toward her straining to take the spirit into themselves. Now the words came softly. "For that key we must go to the temple and be married and sealed for time and all eternity." Christy looked into her mother's eyes as she spoke and Susan knew the reason for the broken engagement and silently gave thanks. "The ordinances of the temple," Christy said, "pertain to the celestial kingdom where our Heavenly Father is. Nevertheless, it is given to us to choose and our final destination is our own fault or blessing." With tears streaming down A New Season for Christy her cheeks Christy bore her testimony and the meeting was quickly brought to a close. For several minutes people remained in their seats, as if reluctant to leave the building where they had received a spiritual feast. Susan, too, sat quietly enjoying the great peace that permeated her body. Things had to change if there was to be progress, she reflected. This chapel had served the ward well many years but it could be used for a new purpose in the future. The change from autumn to winter is not sudden. The signs are there if we look. The days grow shorter, nights have a touch of frost, the air becomes crisp and' the leaves change color and fall. Outside, the trees with their branches stark and barren, stretched skyward, awaiting a new season. And this was a new and radiant Christy. A Christy who had finally found her place in life. She, too, had passed into a new season. All this, Susan thought, is a part of living. Nothing really ends, it just grows into something new. JOAN B. KEARL (author of ''A New Season for Christy,'' Third Prize Story) "| feel deeply honored and absolutely delighted to be a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. | had let myself become intimidated by the fact that | had not had a university education. Then | submitted an article to The Improvement Era which was published in June 1969. After the many compliments received on that article, | decided to enter the Relief Society Short Story Contest. | am so happy that | did! "| was born in Cape Town, South Africa, the only member of my family to join the Church. My husband, Ted, is a Canadian and served a mission in New Zealand. Two of our children, Jeri and Gary, were born in Canada, while Keith, our youngest, was born in Provo. We are all active in the Pleasant View Third Ward, East Sharon Stake, Utah. My thanks and appreciation to The Relief Society Magazine for making it possible for my story to be published in such a fine Magazine." 287 Fight CANCER With a Check-up and a Check ANCER SOCIETY Fess Parker, 1970 Crusade Chairman It takes you to fight cancer says the American Cancer Society. 'Fight cancer with a check-up and a check'"' is this year's slogan. An end to cancer is everyone's dream. Make it come true. The dollars you give to the American Cancer Society during the 1970 Crusade work three ways—supporting research, education, and service to the cancer patient. There are 1.5-million Americans alive today, cured of cancer. To help save more, give more. April is Cancer Control Month. One out of four Americans will eventually develop cancer. Thirty years ago, fewer than one in five was being saved from cancer; today the American Cancer Society reports, it is one in three. It could be one in two with early detection and prompt treatment. Help protect yourself against cancer: have an annual health checkup including cancer tests. Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among American men. ''Best tip yet,'' says the American Cancer Society, ''Don't Smoke Cigarettes.''' Women began smoking cigarettes after the First World War. Today we are seeing the results—the lung cancer death rate for women has jumped 400 percent! Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among American women. In the last thirty years, the uterine cancer death rate has been cut by sixty percent, thanks mainly to the Pap test for early detection and to improved treatment. Similar results can be achieved for other forms of cancer. Remember to ask your doctor about a procto as part of a regular health checkup. It is your smartest move against a form of cancer that is most common among both men and women. @ SPRING BOUQUET | received a lovely bouquet; It was delivered early today. And, oh, how it filled my heart with joy. It was only a handful of posies But more precious than a dozen red roses Given to me by my little boy. —Kathleen Fulton e ° w Is there anything more exciting Gifts Designed than a _ three-year-old's birthday Ww ° ° party? What can bring more pleasure ith Little than making a gift for that special..: event? New and clever ideas for such Girls in Mind gifts are not easy to discover. Those Edythe K. Watson, Member | shown in the accompanying pictures General Board of Relief Society were found to be especially appreciated. PHOTOGRAPHY BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Fy 2 3" 3%" TOWEL ROBE The colorful towel robe is made from just one towel. It is a simple "butterfly" pattern with few seams and requiring little sewing. A child would especially enjoy it for after bath drying or as an after-swim robe. The one in the picture was made for a little girl, but with a few minor changes, it could be used for small boys as well. Choose a fringe-edged towel of medium weight, 21 by 45 inches in size. Fold the towel in half, right side out, and mark the center with a pin or tailor tack (221, inches on either side of mark). Bring the two fringed ends together at the center. Fold each end back to a width of 2 inches, including fringe. Place the mght side on top of left side to form the front opening. Pin together until the cutting process is completed. Measure 6 inches from the top on both sides and cut down to make ends of sleeves. At the bottom of the 6-inch cut, measure 3¥, inches toward center front and cut each side carefully. This completes the front part of the sleeve. 290 bottom and larger Part of the towel is Still in One Continuous Piece. ( There are no I e. Ake 5 Pleats from this Material as Shown in diagram, being certain that the Pleats fit the top yoke. Turn to Wrong side and sew together: front Sleeves and underarm to back Sleeves and underarm yoke to Pleated bottom. You May wish to reinforce underarm With a second Stitching. Now Measure jn 7 inches from to and hem. (I used a zigzag Stitch Which Covered the Taw edges. ) Make three by tonholes In the front right Opening, Placing first buttonhole by Inches down from Op of sarment and allowing 3y, inches between each buttonhole. W On the buttons and the robe jg Teady for use. This size towel] Makes a robe to e The little bag hides its rea] identity. It May well be USed as a quiet toy, Serving the same Purpose as the ever-popular quiet book, On folding down the top of the ag, it is transform nto an adorable bassinett tiny dol] nestled Nature Covers Completes thi appeal ng toy. J is Simp] ma nd any litt] gir] Would Ove o Like so Many Intriguing Ideas one discovers at Relief Soci ty homemaking Meetin €se patterns hav een shared fro ard to War e sisters of th Hollada Oa | Ward Member who brought the toy bag to them from San Jose Sixth Ward, San Jose South Stake. It had found its Way there from a Relief Society 8tandmother in Issourj. We are Pleased to pass these Ideas on to you. T ese gifts are another shining example of the true Spirit of Relief Society, Sharing ideas, talents, Sisterhood the 80Spel with €ach other. And 291 April 1970 Container: Yarn: 1 quart or 1 pt. 6 oz. Oval liquid dishwashing detergent bottle Measure 31," up from the bottom. Mark, and cut away and discard top part. Punch about 24 holes around the top edge. (I used a paper punch. The holes were easier to punch after the container had been soaked in hot water.) 4-ply nylon or wool in the colors of your choice. One of the bags pictured is white with blue trim, and the other is pink with white trim. Crochet Hook: H lst row: 2nd row: 2 single crochet in each hole around. Slip stitch into lst. Chain 3. 1 double crochet in each single crochet around. Join. Chain 3. 3rd, 4th, 5th rows: Same as second row. 6th row: 7th row: 8th row: 1 double crochet in same space. Chain 1. 2 double crochet in same space. (Shell made.) Skip 2 double crochet, shell in next double crochet, continue around. Join to top of 3d single crochet. Slip stitch to center of shell, make shell in center of shell of previous round. Continue around. Join. Use contrasting color for trim. Repeat 7th row. Join. Hood for the Bassinet: Turn inside out and down to form the skirt of the bassiCord: Pompon: 292 net. Fasten the end of the yarn to the inside top, near center. Crochet 1 single crochet in next stitch, 17 double crochet in following stitches. 1 single crochet. 1 slip stitch. Chain 1, turn. Slip stitch in single crochet. 1 single crochet. 2 double crochet in next stitch. 1 double crochet in each of next 12 double crochet. 2 double crochet in next stitch. 1 single crochet. 1 slip stitch. Chain 1. Turn. Slip stitch in next 3 stitches. Single crochet in next 8. Double crochet in next 6. Single crochet in next 3. Slip stitch in next 3 and fasten off. Cut yarn (2 pieces) 11/, yards long (do not stretch yarn). Twist or crochet. Thread through lst round of shells coming out on one side. Repeat for the other side. Cut 2 cardboard circles 11, inches in diameter. Cut a hole in the center of these 2 circles '/,-inch in diameter. Cut 2 two-yard lengths of yarn, being careful not to stretch the yarn as you measure. Place cardboard circles together and wind yard around the double circles, drawing yarn through center opening and over edge until wool is used up. Cut yarn around outer edges between circles. Slip the 6-inch length of yarn between the 2 cardboard circles and tie securely around strands of pompon. Remove cardboard circles. Make four pompons. Sew on sides of bassinet and on cord ends. SUNRISE IN LA PAZ * All rosy-pink and charcoal-gray the sky Blent into blue... Such beauty makes one take A moment to give thanks that such as | Was blessed to see ''the peace' of morning break.... Jayne D. Van Epps La Paz, Bolivia *La Paz means ''the peace" in Spanish. Winnifred M. Cannon ~ Reo ee Roll Recipe 1 yeast cake VY ¢, melted butter 1 tbsp. Sugar 34 tsp. Salt lc. Scalded milk 3 well-beaten eggs 2 c. Sugar 3% to 4c. Sifted flour Crumble yeast cake, add 1 tbsp. Sugar and stir until liquid. (| use dry yeast and put it and the sugar in about ' C. Water.) Add milk which has been cooled to jukewarm. Add sugar, butter, salt, and eggs to yeast mixture and mix thoroughly. Add flour enough to make a soft dough, but a dough stiff enough to knead. Beware of getting the dough too stiff, however. (Cover and allow to rise 5 to 6 hours. Can be made the night before and left in the refrigerator or other cool place overnight.) In the morning, place on a bread board and knead a little. To make butter-horn rolls, divide the dough in half and roll each half as nearly round as possible and about VYy-inch thick. Cut as you would a pie into sixteen pieces. Beginning at broad end, roll each section very loosely to small end and pinch end down. Put in buttered tins. Let rise until very light, 4 to 6 hours. Bake in a moderate oven (375°) for about 20 minutes. Yield—32 rolls. Raisin Filling 1% c. Sugar Yq to Y2 C. Chopped raisins melted butter Cut basic dough recipe into halves. Roll each half about 4 inches wide and 15 inches long. Spread with butter, then sprinkle raisins and sugar over the rectangle. Fold over once from each side. Be certain the fold is loose so the rolls can rise freely. Cut each half into 16 slices. Place cut side down in buttered muffin tins into which Y teaspoon of butter has been added. Allow to rise 5 to 6 hours. Bake about 20 minutes at 375° F. While hot, spread with icing made by combining 1 ¢. Powdered sugar, 2 tsp. Boiling water, and 1 tsp. Almond extract. WHICH IS WHICH? | made a special kind of quilt To use up scraps, and fill a need; They go together, hit or miss, And color schemes | do not heed. Some blocks are pretty, | am pleased, And some are madly wry, So shall | laugh, or throw them out, And who is crazy, the quilt or \? —Ethel H. Harp 293 It may have been a summer sunset, a moon-drenched night, a recent frolicking. It may have been a moment of music of such Sweetness and poignancy that one's heart wept a little even as it thrilled to its spell. For everyone there is that moment that neither time nor succeeding experiences can ever dim or erase. It may steal upon your conshone like new copper pennies. Everywhere there was a brightness, a cleanness, a Sweetness that had not been there before. 294 ——_—__ Never an April Comes Now, run out and play," she looked at me thoughtfully and said, "Now, what would you like to do, dear?" swam. Suddenly, I flung myself face downward in that fragrant bed. I wanted to cry, and yet I knew J was happier than [| had ever been. How long I lay in that SWweet-scented spot, I do not know. It 295 ee ee Ne DE Se e F ~ bt See Cs es PS= == SALVA DOR ear => = Tamales From Guatemala Maria C. De Illescas, Guatemala Y% lb. Rice 1 Ib. Corn flour salt to taste 12 ozs. Shortening 1 oz. Crude (brown) sugar 1 dried chili 1 oz. Sesame seeds cinnamon to taste 1% lb. Can tomato sauce '% |b. Tomatoes 1 2-Ib. Cooked chicken corn leaves 1 small bottle pimento (2 oz.) olives Cook rice in double boiler in enough water to keep kernels well covered and soft. Whirl in electric blender or beat and mash until rice becomes liquid. Sitt corn flour and salt, cut in shortening, and add enough water to make a soft dough. Sauté in oil, the crude sugar, dried chili, sesame seed, cinnamon, and tomatoes until this mixture becomes liquid. Add tomato sauce and rice. Remove bones and cut chicken into 20 pieces. Soak corn leaves in water and then cut the ends off. Place a large spoonful of dough on the leaf and spread over half of the leaf. Spoon on a portion of the tomato and rice mixture and put it in a piece of chicken. Bring up the end of the corn leaf that is not covered with dough, and wrap it around the mixture until it is covered. Before closing it, add pimento and 2 olives to each tamale for adornment. Cook covered in a small amount of water for two hours. Makes 20 tamales. 296 BARBARA'S MORNING She leans to windows of a year-old world, Tiptoe to reach the sill that she may see Beyond where all the little roads are curled Across the morning hills, a place that she ls learning, leaf by leaf and bird by bird, Until the land shrinks small enough to hold. The heavens sing one note that she has heard; The sun becomes one drop of yellow gold. Mine is a giant world, my clouds too high, And when | call, the sparrows do not come. She lifts her hands and cups the summer sky, And finds that she can bounce it on a thumb. —Betty W. Madsen Mae R. Winters @ Spring was coming, not too soon to be sure, but the days were getting longer and we didn't have to go to school in the dark. One Saturday afternoon Mama decided it was time to get out the seed catalogues and send for the seeds and plants for the garden. These books had begun to arrive at our house soon after the Christmas mail. We often turned their pages and wished we had a garden of such beautiful flowers and weed-free vegetables. Despite all of our efforts, our garden and flower beds did not turn out so well. Papa and Mama were seated and we children stood behind and helped to choose and point as each page came into view. How good the pictures of the red radishes, green peas, and huge heads of cabbages looked. The irises and roses were something to behold, but did not hold our interest too long. A garden came first because it provided food for the large family that was ours. Papa suggested that along with seeds we should have red currants and gooseberry bushes. Then he turned the page and we saw the apples. Baskets and boxes of red and golden apples, some pictured hanging from the trees in beautiful perfection. It was just too much. "Mama, do you think that we could try an apple tree or two?" he asked. "Well," Mama was hesitant, "perhaps a Yellow Transparent or a Winesap would mature and not freeze in our short season," she answered. She went on as if she, too, had been compelled by 297 April 1970 the display of apples in the seed books. "Let us send for six apple trees." The decision seemed to be final as decisions Mama made generally were. The order blank was filled in carefully and completely, the check made out and enclosed. Tom and I carried the letter to the mailbox to be picked up by the mail carrier the next day. The instructions had stated that the trees would arrive at the proper planting time. I really didn't know just what planting time they had reference to. I guess it meant Salt Lake Valley or Utah County, not up north where we lived. When the apple trees arrived by parcel post there was an inch or two of snow on the ground. A bitter cold wind was blowing from the very tops of the snowcapped mountains. Plant trees in this weather? The package was carried into the house and opened by the warmth of the kitchen. Brown limbs with a few scrawny roots at the bottom were a far cry from the pictures in the nursery books. Mama looked a little dejected. She read the paper enclosed in the package. If ground and weather conditions were not suitable for planting, the plants were to be put in a cool place in water until weather permitted planting. They stayed in our basement in a tub of water for three weeks. Then Mama decided, hot or cold, the trees must be put in the earth. Planting the trees was a ceremony in itself. All members of the family old enough to be out- 298 side took part. Papa went first with the shovel. The ground was still hard with frost, and it was no easy task to dig the holes. Papa dug, Mama followed with plants. Tom carried a bucket of water and poured a little into each hole. Papa shoveled the hard dirt back into the hole and firmed it gently around the tender roots. The children watched and surveyed the project. An irregular line of six apple trees was soon plainly visible. Warm weather and spring came to our valley. How good it was to open the kitchen door and let the clean, warm air in. The little ones, no longer under foot, were happy to play out of doors. If we children had forgotten about our apple orchard, Mama and Papa had not. Every few days they would go out to the trees and examine each one for any signs of growth. Several weeks passed, and then little green shoots were visible coming out along the brown stems of four of them. Two looked dead and they were. The remaining little trees put on good growth that summer and by fall were healthy looking. We learned from a neighbor who had lived for a time in Washington where apple raising was a business, that it took four or five years to produce fruit. We children lost interest. Green peas in pods and crisp sweet carrots claimed our attention. The summers came and went. Two more prize trees were killed by animals. Just two remained to remind us of our venture. It happened the last of May just before Memorial Day! Pink and white blossoms came out on each twig and stem of the two trees. They were beautiful to behold after a long cold winter. It seemed as if they had come to tell us that spring had come again. The trees were small but indeed, "popcorn on the apple tree." I asked Mama if we could pick a bouquet for grandma's grave. She replied, "No, each flower means an apple. Grandma would understand." On Memorial Day a cold wind blew from the north. That night Papa built a fire in the new fireplace to warm us up after our trip to the cemetery. No doubt about it there was going to be a frost. We would go out and cover the precious trees with blankets. Tom and I knew who the "we" meant, so we put on our coats, scarves, and gloves. As we stepped out into the cold wind it seemed to pierce our very bones. Papa said, "We may as well go back to the house. A few blankets will not keep out this frost." "We can try," urged Mama. She kept right on going to the garden, the blankets dragging behind. Papa, Tom, and I tried to keep up with her. There was no stopping Mama when she decided. We followed behind, freezing as we went. The experience of trying to drape blankets around a tree with the wind blowing a fortymile gale, with hands and face freezing until they were numb, is a never to be forgotten one. The blankets couldn't be adjusted or made to stay in place. We did the best we could. Papa shook his head as we went back to the house and fire, muttering along the way, "Won't do a bit of good." The following morning, along with other perishable crops, the blossoms on our trees were frozen stiff. The sun came out and they all turned brown and dropped off. "Maybe next year things will be different,"' Papa said. It is the hope of another year that keeps farmers from giving up. "Yes," Mama spoke _reassuringly, "let us not complain, we have so many things for which to be grateful." Mama was like that, always looking on the bright side, giving 299 April 1970 comfort especially where Papa was concerned. It could be a pan of apples, a field of grain destroyed or a drop in the price of eggs. She would give Papa a pat on the back and with a sweet smile say, "Our children are healthy and strong and we have many of them to bless us. We will manage." The following spring was a wonderful warm season. The sun came out bright melting the snow from the nearby mountains. Water ran in little rivulets into the yard and down the path and the roads. We picked buttercups on our way home from school. One day we saw a robin and stopped to watch her pull a big fat worm from the earth. The apple trees were again white and pink in their new spring dresses edged in gay green. It did not freeze. By the end of July little green apples hung from every twig and. Branch of the apple trees. When they were no larger than marbles Tom and I took a salt shaker out under the trees to sample a few. Mama didn't let on that she knew. They were sour and hard, but witha generous amount of salt sprinkled on each bite no one complained of a stomach-ache. They came from our very own trees and how we did enjoy them! The apples grew and Mama thought we could pick a panful for apple dumplings. Mama's apple dumplings made from green apples were a long-remembered treat. Each piece of rich dough would be rolled thin as paper and as large as your hand extended wide from the little finger to the thumb measured on the dough 300 itself. The apples were peeled, quartered, and sliced, then mixed with sugar and cinnamon. A generous amount of butter went into the center of each square of dough, along with the apple mixture. The corners of the dough were pulled together around the filling and dropped into hot water and cooked until fluffy and tender. Served with cream, they were a dish fit for the table of a — king. Pie for Sunday dinner came from another pan of apples. Fresh applesauce was the treat on another occasion. It was time to harvest our crop, that is, what there was left of it. Each golden apple was picked as carefully as if it had been an egg and laid in a box. I was sent to the house for a pan. Soon I found out why. "Carry these to widow Taylor," Mama directed. Off went one of the boys with the fruit and returned with the empty pan. Once again it was filled. "These go over to Martha's and Will's house," said Mama. Tom ran to our neighbor on the north and returned again with the empty pan. When four such trips had been made, I opened my mouth to object. "Five years. For apples and give them away?" "Hush," chided mama. "Think of the fine meals we have had already, waiting for them to ripen." "There is such satisfaction in growing one's food," spoke Mama as we carried one last pan of apples to the house. "We shall invite Ed and Mary over for Sunday dinner and have apple pie." Mama's voice was happy. Papa followed her in. Hobby Feature R S _—_—e ' 5 é on wht a Vilate Allen Crow, Ammon Ward, Ammon Stake Relief Society, Idaho, has brought joy to many through her handwork. Although quilting is her favorite pastime, she also does beautiful crocheting and embroidering. Sister Crow has donated countless quilts to Relief Society bazaars, and her intricate crocheted tablecloths and bedspreads have caught many an eye. She has served as quilting chairman in Relief Society, helping many others to learn this art. Sister Crow is the mother of eight children, she has twenty-three grandchildren and five great grandchildren, in whom she takes great delight. Oral Se Clara Lewis Hall, McCammon Ward, Portneuf Stake, Idaho, has used her writing talent to enrich the lives of her many friends and family members, as well as to contribute to the community and to the Church building funds. A beautifully written history of McCammon, complete with pictures, was researched and compiled by Sister Hall. The bishopric sponsored the publication, and proceeds went toward furnishing an organ for the chapel. She has fifty volumes of her work to be passed on to her family. Her writing includes family histories, poems, words to songs, and religious pageants. In addition to her writing, Sister Hall has made lovely quilts for each of her nine children, all of her grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and is currently making them for her eight great-great grandchildren. I She has served for sixty-seven years as a visiting teacher, and has achieved 100 per cent during this current year and many other times. 301 Chapter 4 @® In the middle of the week Ruth Johnson called Jerusha tu invite her to a quilting at her home. "A very special niece of mine, who teaches school in California has consented to Spend the remainder of her vacation with us, and I thought it would be a g00d chance for her to get acquainted with some of my friends." Jerusha glowed with pleas- 302 ure. "IT am so happy you'd include me," she Said. "I'q just love to come." And then something Popped into her head. "And I'd love to bring a pan of fresh gingerbread with some Whipping cream for lunch. I've been feeding it to the family, and they love it." "Wonderful!" might have known you'd come up with something." day of the quilting Jerusha made two pans of gingerpread, one for the family, and one for the party. She left her best wishes with Suzey. "tll do you good to be on your own once in awhile with just your family," she said. "Maybe you could put the hem in your dress we just finished. It's all measured, you know." She kissed Amy and promised to tell her an extra long story at bedtime, waved at Dennis working in the yard where he had promised to trim the grass around. The edge of the flower beds, and stole a sigh-laden glance at young Joe driving a tractor into the field. "Take the car," Paul said before he left for work. "There's no need of your having people pick you up everywhere you go." eJ erusha fit in with her new friends as though she had always belonged. And she was delighted with the niece, Lynn Barlow. She was a friendly person with brown waving hair and wide gray eyes that sparkled with vitality. Years of teaching English to eighth and ninth graders had given her a world of experience to share. She had escapades to tell of so many Marys and Johnnies that she kept the ladies pleasantly entertained more than her share of the time. "They're all so different," she said, "and yet so much alike. Each one can come up with a new angle to try you. And yet they are all youngsters wanting love and acceptance. Just like my prize, Craig. He did things all winter to exasperate me— Jerusha Spends the Night thumbtacks in my chair, hiding erasers, and teasing everyone around him. And yet on the last day of school here he comes with a note asking forgiveness for all the trouble he'd caused and wanting me to tell him all about the 'Badlands' of Utah next year. So I have to take a trip to the 'Badlands' while I'm here just so I can have something to hang over Craig's head because I'm sure to get him in my room next year." Jerusha found herself wondering ironically if she took a trip to the 'Badlands' if she could hang it over Joe's head some way to make him accept her. Exploring another angle of such 4 situation, she remarked, "It's wise you didn't invite him to come with you on such an eXcursion. He might have decided to push you over. - - s "Qyer Dead Horse Point?" Lynn laughed contagiously. "And all the time he'd really not want to break my poor body in pieces on the rocks." Jerusha made a mental comparative analysis and decided Joe didn't fit in Craig's classification because he'd_ probably like to break her into bits with no reservation. Lunch was delightful. Everyone enjoyed the gingerbread. Lynn insisted on having the recipe, but wheels were turning in Jerusha's head. She had a better idea. "ll tell you what," she said, "you come out to the Wilsons' farm and have dinner with us, and I'll let you make the gingerbread just to make sure you give it the right touch under the tutorship of an expert." "Why, how nice!" Lynn said. 303 April 1970 "T'd love to. Just name the day." "T'll call you," Jerusha promised, making a mental note to be sure it would be on a day when Paul Wilson would be at the dinner table and not somewhere else on business or to a church meeting., Ruth saw Jerusha to her car. Jerusha climbed in and perched herself atop the sofa pillow. She turned then with her tongue in her cheek and met Ruth's accusing smile. "Your niece is a right interesting person," she said innocently. "How come she's never married yet? Not that she's old and dried up lke me, but "She's twenty-eight," Ruth said. "And she's just never found the right one, I guess. What else?" "Oh, nothing, nothing," Jerusha said nonchalantly. "T know you have some ideas," Ruth laughed. "Well," Jerusha said, with her foot stretched to reach the starter, "get on the band wagon. Maybe we could make beautiful music together." "I've invited a guest to dinner some evening,' Jerusha announced at the breakfast table the morning after the quilting. "A niece of the Johnsons who's spending the remainder of her summer vacation with them." She was conscious of Joe's scowl of disapproval, but she continued as though he had simply smiled at her. "She teaches English in California, and she is a very interesting person." "Maybe I can learn a few things about English," Suzey laughed. "It's my hardest subject." 304 "Most likely she'll correct everything you say, till you don't dare talk," Joe offered. "That's the way English teachers do." "Oh, I don't believe it would be that bad, Joe," Mr. Wilson said. "I think it's a nice gesture to make her feel at home in the ward. We'll be glad to have her come, Jerusha." "Thank you," she said. "Now, how about the day? This is a family invitation, you know. How would next Wednesday be for everybody? I know Suzey goes to MIA camp the next week, so this week should do for her." Paul thought a minute. "That's fine with me," he said and looked at Joe sitting glumly silent. "How about you, Joe?" "Does it matter?" he answered with his eyes glued on his plate. "Joe!" Paul said rather sternly, concern on his face. Joe looked up _ fleetingly. "Okay," he mumbled. '"What'll we have for dessert?" Dennis asked, particular days not mattering to him as long as they held something good to eat. "Gingerbread," Jerusha said. "She wants to try out the recipe herself." "Um-um." Dennis smacked his lips. "I hope she makes it as good as you do." "I'm going to stand right over her with a whip while she does it," Jerusha laughed. "It'll probably be better than when I do it alone." When Wednesday came, everyone seemed particularly solicitous but Joe, who kept his usual distance. Paul. Suggested sending a sandwich with Joe and him for lunch and promised not to keep dinner waiting. Suzey, always willing, was particularly anxious to help. With Jerusha's instructions she made a lovely set salad and decorated it with mint leaves and maraschino cherries Jerusha had made from the cherry tree in the orchard. Amy, sensing something special in the air, stayed even closer to Jerusha. Dennis came from the ridge in the field where Paul had sent him to check on the' prairie dog traps, carrying an armful of bluebells sprinkled with yellow stinkweed flowers. Which made - Suzey cover her mouth with her hand to keep from laughing. Jerusha gave her a silencing wink. "Wonderful!" she said, be- - stowing an extravagant smile on Dennis. "You remembered we needed flowers for the table on special occasions." Dennis grinned. She handed him a pair of kitchen shears. "Now, why don't you find me some fresh parsley for the roast." "The bluebells will. Be lovely," Jerusha said after he was gone, as she arranged them in a vase, sorting out the others. "We'll just substitute a few of those late yellow roses for the stinkweeds and Dennis won't know the difference." In the afternoon the guest arrived. She stepped lithely from her car, wearing a cool flowered dress with a white ruffly apron. She looked fresh and alive as Jerusha met her at the door. "Well, here I am," she anJerusha Spends the Night nounced enthusiastically. "The Gingerbread Woman instead of the Gingerbread Man, all ready to run away into a bowl of molasses and ginger." Dennis, standing by with big eyes and ears, snickered and ducked his head. "It's all ready for you," Jerusha assured her, "and young Dennis here has you on probation, so it had better be good." Lynn walked over, put her arm playfully around his neck and whirled him around. "Oh, so you have, have you! Well, let me assure you, young man, this gingerbread will be so_ good, you'll never allow Jerusha to make it any more. You'll be sending clear to California for me!" "T hope so," Jerusha remarked with her back to them so they did not hear.: Bana so the gingerbread got on its way with joviality and fun. Suzey was the age of scores of young girls Lynn had taught, so Lynn knew just how to make her feel at home. It was no time at all until they were chatting freely. Dennis, whose nonchalant style nobody ruffled, watched the procedure with a growing appetite. And once when nobody saw but Jerusha who pretended she didn't, he swiped his finger through the dough and stuck it into his mouth. But Amy, having refused to be cajoled in any way by the visitor, slipped away with her doll, even forsaking Jerusha. Near dinnertime Paul and Joe came from the field. Watching through the window, Jerusha wondered just what Joe would do. But he came in with his 305 April 1970 father. She had half expected him to be missing for dinner. But she understood Paul's concern about Joe. He had mentioned it to her. "I don't know what's got into him," he said. "He never used to be like this." Lynn was standing by the cupboard counter cutting the warm gingerbread into squares when they came in. The sun through the window was shining on her hair, making it glisten with soft mellow lights. She turned, and her wide gray eyes sparkled with friendliness. "Miss Lynn Barlow," Jerusha began, thinking she was as excited herself as if she had swallowed a jumping-jack, "I want you to meet Paul Wilson and his son Joe." Paul smiled cordially and put out his hand. "We are very happy to have you, Miss Barlow," he said. She took it gracefully. "I always make myself at home," 306 she said with a glance at her apron. And then she turned to Joe standing glumly silent. She looked appraisingly up and down his physique. "Basketball, football, or track?" she asked pleasantly. He hesitated a minute. "What makes you think I do any of them?" She laughed, an easy pleasant laugh. "Oh, just the law of all young men," she said. "They nearly all try one or the other or all three. Some of them can't keep the training, or the grades, but they all want to." Jerusha felt more than she saw Joe's quick glance in her direction. But she made no sign of concern. "T guess I like football," Joe said. And then he added defensively, '""And I don't like English." Paul turned to him quickly. But Lynn didn't seem to mind at all. She laughed again. "No, I don't suppose so," she _ said casually. "Most boys don't. To them a verb is just some outlandish bug-a-boo that nobody needs." "That's right," he said, "What good are they?" Lynn shrugged. "Oh, let's not get into that now. I'd think I was in the schoolroom, and this is my vacation." Jerusha had been listening with interest. Now she excused herself and went to find Amy. The little girl was sitting on the bench under the willow tree telling her doll a story about a Clackety Man. Seeing her friend, she ran to Jerusha's outstretched arms. Dinner was pleasant and entertaining. They talked about everything from the salad Suzey had decorated so attractively, making her blush with embarrassed pleasure, to football and the "Badlands" of Utah. Jerusha Spends the Night "I wish I could go there," Dennis said, helping himself to another roll and plastering it with butter. "Well, come along," Lynn said, "Join the party." "Honest?" Dennis said, letting his knife slip out of his hand to the floor, "could I?" "Now," Paul answered, embarrassed at his son's forwardness, "T'm sure Miss Barlow was joking. She probably has her trip all planned without a small fry like you to complicate things." "But I won't clom—clomclicate anything," Dennis promised in dead seriousness. "As a matter of fact," Lynn said, laughingly, looking first at Dennis and then at Paul. "I don't even have the party organized yet. I don't see why I couldn't include Dennis. He could just fit in as a piece of chinking in some crack." (To be continued) WHEN CATTLE PASS | hear the cattle coming up the slope; Their placid lowing, the rising cloud of dust. Are sound and scent of summer Rounding the final bend. In my remembering, when harebells bloomed Against the greening banks of warming earth, | opened wide the shutters on my days To all that winged or sang; Yet | could weep for the too early bud Ice sabered, Or broken under snow. |! Am more patient now with sullen moods Of winter loath to leave; For always cattle come in their own time, Finding the narrow hoof-deciphered trails To mountain meadows of a high brief summer— ' And certain is the flowering in. The grass When cattle pass. —Peggy Tangren 307 reid Rom THE FIELD ia Relief Society Activities San Juan Stake (Utah), Moab Ward Presents "Through the Open Door to Relief Society,'' October 1, 1969 Officers of Moab Ward Relief Society, kneeling in front: Erma Jean Brock, Homemaking Counselor; VeLoye DeFriez, President. Seated, left to right: Nadine Stevens, Education Counselor; Donna Duncan, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, left to right: Kay Rich, social relations class leader; Connie Hoggatt, homemaking leader; Deanna Rothwell, cultural refinement class leader; Billie May Olney, visiting teacher message leader; Genevieve Holyoak, organist; Pat Ferguson, chorister. Marian G. Nielson, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Moab Ward Relief Society held a unique fall social to introduce the ward officers to the members. In a white book made by the officers entitled 'Always Busy, Always Happy,' each officer was given a page which she decorated in accordance with her Relief Society responsibilities. 'Each officer and teacher also presented a skit, an original song or verse, or bore her testimony. The ward was gratified by the largest attendance ever to a social." Greensboro Stake (North Carolina) Honors Visiting Teachers, September 13, 1969 Greensboro Stake Relief Society officers, fourth row, beginning ninth from left, left to right: Jessie Roberts, President: Carolyn Oborn, First Counselor; Patricia Higbee, Second Counselor; Ruth Alice Brewer, Magazine representative; second from right: Ara Jean Hiatt, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Roberts reports: 'Our visiting teachers were honored with a special program. A skit written by Sister Ara Jean Hiatt portrayed our attitude toward the call of visiting teaching and the effect it has upon our children. "Special musical numbers and an inspiring talk by Stake President Richard D. Lee highlighted the occasion. 'Forty of our sisters had perfect visiting teaching records this year and were honored. A corsage was given to our eldest visiting teacher, Sister Josie Rippy, eightyfive. We feel that the sisters enjoyed the program and the association one with another." 308 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1970, page 48. Color pictures are not used in this department. Sles F' ¢ ca [er nen Mosmys Busy Mh v 4 April 1970 Pomona Stake (California) Sponsors Quilting Demonstrations at, County Fair September 12-27, 1969 Left to right: Nora Perdue and Atha Abel, of Ontario Second Ward, which provided quilters for this year's demonstration. Marie Thompson, President, Pomona Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For the past three years Pomona Stake has had the privilege of sponsoring a quilting demonstration at the Los Angeles County Fair, said to be the largest county fair in the world. "Under direction of quilting chairman Lenna Jacobs, the sisters quilted from ten A. M. To four P. M. The sisters answered many questions about quilting and told about Relief Society. Five lovely baby quilts were completed. "We feel that this is a very worthwhile project, and a useful missionary tool. We are gratified by the great response given by the sisters in the wards, and they benefit by having the quilts for use at bazaars." Richland Stake (Washington), Kennewick Second Ward Presents Bazaar, November 18, 1969 Left to right: Mary Craven; Erolene Reed; Patty Clifford. Evelyn N. Binns, President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Kennewick Second Ward in our stake presented an outstanding bazaar. The theme for the event was 'Under the Big Top.' The sisters showed great imagination and talent in decorating the hall with circus animals. The center booth for baked goods and candy gave the effect of a big top in bright yellow and orange. All of the booths were decorated to represent a circus wagon."' Evah Brown is president of Kennewick Second Ward Relief Society. Whittier Stake (California) Conducts Campaign For Greater Relief Society Attendance October 1969 Relief Society presidents of wards in Whittier Stake, front row, left to right: Betty Snelson, Seventh Ward; Donna Barnes, Sixth Ward; Bertha Smith, Fourth Ward; Arch J. Haskins, Stake President; Betty Jensen, Third Ward; Rae Miller, Second Ward; Leona Tobias, Fifth Ward. Bishops of the wards, back row, left to right: Paul J. Parish, First Ward; Marvin E. Jacobson, Third Ward; Merril J. Ostler, Seventh Ward; Jack McKeon, Second Ward; Ray A. Sparks, Sixth Ward; Albert Dooley, Fifth Ward; Kenneth Minnis, Fourth Ward. Verena B. Easton, President, Whittier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Attendance at Relief Society meetings throughout the Stake improved greatly since a campaign drive in October through the joint efforts of the Relief Society and priesthood leaders in the stake and wards. "Novel 'Don't Miss It' buttons were worn, and the campaign helped to acquaint ° many sisters and priesthood bearers with the Relief Society program." 310 April 1970 Hunter Stake (Utah), Hunter Sixth Ward Presents Bazaar November 1, 1969 Left to right: Nancy Hancock and Barbara Boynton, who were co-chairmen of the toy booth, along with Adena Rydalch. LuRae B. Garn, President, Hunter Stake Relief Society, reports: "'The Hunter Sixth Ward held a most successful bazaar featuring a great many toys in preparation for the Christmas season. "The most popular toys were the Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy dolls and stuffed animals. Twenty-nine of the Raggedy Ann and Andy sets were sold. They were displayed on a tree, and resembled children playing. "The bazaar was very successful and enjoyable. Susan S. Hutchinson is president of Hunter Sixth Ward Relief Society." Sr Tucson North Stake (Arizona), Tucson First Ward Bazaar 'Expo '69"' Is Successful, November 14, 1969 Veda Anderson, President, Tucson North Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The First Ward in our stake presented a most unique and successful bazaar with the theme 'Expo '69,' representing various countries throughout the world. "A North Pole Christmas booth contained many novel and beautiful gift ideas. A French Boutique Shoppe was the outlet for many lovely gold leafed items, floral arrangements, and decorative wall hangings. "The toy booth (pictured) was called ''Das Kinderhaus'' and the toys sold there were delightful and beautifully made. Other booths containing lovely articles of handwork were popular. "Young and old alike were attracted to the French Pastry Shoppe and the Dutch Chocolate area where candies and other delicacies were sold. It was a great success, attended by many nonmembers. Patricia Christiansen is President of the Tucson First Ward Relief Society.'' North Seattle Stake (Washington) Presents Singing Mothers Concert, July 31, 1969 Front row, left to right: Merla H. Wilkins, First Counselor, North Seattle Stake Relief Society; Wanda B. Bean, President; Esther E. Morrell, Second Counselor; Donna R. Baird, Secretary-Treasurer; Donna Harker, assistant accompanist. Center Front: Mary Lynne Molter, accompanist; at her left: Nell B. Marler, chorus director. Gentleman at right: Maughan McMurdie, guest conductor. Sister Bean reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake presented a concert under the direction of a guest conductor, Maughan McMurdie, formerly associated with the music department at Brigham Young University. This chorus also provided the music for our visiting teacher convention, stake conference, and participated in the stake music festival.'' 312 ROTOR Deri y inp April 1970 Sydney (Australia) Stakes Three Relief Society Presidents—Syaney Stake, Sydney South Stake and the Newly Organized Parramatta Stake, November 2, 1969 Left to right: Mavis Draper, Sydney South Stake; Betty Stokes, Sydney Stake; Jean Hale, Parramatta Stake. Sister Stokes reports: "November 2, 1969 was 4 memorable day for the Sydney, Australia Stakes, for it was the occasion when Elder LeGrand Richards presided at the combined Stake Conference of Sydney Stake and Sydney South Stake at the Sydney Town Hall for the purpose of creating the Parramatta Stake. Our photograph shows the happiness of the three stake Relief Society presidents at the formation of the new Parramatta Stake." Riverton Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert For Visiting Teachers, June 6, 1969 Violet Hamilton, President, Riverton Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our visiting teachers were presented with a lovely concert by 107 Singing Mothers. The theme "When Mothers Sing" was developed through music and a narration written by Beatrice Casper. The singing was conducted by Rosamond Butterfield, stake chorister, and was accompanied on the organ and piano by Betty Peterson and Judy Lloyd. "A special tribute to visiting teachers was written and given by Phyllis Butterfield, stake Secretary: Treasurer. Following the program, 4 juncheon was served by the stake board." Taylor Stake (Alberta, Canada) Sponsors Nursery Seminar November 22, 1969 Vinessa T. Hamilton, President, Taylor Stake Relief Society, reports: "We returned from Relief Society Annual General Conference inspired with the idea of holding a Nursery Seminar. The seminar was planned by Sister Margaret Blumel, who was assisted by various board members. "The nursery class from one of the wards was used to demonstrate the program. Each lesson in the manual was illustrated, and materials and patterns were available to the sisters. Sister Ruth Gibb demonstrated finger plays and rhythm bands. "Al) sisters present were treated to a light lunch prepared and served by the stake board. We feel that this program helped to inspire the nursery leaders and will greatly enhance the teaching of our Relief Society children." 314 POTENT hhihhl Lesson Department LERERSET SLES ERE SES HOMEMAKING * * Development Through & Homemaking Education * Woman's Role in * Family Preparedness } * *K ARK 2 2 2 2K OK KK RK KK KK Discussion 10—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet "|.. Eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste.'' (Prov. 24:13.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1970 Southern Hemisphere: December 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show various uses of wheat, honey, and molasses in cooking. INTRODUCTION There is probably no fragrance more pleasantly nostalgic to any of us than that of freshly baked homemade bread and no combination of foods more satisfying to our taste buds than that of bread and honey. Not only are these foods good to the taste, they are also inexpensive, wholesome, and nutritious. They are highly recommended among the basic foods that we should include in our home storage program. Such phrases as "the staff of life," "wheat for man," "earn our 316 bread," "land of milk and honey," and others are familiar to all of us, and they are indicative of the importance of these foods in our daily diet. Nutritional experts tell us that foods made from wheat contribute about one-fourth of the total energy requirements of the American people and that in some European countries the wheat products are nearly twice as great. Likewise honey and molasses have been used the world over for generations as basic supplements to our nutritional needs. SOME USES OF WHEAT (Wheat may be used whole, cracked, or ground into flour.) 1. Bulgur Recipe 1. Wash wheat in cool water and pour off the water. 2. Add enough water barely to cover wheat and boil until water is absorbed and wheat is tender. (35 to 45 minutes.) 3. Spread wheat thinly in shallow pan or on cookie sheet and dry in 200 degree oven until very dry, so that it will crack easily. 4. Wet surface of dried wheat slightly and rub kernels between hands to loosen and remove chaff. (Very little nutritional value will be lost.) 5. Crack wheat into moderate size pieces using mill or grinder or even mortar and pestle. In some cases the wheat may be left whole to retain a chewy quality. Bulgur can be used in any recipe calling for cracked wheat or bulgur. (A book of bulgur recipes is available on request from Western Regional Research Laboratory, 800 Buchanan Street, Albany, California 94710.) 2. Cracked Wheat Bread (Five loaves.) 5 cups unsifted cracked wheat flour 6 to 7 cups sifted all-purpose flour 2 packages dry yeast 1 cup milk (reconstituted powdered milk may be used) 3, cups warm water 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 4 tsps. Salt 3 tbsp. Sugar (or ¥/, cup honey or molasses) Place dry ingredients together in large pan. Sprinkle yeast over water and add one tablespoon of sugar. (Do not stir.) Then add the milk and shortening and mix with the dry ingredients until the dough leaves the sides of the pan. Knead the dough until smooth. Rub shortening on hands through kneading process as dough will be slightly sticky. Grease top of bread. Cover and let rise in warm place free from drafts. Allow bread to double in bulk. Punch down and let rise again to double. Preheat oven Lesson Department to 400 degrees. Shape each loaf and place in lightly greased bread pans. Cover and let rise until dough reaches top of pans. Bake 40 to 50 minutes. Remove from pans immediately and grease sides and top. Cover completely with towel and invert hot pans on top of each loaf. 3. Whole Wheat Cereal 1 cup clean whole wheat 1 tsp. Salt 2 cups water Put above ingredients into top of double boiler and leave uncovered. Bring water in bottom of boiler to full rolling boil and boil for 15 minutes. Reduce heat to low and let simmer overnight. (Any unused portion can be kept in refrigerator and reheated.) 4. Sprouted Wheat (good source of vitamin C.) Place soft cloth on bottom of tray or cookie sheet. Sprinkle with wheat and cover with another cloth. Keep damp by sprinkling two or three times daily. Set in dark place at about 70 degrees temperature for two to four days. (May be used in stews, soups, salads, casseroles, etc.) Note: All good cookbooks contain recipes using wheat and wheat products. HONEY Honey itself is a nutritious food used as a spread, topping, or confection. It can be used as a substitute for sugar or other sweetener in almost any recipe— in breads, in cakes and cookies, in frostings, fillings, sauces, and dressings, and in puddings and other desserts. Cooked to hard-crack stage and stretched like taffy, with vanilla added, honey makes a delicious old-fashioned candy favorite. 1. Honey Cream Sauce Mix in small saucepan: 2 tbs. Melted butter 2 tsp. Cornstarch ¥, cup honey Cook 5 minutes (for puddings, ice cream topping, etc.) 317 April 1970 2. Pineapple Honey Dressing Mix and shake well: ¥, cup honey /, tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Crushed pineapple (for fruit KSL Radio's Hill Cumorah Tour 16 days departing July 18 and July 25, 1970. $310 per person MOLASSES Molasses has long been a favorite of good cooks for its versatile uses in cookies, candies, popcorn balls, gingerbreads, cakes, and puddings.; 23 Day Tour Y/, cup shortening /, cup brown sugar Add 1 egg slightly beaten pr icgal — S % cup milk 84111 home of radio Sift together and add: 2 cups flour ¥, tsp. Salt Y, tsp. Ginger or cloves ¥, tsp. Cinnamon. Could find the way. 2. Molasses added to milk makes a My sons must go To other sheep NOTES: To let them know! A reliable family wheat mill or grinder is recommended as a valuable addition to our storage program. These are available at various hardware and emergency food supply stores. LEO We have sent three sons— Our blessings manifold— And count it not as sacrifice— This great rejoicing in the fold. —Wilma Morley Despain 318 1/, cup lemon juice salads.) 1. Old-Fashioned Molasses Cookies Set oven at 375 degrees. Cream together: "4 cup — 2 Cup molasses 1 tsp. Baking soda Put spoonfuls on cookie sheet and bake about 10 minutes. Rolled cookies can be made by adding enough more flour (about 1, cup) to handle. Nutritious drink for children. It has been suggested that if a food is to be stored, a taste for that food should be developed before an emergency arises. PL A N N OW including Canada departing July 25, 1970. $438 per person For details, write: Salt Lake City, Utah REFLECTION OF LIGHT: God gave his Son To speed the day— When | in light, Can | do less? He gave the gift to all— Eternal life. +. Can we Do less for him who said— "Here am I, send me!" New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-.55 Zone5 __-_--.75 Zone3 _----60 Zone6 -_-_-.85 Zone4 _..-- 65 Zone7 ~.-_--.95 Zone8__-- - 1.05 a PESERET [Pews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US NORTH PACIFIC COAST TOUR June 11-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR -August 17-30 HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries dames Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 EhencgeN Beckley MUSIC COMPANY ""Singing Mothers"' ""Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 TIME FOR PLANTING Spring is time for planting. Green shoots start, Blossoms line the bough, then Summer gives each time for growing. When autumn comes the corn is high And wears a silken tassel. Apples, grapes and pears Blend brilliant colors With carrots, cabbages and pumpkin. Oh, resplendent autumn saffron, Flame, scarlet and leaf green, From your maturity of fruit And seed we gain—the promise of Another yield, Another spring, Another planting. —Margaret B. Shomaker 319 "_s me ~*~ o*y Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 101 100 98 97 96 95 Mrs. Albertha F. Nielson Hatch Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. Margaret Jane McClure Rainbow Casper, Wyoming Mrs. Mary Ann Chapman Richey Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Claudia Clausen Thompson 'Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alta Spence Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie &. Bedell Banta Sacramento,. California Mrs. Lisania Knight Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Elizabeth F.. Spackman Robinson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lenna Herman Beilke Minneapolis, Minnesota Mrs.. Etlen: M.. Stewart Crittenden San Jose, California ~ Mrs. Anne Astle Reiche 94 93 92 Alameda, California Mrs. Rose'Osburn Sharp 'Klamath Falls, Oregon - Mrs. Margaret: Robson Brown Ogden,: Utah Mrs. Marene Christensen Jensen Orem, Utah Mrs. Emma Stoker Greenwell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann May Arbon Snowville, Utah Mrs. Rada Ann Brady Clement Fairview, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane McBride Cunningham American Fork, Utah 91 90 Mrs. Lyle Young Gates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary M. Frodsham Wade Montierth Lomita, California Mrs. Anna Swope Schow Long Beach, California Mrs. Clara Fothermgham Whitaker Midway, Utah Mrs. Laurel Cameron Worthen Tooele, Utah Mrs. Laura Guymon Brown Huntington, Utah Mrs. JoHannah Nielson Faux Provo, Utah Mrs. Martha Margaret Finch. San Bernardino, California Mrs. Nettie Gregersen Centerfield, Utah 'Mrs. Nellie Dibble Knowlton Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Hulda Larson Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nina: Pearl Ratts Snider Okemah, Oklahoma Mrs. Blanche O. Glazier Tomaskovitz San Mateo, California -Mrs. Edna E. Rawlings Bullock Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs: Boletta C. Thomsen Hepworth Gridley, California Mrs. Elizabeth Fannie Workman Jacobs Casper, Wyoming Mrs. Jorgine Hermansen Johnsen 'Murray, Utah Mrs. Nellie Ellen Lowe Walters Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Burdett Weston Ogden, Utah Mrs. Adrienne Wilson Young Rexburg, Idaho The story of a prophet who lived an intense, active life. Compiled by his son. A warning voice urging LDS members to observe gospel laws if they would gain eternal rewards. This is the first and only time in this dispensation that both a father and son have become president of the Church. These two books were compiled and written by President Joseph Fielding Smith, grandson of Church Patriarch Hyrum Smith, who was a brother of the Prophet Joseph. In The Life of Joseph F. Smith, President + Smith has compiled the speeches of his father along with his early history, which parallels the persecution, early history and growth of the Church. In his youth he was surrounded by a spirit of hate and vile wickedness, yet he grew to become a man of faith, integrity, love and leadership as the sixth president of the Church. $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY Take Heed to Yourselves was written by President Smith as a warning that the time is short in which to prepare for the second coming of the Savior. He writes about timely and vital subjects as he cries repentance, following the Savior's instructions to the original twelve 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me Pees... Copies of 1 — 2 Also include 25¢ for each book ordered to cover handling and mailing. Total Cost $ - 2 5500S SCO Teo| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [_] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 42% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Aprit R. S. Mag. 70 apostles. $4.95 BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!) OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS FREE ] (OR ANY OTHER $3 BOOK) 15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea. 16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7vols 4.50 ea. 17 Discourses of J. Smith 495 18 Highlights in Life VOL. 5 ofPres. McKay 4.95 Robert K. Thomas —McConkie 6.95 20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50 20 MORMON CLASSICS: 'Books that continue to prove their lasting value!' 1. Mission. Bible 15.50 7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95 8. Essentials in Church History 5.95 9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols. 3.25 ea* OTHER SELECTIONS: 21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00% 22. 'Vols.2,3 195 ea* 23. Beginnings— 2. Missionary 10. D&C CommenPearson 2.50 Triple Combo.11.00 tary 4.95 24. Ancient. 3. Marvelous Work 11. Meet the MorApostles 2.95 & Wonder 1.95 mons—Green 2.95* 25. Just a Minute— 4. Jesus the Christ— 12. Discourses of Landau; 5.50 Talmage 2.50* Brigham Young 4.95 26. Prophecies & 5. Articles of Faith 13. Gospel Doctrine Prophetic Promises Talmage 2.95* J. F. Smith 4.95 of D&C 4.95 6. House of the Lord 14. Art of Home *Ideal Free Choices. —Talmage 2.95* Making-Hoole 4.25 (Order Other Books!) Please enrol! Me asa member and send mea free catalog. | agree to return the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the 'Feature Book" for that month. For every $20 of non-discounted books | will receive a FREE BOOK! | am purchasing $4.95 now and will receive a $3 book free for joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ per book ordered. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.) | have enclosed $ ---.------------------ for the following numbered books: ----- or — Print Name:..........22cccccspgeee ceo ee 626 "H"' St. Salt Lake City, Address: _..............----------2--22-2 eee eee cece cece cence ene by Bruce B. Clark Utah 84103 19 Mormon Doctrine City... Se ee... State: _...............--.---- —h——————— § S | SS: =, = 4 or 4 MAY 1970 i;,. ~.. R ' ~—s "* » 4 4 oA} r sen rr I think it is Wonderful to have Such a Way that those Of time to Prepare the Sweet humb "- + Tere is so ere in Fiji, | Ou Ndian sister who Stani. Sure f wonderful lessons. La 'SSionarj found ten years A dna M. Kent, Scondido, Calif Thank YOu for your SUPPort of the Missionary Ork. The little &ems of thought tha read in The Relief Society Magazine €Ncourage and uplift us, Elder Greg LaChem;! Really enjoyed the article o by Edythe K. Wat laska Strain n Sourdough ("'M Son, February ake a New Sta Y Our District Presiden - Wayne Jenkins. I j Wa, the Start w accidentally thrown Ou & home, | asing doctor' he doct a woman, the Alaska had gj ey Were Neighbors j, 10, Miles from the pi the same Strain. It's s Sourdough ace of our first 5 @ small World—| has been, Y sub Or the great enlighten ed. The September er 8e. It gave me at it takes to gaj € Reliet Society Magazj e 969 iSsue Was as a new understan NG of what the 'N eternal life. | Shall never part with my silent friend ag Violet m. Tat ennsauken, World o ation from th Magazine. Through the y it has he Ped me to aron Haxton, heltenham, Victoria, Australia Please se e Th lief Society Magazine. ™ not of your faith, but | do enjoy t Stories, regi S, and ideas €ach month I hay, N readin Mary Beagley's 322 70). While on Ox;! Wish to €xpress 8ratitude for the wo Now the World over Many are 8rateful for th help these lesso Mother, Ouseke ZIN€s, so | am sure On to MY neighb We were 8iven a ul lessons for the Reliet Soc ety ve given r, and has 8iven me 4 desire to read better literature. " Enjoy the Ones of My own Subscription, and | will Pass t nald Fitch, ravis AF Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 324 A Beautifu| Journey Aline R. Pettit 329 Children Grow Up With Poetry May C. Hammond Fiction 334 The Doll of Olden Days Lae J. Littke Cradle Song Phyllis Davidson Whatever Will Become of Rory! Mary Ek Knowles Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 5 Hazel k. Todd Genera] Features 322 From Near and Far 342 Editorial—"Through His Diligence and Obedience" Marianne C. Sharp Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 308 Notes from the Field—Reliet Society Activities 399 Birthday Congratulations The Home—inside and Out 357 Collector's Item, Betty G. Spencer: 358 Vacations Are for Mothers, too, Kathryn & Franks;?, ilius; f f Can Hear the Birds Sing, Lettice oO. Rich; 369 The Nightingale, Delores Arden; 370 One Step At a Time, Judyth s. Peterson: 372 How Many Ways to Stroganoff?, Arlene L. Bascom; 375 Hobby Features—Mattie O. Shurtliff and Jessie Cc. McCabe; 376 The Kranj Wonder, Helen Hinckley; ddy D Lesson Department 394 Homemaking—The Art of Cooking from the Storage Closet (cont.) Celestia J. Taylor anne. 1 i f,;: 385 Children in the Night, Christie Lund Coles; 397 USsy Willows, Ethel Jacobson; 398 | Woutd be Flexible, Beulah H. Sadleir; 39g To My Son, Leaving, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 5, 192: will not be returned unless return Postage is enclosed, Rejected Manuscripts wil| be retained for six Months only. The Magazine is not Fesponsible for UNSOlicited Manuscripts. A BEAUTIFUL: s a result of an emergency telephone call, my _ sister and I, after several hours of flying time, found ourselves walking down the corridor of the San Gabriel Community Hospital to our mother's room. Our brother greeted us. Mother did not know we were there. All night she was restless and occasionally muttered in tones barely audible. Towards morning she started to speak more clearly. As we listened, we could hear the words of the Twentythird Psalm. "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." We leaned over to hear... "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow..." She was repeating the Psalm and it was word perfect. By the time she came to the last line, "I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever," the words were completely understandable. She turned to us and smiled. Her mind seemed to clear. Her eyes brightened. She knew we were with her. As we left the hospital later that day, we were deeply moved. It was the first time in her eighty-eight years that Mother had been seriously ill. The doctors were as surprised as we that she had rallied. As we talked together, my 324 Aline R. Pettit Member, General Board of Relief Society brother, sister, and I, memories of our childhood came flooding back. Paramount in our reminiscences was the awareness of our mother's purity of thought. How typical that she should repeat the Twenty-third Psalm! Vivid in our memories was Mother busying herself about the house reciting a favorite poem or giving a special thought or bit of scripture which especially appealed to her. Mother not only read voraciously, she memorized. As she read she always had pencil and paper nearby, and when she found something that appealed to her, she wrote it down, not to be filed away but to be memorized. As children we were not as enthused as she about "learning things by heart," but nevertheless it was required of us. We did not just wash dishes in our house, we washed dishes and committed to memory the special thought tacked over the sink. The same memorization was required when we ironed. Part of our training in "elocution" involved reciting in front of the mirror in the bathroom so we could master the proper gestures and facial expressions. Mother was active in Relief Society for forty-eight consecutive years. Most of that time she JOURREY taught theology and literature. Teaching meant giving the lesson as outlined, plus memorizing all the scripture or literary works offered. To her it was a sin to read anything from the printed page. And that applied whether she was teaching from Shakespeare, Browning, Longfellow, or James Whitcomb Riley. One of my earliest memories is of Mother reciting Eugene Field's "Little Boy Blue." I remember sitting at her feet with my brother and sister as she spoke softly: The little toy dog is covered with dust, But sturdy and staunch he stands; The little toy soldier is red with rust, And his musket molds in his hands. Time was when the little toy dog was new, And the soldier was passing fair; And that was the time when our Little Boy Blue Kissed them and put them there. We heard the poem many, many times, but we always cried at the last line because the little boy died. Mother's life centered around two great loves: her family and her Relief Society. My father, a native of Huntsville, Utah, a graduate in law from Northwestern University and an adventurer at heart, moved his family from Utah to California Lydia Knudsen Rawson in 1919. It was the era in California when fortunes were made and lost overnight. Father drilled some of the first oil wells in Huntington Beach, California. He bought and sold property along Wilshire Boulevard when it was a small road leading through the wheat fields. He subdivided a large tract of land in the Santa Monica Mountains. Mother, who had never before been out of Utah, felt lost and lonely in this strange land. As.. It turned out, however, it was a happy experience for both of them because in 325 May 1970 California Dad found the adventure he was looking for and Mother found Relief Society. In 1923 the first Los Angeles Stake in California was organized. Mother was one of the original members of the first Stake Relief Society Board. Four years later, Hollywood Stake was created, with Sister Katherine Romney Stewart as_ president and Mother was one of her counselors. For eighteen years these sisters and their board worked tirelessly in establishing the foundation of Relief Society in Southern California. In 1929, when the economic crash occurred, my father lost what he had acquired and developed those first; years in California. It could have been a devastating experience for our family, but our parents believed that staying close to the Lord was more important than riches. "Remember the poem about 'God's Undying Love,'" Mother would say: God hath not promised skies always blue, Flower-strewn pathways all our lives through. God hath not promised sun without rain, Joy without sorrow, peace without pain. But God hath promised strength for the day, Rest for the labor, peace for the way, Grace for the trials, help from above Unfailing sympathy, undying love. (author unknown) Lydia Eetieno poses with por children, Aline, LoRee, and — K. Rawson in 1924. A: he Rikon bast tar Se Mother (Lydia Knudsen) had known hardship before in her life. A daughter of pioneer parents, she was reared in Provo, Utah. Her father, Andrew Knudsen, was eight years old when his parents settled in Provo at the request of Brigham Young. It was a rigorous life. Farming near Utah Lake in the early days meant grubbing willows and back-breaking labor taming the soil before planting could be done. There was always danger of floods. Their pioneer homes were often inadequate protection from the cold winters. When Mother was a little girl, the Andrew Knudsen family moved to a home in the town of Provo, but they still maintained the farm at the Lake. Mother was the oldest girl in a family of seven. There were hard times when her father filled a threeyear mission in his native land of Norway, leaving his wife and family to farm during his absence. There were hard times when Grandma Knudsen suffered poor health after the birth of her last child, and Mother had to leave school and take over the family responsibilities. Mother loved to relate stories of her life as a girl and we were avid listeners. Their farm was three miles from their home. During the summer, Mother often spent the days at the farm cooking for the men. One evening she was riding her bicycle home at dusk. It took a steady hand to keep the bicycle in the wagon ruts on the dirt road. She was concentrating on this feat and failed to notice in the dim light a large bump in the road until she was on top of it. Imagine her shock when the bump turned out A Beautiful Journey to be a cow which rose up in fright and tossed her, bicycle and all, over the fence. Mother's never-failing sense of humor was a great source of strength to her family in those difficult days of the depression. We had no money for travel or vacations or commercial entertainment. Priceless were the evenings when she would entertain us with stories given in "broken English." She mastered the art of mimicking many of the people she had known as a girl. Mother had a great warmth of personality. She showed us how to love, to suffer, to be happy, to laugh at the humorous things in life. With the depression many young people came to California from Utah, Arizona, and Nevada, seeking employment. Wilshire Ward in Los Angeles, our ward, was the center for the Latter-day Saint young people. Our home became a home away from home for many of them. A boy without a job was always welcome to a meal. A young girl not able to pay for her own apartment could stay with us until she found something of her own. Many were amazed that our mother could carry on with so much activity around her all the time. But she loved it. Christmas in the days of our teenage years always brought two new formal dresses under the tree, one for me and one for my sister, who was one year and one day younger than I. The Christmas dance at Wilshire Ward was the highlight of the year, and Mother made sure we always went in new dresses. Sew- 327 May 1970 ing was not easy for her, but determination and love made up for her lack of skill. The finished product was always something beautiful and fun to wear. The M-Men and Gleaners spent weeks planning and decorating for the big Christmas dance. Perhaps this was the reason we enjoyed it to the fullest. To us the hall was a festive fairyland; the waltzes were "heavenly," and our friends the finest in the world. Latter-day Saint standards were faithfully observed. After the dance we usually gathered at our home for Mother's famous chili and beans, hot chocolate, and butter cookies. IVI other was never an onlooker on life. On the contrary she was always in the middle of it. When she was in her late seventies, and alone, my brother built her a lovely little house at the rear of his home. She went there to live, but she refused to settle down to being an old lady. Relief Society in her new ward needed her and she needed them she would say. One day several years after Mother moved to her little home, my sister-in-law found her crumpled on the lawn where she had collapsed while hanging out some clothes. She was hurrying to get her washing done so she could go visiting teaching with her partner. Later, when the doctors examined her at the hospital, she asked: "'Will I be able to go home in a week? I'm scheduled to give a lesson in my Church next Wednesday." She was the visiting teacher 328 message leader at the time. The fact that she was then eightyeight years old, and that perhaps her body was beginning to fail, did not dawn on her. Her illness was more serious than she had thought. Mother will be ninety next July. At the time of my last visit, she was elated because her Camp of the Daughters of the Pioneers had transferred their meeting place to her convalescent home so she could share in the lessons with them. "Can you hear the lessons as they give them, Mother?" I asked. "No, I can't hear them because my hearing is almost gone, but that doesn't matter. You see, I've been asked to give a poem at each meeting and that is such a joy to me." "But, Mother," I said, "how can you read a poem when your eyes are so dim?" I should have known better than to ask that question. "Of course I don't read the poems! One of the ladies here helps me and I memorize them." "You memorize a new poem for each monthly meeting?" "Certainly," she answered. "I surely can't remain here and do nothing!" Bless you, Mother, for making your life a thing of beauty. It is a privilege to hold your hand and know that through you there is a link with a marvelous pioneer heritage. Through you we have seen life lived from barefoot days on sandy country roads to the footprints of man on the moon. It has been a beautiful journey because always you have looked beyond the clouds to see the glory of each sunrise. Children Grow Up With Poetry May C. Hammond Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education Brigham Young University The poet has the child's Sight in his breast And sees all new. Whatever he has viewed He views with the first glory. —Elizabeth Barrett Browning @ The poet and the child have is such an €asy transition from much in common, and only that "Mother Goose" to the delightpoet who can think and feel as_ ful nonsense verse of A. A. Milne a child—who can experience the or Laura E. Richards, or to the wonder and newness of the exmore modern poets who are Perience—only this poet can write writing verse for children. Poetry for children. Luckily we Children also delight in the have many fine poets who possess imaginative quality of poetry. This gift. They delight in the stirring sense Laura E. Richards, herself a of wonder which is often the poet, tells us that poetry is the poet's delight. Niel Armstrong, in child's natura] heritage. She tells a_ television appearance before us that the sense of rhythm Congress, Made the statement makes the earliest appeal and that "mystery and wonder" that this Sense of rhythm if not were the motivating factors that nurtured on rhyme and Song finally led to the landing on the may soon disappear. It is like a moon. Mystery and wonders stimfairy gift, not being used it soon ulate the imagination and are fades away. Essential to all creative effort in Children respond readily to the Sciences as wel] as the arts. Rhyme and rhythm, to "tune There is pleasure and stimulaand runningness." Children also tion, especially for the imaginadelight in words—words that tive child, in something not give Sensory images, color and perfectly comprehended, in Vistas sound, taste and movement. Opening ahead of him waiting Even with little or no underto be explored. The poem "The Standing of the content chilBagpipe Man," b Nancy Byrd dren respond to "Mother Goose," Turner, gives children a feeling SO rich in these qualities. May of wonder. To the question Lamberton Becker insists that "What do you play so queer, children hear the famous rhymes _ so queer?" he answers only, often for the purpose of develop- "But tell me what do you ing these qualities so essential hear?" The children guess and to the enjoyment of poetry. It guess. 329 May 1970 But he never would tell us the name of his tune The funny old bagpipe man.! Walter de la Mare had the ability to evoke this feeling of wonder in children. He was a master of the "unanswered question." His poem "Someone" is a good example. It is always a favorite of young children who never tire of guessing who "came knocking." In children's fresh outlook on life nothing needs to remain commonplace. How much more beautiful wild carrot becomes after one has heard it spoken of as "Queen Anne's Lace."' Never again will it seem just a common weed by the roadside. "The Firefly," by Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, is a poem of pure beauty and wonder and makes this little "bug" also a thing of delight. The poem is typical of this poet's style. THE FIREFLY A little light is going by, Is going up to meet the sky, A little light with wings. I never would have thought of it To have a little bug all lit And made to go on wings." What is poetry? How can we be sure that we are giving the best to our children? Walter de la Mare tells us that only the best of anything is good enough for children. How can we know what is best? Since each person responds to a poem in a different way, perhaps the comments of poets will help us in our understanding. These statements are somewhat illusive but they are interesting. William Rose Benet tells us that poetry is "the quicksilver element in all art." Robert Frost says that a poem "begins in delight and ends in wisdom." Elizabeth Drew speaks of poetry as revealing "not only spiritual values but all values, intellectual, emotional, and sensuous." Our personal reactions vary, but if we are poetry lovers we will confess to some such reactions as those expressed by Emily Dickinson. Speaking of her personal reactions to poetry she tells us that she 'sometimes feels so cold no fire could warm her," and often "as if the top of her head were coming off." In a lovely and illusive definition of poetry Eleanor Farjeon gives us the idea that poetry conveys to our senses the light, the gleam, the scent, and even the sound of things in a way that stirs our emotions. But exactly what is poetry? Who knows? What is poetry? Who knows? Not the rose, but the scent of the rose; Not the sky, but the light in the sky; Not the fly, but the gleam of the fly; Not the sea, but the sound of the sea; Not myself, but what makes me See, hear, and feel something that prose Cannot. And what it is, who knows? "The Bagpipe Man," from Magpie Lane by Nancy Byrd Turner, copyright 1927. Used by permission of Harcourt, Brace and World Inc. "The Firefly," from Under the Tree, by Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, copyright 1922 by B. W. Huebsch Inc. 1940, by The Viking Press. Used by permission. 'Copyright 1938, by Eleanor Farjeon. Renewal 1966, by Gervase Farjeon. From the book Poems for Children by Eleanor Farjeon. Copyright, 1951, by Eleanor Farjeon. Reprinted by permission of J. B. Lippincott Company. 330 There are, however, certain qualities by which we can learn to recognize good poetry. We do not need to remain wholly in the dark. We are indebted to May Hill Arbuthnot (Children and Books)* for these standards for judging poetry: First, does it sing — with good rhythm, true unforced rhymes and a happy compatability of sound and subject? Second, is the diction distinguished—with words that are rich in sensory and connotative meanings, words that are unhackneyed, precise and memorable? Third, does the subject matter of the poem invest the strange or the everyday experiences of life with importance and richer meaning? Children's taste in poetry will improve only if they have repeated experiences with good poetry. This same thing is, of course, true of adults. Walter Barnes (The Children's Poets) tells us that a child should be made to "stand on tiptoe" now: and then, in other words he must reach up for understanding. It is the occasional poem that a child cannot quite understand that will make him stand on tiptoe. Lucky the child who has an understanding adult to help him over the hurdle. If we are concerned with making poetry lovers of our children we will begin early. We will keep in mind that poetry read to the young child should have action and liveliness and should be about things and situations with which he is familiar. Pictures are helpful to complete enjoyment and they should be 4From Children and Books by May visions in 1957, 1964. Used by permission 0 Children Grow Up With Poetry realistic enough for him to understand. They should give added meaning to the poem. As children grow more accustomed to hearing poetry they begin to respond to the lyric in which feeling and emotion play a predominant part. We speak of the lyric poets as "singers of song," the poetry has a song-like quality. Much of the mystery and wonder of our world has been explored by _ these poets. Since many of the poets of childhood have written poetry of the fairy world this is a delightful field to explore. Many of the lovely things of this world we liken to a fairy world. We say of the Temple Square with the lights of Christmas that "it is like a fairyland." Children have keen imaginations and, while perhaps not actually believing in fairies, they delight in poetry which describes this world just over the edge of reality. Young children love the tiny gauze-winged creatures created by Rose Fyleman with whom they can identify themselves. Rose Fyleman solemnly advises children who meet a fairy, "don't run away." Older children will respond to the quite different creatures created by Walter de la Mare. This fine poet is a master at portraying the "wee folk" often grotesque and ugly. His famous "Lob-Lie-by-the-Fire" is described as having "great hands" and "big nose," but he makes up for his ugliness by his goodness—his "great heart" which, — "belies his great nose." This Hill Arbuthnot. Copyright 1947, with ref Scott, Foresman and Company. 331 May 1970 goodness endears him to children. Beginning an early introduction to poetry involves, of course, beginning in the home. Have at hand a book or several books of poems for children. Know where to find quickly a poem to fit an occasion or an experience. Have "in your head" or readily available a poem for that sudden shower or a lovely fall of snow when "fence posts wear marshmallow hats," or when the first daffodil is in bloom with "golden wings and a golden cup." Be prepared for this spontaneous use of poetry, but remember there is such a thing as overdoing it. Plan also for a quiet time to read poetry with children. It may be when seated on mother's or father's lap when all are ready for bed. For Family Home Evening children may choose their favorite poems for an adult to read, or they may contribute the poems they have memorized. Even three-year-olds delight in having a poem to contribute on occasions or special holidays when there is an adult audience ready to listen and give approval. It is surprising how easily young children memorize poetry. Add a few new poems each time to enlarge the horizon. Try many kinds of poetry. Sometimes children are hungry for nonsense and humor. Again they need more serious poetry. Do not ask after reading a poem, "Did you like that?" This too often calls for a negative response. Watch for the signs that show a child's pleasure: a smile or a chuckle, a comment such as, "T like that," or "read it again." Sometimes a certain intentness of feeling is visible but not put into words. Silence after the reading of a poem is one evidence of its success. Sometimes we are silent when we feel most deeply. The child or the adult will acquire good taste in poetry if he encounters good poetry and experiences pleasure in the encounter. The poetry must be fine in content and expression. It must be poetry which in the words of A. A. Milne, "will sing itself into your head and stay there forever." Helping children to acquire a love for poetry is a rewarding experience, rewarding for you and doubly rewarding for your children. Are you taking advantage of the golden opportunity to enrich the lives of your children? BIBLIOGRAPHY There are many fine anthologies available and many books containing the poetry of only one poet. I submit only two anthologies, the poems in each case were selected by experts in this field: Frank, Josette, ed. More Poems to Read to the Very Young, ill. By Dagmar Wilson (Random House). This is an excellent introduction to poetry for the pre-school child. Enjoyed even by three-year-olds because pictures interpret the poems. Arbuthnot, May Hill, ed. Time for Poetry (Scott Foresman, Trade ed. A. Whitman). More than seven hundred poems ranging from "Mother Goose" to T. S. Eliot. An excellent anthology. 332 ARRAYED AS THESE These are the timeless fashions, The ultimate in clothes: The lily's graceful princess gown, The ruffles of the rose. Iris W. Schow PHOTO BY DON KNIGHT The Doll of Olden Days Lael J. Littke @ At first I was pleased when Mama assigned me to be in charge of looking after my little sister Norrie. All of us children were given some particular task to take care of that summer since Mama was so busy with our brand new baby sister, Margie. The boys were to see that the woodbox by the old stove was kept full and, of course, help Dad with the cows and other farm chores. The older girls were each assigned to do something like gather eggs or help with the washing, ironing, and cooking. But Mama said my job was just about the most important of all since I was to be responsible for Norrie. I was flattered that she had such confidence in me. It took me only about four days to realize what a heavy thing responsibility is, especially when it applied to taking care of 334 Norrie. After all, she was a mere four years old while I was just a few weeks short of reaching the exalted age of eight. Our interests were not the same. Very quickly I wearied of reading Mother Goose and playing "RingAround-the-Rosy." And I resented having her tag along after me and my friends when we wanted to do something because she always got tired practically before we started. It wasn't long until my friends Started leaving their plans because blue eyes, "you are a pest. A p-e-s-t. Pest." more," she'd Say. Orrie was a creature of ynrequited, impossible loves, of yellow stray cat who haunted the neighborhood and hissed at her whenever she approached to a slender white stick. But, most of all, Norrie wanted The Doij Of Olden Days to play with My Doll of Olden Days. My Doll of Olden Days was not just an ordinary dol]. In the first place, she Was very old. She ad belonged first to our Grandher more Precious, | never did really play with her— She wasn't that kind of doll. She had a Special place in the glass-fronted Cupboard in the Someone. She had ff lue eyes, and an old-fashioned Painted china face attached to a he had never had a name, She was Simply called, "The Doll D May 1970 cupboard, and, with eyes shining with longing, wish that she could just hold the doll, even for one little tiny minute. Perhaps if she had been my own foreverand-ever doll, I might have let Norrie take her, but since I would have to give her up in two more years I hardened my heart to Norrie's wishing. As my eighth birthday neared, Norrie divided her most fervent yearning between longing to play with the doll and wishing that she, too, were going to be eight so she could be baptized as I was going to be. I paid little attention to her, though, since it was finally my turn to be the center of attention while I descended into the tiled baptismal font and was immersed in water. When the big day came and I stood there dressed in white, shoulder deep in the warm water waiting for the proper words to be said on my head by Dad, the only thing I saw clearly and remembered later was Norrie's face as she sat on a chair by the edge, her eyes huge and glazed over with longing. Later, when it was all over and we were back home playing, she could talk of nothing else but the baptism. "Oh, Kathy," she whispered, "you were beautiful. Kathy, do you think I'll ever be eight so I can wear a white dress and have all my sins washed away?" "Sure you will," I said, "but what sins have you got to be washed away?" She thought for a while, then said, "I expect I'll have some by the time I'm eight." So for the next several days she longed for some sins to have 336 ready to be cleansed from her small soul when she was baptized. One day she asked me if I thought dropping her bread and jam on Mama's best bedspread qualified as a sin, but I told her it was hardly worth mentioning since the bread landed jam side up. As the summer wore on, my tolerance of Norrie wore out. One day, after reciting to her a list of penalities for little girls who didn't do as they were told, I left her alone down by the creek in the lower cow pasture and went off to play with my friends Judy and Shirlene. I didn't stay long because I was uneasy about what Mama would say if Norrie wandered back to the house without me. I heard Norrie screaming as I returned to the creek. She's gone and fallen in and drowned, I thought, breaking into a run. She was in, all right, but she hadn't fallen. She had gone in deliberately. There she stood in the icy water, holding her dripping skirt high and crying. "Come on out," I yelled. "Don't you know better than to go in there?" Norrie just stood there and wept. "Come on out," I repeated. "IT can't find her," Norrie wailed. Apprehension clutched my throat. "Find who?" I managed to say. "The Doll of Olden Days," Norrie cried. "I was baptizing her and I lost her. I'm afraid she's drownded." "Norrie," I yelled. "Norrie, did you take my doll out of the cupboard?" She nodded miserably, her teeth chattering from the chilly water. "I sneaked up and took her," she admitted. I kicked off my shoes and waded into the creek. "Where did you lose her?" I demanded. Norrie pointed. "Oh, Norrie," I cried. "How could you do such a thing?" I grabbed her by the shoulders and shook her. When I let go she fell down, getting the rest of her dress soaked. "I just wanted to _ baptize her," she sobbed. I groaned. "She's probably all the way down to the river by now." But she wasn't. She was caught in a tangle of willows just a few yards from where Norrie lost her. She was soaked and bedraggled, but her paint hadn't yet washed off. "Come on," I said, jerking Norrie from the water. "I'm going to tell Mama." On the way home, through chattering teeth, Norrie asked, "Was that a bad enough sin to have washed away when I'm eight?" "It will take more than being baptized to wash that one away," I said. "Norrie, you stole. Something terrible will happen to you." Norrie looked alarmed. "How terrible?" she whispered. "T don't know," I said, '"'but pretty bad." I knew I was being too hard on her because she had just meant to borrow the doll, not steal her. I was angry, though, and didn't care what I said. But when, a few days later, Norrie came down with a high fever and a hacking The Doll of Olden Days cough I wished I hadn't said it. And when the doctor came and said Norrie had pneumonia, I could have bitten my tongue off altogether. I had known she was susceptible to colds and fevers. I should never have left her alone by the creek where she could get wet — or even drown. Norrie got worse. The day came when she didn't even know any of us, just rambled on about the Doll of Olden Days and how the two of them were going to play in a big room where the floor was soft like clouds and the ceiling was just as blue as the sky. I didn't know the word remorse, but I well knew its meaning. If only I hadn't left Norrie alone that day none of this would have happened. If only I hadn't shaken her she wouldn't have fallen down and got completely wet. If only I hadn't said something terrible would happen to her. I prayed constantly, casting about for bargains I could make with Heavenly Father if only he would let Norrie get well. "Ill watch her every single day without complaining,' I promised. "T'll even let her open all the Mother's Oats boxes to see what kind of dish is inside." I also went to Norrie's bedside and made _ promises. "Norrie," I whispered, "if you'll just get well Tl read Mother Goose all day long if you want." Norrie's eyelids didn't even flicker. Desperately, I promised the ultimate. "Norrie, if you'll just get well Til give you the Doll of Olden Days right now before you're even six." 337 May 1970 Thinking it might do some good to let Norrie know my word was good, I went and got the doll, now dried out and looking not too much worse for her adventure, and put her on the bed. Norrie didn't even know she was there. Oh, why had I been so selfish? I asked myself. Why hadn't I let Norrie hold the doll when she had wanted to so bad? What good was a Doll of Olden Days if my little sister was going to die? She didn't die, though. One day the fever went down and the first thing she saw when she opened her eyes was The Doll of Olden Days. Wrapping her arms tightly around the doll, she smiled and drifted off into normal sleep. I was well pleased with my bargain and vowed to do anything at all that Norrie wanted me to do. I would be her slave and her slightest whim would be my command. As Norrie began to get well, all of us gave her everything she wished for. Dad brought her a kitten. Bill let her play with his jackknife, watching carefully to see that she didn't hurt herself. As soon as she was able to get up, Mavis let her dress up in her prettiest party dress and teeter around on her high heels. Norrie got everything she wanted, but she was never satisfied. She whined and complained and was a regular grouch, not at all like the sweet little girl she had been before the pneumonia. But she continued to improve physically until she looked even better than she had before her illness because she put on a little weight. 338 That was when I began to think about taking back the Doll of Olden Days although I knew Norrie would make a terrible fuss. But the thing was, she didn't appreciate the doll now that she could play with her any time she wanted. She treated her no better than she treated her four other battered dolls. She took to dragging her around by one leg, mindless of the fact that her head bumped along the ground. When I cautioned her to be careful, she said that the doll was hers and that she could do anything she wanted to with it and I didn't have any business telling her what to do. E was in a dilemma. I had failed my responsibility before and it had been my fault that Norrie got sick, so I didn't want to fail again. It was my responsibility now to make Norrie happy, if possible. But I was also responsible for the Doll of Olden Days, wasn't I? So many little girls had enjoyed her in the past and had taken good care of her while she was theirs so that she could be passed on to yet another little girl. She was something precious, something special and fragile, more than just a doll. She was a link between the past and the present and should be cherished. I couldn't let her be dragged in the dirt and broken. Besides, I reasoned, it wouldn't make Norrie any more unhappy to lose her than she was already, because it seemed as if the more we did for her and gave her, the more unhappy she became. Norrie cried, as I knew she would, when I took the Doll of = Fan BELLE Olden Days. I tried to reason with her, to tell her what the doll meant to me and had meant to our sisters and to Mama and Grandma in the past, but she wouldn't listen. Finally I just took her hand and dragged her along with me to the parlor. "Norrie," I said when we got there, "we're going to put the Doll of Olden Days back in the cupboard where she won't get all dirty and ruined. That way we'll have her for a long, long time. We'll take her out at special times, and Ill let you hold her when you want to." "She'll be mine when I'm six," Norrie said defiantly. "Yes," I said, "and she'll be Margie's when she's six. And The Doil of Olden Days Norrie wiped the tears from her eyes with the back of her hand as she watched me put the doll back on the shelf in the glass-fronted cupboard where she had been as long as either of us could remember, something tantalizing, precious, something © to look forward to having. Norrie stood there looking at the doll, and suddenly her world fell back into perspective. She sighed, but it was a happy sound, and sat down in front of the cupboard, just as she used to do. Her eyes shone and on her face was all the old familiar longing. I knew that this time I hadn't failed my responsibilities. "Oh," Norrie breathed, gazing at the Doll of Olden Days, "I wish I was six." somebody else's after that." WE WOULD RATHER WALK "We would rather walk,'' we used to say though miles were one or ten— talking, laughing all the way— we were younger then. 'We would rather walk,' we used to say, "it is just a block or two— hardly more than over the way— really kind of you."' "We would rather walk,'' we used to say when going to the store, "This is a perfect walking day— walking is never a chore." "We would rather walk,'' we used to say— This is springtime walking weather, but here we sit from morn till night, two old friends together. —Zara Sabin 339 Teach Your Toddler Gospel Truths Margery Cannon mw A young mother leaving for a week-end trip, deposited her eighteen-month-old baby in the arms of his grandmother. "Thanks, Mom, you're a dear.... Oh, one more thing. Before you feed him, would you please put his little hands together and help him say a simple blessing on his food. We have family prayer with him at night, too. If you and Dad wouldn't mind kneeling by the side of his crib for prayers... He's used to it. I think it would help him feel more secure." As her daughter disappeared down the driveway, the grandmother thought about the request. What wise parents they are, she decided. A habit in the making at eighteen months will be a way of life at eighteen years. She couldn't help but contrast her daughter's philosophy with that of the young mother next door. "I'm going to work until my baby is two and a half. Before that time babies don't really understand who you are or what life is all about, anyway." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Once stated: "... The Lord has made clear in his revelations that, from earliest infancy, children must be taught in the principles of the gospel and in the doctrines of the Church, else 'the sin be upon the heads of the parents.' "' Right now, the most significant research in the area of child de- 340 velopment concerns the earliest months of life. Many psychologists believe an_ individual's progress throughout life may depend on what he has learned before the age of four. And they tend to agree that, once past these sensitive early years, a child will never again learn with the same naturalness and ease. Teaching moments with toddlers are ever present if we could just be aware and take advantage of them. Whren our daughter Merilee was just two years old, she, along with her brothers and sister, knelt in prayer while my husband administered to me. The next morning I was well. At the dinner table, three days later, Merilee didn't want to eat. I noticed she was feverish. "Mommy, she _ said thoughtfully, "when you were sick, Daddy prayed for you and you got better." I nodded. Then she added, "Mommy, Daddy pray me." So her daddy administered to her, and the following morning she was up and well. Merilee is now ten years old. She still carries a fervent belief that prayers are answered. When our seventh child was three or four months old, before he even knew the meaning of words, I began teaching him the most important truth of all— that his Father in heaven and Jesus love him. When I held him in my arms and whispered of my love for him, I usually added, "Heavenly Father loves you, and Jesus loves you, too." Those words were repeated over and over, almost every day, and always when he was being cuddled and loved. Occasionally, I wondered. Could I really expect to teach this truth to an infant? Not exactly, but it was a beginning step. At first he would associate the words with the loving situation, later, he would develop the understanding. When he grew into a toddler we put a large colored picture in his room of Jesus loving the children. He came to understand that our Heavenly Father's love brought the Savior to earth, and because of the Savior's love for us, he died that we might live again. Teach Your Toddler Gospel Truths Our son is six now. He has outgrown his crib and playpen, but his conversations and prayers reveal his conviction that Heavenly Father and Jesus live and love him. It might well have been his very first thought, learned while yet an infant. And who knows, he, of all our children, may someday need that conviction most of all. We cannot ignore our little ones. They are eager and willing to learn. And if we teach the gospel truths early enough, surely, when our toddlers have grown tall, they will not depart from them; surely they will not only be resurrected, but exalted and have "glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." And we, as parents, will be blessed 'vith the realization that we fulfilled our pressing obligation to the Lord. St ON MAY'S GREEN HILLS The song lingers after the lark has flown— Cascading like a silver waterfall.... Reverberating melody over every ledge and stone— Then silence... Before the mate's sweet answering call. And | awake to memories: There was another hill— Another love-song as vibrant and as sweet as this.... Maytime blossoming by every sunlit rill— A day as warm and gentle as a lover's kiss. Oh, take back the distant dreams.... Don't let me know This hurting loneliness that another spring has brought.... Don't let my heart break because a lark sings so— Don't let me stoop to pick a small blue forget-me-not! —Alda Larson Brown 341 EDITORIAL/ "Through His = Many times when a child achieves scholastically or musically, a laughing remark is made to the mother, 'I think you are the one who earned the degree, or the recognition,' and, amid the joy that the mother feels, often there do flash through her mind numberless pictures of her sitting beside the child at the piano or spending the evening assisting with lessons. Certainly a mother who heeds the words of Solomon to '"'train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it," (Prov. 22:6) would include as a part of his command, the day-to-day training of a child to develop his full potential and help him to succeed in the temporal things of life. A Latter-day Saint child is expected to achieve intellectually for it has been revealed that ''The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth," and we are commanded to bring up our children in light and truth. (D&C 93:36, 40.) To do this successfully, it is essential that a mother evaluate the capabilities of each of her children and, while bringing light and truth to them, not expect more than the individual child is capable of achieving. She needs to recognize limitations and accept them. Not all children are fitted to earn a Ph. D. Not all children are fitted for college training. Some make outstanding achievements through vocational and business training. The mother's responsibility to assist her child to pursue excellence will need to take into account his aptitudes and desires. Some chilVolume 57 May 1970 Number 5 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 342 , that's d en Ugh.'' One ecall Other who Set her IN& her child achie Oal which d YS Secretly lev tache resulted for both erself ang € child —and UNNEcessaril ogression n the eternities will de end, mea UPON what O here e devel P Ourselves both SPiritual| d Ntellec fa Person Sains More knowledge and intelligence In this life through his and Obedience than 2nother, he will have SO much the advantage in the Me. (D&C 130:18-19 ) ' to reach for. Her Child Must be reared with an 4PPreciation | Value of time and the vital Need for diligence and hose Children Whose home tm Sphere fosters dili lence. The ill, in alt likelihood, b P in light have "th a € IN the World t me." —M. C. S Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle ROlson Marian R. Boyer Belva B. Ashton Alice Smith Orlene J. Poulsen - Cannon Lucile p. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve - Manwaring Lila B. Walch Elaine gB urtis da J. Jones Lenore (or UNdersen elma st Helen & Lach lenitz arjorie ¢ ingree Leanor 4 Brown Aline R Pettit Winters arlene C Dedeking eba O dous Johna de St. Jeor kinson Edythe k atson Luella w Finlinson everly J Pond 'uehner len N. B nes Norma - Ashton Nez T. Waldron Kathryn s Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Verda F Burton my Y. Y. Lentine 343 Sarah Isabelle Merrill Tanner, wife of President Nathan Eldon Tanner of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, was presented ''The Woman of the Year" Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, in March. John L. Clarke, college president, cited Mrs. Tanner for ''her outstanding life as a wife and mother, and for her service to the Church and to others." In accepting the honor, Mrs. Tanner spoke of the ''ingredients for the rearing of a successful family as prayer, faith, obedience, and love.' Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and President of the National Council of Women, was given Brigham Young University's ''Woman of the Year'' award March 3, 1970, and was cited for her outstanding accomplishments in leadership and her eminence in the work of women throughout the world. She addressed the student body and was presented with a quilt made by members of the campus Relief Societies. Women, after a sixty-year tradition of "men only,'' are now to be admitted to membership in Sigma Delta Chi, the United States' national journalism society. Mary Ann Efroymson is a member of "'Law Students in Court,'' a unique group sponsored by five law schools in the Washington, D. C. Area. Seven seniors from each university serve as counsel to defend citizens who cannot afford an attorney. Mary Ann is one of the few women among the thirty-five. A graduate of Wellesley College, she now attends George Washington University Law School. Students and lawyers find this experience of much value. 344 Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Sphere Mrs. Dorothy C. McKenzie, of the English Department of California State College, is a specialist in library science. She says most worthwhile books are ''ageless'' and it is a mistake to do so much classifying of books as for children, for adults, and for all ages in between. An outstanding example is the keen enthusiasm of college students everywhere today for J. R. R. Tolkien's wonder fantasy '"'The Hobbit," supposedly written for children. Mrs. McKenzie advises mothers to have a book of poetry on a table at all times. She assures us that children will pick it up, read it, and develop a taste for poetry. Mrs. Virginia Knauer, special assistant to President Nixon on consumer affairs, receives from two to three thousand complaints from consumers _ every month and ts working hard to have the quality of services and products improved in America. Miss Bene Arnold, from San Francisco, California, ballet mistress for Utah's highly praised Ballet West, teaches classes, "'polishes"' every ballet presented, and restages many works very creatively. She began ballet lessons as a child to help her to overcome glandular tuberculosis, which frequently kept her in hospitals. Now, fortified by this experience, she teaches classes for disabled children, helping them greatly with her patience and understanding. Bess Myerson, television personality and Miss America of 1945, is New York City's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs. She is giving up her broadcasting and promises ''a vigorous campaign against cheating and defrauding."' A Lark in the Meadow Sylvia Probst Young w As soon as they had finished breakfast that morning, I hurried the boys out to play. I had cleaning, baking, and iaundry to do, and if I were to finish by noon I couldn't have any interruptions. But I had just begun the dishes when the door opened and a small boy, his face glowing, confronted me. "Mom," he announced, "there's a lark in the meadow. We can hear it singing. Let's go over there." I was about to remind him that I was busy and send him on his way, but the look in his eyes, half wistful, half reproachful, made me realize how long it had been since I had taken time to share something beautiful with my sons. Dust gleamed on the dining-room table, but a lark was calling. That was a special morning—one that memory has a way of treasuring over the years. What delight—wading in the crystal clear water of the mill brook and making whistles from the tender, green willows growing on its banks. The sun was noon high when we went back home, and all of my work was waiting, but the song in my heart was as happy as the lark's. Many years have passed since then, but remembering that morning has helped me to realize how often something lovely is lost to me because I am too busy with too many things. The beauty of the earth is all around us, ours to enjoy every day if we will— pink of dawn, gold of noonday, purple hush of twilight—the majesty of a mountain, the changing wonder of a tree, the song of a lark. The school where I work is a half mile from my home. I walk to work each morning, and how rewarding that little walk has been. Watching an ever-changing sky I mark the cloud patterns—fragile, fast moving cirrus, high in the blue, may quickly give way to an enveloping blanket of gray. Cumulus clouds, like great, billowy puffs of cream, may foretell fair weather or in a capricious mood, bring storm. I walk along and marvel at a grassy plot, where myriad small creatures live and move, and from which tiny flowerlets lift their heads. In autumn when hills are garmented in red and gold, I walk slowly, drinking in the glory of color all around, marking the sigh of wind, the flight of migrating birds. Then comes a day when the world is wrapped in silent whiteness—every bush and branch, and I am first to make tracks in the soft, clean snow. In March there is a morning when the earth, fresh and rainwashed, glows in the sunlight, and everywhere, in greening blade and willow, is the promise of renewal and renaissance. How my heart is lifted that morning and I am humbly grateful for all of the wonders around me. In that: little while I feel nearer to my Creator, and care is forgotten. Beauty is all around us—by dawning—by starlight, all ours for the taking, to see and hear, to feel and enjoy. Then look up, look up and listen—there's a lark in the meadow. 345 CRADLE SONGk.. Phyllis Davidson - m My heart leaped when I saw it first in the window of the furniture store. It stood out among the other cribs, its cherrywood aglow from the rockers to the carved heart on the headboard, and I wanted that baby cradle more than I had ever wanted anything before. Don't misunderstand me. I am as modern as any other suburbanite. I read all the magazine articles titled "How to Have a Happy Marriage," I do not nag my husband, and I know it is smart to wear pale lipstick, and curls on top of my head. My house is decorated in second-hand contemporary Danish, and yet I wanted that cradle so much I could feel my fingers tingle. The salesman said "$97.89." It did not discourage the tingle I felt, so I arranged my forces for the attack on the family budget. I dressed my little girls like angels and set my hair, and when Bert came home, he found us and supper waiting, looking 346 like an advertisement from a magazine. My husband is a fine man, tall, quiet, and generous. He ate his banquet without comment, responded with grunts and nods to my cheery wit, and retired behind his newspaper as soon as possible. Only at bedtime when I told him about the cradle did he start talking. "A hundred dollars for a baby bed? You are crazy!" "But, Bert, I tingle for it," I protested. "Tingle away, then," he snorted. "It will make life very interesting for you. Besides, we have a perfectly serviceable baby bed, and I just paid fifty dollars for that fender you smashed last month." I winced. Some things, like burned potatoes and smashed fenders, a husband never forgets. "Besides," he added, "you could use it only for a few months, then what would you do with it? You would have to have a dozen more babies to get your money out of something like that." "Well, I could always make it into a planter or magazine rack or something like that." My voice faded away. He jammed both his fists into his pockets, and I knew a lecture on finances was coming. So we discussed money far into the night, and all the time I tingled. I still tingled the next morning, so I kissed Bert goodbye and sent him off with cheer. I could see he was relieved and thought I had forgotten the cradle. But as soon as he left I sat down to consider. Bert could not object as to how I spent my own money, so I would have to earn some. I would have to do something on my own. When Bert came home, he found me lettering posters saying "Washing and Ironing Taken In." He looked at the posters for a moment, then without comment walked out of the room. When he returned he was loaded to the eyebrows with shirts, socks, underwear, and a few miscellaneous items. He dumped them on the signs. "Your first customer," he said, "nonpaying, of course." His back shook ever so slightly as he walked from the room. I suppose he was chuckling, but I was furious with myself for blushing as I looked at the pile. I put the signs away. I was about to read Debby and Pam their bedtime story when the idea struck. "Don't read us a story,' Pam pleaded, 'tell us one." I often made up stories for them about their favorite toys, and as I told them the story that Cradle Song night, my eyes traveled along the rows of storybooks on_ their shelves. I wondered how much money the authors made. The tingling started again. The children enjoyed the stories I made up for them even more than the stories in their books. Would other children enjoy them? Would a publisher's story editor like them? Next morning, after sending the girls out to play, ignoring the dishes and unmade beds, I rolled a clean piece of paper into my typewriter and sat staring at it. Half an hour later I was still staring at it. A few crossed-out lines of type stared back. A few days later, a pile of papers lay by my typewriter. They were marked over until they were almost illegible. I prepared a final copy, and, not daring to read it over one more time, I gathered it together with a paper clip and sent it off to a publisher. Things were back to normal as far as my family was concerned. They no longer ate cold suppers and slept in unmade beds. But I was not normal. My heart beat double-time every time I saw the mailman coming, and I tore at every envelope that came from New York City, which usually turned out to be an advertisement or discount catalogue. "It was just a way to kill time," I explained to Bert, trying to sound casual, and threatened to leave him if he ever told a soul. He had been awed by the whole thing. Often I would catch him looking at me as if he could not believe it was his wife who was writing a book. He read the 347 May 1970 manuscript and proclaimed jt perfect; maybe just a cut below Dr. Suess or E. Carrol. It scared me to death. If they rejected my little book, would he be even more disappointed than I? One night he said, "It will] really give me a boost to tell the boys at the Office that my wife Writes books." It was that night I tried to explain to him how I felt. "It is not just the cradle," | said, and it was true. J had not throught of the cradle in weeks. "T want to do something Special, something creative." I groped for words, "I would like the children to be proud of me." Was that really it? "Oh, Bert, it is just a little child's book. Perhaps a write-up in the newspaper though," J murThen the envelope came, with the expensive printing and letterhead. I laid it on the desk, not touching it. "TI suppose the women's clubs and the PTA will want me to Speak, and Debby could take the book to nursery school for Show and Tell, They would not have to pay me a cent," | whispered. Dropped the envelope twice trying to rip it open. It is all over for me now. The Special tingle mingles with pride when I look at them. No, they did not accept my story. But Bert is more proud of his boy than if I had written the Great American Novel. He cradle in the nursery, I knew the depth of his understanding. | still get the little tingle every time I give the cradle a rock, but somehow it a THY SPIRIT EVERYWHERE | am blessed to see thy hand— In fragile leaf and bud and tree. New miracles, with reverence, Each greening spring | see— | see a Promise in the face of every child As | comfort him and dry his tears, | see his Purity, love complete, Trusting and wise beyond his years. Thrice thanks for blessings manifold, Our children and their children dear— | need no Sign, no burning bush— On Sinai, to feel, to know My purpose here. —Wilma Morley Despain Day's End—Bay Of Islands Olive B. Taylor Opua, Bay of Islands, New Zealand @ Another beautiful day was drawing to a close as the last rays of sunlight tinted the "long white cloud" a delicate apricot color. It was a glorious sunset, and really appreciated since the past two weeks had been rain and more rain, about twenty-nine inches in one week. We were bidding our guests goodbye after a pleasant visit. Three of the missionary couples in the Northland had spent their diversion day with Elder Taylor and me here in the Bay of Islands. Now at the end of a perfect day, we watched the glory of nature's never ending changes. The water in the Bay of Islands sparkled like diamonds, while shadows changed the color of the soft green hills. Amid the stillness, there was a serene, calm feeling, which is so difficult to find in many parts of the world. It was a strengthening power for all of us. Forgetting any problems we might have amid the stillness, we counted our blessings! An apostle of the Lord had set us apart to come down to New Zealand to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133, verses 37-9 we read: And this gospel shall be preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come; And worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.... Someone said New Zealand looks like the Garden of Eden. We have enjoyed the beauty all around us. The citrus groves are a lovely sight, and the hills aré dotted with white sheep and black cows. The cabbage trees, Pohutukawa, and fern trees are most unusual. Between towns in the Northland it looks like one park after another. We never tire at looking down at Mormon Valley (Maromaku) from the highway. We are most grateful for the many friends we have met in this far-off land. They are generous, loving, and kind, some of God's choicest children. Surely as we return to our home in Utah, we shall never forget this beautiful country. We have been blessed and feel it has been a privilege to come to bring the gospel of peace to these people, whom we have learned to love. And so at the end of each day we count our blessings and stamp mental pictures in our minds of this beautiful country of New Zealand. 349 Whatever Will Become of Rory! Mary Ek Knowles @ It was after five when Elsie Holbrook saw Mr. Vanderhook's station wagon drive up in front of the house. Mr. Vanderhook was bringing Rory and the other neighborhood boys home from his son Paul's birthday party which had been celebrated at Pleasure Park thirty-five miles away. She gave a relieved sigh and called, "Rory's home, Susan." Her nine-year-old daughter came to stand with her by the window. "Now, Mom," Susan said seriously, "make Rory practice 'Puppets' March' with me and no silliness!" Elsie looked tenderly at Susan. This was her first piano recital and she and Rory were to play a duet. Already Susan was bathed and in her robe, her blonde head heavy with giant-sized rollers. 350 "No silliness, darling," she promised, remembering yesterday's practice when twelve-yearold Rory had tried to play witha tray balanced on his head. She watched the boys spill out of every door of the car and scatter in as many directions, but there was no Rory, no mop of red hair. She saw Mr. Vanderhook get out of the station wagon and walk towards the house and her heart snagged. Rory was hurt! Rory was in the hospital! Then she saw the angry set of Mr. Vanderhook's jaw and, as she opened the door, braced herself for the complaints she knew were coming. "Rory wouldn't come home with me. He said he would come home on the next bus. I tried to bring him anyhow, but he went in The Barrel." She saw the purple bump on his forehead. "Ma'am, I was Marine Droll Sergeant in World War II and scoutmaster in our ward for ten years, but this kid of yours. He's..." he shrugged, unable to put Rory into words. "I couldn't wait any longer. I have a plane to catch for Chicago at seven." "It was nice of you to try to...." But Mr. Vanderhook was out of earshot. "Mama!" Susan wailed. "He won't be home in time and so we can't practice and I'll make mistakes!" "T'll telephone Daddy. He has the car and he can drive to Pleasure Park and bring Rory home." She was already dialing the plant. Why, oh why!. She asked herself for the millionth time, did Rory always do the wrong thing. The sixteen-yearold twins, Wilson and Wendell, had never given them a moment's worry. They were both at Lake Sylvia for the summer now as camp counselors. And Susan was such an amiable little girl. But Rory! Whatever would become of Rory! "What is it, honey?" Duane's voice was impatient. She told him. "Darling, could you please drive to...." "VXX is broken down!" "Oh no!" VXX was the monster machine at the plant. When it broke down everything came to a standstill until it was fixed. Duane was the head mechanic. "What goes on in that kid's head!"' Duane exploded. "Ill get home as soon as possible, honey." He hung up. Maybe Amy Fields could drive her to Pleasure Park. For the next fifteen minutes she frantiWhatever Will Become of Rory! Cally telephoned her friends. No one was home at Amy's. Brenda Way's four-year-old had. A strep throat, Marsha Lindsay's washer had just gone haywire and Marsha was mopping up three inches of water. Carla Sima was in a real stew. Wayne, had just telephoned that he was_ bringing four—mind you, four men from the New York office home for dinner! Elsie telephoned the bus station. There was a bus every hour. If Rory came home on the six o'clock bus there would still be time to practice. But he would have to walk from the bus station. She had just hung up and collapsed in the big chair when the telephone rang. It was old Mrs. Rose asking in her quavery voice, "Will Rory be by soon to cut my lawn?" "But he cut it yesterday— didn't he?" "No. He was too late getting here. I was already watering. He promised to come early today." "T'll have him call you the minute he gets home." She hung up, remembering that Rory had left in plenty of time yesterday to cut Mrs. Rose's lawn. Where had he gone? To Swede's Junk Yard, she decided. Ai seven Rory had still not come. She had telephoned the plant three times to learn that VXX was still not fixed, had tried four times to get Amy. Finally, she telephoned Mrs. Davidson, the piano teacher. "You say Rory won't be here?" Elsie could have sworn that Mrs. Davidson was relieved. 'Well, Susan can play 'Butterfly Waltz.' She does it beautifully." 351 May 1970 Elsie listened to Susan practice, thinking angrily, if Rory is such a trial for Mrs. Davidson, I'll stop his lessons! Then all at once she felt tired. Imagine trying to teach Rory anything. At 7:30 Duane telephoned. "Honey, this monster is still broken and I can't leave. Please explain to Susan. Has Rory...?" "No, he isn't home." All at once she began to cry. "I just know something terrible has happened to him. Maybe some maniac...." "Heaven help the maniac who tangles with Rory," he said wryly, then added gently, "stop crying, honey. MHe's_ probably having a ball and completely lost track of time. Okay now?" "Okay." She blinked back the tears. "I'll see you later." S he put Duane's and Rory's dinner in the warming oven and rode with May Johns and her two little girls to the recital. Susan performed beautifully without one wrong note, but Elsie sat stiffly on her chair, her head pounding. Refreshments followed the recital, but she couldn't eat. She kept telephoning home, praying that Rory would answer. But he didn't. May let her and Susan out of the car just as the lights went on in the house. Rory was home. Rory was safe! But it wasn't Rory. Duane met them at the door. He lifted Susan in his arms and said, "Hi, Princess. Sorry I missed the recital." "She played a solo, Daddy, and did a beautiful job!" Elsie praised. "A solo?" Duane's eyes met hers. 352 "A solo..." Elsie said. "T'll play it for you now, Daddy." And Susan got down from his arms, and in a few seconds the strains of "Butterfly Waltz" floated through the house. "Well, what do you say we take a nice drive to Pleasure Park and get Rory?" Duane was trying to give the problem a light touch. Just then the phone rang, and Elsie grabbed the receiver. "Mom?" It was Rory and he sounded forlorn, abandoned. "Rory, where are you? Are you all right? What happened?" "T bought a bus ticket and then I lost it," the words came tumbling out. "And I didn't have any more money so when the last bus came I told the busman I would sweep out the bus if he would give me a ride home, and so he did and the man here at the bus station is letting me use the phone, and Mom, could I have about a million hot dogs with mustard and ketchup? I—I haven't had anything to eat since noon. Gosh, everybody in the world came walking by, eating juicy hamburgers and hot dogs. Can I, Mom? Hot dogs with dill pickles?" She was relieved he was alive, well, hungry. She almost said "Yes, my darling. I'll cook you anything you want, my poor hungry little boy." Then the anxiety of the day came back to her. "Rory, you should have come home with Mr. Vanderhook! Mrs. Rose called and...." "Gee, Mom, I'm sorry. I was going to...." "Why didn't you cut her lawn yesterday?" "Well, you See, it was like this. I was over to Swede's and he has a sore back and he had a load of steel to move and he said he'd pay me extra and...." "And so you helped him and forgot Mrs. Rose! I'm coming down to get you, Rory. Don't ceiver and had happened. Duane groaned. "What's going to become of that kid!" "He isn't mean, Duane." She had to defend Rory. "N othing he does is sadistic or...." "But, honey, he has no talent for anything but getting into hot water. I can see Rory grown and losing job after job. What company would even hire him. If I could just find one ray of hope, just one small ray—I'll go and get him," he said tiredly, "Tl get him," Elsie kissed him. "Susan is almost through playing and she will want your — ">, = Whatever will Become of Rory! Praise. We'll have a Serious talk with Rory. Everything is going to be all right, darling." She said it confidently, but as plaints and the frantic telephoning to get a ride to Pleasure Park. All because Rory had absolutely no sense of responsibility! Maybe they hadn't been strict enough with him, but was going to toe the mark! When she her and grinned and his freckled face shone. She remembered Mr. Complaint, and Susan playing a Solo instead of a duet, and suddenly she was so angry at her son she was Shaking. So help her, she would grab him and Shake him hard! "Rory Atkinson Holbrook, you me «Are in hot water over your head!" she exploded and grabbed him. "Present for you, Mom!" he held up a silver plastic loving cup. She was like a boxer thrown off balance, confused, floundering. There was nothing she could do but take the loving cup. "I won it," ~ She heard Rory say. " helped the man in the shooting gallery and he gave me a free try. I hit every rabbit, pow! » pow! 353 May 1970 She read the inscription on the loving cup "To the World's Most Beautiful Woman," and anger drained out of her and she felt loved, very special and misty eyed. "IT mean that on the cup, Mom," he said sincerely. "I had to win it for you." "Thank you, son," her voice choked off. "T'm sorry I caused so much trouble. Ill apologize to Mrs. Rose and I'll clip her hedge and won't charge her extra." And she won't be angry anymore, Elsie knew. In that moment she knew there was a place in the economic world for Rory. Beneath the mischief was a vivid imagination, even a kindness, certainly an understanding of people. She could see Rory as MY HOMELAND —Evelyn N. Robinson St. Albans, Herts, England 354 a public relations man, soothing rumpled feelings, saving a hopeless situation at the last desperate moment. "Mom," she saw his lips tremble, "I don't mean to get into trouble. Honest I try to be good and then, powie! I'm in _ hot water!" All at once she felt humbled, challenged. If only Duane and I can have the wisdom to harness that boundless energy, that marvelous imagination, and guide it into the right channels, she thought prayerfully, Rory can make history—good history. "T understand, son," she said. "Let's go home and have a talk with your father." She could hardly wait to tell Duane that there was every hope for their young son. | sit here in the English sun and dream of far-off lands Of flowering vales, and waving palms, Smiles and welcoming hands. Of coral strands, and blue, blue seas, Shining and laughing eyes, Full of the joy of living Under sunny, tropic skies. The tales they tell of long ago, With gallantry the theme, Around their ancient temples, Where saints have ruled supreme. Oh, must our hearts be torn away To far-off scented air? Have we not lakes and dreaming hills And flowering vales as fair? In England's tender, verdant land The flowers bloom as free, And sweeter far their perfume Than on tropic island's tree. Our sea-girt isles do sing a song That modest pride imposes. Oh, | will stay for | belong To England's red and yellow roses! As Mother Sees Beauty Marcella H. Morley One of my greatest concerns is that I will fail to teach my children the beauty of the everyday, which I so keenly sense. The rosy glow on a baby's face, the tiny curled up fist against soft golden wisps of hair as he lies sleeping—peacefully. The baby smile that springs so readily to his lips. The glorious autumn beauty—beyond description. Sunrise so pink and golden upon the mountaintops. Wonderful daylight hours filled with children's happy voices. Soft breezes, work, friends, yes, a problem or two to face. But above all, a swelling gratitude to a kind, wise, ever-loving Father for Giving us all this marvelous opportunity. May he help me to find a way to give this gift to my children. CAP. CCRaS LISTEN FOR LAUGHTER The city is man's world, but country life is of God. (William Cowper) The road curls westward through lyric hills (The city's gray walls are behind me now.) A gypsy wind catches a splinter of song And toys with it under a willow bough. There is a sudden turn in the ribbon of road, And daisies crowd toward the lake's blue edge. | have come back to my childhood home, To the barley field, to the wild rose hedge. I listen for laughter to lace the air As an aspen does when the sun is high— Are village boys frolicking on the green? Are girls hanging dreams on the fence to dry? Then loneliness gathers like a fog— House windows are boarded, no longer fair! The people have followed some silvered dreams; Now silence is caught in the village square. Oh, the gray-wolf hours at the close of day, And the tiger winds tearing the fences down! And the rain horses slashing the garden clay! These beasts of destruction have claimed my town! The road toils back through the shrouded hills, And a realist wind piques my sense of loss; The rhinestone lights on the peopled side Are beckoning me toward their tinseled gloss. The winds of change whittled my childhood home To a splinter that tortures my memory; Now they're carving a city to wall me in, And they're cutting a hole in the heart of me. —Maxine R. Jennings 355 PHOTO BY DOROTHY J. ROBERT! DEAR MOTHER You speak words like flowers But when you talk of God Or leaves on a tree— My faith is born anew; Some bring me beauty For through your words, dear Mother, And some shelter me. His face is shining through. —Linnie Fisher Robinson © COLLECTOR'S ITEM Betty G. Spencer @ A casual observer might think tnat we are operating an animal shelter, but it just isn't so! It's simply that I have three children with a natural affinity for animals. I've answered to "Mama" for over eighteen years, now, and this affection for gathering a collection began as soon as the eldest child could clutch at a toy in his playpen. Over the years we have made a home for shaggy dogs, hunting dogs, skinny dogs, and lost dogs; assorted sizes, colors, and varieties of cats; cannibalistic guppies; plain and fancy goldfish; snails; bow] turtles; a bilingual parakeet; and a covey of pigeons. These animals were collected out of pure love, however, and were not a bit of bother to anyone—except me! The real trouble began when my two youngest boys decided they would make a lot of money and went into the rabbit business. This venture began a year and four months ago. Profit: zero. Expense: (to father) a goodly sum. These are particular rabbits, you see. They live in especially constructed apartments made from wooden rose boxes. They can't eat ordinary greens, either. They need '"'those pellets they sell up at the co-op, because they are a balanced diet, with vitamins and minerals and all that stuff!" The rabbit population at our place is about twelve, give or take a few bunnies. Last week I decided that something had to go. Rabbits! After a scouting trip about the neighborhood, the boys reported that there was, indeed, a market for rabbits. It was just that they would have to finance the potential buyers they had lined up. "Cash on the barrelhead, boys," I advised. "But, Mother," they chorused, "nobody has any money. Would it be all right if we traded the rabbits for something else? Something useful," they added hastily. "Well," I pondered, "I guess that would be all right—" "Gee, thanks, Mom," they exclaimed, pounding me on the back enthusiastically. The kitchen door banged shut as I slowly straightened up and gingerly rubbed my back. I watched with a nervous foreboding as the boys pulled their rabbit-laden wagons out of the yard. In short order I vetoed a rooster, another dog, and a chameleon. Finally, the boys made an acceptable deal—three rabbits for one western sand turtle. This trade suited me just fine. Turtles don't bark, need a license, or eat much. The boys spent the rest of the afternoon admiring the latest addition to what I hoped was a dwindling pet collection. I should have recognized that the successful trade would lead to more complicated bartering. This morning four assorted sized boys lay sprawled on their stomachs under the big maple tree. (I have been advised that this is the appropriate posture for viewing turtles.) As I made my bed, an alarming conversation drifted through the open window. "He's a real nifty turtle. You made a good trade, Brent." "Yeh," replied my nine-year-old. "He's a beaut. I really got a good deal." "How many rabbits do you have left?" "Nine.": "Good. Let's go down to Danny's place and see how many he'll take to trade." "Okay," agreed my sprout, as he stood up and put the turtle in a box. "I hope nine is enough. That sure is a keen looking goat!" 357 Vacations Are for Mothers, Kathryn E. Franks too = n addition to the extra summer activities, Jill Martin had been busy for several weeks preparing for the family's two weeks' vacation at the lake. In a heat wave, she had combed the bargain counters searching for bathing suits to fit eight-year-old Karen, five-yearold David, and _ three-year-old Mike. Then, after she thought she had finished her shopping, she had bought a camping cot, a fishing reel, and a pair of swimming fins with the money she had saved all summer to paint the kitchen and service porch walls. Now, on Friday afternoon, with only four hours left to finish the cleaning and packing, Jill stopped long enough at the kitchen sink to splash tap water over her face 358 and hands. She straightened her tired back, and reckoned with the wave of resentment that swept over her. Are vacations really necessary? Are they worth the extra work, the added expense? On the hottest day of the year, hot and weary, in the midst of the packing, she asked herself that question. The children, highly excited, were loud and unsettled. They ran in and out, disturbing Jill's schedule. Noticing the time, she turned to the service porch and unrolled the last batch of ironing. She had finished her own blouse when Martha, her next-door neighbor, walked through the back door, carrying a large plate of homemade cookies. "Martha," Jill greeted her friend eagerly. "Who but you The Village of Wroxton, England. Would bake cookies for me on this hot day!" "When I saw the washing you had to sort; the groceries you carried in to be packed, and your family to feed... I honestly didn't think you'd have time to bake the cookies you like to take with you." "I wouldn't have," Jill answered. "I'll thank you for the rest of the family because you know how much they like your chocolate chip cookies." Seconds after Martha wished Jill a happy vacation and walked out the door, the children, like bees drawn to nectar, swarmed through the back door and circled the cookie platter. "Cookies," they squealed. '""We are starved!" "Afraid not," Jill warned them sharply. "These are to take to the lake.... Get ripe peaches PHOTO BY JOSEF MUENCH. From the blue bowl." Fifteen minutes later she heard Mike in his room and rushed in to find him pulling everything from his red and blue circusdecorated toy chest. She grabbed his arm just as the bottom contents flew out on the floor. "Where's my sailboat?" he asked his mother. "Please pick up these toys and go outside. We'll find it later." Jill disliked her cross voice, but there were so many things yet to do, and so little time left. When Dave and Karen came inside, begging for their swimming trunks to go swimming in the neighbor's pool, Jill begrudgingly pulled out the packed swimming suits. Now, she would have to pack two wet suits later. I should have said no, she thought, however, at the moment it was easier to give in for she 359 May 1970 didn't have the time nor the strength to argue. At five o'clock Jim walked in from work, smiling, looking happy and relaxed at the prospect of a good, cool two weeks at the lake with his family. Jill tried desperately to match his mood. Then, with Jim helping, they fixed a quick supper. By eight o'clock everything was packed, loaded into the car, and Jim was finally locking the house. At dusk, before they left town, Jim pulled into a service station. Jill heard the attendant remark, "Looks as if you're off on vacation." Sitting there with a slightly cooler breeze coming through the open car window, Jill listened to Jim's familiar voice. Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair near Stranraer, Scotland. "We packed only necessary things," Jim said, 'but it does look like a carload." His words, although they were as light as the breeze, struck her then with a sudden impact. "We packed only the necessary things," Jim just said. Then why? Jill asked silently, am I taking my budget worries, my weary back, and a bad mood along with me? It is natural, she decided, to resent the extra work, but didn't Jim and the children deserve a good vacation? And didn't she as a devoted wife and mother, owe it to them? As the car again pulled out onto the highway and Jim concentrated on his driving, Jill leaned back in the seat and pondered. PHOTO BY HAROLD M. LAMBERT STUDIOS. Upper Killarney Lake, County Kerry. Beyond a doubt, it had been her fault that she had become so exhausted. Why, she wondered now, had she insisted upon doing all the work herself? With some insight and a little more forethought, she could have planned in advance the many ways the children could have helped. Sharing the work would have given the children an important responsibility. Quickly, without Jim noticing what she was doing, Jill took a sheet of paper and pencil from her purse. She had a few things to do before she reached the cabin. Carefully, with concentration, she wrote her list. The first thing, she decided, when they reached the cabin would be for the children to carry their belongings to their respeci oe PHOTO BY PAUL'S PHOTOS tive rooms. Once inside, she would show them their clothes drawers, and ask them to put away their own clothes. Next, with the children helping, She would supervise the bedmaking. Afterwards, she would save a lot of confusion and argument by assigning the personal towel racks and towels. Those things accomplished, they would all help put away the food in the kitchen. This should give the entire family time to stroll down to the lake before retiring. Otherwise, the children, in their eagerness, would rush out the door and scamper down the path to the lake without taking any responsibility whatsoever. By the third morning Jill was 361 May 1970 happily surprised at how well her plans had developed. Away from home, in a different environment, the children had actually welcomed their share of the chores. While Jill cooked breakfast, Karen poured the milk and willingly set the table. Dave carried out the trash. Mike picked up the papers, and, in his three-yearold way, tidied the newspapers, and, with the broom top heavy above his shoulders, he swept the front and back steps. After breakfast, Jill washed the dishes while the children and Jim got into swimming suits and collected the items that needed to be carried to the lake. "With all this help," Jill mused, looking at the cleared table, 'I'm going to have time on my hands!" She did. That morning, long before noon, she had climbed the knoll overlooking the cove and sat down in the deep grass. A soft breeze hummed in the fir trees above her and tossed her hair lightly across her forehead. She enjoyed the solitude until she saw the children and Jim wade out of the water below her. Jill rose then and hurried back down the curved path to join them. After lunch the five of them searched the beach for shells, and tramped among the dried pine needles on the cabin side and gathered pine cones. Quietly, they watched the chipmunks, and, tempting them with food, tried to tame them. On late afternoon of the fourth day the family had fun beside the lake, they noticed the sun sinking behind the spruce trees on the opposite side of the shore 362 before they had once thought about supper. "It is the most beautiful time of the day," Jill remarked. '"'Let's not go back to the cabin." She watched the lazy lapping of the small waves upon the sand. They seemed to grow more gentle at sundown, almost as if they were repeating some old, remembered Indian lullaby. "Send the children to the cabin for hot dogs," Jim suggested, "and I'll build a campfire." With instructions from Jill as to where to find the food, Karen, with the boys following, darted up the path toward the cabin. Soon they were zigzagging back down the trail, their arms loaded with hot dogs, buns, and marshmallows. After they had eaten, the three youngsters played games down by the cove. Stars appeared overhead. "This is better than home, isn't it?" Jim asked, looking boyishly across the campfire then up at the fast-appearing stars. "Home?" Jill exclaimed teasingly. "Where's that?" Jim smiled. "Right now," he answered quietly, "it's under the stars." Indeed it was, and when she left, Jill decided drowsily, she intended to take enough of Still Lake home with her to last all year. She had learned a little late, but she had discovered that it took organization on her part, which included giving the children their share of responsibility in the family's vacation plan. In doing so, she had found what vacations are all about... That they are for mothers, too. Whatever Happened to Singing? Wr Olga Milius a @ ey / =— a e~ One day last summer I was entertaining myself with a little light opera while dusting, and when I reached the door there stood two young salesmen grinning like Cheshire cats as they listened to my warbling. Between their grins and my red face, we parted the best of friends (though I didn't buy anything), but after they left I wondered—whatever happened to singing? When I was young—very young—there was music everywhere. Mother and Father sang around the house, children, and even groups of teenagers sang as they walked down the streets. The men sang or whistled as they rode their bikes to work at the shipyard. I remember how my father and my aunt would get out their mandolins and sing and play by the hour. All the old-fashioned favorites "Just a Song at Twilight," "Juanita," and a sentimental ballad called "The Night Shades Are Falling" that always made me cry. Almost every evening the mandolins came out, and family and friends gathered to sing and chat. Sunday evening after meeting everyone gathered at grandma's, and with an aunt or a cousin at the old pedal organ, we would harmonize happily on hymns and favorite classics. These days singing is an organized sport like baseball or tennis, with carefully arranged choruses, or duets or solos. Spontaneous, unplanned singing has all but disappeared. But I have found that singing is still contagious around small children. And even teenagers, when their minds are on other things (like decorating for an MIA party or riding around between road shows), will join in a catchy song. So, why do we adults look so astonished if we catch someone singing as she hangs out the wash or bakes a pie? I'm for starting a movement to put more music—homemade music—into the home. Now, if I could just find Father's mandolin.... | LA," The Happy Secret Ruth C. Ikerman When | gave the neighbor girl the dol! Clothes | had made for her favorite ''child,"' she said to me primly: ''Thank you, this is just what | have wanted for years and years and years." She had used the right number of years in repetition, for by now she was all of three years old. But she was wise beyond many times her years in the proper way to thank me for the gift. How wonderful it is to be able to give something to somebody, and to learn they have wanted it for ''years and years,"' and are willing to confess this fact to the giver. My little friend and her doll shared with me the happy secret of giving and receiving. 363 My Third-Hand Lillian Y. Bradshaw @ As well organized as we mothers and grandmothers are most of the time, there always come those times when something comes up in a home that just has to be done. Then you wish you had a third hand to take care of the little ones. Any idea which keeps me relaxed and my children happily busy while I, too, am busy, I call my third hand. Many are the ways to keep young ones happy, such as a bucket with water and a small paint brush while others are painting, or stringing cereal into a necklace while mother is sewing, but here is my choicest third-hand idea. An old idea with but a new twist—but what a difference it makes! It all begins with step #1. 1. Turn a cookie sheet over—bottom up, and then lightly grease and flour the bottom of the pan. 2. Roll out some cookie dough to the desired thickness. 364 3. While you go about your own baking or housework, let your young ones cut all the shapes they desire, showing them first how far apart all the edges must be. Don't worry if they have to roll it smooth time and time again. This is half the fun. Let them do it the way they want. A separate pan for each child is ideal. It is also a marvelous way to entertain young ones at a birthday party. ———» 4. Now comes the other half of the fun as they peel out the extra dough between the cookies. It builds their skill in selecting the right piece to pull, and, best of all, along with the fun and creative elements of working with clay, it has the added enthusiasm of something good to eat later. The extra dough which has been removed from around the cutouts can be pressed into a lump and then rolled out on another pan qe—_- to make more cookies. Checking back often to see how they are getting along gives a wonderful feeling of companionship and not only are their efforts praised now, but when the cookies are served at dinner the praise is double. Without the fifth step cutout cookies have always caused mixed emotions in me. I know there is no cookie which seems to satisfy both the hunger and the imagination of a child, be they young or old, boy or girl, as does a cutout cookie. Recipes and ideas for the holidays have always intrigued me into trying them, but, oh, the frustration when flour is strewn from one end of the kitchen to the other as the cutouts are transferred from cutting board to cookie sheet, or else became stuck, and the gingerbread man loses a leg or a star loses one point. So often it ends in tears as the children try to help. But with the pan upside down it is step five that truly makes this my third hand. 5. No need to transfer the cutout cookies—they are all ready to bake—just - place the pan in the oven and bake the way it is. The area is clean and neat, and never again will the chicken lose its head, and the children are busy, creative, and happy. 365 mw It was one of those hectic mornings every mother encounters from time to time in her career as a housewife—when you wish Alexander Graham Bell had minded his own business and never invented the telephone, when the washing and ironing keep piling higher and higher, when one of your best dishes is accidentally broken, when every little problem seems insurmountable—and, in short, when "the faster you go, the behinder you get"—and that's when Bell's little invention rang for the umpteenth time! I stumbled over our little blonde three-year-old on the way to the phone, mentally noting that the toy which had been fascinating her for the past ten minutes was Davey's new model oar. "If I were a man, I'd let the noisy thing ring," I muttered, as I faked a cheery "Good morning!" Sister Thomas' voice sounded as if she had all her work done and was relaxing with a good book. (How can some people be so downright efficient!) "Just thought Id call," she said cheerfully, "to see if you would like me to take your cake over to the school along with mine. I remember you said you had a dental appointment today." 366 I Can Hear the Birds Sing Lettice O. Rich (Cake?... Oh, horrors! This couldn't possibly be the day of the Bake Sale! Surely it was next Friday!) With an agonizing look at the kitchen clock, I thanked her for her thoughtfulness and said I'd have plenty of time to deliver it on the way to the dentist. (Why, oh, why, did this have to happen today?) I glanced at little Diane as I hung up the phone. (What a model mother you have today, little one, I thought. Ten o'clock and you're still in pajamas!) And then I decided to pop the cake in the oven before she wanted to help. I started automatically reaching for the ingredients when I suddenly remembered Steve saying that morning, "We're out of sugar, Mom—used the last on my cereal." (I know very well sugar was on my grocery list last week—how could I possibly have forgotten it?) I knew there wasn't any use looking for sugar in the basement —not with my husband's notice firmly nailed in big black letters on the door: "DO NOT REMOVE ANY FOOD STORAGE ITEM UNLESS YOU REPLACE IT WITH NEW." So, forgetting my special caramel nut cake promised for the sale, and blessing the kind soul who invented quickie cake mixes, I climbed on the kitchen stool to find a box on the top shelf. Frantic searching among the rice, macaroni, and cereal boxes, however, revealed everything but a cake mix! What frustrating luck! Now there was no choice except a trip to the grocery store, but it would only take a minute in the... In the... Oh, no! And the last straw settled on my distraught nerves. This was Friday—not just Friday, the Bake Sale day; not even Friday, the 13th. At our house it was Friday, No Car Till Noon day—and it would take at least thirty minutes on foot, especially with a little girl tagging along! I looked at her, still contentedly running the car up and down over imaginary hills and bridges. I could make it a lot faster without her, I thought. Surely she'd be all right. And then, across my mind flashed headlines, "Child Burns to Death While Mother Goes to Grocery Store," and I frantically began to round up her clothes. She was delighted, of course, but five hectic minutes elapsed before we found the shoe she had tucked away in the bathroom towel drawer; another exasperating five minutes were wasted changing three dresses so she could "wear her pretty blue dress to the store," and another impatient few minutes trying to find the penny Grandpa gave her yesterday, but finally we were on the way—one frazzle-nerved mother and a chattering threeyear-old. With my mind on the clock ticking off wasted time, I didn't realize I was walking too fast for! Can Hear the Birds Sing her little legs, but she skipped along, apparently unconcerned, as long as I absently answered her ever-flowing questions. And then... Abruptly, she stopped! "Now, what's the matter?" I cried impatiently, jerking her little hand. Completely unaware of my irritation, she looked up at me with her appealing blue eyes and said softly, "I can hear the birds sing, Mommy. Can't you hear the birds sing?" I stopped short. Slowly a big lump welled up in my throat as I looked down at her upturned face, full of all the sweetness and innocence of a precious child of God. And then I raised my head and listened. Why, the birds were singing... Proclaiming the miracle of spring, the rebirth of a sleepy earth awakening from a long winter sleep, and God's goodness to the world. Yes, the birds were singing in the bright blue sunshine of a_ beautiful spring day, and I hadn't even noticed! She pulled at my arm, waiting for an answer. "Yes," I said, smiling down at her, "I can hear the birds sing, too. They're telling us to be happy because spring is here."" I quickened my pace a little to make up for lost time. She was thoughtful for a few steps, searching intently for brown feathered wings on nearby branches, and then she stopped again. "Who spring?" tells the birds about she asked seriously. "Who tells the birds about spring?" I echoed, with a strange confused feeling deep inside and little pinpricks of conscience reminding me of lost 367 May 1970 teaching moments. Then, in that revealing instant of time when genuine values come into focus, I realized what was important, really important, and it wasn't a frantic race with time. There would be other dental appointments, other cake sales, and many other times to clean house, but childhood never returns. In that sobering moment, I suddenly realized that I wanted her memories of childhood to include this awareness of a beautiful spring morn, shared by a mother who understood. I stooped to hug her. "The little birds watch for the first signs of spring,' I said. "Shall we try to find some of them?" She bubbled with excitement like an effervescent fountain as we walked hand in hand the rest of the way to the store. We talked about the new leaves on the trees. We discovered tiny green buds in a tulip bed by the street. We giggled at the brown bugs crawling along the ground. We smelled the fragrant fruit blossoms adrift on the spring air. We felt the warm south breezes. We watched fluffy white clouds form a Teddy-bear picture before it dispersed into wispy trails across the blue sky. And we stopped ever so often to hear the happy songs of the birds, reminding me of Longfellow's description: "songs in many _ keys, sweeter than instrument of man e'er caught." Somehow I kept the dental appointment. Somehow the cake was delivered (just a little late). Somehow my house was eventually restored to order. But, most important of all, somehow I had taken time for a few precious moments, which would never come in the same way again, to share a rich experience with my little daughter. Many years have passed since that spring morning, and she is now a lovely blossoming flower herself. But each year as nature repeats the splendor of God's gifts to the world, I can hear the echo of her words, "I can hear the birds sing, Mommy. Can't you hear the birds sing?" UNEXPECTED HAPPINESS One day a yellow crocus Will show its shining cup. Or a hyacinth will peek Through frozen ground. One day a warming breeze Will sway the budding willow, Or a robin newly come will sing. Then an unexpected happiness, Will tell me, it is spring. —Annie Atkin Tanner 368 The Nightingale Delores Arden The night was unilluminated and everything was still. I could smell the sweet perfume of the gentle summer rain through my open window. The darkness was swept away by the sudden trill of a nightingale in the garden grove. The liquid passage of music poured from its throat without interruption. I gasped a deep breath for him, but the songster kept the golden aria flowing in a seemingly endless melody. The music filled my dreary heart until fountains of joy welled within me and my feelings became as inexpressible as the beautiful sounds. The night was no longer shapeless and without meaning. The strain filled the air with light and hope, and, even when it passed, I continued to sense it. All of this ecstasy came from a tiny dull-plumed cock whose joy was centered in an ordinary loose-leafed nest close to the earth. Yet, such a burst of song, so exquisite and so long—I wondered. Could it be that this song was meant for me? Like the nightingale, I am very plain and not much to look at. But could I sing a sweet song and bring a light to someone's dark and weary night? REMEMBRANCE IN THE RAIN It rained in San Pedro— First day in a long time. From way up on the hill | saw Low gray clouds Stretching all across the valley; Bright lights on cars Hurrying home in the evening; Big white ocean liners Gliding into the channel. And my boy Slightly bouncing as he walked, Holding his black and yellow umbrella Straight up! And broadly grinning. And right behind, two cats Softly bouncing as they walked With fluffy black and gray tails Straight up!. And grinning too, | think.... —Helen Clegg Broadbent 369 Judyth S. Peterson w Keeping a clean, orderly house is a natural thing for some women. Others, myself included, seem to resist their mothers' teachings and do not develop good habits. My group is usually discouraged by articles on homemaking—we are made only too aware of our shortcomings, and we feel all the more inadequate because others accomplish so easily what we ourselves cannot seem to begin. We are led to believe that nearly all homemakers are efficient, conscientious bundles of energy, tireless, and capable of coping with every problem. We read glowing reports of how Grandma managed to keep everything washed and pressed, swept and dusted, polished and preserved, with none of our modern conveniences, and thirteen children. And we sink deeper into despair! I've never been neat with my clothes, drawers, etc., and after I married, I seemed to get worse instead of better. When I was expecting our second baby, I was also teaching kindergarten part time, and I did very little housework. When I came home at noon, the bed was unmade, dishes from dinner the night before and from breakfast were in the sink, the house was disorderly, and as it took me most of the afternoon to get the dishes done (I moved very slowly!) I had not touched an iron or a mop in ages. The worse the house looked, the worse I felt, and vice versa. Finally, at New Year's resolution time, I knew something had to be done. To reinforce my good intentions, I bought an excellent book on homemaking. When I saw that I should be doing more in one day than I did in an entire week, I felt discouraged. I could never do it. It was like trying to learn to read without being able to recognize the alphabet! I had so far to go that I couldn't even get started. If you have lived for years without good habits, you will know what I mean. Then I had an idea. Perhaps I could never do everything the way I should, but I could do just one thing right. I made a list of my housekeeping problems in the order of their importance, starting with the ones that bothered me most, such as: 1. Dishes left overnight; 370 One Step at 2 Time 2 unmade be d; 3. Ironing left too long: bathroom, d so o 8; 4. Rug not vacuumed; 5. Dirty 4nd so on. Then | Started at the top of my list and told Myself. Perhaps YOu won't get anything else done, but for one month Pecting to q this on 8, and s bsequently Ng it, gave cess By the time a Month had Passed, J found | task with very little 1 Was doing this one elort. It Was time for t Self, for One month | I € next Step. J told my- 80lng to keep on doing the dishes right after Inner, and in addition mak My bed as Soon as | Morning. | May not do Set up each another thing, but these two thj s - But thes Ned with my immediate tasks of r¢ccomplishment. Ach month I added a Chore. Working on each one a t S of my resolutions. Only, and th nthe Ting with T several yea Wi ay 'Id's mo, t efficie t home ker, but wh think of Can do it, You can, too, Make Your list Tight no of your Success, It's €asy—on W, and be Confident € step at a time! STORM! T angered Clouds boil y Bruising the hills with 371 you are 80ing to Wash th dishes Me a great deal of Satisfact; fave me €nough time to establish a New routine © progress J have Made go far, it is ery night Tight afte dinner. Ex I was not frustrated by lack of su l t an Impossibility. Surely if ——~ Many recipes which had the Wonderfy] Sour cream flavor, but are Varied €nough to keep our appetites Whetted for Stroganoff—be it f your family £0es for sour cream cookery, Why not assemble a Whole Tepertoire of Stroganoff recipes? J would like to Share a few of the best I have collected. Once you start looking, you will be STROGANOFF SUPREME 1 Ib. Sirloin Steak 2 tbsp. Butter or Margarine tbsp. Flour 3 tbsp, flour % tsp. Salt % tsp. Barlic purée 2 tbsp. Margarine 2 tbsp. Catsup le. Sliced Mushrooms 1 can condensed beef broth Y% ©, Onion, chopped le. Dairy sour cream How Many Ways to Stroganoff? ROUND STEAK STROGANOFF 2 Ibs. Round steak 1 10%-0z. Can consommé Yc. Flour Ye soup can water 1 tsp. Salt 1 bay leaf 1 tsp. Paprika 1 tsp. Italian seasoning Y% c. Salad oil 1 can whole mushrooms, drained Y% c. Chopped onion 1 c. Dairy sour cream Cut meat into bite-sized pieces. Dredge in a mixture of the flour, salt, and paprika. Heat oil in skillet, add meat and brown, then add onion and sauté until barely tender. Add consommé, water, and seasoning. Cover and turn to very low, and simmer 45 minutes to 1 hour (or until meat is tender). It may be necessary to add a little more water as meat cooks. Stir in mushrooms and sour cream just before serving time. Heat briefly, and serve over rice. Serves 6. Because of the cream soup in the following recipe, it takes some extra watching as it simmers. As its name implies, however, the flavor is superior, and worth the extra watching. "SOUPER" STROGANOFF 11% lbs. Round steak, cubed % tsp. Garlic purée flour to cover meat 2 beef bouillon cubes dissolved dash pepper in 1% c. Boiling water Y4 c. Butter or margarine - 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can sliced mushrooms, drained 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 medium onion, chopped noodles, as desired Dust meat with flour and pepper, then brown in butter in hot skillet. (Do not salt meat, as soups add sufficient.) Add the mushrooms, onion, and garlic purée, browning lightly before stirring in bouillon and soup. Cover with tight fitting lid and simmer for 1 hour, watching carefully, and stirring often. Gradually blend in sour cream just before serving. About 20 minutes before the Stroganoff is ready, begin cooking noodles, so Sauce does not stand after stirring in sour cream. Serves 4-6. Discover another easy, easy way to Stroganoff when you use the sour cream as a topping instead of a sauce. For a really new touch, add dill pickles to the sour cream. TOP-NOTCH STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 cans cream chicken soup 2 c. Onions, sliced thin 1 4-0z. Can mushrooms 2 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 tsp. Salt Y2 c. Chopped dill pickles paprika Brown the ground beef and onions in butter. Add salt, then undiluted soup, and mushrooms with liquid. Cook over low heat unti! Hot. Serve over two cups quick rice Prepared as directed on package. Top each serving with sour cream mixed with pickles, and sprinkle with paprika. Serves 6-8. You can even whip up a Stroganoff casserole when you are caught without a supply of sour cream. Just use this recipe which has a surprise substitute for the sour cream. 373 May 1970 BURGER BUTTERMILK STROGANOFF 4 oz. Noodles Y% c. Catsup 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 medium onion, chopped (or less to taste) Y% c. Flour 2 oz. Can mushroom bits pepper to taste and pieces ¥% tsp. Salt 1% c. Buttermilk Cook noodles according to package directions. Drain. Meanwhile in skillet combine ground beef and onions. Cook until meat is well-browned and onions are tender, stirring frequently. Take from heat and blend in the flour, pepper, and salt, then add catsup, Worcestershire sauce, mushrooms with liquid, and buttermilk. Mix well, then add cooked, drained noodles and stir again until mixed in well. Turn into 1% quart casserole and bake 25-30 minutes in a 350 degree oven. Top with mild cheese slices if desired, and return to oven until melted. No Stroganoff repertoire would be complete without a few recipes featuring the homemaker's handy helper—hamburger! The following recipe is almost faster than opening a can, but you can't tell it by the results. SPEEDY STROGANOFF 1 lb. Ground beef 1 can cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Green pepper, diced 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. Onion, chopped Y% c. Dairy sour cream Brown ground beef in enough shortening to keep it from sticking to pan, adding green pepper and onion when meat is almost done. When beef is richly browned, and green pepper and onion are tender, add soup and Worcestershire sauce, stirring until well blended. Stir in sour cream, and serve immediately over hot Chinese noodles, rice, or mashed potatoes. When you are in the mood for something more original—this is it—Meatball Stroganoff with a most unusual ingredient in the meatballs. Add cocoa for a delicious new flavor combination that rates approval from everyone. ALSACE MEATBALL STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Diced onion 3 tbsp. Flour 1 2-0z. Can sliced mushrooms 1 tsp. Cocoa 1 c. Hot water 1 c. Dairy sour cream Add salt to the ground beef, and divide into 16 balis. Combine the flour, and cocoa and roll balls in mixture until evenly coated. Fry meatballs in the butter until well browned on all sides, meanwhile adding onion to skillet so it can be cooking at the same time. Add mushrooms with liquid, hot water, and the remaining flour and cocoa, stirring constantly until mixture thickens to gravy consistency. Turn heat to low, and blend in sour cream. This is especially good served over fluffy brown rice. Serves 4-5. There is room in the Stroganoff sphere for lots of imagination, so let yours soar. How about cube steaks instead of round steak for speedier preparation, or hamburger patties marinated in a sour cream sauce? You will find many other tempting possibilities. Perhaps you will even make Stroganoff cookery your specialty! 374 } 2 Hobby Feature Mattie Jean Orr Shurtliff, 19th Ward, Pocatello Stake, Idaho, has devoted her talents to serving the Church and bringing happiness into the lives of friends and family. Her cooking is as popular as her lovely handwork at bazaars, and her yard is an example to all who see it. Sister Shurtliff is adept at all types of handwork. The pixie dolls which are pictured, were part of her personal project to donate $500 to the ward building fund, which she accomplished. At eighty-five, she is one of the pioneers of Pocatello. She has served and is still serving aS a devoted visiting teacher. She has made it a practice to attend monthly temple sessions, and enjoys genealogy work. Sister Shurtliff has written a twenty-five page story of her life to hand down to her three children, ten grandchildren, and thirty-one great grandchildren. +4" A ae Jessie Crapo McCabe, Eastland Branch, San Juan Stake, Utah, actually lives in Colorado, but makes long trips to attend both Sunday meetings and Relief Society. She traces the willingness to do this back through her heritage of handcart pioneers. Sister McCabe is adept at many kinds of handwork, and her creativity is evident by the patterns she creates herself. After her family was reared she began to paint in oils. She has given pictures of the Four Corners area to many friends and family members. Sister McCabe has three children, six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. She will "pass on to them a rich heritage, along with the many treasured articles of handwork and paintings. "i 375 ar om |: a bd q a. Wi, fhe Kranj W wate AN ~~ = Deep in underground caves in Yugoslavia lives a remarkable fish— the Kranj Wonder. For two hundred years men have seen this queer creature that looks something like an eel and something like a lizard, but only recently have they even guessed how strange the proteus anguinus really is. Scientists knew that the fish lives only in very cold water in underground caves, that it has colorless skin, occasional scales, atrophied legs with three toes on the front feet and two on the back; that it has large, round sightless eyes, and a flattened tail, oval toward the tip. What they didn't know is that the Kran) Wonder gives birth sometimes to eggs and sometimes to live offspring—the only known Helen Hinckley Jones creature to do this remarkable thing. Scientists had recovered eggs and argued they were not live young; peasants had seen infant fish and argued that they were not eggs. Two ichthyologists, Kramer and Nusbum of the Ljubljana Institute finally solved the riddle. Live birth takes place when the water is below fifteen degrees centigrade; eggs are ejected when the water is warmer. No doubt ichthyologists will be studying the special organs that make this impossible thing possible. I only mentioned the names of the scientists and the technological institute so that you would know I wasn't "putting you on," not because I intend to enroll in the institute or assist these men in their research. I would rather think about people and how different their responses are in a warm environment and a cold one. Most of us don't live in dark caves, isolated from the world, even in self-made caves. Most of us aren't sightless unless we fit the description "none so blind as those who will not see." But we know the differance between warmth and coldness, and we respond even though our environment is modified by a hundred different influences. For many years I have observed children and young adults. This doesn't make me an expert, simply an experienced people-watcher, but this I have seen over and over again. A cold environment fosters 376 — The Kranj Wonder a lack of appreciation, lack of interest, lack of love, gives birth to distressing attitudes of inner conflict, self-depreciation, antagonism, withdrawal. A warm atmosphere encourages the birth of such attitudes as friendliness, cooperation, a sound self-image, self-acceptance, love, and compassion. Years ago I was having trouble controlling a high school boy who preferred performing antics to looking in a book or participating in discussion. One afternoon I talked with him, his long legs folded awkwardly under a classroom desk. At first he was reluctant to confide in me. Slowly, almost tentatively he began to respond. "Derrick," I said. (this is not his real name but will indicate his national origin), "T want you to write the first words that come into your mind when I say school... Teacher... History... Father." The words that came into his mind for school, teacher, and history didn't surprise me. "Boring, dull, long, useless.'"" What really chilled me were the words he wrote in response to father. "Leather belt, pain, hate, kill." When I read back the words he had written he said, "Well, it's true. I do hate my father, but I don't blame him for treating me like he does. I'm no good. I'm dumb. Im stupid. It' d be better if I was dead. I'm nothing but a big ape." Tears came into his eyes and he was angry at me for seeing them. I didn't mention his classroom behavior. It didn't take a psychologist to tell me that his antics before his peers were absolutely necessary to him if he was to cover his deep sense of inferiority. How could this boy ever feel that he was a "child of God," how could he ever walk in the world with self-confidence and faith? At that time I didn't know the story of the proteus anguinus, the Kranj Wonder. Just the same I knew that Derrick was living in a dark cave in mighty cold water penetrated only now and then by a shaft of warmth and light. And I knew that I must be such a shaft if I could possibly grow big and warm enough to qualify. I am thinking of adults as environment-makers. But sometimes children make our environment, too. One evening my five-year-old grandson said, "I wish I had someone to hear my prayers," his sweet undemanding way of making a request. I took his hand and we went together to a quiet room. He knelt by my knee. "Heavenly Father, thank you for our beautiful world. Thank you for our beautiful Church. Thank you for our beautiful grandma...." Beauty is a feeling to Sean rather than something that pleases the senses. I know right well how un-beautiful I am, but to be linked with the world and the Church in this loved child's thoughts made all the "water" around me warm and pleasant and lighted up my whole personal "cave." Far away in Yugoslavia in cold water caves lives the Kranj Wonder. Just around my corner lives someone who is waiting for me to find reason for praise, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation, a genuine word of love. I believe I'll leave the proteus anguinus to Kramer and Nusbum. 377 A "BEDDY DUPEY" TRADITION Hattie B. Maughan gs With love and nostalgic memories I have just set the last stitches in two "Beddy Dupeys." They are destined to find their way into the loving arms of two of my expected posterity, a first great-grandchild, and a latest (I refuse to say last) grandchild. In case you do not know what a Beddy Dupey is (you won't find it in Webster's Unabridged) it is a baby quilt. But not just any baby quilt. It must have been cuddled and chewed upon and cherished until it has a character of its own and has been christened by its owner as Beddy Dupey, Pilt, Blanky, or some other endearing name. Our youngest daughter who is about to present us with our twenty-fifth grandchild (only five are hers) gave the name Beddy Dupey to her quilt. Others of the children called theirs "Pilt," "Blanky," or simply possessively "Mine." Because of the exclusive ownership of a Beddy Dupey it can never be passed on from one child to another. As the lengthening limbs of a child make the baby quilt obviously too short or too narrow it is still cherished, smuggled into bed, wrapped around a kitten or a puppy, or just embraced as a loving, old-time friend. Since it will be a coverlet for an infant it must be as soft and downy as a baby's cheek but, since it will also be expected to grow up with the child, it should be as durable as a pair of denims. I have chosen for my quilts a good quality outing flannel. It is dainty but colorful, tiny pink and blue flowers on a white background. The general effect is blue, but there is a sprinkling of pink so either sex may possess it and conform to the customary color for either a boy or a girl. It is filled with the best orlon bat. A one-pound bat will make three baby quilts. It is tied three inches apart with orlon yarn. A tied quilt is fluffier than a quilted one and children love the ties. Be sure they are put in with good square knots so they won't pull out and be swallowed. Of course, nothing can guarantee that some of the ties will not be removed. There is nothing more persistent than a two-year-old's fingers or a four-year-old who has just learned 378 to use Scis ad e Perience that a cherub, after being tucked jin fo lS and, while awaiting ft e Sors, J know from x nN angelic little Ut of her crib 3 closer to a child than his It is constant esline When y, chocolate ice ly SMearing his face 4nd face. They are made Or service. Let no child 0 mine ever Say to aq child of ers, "Don? You dare take that Pretty quilt your srandmothey Made yoy into the Sandpile oy the tree hut." That's What a Beddy Dupey is for, Should See a child throy gh the terrors of the ay, through Sick night, the pleaness and through health. 379 get her blunt se; SOrs Man, systematically cli "My y Beddy I les j lt," he Screamed ¢ aspIng its dampness to his 800ey hands Peys are not dainty Creations of Satin and chiffon Jerusha Spends; Y me?" he Said with a flushed face. "Oh, brothers Out together i Dennis almost burst With excitea 00d Working Combination » Ment, "p ease, Dad, Wouldn't Lynn laugheq g take any room, J.. El "Ma "Sh- _ x3 » 'ynn said With her interesting fo finger to her lips, her eyes twink. Ig, li ling at the bo sé 2 rme to crow about © Craig, lik dinosa bone or e're rushing Something," your father 'll tel] You, yoy Wait After dinner Lynn InSisted on and talk jt Ov together." Then, he Ping with the dis es. "How OW about Tagging your big at Suze brother along to help keep you Out of the Sobli But Jerusha had Other Ideas, n holes?" "T just remembered," h 380 @ Paul looked Concerned, and the Wilds quite Suddenly, She shot 4 lance a out Suze at Joe, "7 Just had an ther idea, ature Ought to be d me?" he asked, reinforcing the offer With a Smile have Suzey try on her new outfit so 1 can measure some We have to have her ready "Why, yes; Jerusha, but. - - ne "Why don't you help Lynn with the dishes, Paul?" she went on, without giving Suzey a chance to finish. "Tt'll be a good change the other. Extra apron around here: Jerusha was quick to transfer hers. She tied it around his waist and motioned to Suzey. Suzey gave the unusual dishwashers an equally unusual sort of smile and followed Jerusha from the room. Never left tucked her into bed after an eXthe and put her hands on the wrinkled face. "Mommy," she said in an awed low voice as though might frighten even love you, Mommy." Jerusha caught her breath. The child's round face swam in a ist. She felt herself ennot be Amy's mommy! But 4 great longing squelched the fear. Jerusha Spends the Night Tenderly she rested her hand on the' golden hair. "Good night, My sweet," she whispered and bent and kissed the soft cheek. Eyes, Amy's room, but she stopped suddenly, fresh emotion gripping her. Paul was leaning with his back against the casing of the bedroom door watching her. His lips moved into a strange, emotion-mixed sort of smile as though there had been stirred together in its making, gratitude and sorrow, hope and weariness, all to culminate in a kind of drastic, heartrending effect. He took her hand and she closed the door behind them. 'in the hall facing gently in his. "You have given her a new life," he ca. "Eiow can I ever repay you?" It was dificult to make the wheels turn in her head. "It ls SO easy to love her," she answered, and then with her own straightforwardness, "but others could win her, too." "No one ever "not since her mother." He took his eyes from her face and looked away down the hall. Joved this little girl so much." "Yes," Jerusha said, presently, she added in tense." "Are we really now!" Jerusha 381 May 1970 Said lightly With a Smile and turned to go. But he Caught her hand again. 'Jerusha," he Said, his eyes imI her face, "J pray that you will never " His Voice held almost a desperate plea. Long it would be new, and what he could do when he did. Will let ys go With that 382 This trip with Lynn Barlow. > Lynn knew teen-aged boys. She had been able to 8et closer to Joe in an afternoon than she herself Promising idea that Set the Wheels turning jn her head was suddenly interrupted, were almost nt. "The hen Ouse must be on fire!" Jerusha exclaimed, "Get flying hair, and Say "Go into the Ouse, Sweetheart, and love your doll." can standing against the end of the building and began scooping water as though his life depended on it. Jerusha had begun to realize the futility of the fight. She could see the barn going next, and then the machine shed, but, with the addition of Joe's strength and the big feed can, somehow the fire was whipped. There was a gaping hole in the corner of the chicken house, a huddle of frightened, wet chickens in the corner of the run, and a few others meandering about freely outside their domain, shaking their wet feathers. The three fire fighters were covered with smoke, flying ashes, and cinders, and dripping with water. Jerusha looked at Dennis and had to chuckle when she noticed the front of his singed-off hair. Joe had traded his can for one of the buckets and was pouring water on burned spots about the area. "Jerusha, your leg!" Suzey exclaimed suddenly with concern, staring at it. Jerusha looked down at her leg which was bleeding profusely through the torn hose. In all the excitement she had been oblivious to the injury. But it was easy to see now that a stick or something had jabbed her leg during the scramble. "Well, mercy sakes!" she said, "I didn't even know it. So it must not be very bad." Joe's eyes were on the injury, but he did not raise them to her face. "Here, maybe this will help." He pulled a white handkerchief from his pocket. "It was clean this morning." "Thank you!" Jerusha said, joyful hope swelling in her. She Jerusha Spends the Night turned to Suzey. "You'd better go check on Amy," she said, refolding the handkerchief to tie around her leg. "She was very frightened." Then to Dennis, "I think I threw those sharp clippers into the roses somewhere. See if you can find them before someone is hurt." She turned the feed can upside down and sat on it while she tied the handkerchief around her injured limb. Joe stood silently watching. Presently he cleared his throat. "Jerusha," he said. "Yes, Joe?" She went on arranging the handkerchief with more care than was necessary. "I—I guess you know how the fire started!" he blurted. "How did it, Joe?" she asked quite nonchalantly with her attention still on the bandage. "I was smoking. I—I must have dropped the match or the— the cigarette." "I suppose so," Jerusha remarked, her eyes still tied up with her leg. "Are you going to tell Dad?" She raised up and looked at him then. "Do you want me to tell him, Joe? I think it would be much better if you told him, don't you?" He was silent for a time, his hand rimming the bail of the bucket thoughtfully. Then he looked her squarely in the face. "Yes, I guess so," he said. She smiled at him. "Do you suppose you ought to sort of nail some boards over that hole and try to catch those few scalawag chickens that are loose? Maybe Skeeter could help you." "I'm afraid he'd bite them," Joe said. Into 383 May 1970 "Yes, I guess you're right. And we don't need that many chicken dinners all at once." She stood up and started toward the house, but he stopped her. "Jerusha." She turned. "I'm sorry about your leg." "Qh, it doesn't amount to anything," she smiled. He still stood with something to say. She waited. "I... I really haven't smoked much," he said. She nodded. "And Jerusha...." She turned again, her eyes shining. "T'm sorry—I've been such a dope. I won't be any more. I_ don't feel good this way." She walked over and brushed some of the charred sticks from his hair. "Let's just shake hands and forget it, shall we?" They shook hands, and this time she was able to continue her way to the house, singing inside with elaborate inclusiveness that she would have been just as happy if they had had to burn the whole barnyard down. When Paul came home, Joe was waiting for him at the gate. They sat in the car for a long time, and then they walked back to the damaged hen house. When they returned and sat down to supper, there was no indication of any bad feelings between them. Paul asked about her leg and suggested strongly he take her to a doctor. But she assured him it was really not serious at all. The next day Paul, Joe, and Dennis spent the entire day repairing the hen house. And the fire was never mentioned again. A few days later Lynn Barlow and Ruth Johnson stopped at 384 the Wilsons. Paul and Joe were putting up a new fence beyond the ridge. Dennis was hauling lawn clippings to the calf pasture. He saw them coming and came running to make the announcement. Amy was standing on a chair watching Jerusha roll out cookie dough. But when Dennis shouted his declaration, she scrambled off the chair, gathered up her doll with the new patchwork quilt Jerusha had made it, and darted away out the kitchen door. Jerusha's eyes followed pensively after her. "I wonder how I ever caught her," she mused, "and how will anyone else?" Lynn, just ahead of Ruth, stood in the door smiling and full of vivacious well-being as natural as if she had always been a close friend of the family. "Your house has a new look!" she said. Jerusha smiled with pleasure. "Yes, Joe just painted it," she said. "He's going to paint the fence tomorrow." "Wonderful! We just came to convince this cautious Father Wilson that I need his sons to help me uncover the mysteries of the goblin holes of this fabulous land of Utah," she laughed. "Where can I find him?" "Well, he and Joe are putting up a fence across the farm, I believe," Jerusha said. She looked at Lynn's summer sandals dubiously. "I don't believe your shoes would take it." "T'm sure I don't want to traipse out in the grain stubbles," Ruth said, settling herself into a chair. "IT could go tell him," Dennis offered, more than willing, with his eyes on Jerusha. "IT don't see why not," she said, looking at the clock. "It's about time to quit anyway. And maybe they can talk it over some on the way in." Dennis was gone like a bullet from a gun, calling to Skeeter as he shot out the door. "Where's Amy?" Lynn asked, looking around the room. "She vanished out the back way when she heard you were coming." Lynn eyed Jerusha curiously. "How did you capture her?" she asked. "Just kept trying, I guess," Jerusha answered, watching out the window the little girl rocking her doll back and forth on the bench by the willow tree. The round table discussion turned out to be successful for Lynn and the boys. After being convinced that his sons would be an asset and not a liability, Paul consented, expressing his appreciation for the opportunity for them. "Yippi!" Dennis sang out and shot through the door again, this time to make three somersaults across the front lawn and land in a melee of dog legs and boy legs and arms in a mix-up with Skeeter. Jerusha Spends the Night "T've hired a guide," Lynn said, "who's supposed to know the whole country. I tried to get Ruth to go along so I wouldn't be a lone woman, but she's afraid she'd end up with the dead horses, so I guess I'll do it alone unless Jerusha will go." Jerusha was looking at Suzey, watching interestedly from the sidelines, "Well, I'll bet I could keep up with you," she said, "but I have a better idea. I'm sewing school clothes for Amy right now, and I'm sure goblin holes would be no place to take her. But Suzey just came back from camp. She knows all about roughing it. Why don't you take her?" And so it happened that Paul found his three older children telling him goodbye as they departed on a new adventure into a new country with a newly found friend. "It'll be good for them," Jerusha said as she and Paul stood by the gate, Amy clinging to her hand. "Your three children on a trip together with someone as wholesome as Lynn Barlow." "Yes," Paul said, "I feel very confident she will take care of them." "She will indeed," Jerusha remarked happily. (to be continued) <> CHILDREN IN THE NIGHT What do children speak of in the night, Clucking like downy chicks in the soft dark? Telling childish secrets, cuddling close, Watching for the first star's golden light. What do children whisper in the night, Near windows where leaves murmur, small birds peep, Wrapped in the blanket of pure love and peace, Before their prayers asce nding merge with sleep? —Christie Lund Coles 385 Relief Society Activities Modesto Stake (California) Holds Successful Relief Society Convention, November 13, 1969 Front row, in center: President Belle S. Spafford; Catherine Openshaw, President, Modesto Stake Relief Society. Sister Openshaw reports: 'A most successful Relief Society Convention with the theme 'Relief Society, A Key to Eternal Blessings,' was held in our stake. Over seven hundred sisters attended and the phases of Relief Society were shown through music, the spoken word, demonstration, and display. "Our special guests were President Spafford and Sister Helen Lach of the General Board. The Singing Mothers performed, and a dramatization, 'Home Is My Harbor,' was presented. 'Lovely displays of ceramics, candle making, chocolate dipping, cake decorating, and how to draw, design, and complete a quilt were popular with everyone. Clothing was modeled and the bake shops and candy shop were visited by everyone. 'As people entered the foyer they were welcomed by a waterfall with real water, and garden, and the theme depicted by gold keys, each representing a lesson department or service of Relief Society. ''We were pleased with the cooperation from each of the wards in making this a very successful event." Hillside Stake (Utah), Wasatch Ward Presents 'A Date With Christmas," December 5, 1969 Pictured at left: Grace O. Ensign, President, Wasatch Ward Relief Society; ninth from left: Harvene Willis, Education Counselor; Susannah Palmer. SecretaryTreasurer; Bessie Memmott, Homemaking Counselor; second from right: Wanda Pulsipher, homemaking leader. Leah C. Wood, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Wasatch Ward of our stake held a lovely bazaar with the theme 'A Date With Christmas.' Round tables were set up in the foyer displaying the lovely handmade articles, while the bakery, candy, and white elephant shops were in the cultural hall. 'Dinner was served to 275 guests and a group of gaily dressed carolers entertained under a decorated Christmas lamp, accompanied by a violin sextet. It was a successful evening, both socially and financially."' 386 May 1970 Canadian Mission—Toronto Stake Relief Society Conference October 18-19, 1969 Front row from left ro right: Olive Davies, Secretary, Marie Templeman, Counselor; Phyllis Baker, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society; Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor of Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General Relief Society President; Emma Marr Petersen (wife of Elder Mark E. Petersen); Ardella Davey, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Elva M. Adamson, President; Alberta E. Smith, Counselor; Mildred Smith, Counselor, mission Relief Society; Valarie Shelton and Ida Perkins, music directors. Sister Davey reports: ''At the request of Elder Mark E. Petersen, we extended an invitation to Toronto Stake Relief Society to participate in our annual Mission Relief Society Conference. 'Theme for the conference was 'Fifty Golden Years,' representing the establishment of the Church in Eastern Canada. We were delighted to have as our special guests Elder Petersen and his lovely wife, President Spafford, and Sisters Madsen and Barnes. 'In addition to the inspiring addresses a luncheon and fashion show were presented, an evening reception honored our guests, and the Singing Mothers performed. It was indeed a wonderful and well-received event." Wellington Stake (New Zealand) Singing Mothers Present Concert and Sing at Stake Conference April 27, 1969 Front row, left to right: Charlotte Soloman, responsible for floral arrangements; Kathrine Berends, Education Counselor; Heidi McKay, chorister; Avice Fau, President; Yvonne Meaklin, organist. Sister Fau reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a concert, which so impressed the stake president that he requested them to perform at stake conference the following week. It was truly an honor for the sisters, and they enjoyed the opportunity very much."' Las Vegas Stake (Nevada) Presents ''Christmas Creations" December 5, 1969 Las Vegas Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Barbara L. Roberts, homemaking leader; LaRue S. Sutton, Homemaking Counselor; Velma H. Stewart, Education Counselor; lleann W. Peterson, President. Sister Peterson reports: 'Our Christmas project was a day-long event at which the sisters from each ward and branch could display their lovely articles of handwork, along with any decorating ideas they wished to share. "The ward presidencies served as hostesses. Holiday foods were available and a bake sale was held. In one foyer of the building a display featuring lovely decorations which could be made from native plants in Southern Nevada was aptly called 'Christmas in the Desert.' In the other foyer, a display called 'An Old-Fashioned Christmas' impressed many. A nativity scene which had been renovated and refurbished by Relief Society sisters was displayed in front of the building. "Stake and full-time missionaries were on hand with contacts, and several met with the presidency in the chapel where Relief Society was explained to them. All were impressed with the bazaar and with the scope of Relief Society."' / i f. é, 4 *S..::: = \ of ' a ty Fa ] ze May 1970 Smithfield Stake (Utah), Smithfield Fourth Ward Presents ''Swiss Holiday"' Ursula Z. Jaussi, in charge of the ''Pottassurie Conditorie." Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The Fourth Ward of our stake presented an outstanding bazaar with the theme 'Swiss Holiday.' From the moment you entered the building you seemed actually to be in Switzerland. All of the shops had Swiss names with English translation, as pictured. The decoration was outstanding, as were the items available. "The movie, 'Yellowstone Cubs,' was presented for the children's entertainment while parents browsed. A sidewalk cafe provided a delightful place to rest and eat. All of the sisters working in any capacity wore Swiss costumes. It was indeed one of the most delightful bazaars ever held in our stake." Mount Ogden (Utah), Fifty-Second Ward Sponsors "Plum Pudding Project,'' October 1969 Mena White mixes as Anna Udy, Sara Buck, Retha Ellsworth, Tessie Sessions, Flossie Hurst, and Agusta Davis assist in measuring, filling and weighing cans of plum pudding. Edvenia J. Malan, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "'One of the most unique homemaking activities in our stake this year was undertaken by the Fifty-second Ward Relief Society. Each year they can and sell plum pudding. Each can is uniformly packed, processed in roasters, and sealed. Twenty-nine women worked for two days on this project. The puddings are becoming so famous that orders are coming from as far away as California, and demand is beginning to exceed supply. ''We are very proud of the efforts of these sisters. Bernice Gerritsen is President of the Fifty-second Ward Relief Society.'' Ben Lomond South Stake (Utah), Ogden Fortieth Ward Presents Old-Fashioned Bazaar, November 14, 1969 Left to right: Lauralie Tanner, President, Ogden Fortieth Ward Relief Society; Evalyn Johnson, Homemaking Counselor; Gerlinde Braunberger, chairman, decorations committee; Charlene Neuenswander, homemaking leader; Jeannie Birkeland, Education Counselor. Phylis B. Koldewyn, President, Ben Lomond South Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Ogden Fortieth Ward in our stake presented a bazaar with an old-fashioned theme, carrying the theme out beautifully. 'Several sisters made delicious scones. Root beer floats and ice cream sodas were sold at Ye Olde Soda Shoppe. An old-fashioned barber shop and a barber pole added to the atmosphere. "The knitting booth featured an antique spinning wheel, and many other oldfashioned articles set the scene. The sisters, dressed in period costumes, fit right into the setting. Movies were shown to the children so the adults could enjoy the bazaar. It was a delightful success, attributed to wise and early planning and great enthusiasm."' May 1970 East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "Prelude to Christmas," December 4, 1969 Donna R. Freeman, President, East Rigby Stake Relief Society, reports: "4 SUCCeSs. Ful and memorable Musical, 'Prelude to Christmas,' was presented in our Stake taber. Nacle which was beautifully decorated. Members of the Stake Presidency took the Parts of the Wise Men and other Priesthood members perf i numbers. Music Around the World," October 25, 1969 "We feel that the concert was outstanding. There re than one hundred theme of ' i a Jackson Stake (Mississippi) Presents Christmas Carnival and Bazaar, December 6, 1969 together, but the sisters of Relief Society had Many wonderful experiences in planning and Presenting the activity." 392 Lesson Department SEE AOOS HORACE FORE HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness * * oe * * x *% * K Discussion 11— The Art of Cooking From The Storage Closet (Cont.) '"'Behold, the Lord Requireth the Heart and a Willing Mind; and the Willing and Obedient Shall Eat the Good of the Land... In These Last Days." (D&C 64:34.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1970 Southern Hemisphere: January 1971 OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the need for and the use of products rich in protein in her family storage plan. INTRODUCTION: All of us who are concerned with the health and welfare of our families realize the need for a balanced as well as a nutritional diet. We need to do more than just keep our families alive, we must keep them well. Foremost among the foods which are necessary for the maintenance of bodily health and vigor are the products that are rich in protein. Fortunately, they are also foremost among the foods which are storable, such as dried beans, peas, rice, powdered milk, peanut butter, canned meat and fish, etc. 394 Whenever a suggested list of foods for storage is compiled, it includes several, if not all, of the above mentioned protein foods for they not only help to safeguard our health, but they also add variety and balance to our diet. THE IMPORTANCE OF PROTEIN IN THE DIET Scientists have found that protein is the basis for all living cells. Each cell of the body is dependent upon protein for growth and life. Next to water, protein is the most prevalent substance in the body. A. As a builder. Protein supplies the cells with the materials necessary to replace or replenish themselves and to build new tissue for growth and development. Our muscles, skin, hair, nails, and eyes are made up of cells of protein. B. As an operator. Protein aids in the use of other nutrients in the body. Enzymes, hormones, and hemoglobin are' made of protein. Protein also supplies energy when carbohydrates are not available. C. Asa protector. Some of the proteins in the blood are responsible for protecting the body from infection, providing resistance and sometimes immunity to disease. USES OF FOODS RICH IN PROTEIN If we follow the advice that has been given we will be using the foods that we store so that they will become a part of our family's accustomed diet and a taste for them will be acquired. It is of no practical value to have quantities of any food lying unused and simply stored for some future emergency. Following are some Suggestions which will help us utilize the protein foods that we store. 1. Dried beans, peas, and rice. (These are an inexpensive source of protein, B vitamins, and iron, as well as calories.) Boston Baked Beans 1 lb. Dried peas or navy beans 1 cup diced onion (1 large) % cup molasses Y, cup brown sugar, firmly packed 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Dry mustard 1 cup hot liquid from beans % lb. Salt pork or ham Wash beans, soak Overnight in water to cover. Drain, place beans in large Saucepan, cover with water, add onion, simmer until tender (about one hour.) Drain, reserving one cup of liquid, turn into 2-quart bean pot or casserole. Mix dry ingredients with hot liquid drained Lesson Department CANDLES FOR YOUR STORAGE PROGRAM Direct from our candle factory These are slightly imperfect candles at big discount. Also ideal for banquets, fund-raising projects, bazaars, etc. Send $1.00 for sample 3" x 6" candle and we will send prepaid. Request price list. CANDLE KITCHEN 2335 South West Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 487-3297 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house iS prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 __ 55 Zone5 _____.75 Zone3 ____- 0 Zone6 _____.85 Zone4 _____.65 Zone7 _____.95 Zone8__ _ _ |1.05 co = DESERET PREws PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 395 May 1970 from beans, pour over beans, add additional water to cover. Place salt pork or ham on top, cover. Bake at 300 degrees F. For three hours, adding water if top seems dry. Uncover and bake another half hour. ('lo shorten soaking time of beans boil beans in 3 quarts water for two minutes, remove from heat, cover, soak one hour, cook as_ directed.) Creamed Lima Beans 2 cups dried lima beans Salt and pepper to taste 1 tbsp. Cooking oil or fat 1 cup milk or cream Soak beans for one hour and then simmer for two hours or until tender. Drain and add milk or cream If milk is used, add 1 tbsp. Butter. Season and serve. Soy Beans In areas where soy beans are grown they can be prepared as directed for baked beans. They must be tender before baking, otherwise they will not be good. They require soaking for twelve hours before cooking. Purée of Split Peas Cover 1 pound of split peas with boiling water and cook 2 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand one hour or more. Add a ham bone or piece of salt pork, cover, and cook slowly until the peas are soft. Drain and remove the bone or pork. Put the peas through a purée strainer. Season to taste. Add butter or cream. The King of Sweden's Soup 1 Ib. Dried split peas 1 small onion, peeled 1 carrot, scraped 2 leeks or green onions 3 lettuce leaves Y, lb. Salt pork 14, qts. Water 1¥, tsp. Salt 1¥, tsp. Sugar Wash and drain peas. Cover with water and bring to a boil. Cook 5 minutes. Remove from heat and soak overnight in same water. Drain. Chop onion, carrot, leeks, and lettuce coarsely together. Cook 1 or 2 minutes with salt pork 396 until coated with hot fat. Remove pork and pour vegetables into drained peas. Add water, salt, and sugar. Cover and cook slowly 2 hours. If soup is too thick add a little hot water or broth. Serve hot. Never discard the water in which ham or soup bones have been cooked, but save to use as a base for dried pea or bean soup. It can be frozen and kept indefinitely. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1964, for additional bean recipes.) Rice is used almost universally in so many ways that there is no need for suggesting recipes. 2. Dry or powdered milk. This product can be used in any recipe where milk is called for. (Excellent articles on cooking with dry milk are printed in The Relief Society Magazine, February 1959 and August 1963.) 3. Peanut Butter. In addition to protein, peanut butter contains several essential vitamins—-thiamine, riboflavin, and niacin. Peanut butter lends itself to a variety of uses in the diet, particularly in cookies and as a filling in vario\s combinations for sandwiches. (See The Relief Society Magazine, November 1963.) Any reliable cookbook will give instructions and recipes for the use of rice, dry or powdered milk, and peanut butter. 4. Canned Meats and Fish. Whether we process or can our own meats and fish or whether we purchase them from the markets for our storage, supply will be determined by our mode of living, the locality in which we live, and other varying conditions. The important thing is that we realize the need for some source of meat supply in our family storage plan. Many kinds of canned meats, fish, and poultry are available in the markets of almost all countries today. These are subject to the same rules of rotation and preservation methods as are other canned products. CONCLUSION In countries where storage problems are accentuated because of climactic conditions or be- cause of lack of facilities for proper storing and/or lack of Year's storable foods, special procedures will need to be worked out by | fOOd Supply research experts and by those who ments. PUSSY WILLOWS Bare stalks Swelled, burst To silver-furred Buds, first— Plump buds We'll soon behold Wrapped in lace Of pollen-gold When, to their glittered Silver sheen, Leaves will add satin Cloaks of green. —Ethel Jacobson Lesson Department 12 Same Size Prepacked Cases +10 cans — Low Moisture Foods 5 Fruits, 6 Grains, 3 Protein Foods, 8 Vegetables plus Juices, Desserts, Sugar, Seasoning and Assorted Menu Extras. Balanced Food Supply in convenient-tostore cartons is scientifically prepared to fill the nutritional needs of one person for one full year or a family of 4-6 three months. Pick up in Salt Lake City or we will ship freight collect. Gross shipping weight 365 Ibs. PIERMAPAK PIONEERS IN PREPAREONESS PRODUCTS #40 East 2430 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 + Phone (801) 486-9671 A modern gas range gives you... Smokeless broiling instant-on, instant-off an automatically safe oven a self-cleaning oven it | ally See the glamorous new models | at your gas appliance dealer's. \ MOUNTAIN FUEL rs SUPPLY COMPANY: Natural Gas Sewice 397 can study these problems in their individual settings and environUnder $200 VV. Ay Un der! May 1970 | WOULD BE FLEXIBLE | look through veils of mist Upon a cherry tree, Wearing the name of spring. Defying cold, immune To stinging rain, flowered Branches dripping fragility, Move, as winds sweep through Them from a frothy sea... | would be flexible As is this tree, Sharing fruitful blessings, Quite unknowingly. —Beulah H. Sadleir PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US NORTH PACIFIC COAST TOUR June 11-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Ry' Bsliy MUSIC COMPANY ''Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Cheng Instruments TO MY SON, LEAVING | hold close this loneliness, The fallen leaf. My autumn heart has probed The depths of grief. Wind-blown and bleak | keep The tender sorrow Of parting, let it deepen Till tomorrow. | need this emptiness, White drifts of snow, Before my weeping heart Lets winter go. —Vesta N. Fairbairn <. Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. | 102 Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele 98 96 95 93 Nephi, Utah Mrs. Ida Reynolds McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Priscilla Alphin Orton Panguitch, Utah Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Phoebe R. Davis Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Juana Etchandi de Rothfuss Artigas, Uruguay Mrs. Hettie Sniff Hunt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannah Aldous Bihler Orland, California Mrs. Martha Chadwick American Fork, Utah Mrs. Margaret Ann English Browning Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Spratley Chadwick American Fork, Utah Mrs. Nettie Bunnell Glaser Shelton, Washington Mrs. Louise Kruetzer Guerich San Diego, California Mrs. Agnes Richards Hancock Centerville, Utah Mrs. Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Isabel Maude Somsen _ Salt Lake City, Utah 92 Mrs. Sarah Phebe Monk Brill Tujunga, California Mrs. Nettie Bunnell Glaser Shelton, Washington Mrs. Ella Christine Justesen Lund Salt Lake City, Utah 91 90 Mrs. Philinda Keeber Naegle Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Beatrice Maud Garside Sellers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Welling Zundell Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Lusth Carlson San Diego, California Mrs. Emeline Lambert Carpenter Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Josephine Larsen Hunter American Fork, Utah Mrs. May Blackburn Larsen Clawson, Utah Mrs. Ellen Sophia Newby Bliss Spokane, Washington Mrs. Cynthia Glover Miles Bouknight Columbia, South Carolina Mrs. Tabitha Ella Mary Botts Brooks Ottumwa, lowa Mrs. Etta Brown Cowles Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Turnbull! Denton Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Agnes Seaman Hackley Louisville, Kentucky Mrs. Sadie Cooley Lucas Pettinger Coos Bay, Oregon Mrs. Ida |. Hickman Pidcock Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Malinda Durden Randall Galant, Alabama Mrs. Viola Carrie Mueller Reese Logan, Utah Mrs. Fannie Judd Richins Henefer, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Jones Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha May Stephens Steimle Redlands, California Mrs. Arminta Cloward Waters Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth DeLuche Watkins Ogden, Utah BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!) 20 MORMON CLASSICS: "Books that continue to prove their lasting value!' 1. Mission. Bible 15.50 2. Missionary Triple Combo.11.00 3. Marvelous Work & Wonder 1.95 4. Jesus the Christ— Talmage 2.50* 5. Articles of Faith —Talmage — 2.95* 6. House of the Lord —Talmage 2.95* VOL. 5 by Bruce B. Clark Robert K. Thomas 7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95 8. Essentials in Church History 5.95 9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols.3.25 ea* 10. D&C Commentary 4.95 11. Meet the Mormons—Green 2.95* 12. Discourses of Brigham Young 4.95 13. Gospel Doctrine J. F. Smith 4.95 14. Art of Home Making-Hoole 4.25 OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS FREE (OR ANY OTHER $3 BOOK) 15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea. 16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7 vols 4.50 ea. 17 Discourses of J. Smith 4.95 18 Highlights in Life ofPres. McKav 4.95 19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie 6.95 20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50 OTHER SELECTIONS: 21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00* 22. "Vols.2,3 195ea* 23. Beginnings— Pearson 2.50* 24. Ancient Apostles 2.95* 25. Just a Minute— Landau 5.50 26. Prophecies & Prophetic Promises of D&C 4.95 *Ideal Free Choices. (Order Other Books!) Please enroll me as a member and send me a free catalog. | agree to return the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the ''Feature Book" for that month. For every $20 of non-discounted books | will receive a FREE BOOK! | am purchasing $4.95 now and will receive a $3 book free for joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ per book ordered. In Utah add 44% sales tax.) | have enclosed $ --.------.-0lUaonal for the following numbered books:--.-.......--.---- Print. Name: 626 "'H"' St. Salt Lake City, Address: 400 Utah 84103 QO Not joining, but send books listed & paid for! A State: Zips May 70 Rediscovered collection of early Mormon art in full color See the "'Mormon Panorama" collection of C. C. A. Christensen. Twenty-two paintings of scenes depicting major events in early Mormon history, including the Hill Cumorah, mob scenes, the burning of the Nauvoo Temple and the pioneer entrance into the Salt Lake Valley. Every painting is reproduced in brilliant color on fine quality paper. They are all in this new edition of Art In America, America's reknowned 56 year old art magazine. The magazine considers these paintings as the American art discovery of 1970. The 10 foot wide by 8 foot high originals will be exhibited in the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York for nine weeks. You'll see 21 pages of Mormon art, sculptures, photos and background data in this May-June edition, now available through Deseret Book Company. This will become a collectors item. This is the first time such a large collection has been available under one cover and the first time a major national Magazine has devoted such wide coverage to Mormon works of art. Order your copies now. They will make excellent gifts. $2.75 'Deseret tP ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 0OR777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Total cost $............... This must include 442% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or % sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by C) check, 1) money order, or Cl charge my established account. Also include 25c for each book ordered to cover handling and mailing. Name Address City State Zip May 1970 RS i at Salt Lake City, Utah I | CI On. E to os 7 ° a DQ a a od Oo | fF 3 o y 77) Every Year Electricity Does More for You! In 1913, when Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated President and we began providing electric service, there were 8 types of electric appliances for the home. By 1953, the number of household electric work savers had climbed to 56. Now there are over 200. Today in your home you're brushing your teeth, shining your shoes, opening your cans of food and doing other chores electrically — jobs you probably never thought of giving to Reddy Kilowatt ten years ago. Yes, were proud of Reddy Kilowatt's growing helpfulness to you... At so reasonable a cost! Electric Fondue Thermostatically controlled heat probe, Teflon lined for non-stick serving. Switch to More Electric— Your Biggest Bargain UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. The Relief SOCIieCty Magazine JUNE 1970 The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: IIlustrations: ON EVENING WINGS All places are edges, save where you are— All, periphery and perimeter, you the hub— All places rims and horizons And spokes extending from you. Yet so gentle you are, meadowed In the matrix where my tether is staked— Buttercup-yellow, new-green and meadow-fresh. How gossamer the slender filament between us, Yet how magnet and center you are for me. Even above summits | hear you, and at sea, From sand and season and all petaled flowering. From horizoned far and purple distance Lights beckon in a glowing circle Beyond which | am not moved to remain. With evening | return To hover around the memory of you, Back to the tether of your warmth, To the valley of meanings Taller than this stony triumph over cliffs. From acquaintance with clouds | come, Down the torn edges of thunder, Always returning on evening wings. Shelter, you are to me, Yet all freedom. —Dorothy J. Roberts Mount Fuji, Japan Alpha Photographers Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Mountains Near Meeker, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 401 a ae y ow eal 4 a) | /, (SOM! Cir VA # What a thrill it was to see the short story ''Testimony Meeting' (January 1970) by my friend Anna Kivekas, in print! | am sure all the sisters living in the mission fields feel closer to the Church when they see that one of them from a far place has an item printed in the Magazine. I enjoy the Magazine. Margreta C. I. Spencer, Safad, Israel Uf My mother and | do so enjoy The Relief Society Magazine and look forward to each issue, even though they arrive late and not always regularly. Diana Barry, Sanne, Switzerland The Relief Society Magazine is very popular on the Ricks College campus. | was walking down the foyer recently and noticed several young men reading the Magazine. The young women appreciate the beautiful lessons printed therein "'for their benefit and good." Lisle L. Andrus, President, Ricks College First Stake Relief Society, Rexburg, Idaho Both my husband and | want to express our gratitude for the wonderful Relief Society: Magazine. Being a fairly recent convert to the Church, my association with the Magazine has been brief, but | have truly enjoyed all the issues | have read. As Peace Corps volunteers in Bahia, Brasil, we were completely isolated from the Church until we received the Magazine from my dear mother-in-law, and then you cannot imagine our joy and feeling of closeness with those at home. We simply devour the Magazine—cover to cover. We enjoy every part, from recipes, to poetry, to lessons. The boost to our spiritual and mental morale is wonderful. Thank you for making all-our days so much brighter and bringing the happiness of the gospel to this part of the world. Jannie N. Hall, Itajuipe, Bahia, Brasil Thank you. So much for The Relief Society Magazine. Being a new member of the Church, taking the Magazine has helped me to understand the full purpose of Relief Society. Miss C. De la Torre, Cambridge, England This terrific Magazine has been sent to my mother, Mrs. Bertha Young, by our Mormon friends Mr. And Mrs. Alex Gillespie. We are not of your religion, but if we were to make a change, we would certainly look into the Mormon faith. We read the Magazine from cover to cover, and we have learned so much. Betty Young Weese, Middletown, New York In Italy | became interested in the study of the Madonna and have observed and studied over the years the Madonna cover pictures presented in the December issues of the Magazine, and | hope that this beautiful tradition may continue. What a wonderful and blessed influence throughout the Church and the world, the Magazine continues to exert, and | am sure our dear Lord is pleased. | was pleased with Betty Madsen's '"'Christmas Lullaby'' and the ''Madonna Keepsakes" article, and | loved the editorial 'We Have Seen His Star,"' by Vesta P. Crawford—the warmth and simplicity— the timeliness and inspiration are splendid. LaVerne Stallings, Sait Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine has been an inspiration to me, and | have learned a special appreciation for it here in Taiwan. It has helped me with our Relief Society lessons, for we are just five sisters holding meetings once each week in our homes. The Chinese sisters look in amazement at the lovely colored pictures and the handmade articles. We appreciate the messages from the General Authorities. The colored picture of the Salt Lake Temple at Christmas time (December Magazine) was beautiful. We are blessed to be members of Relief Society and to have the Magazine. Judith Hohmann, Tainan, Taiwan 402 The Relief Society Magazine volume 57 June 1970 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 Elder Boyd K. Packer Called to the Council of the Twelve 406 Elder Joseph Anderson Called to Be An Assistant to the Twelve 407 Elder David B. Haight Called to Be An Assistant to the Twelve 408 Elder William H. Bennett Called to Be An Assistant to the Twelve 410 'Rise and Shine' Marian R. Boyer 417 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 428 Japan—Lovely Land of Contrasts Caroline Eyring Miner 437 'The Relief Society Magazine Fulfills Its Purposes'' /frene W. Buehner Fiction 419 The Law of Nature Is Best Verona Toronto Bowen 422 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 6 Hazel K. Todd General Features 402 From Near and Far 414 Editorial—The 140th Annual General Church Conference 416 Jennie R: Scott Resigns from General Board of Relief Society 418 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 454 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 479 Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 441 'Honeymoon Cafe'' Bridal Shower Luacine C. Fox 442 Lilies of the Garden and Field Leila Grace Bassford 444 Cupboards and Cannisters JoAnne Baker 446 Beauty in Jeweled Fruit Peggy Tangren and Toy Stoddart 453 Hobby Features—Martha S. Chadwick and Viva G. Jensen Lesson Department 462 Homemaking—The Mechanics of Food Storage Celestia J. Taylor Previews For 1970-1971 464 Spiritual Living Lessons 467 Visiting Teacher Messages 468 Homemaking Discussions 470 Social Relations Lessons 472 Cultural Refinement Lessons 449 ''Sunflowers'' by Claude Monet 450 'Temple Site'' by Dale T. Fletcher Poetry 401 On Evening Wings, Dorothy J. Roberts; 409 Enclosed, with Love, Alda Larson Brown; 413 Sea Song, Eldoris Pauline Leavreault; 416 Beyond Their Dreaming, Iris W. Schow; 421 Song for Summer Rain, Mabel Jones Gabbott; 427 In Bright Feathers, Pearle M. Olsen; 476 Why Poetry?, Margaret B. Jorgensen. eS Me AAS 14-00-00 0009-9 seeeee 4 + Elder Boyd K. Packer Called to the Council of the Twelve MOCO TM RR RCULECCLRCCRACCUNLACCECCULCCLLLCLCOLELUUELCUEELCULELUUHLCCUECUTEEOUL ALCL (a ei KS KH I KKH KKK KIKI KI ee) " An ayy 4 4) se ya, ee = 1. &." Se: — SST TCM CRCRA COVE CEEEEEEPEECEEEOEECECEECECEECEEO EE EES ae —Oieeanniccaseutccgousccuuvccouvocsuverssueenes laced nueeeuueeecuneeeneueenNHeenineee ety: w Elder Boyd K. Packer was sustained a member of the Council of the Twelve at the Solemn Assembly of the 140th Annual General Conference oftheChurch, April 6, 1970. Elder Packer fills the vacancy created by the accession of President Joseph Fielding Smith to the Presidency. Elder Packer was called to be an Assistant to the Twelve in 1961, and since that time has traveled widely throughout the Church teaching its truths and supervising missionary work. At the time of his call he was supervisor of the Franco-Belgian, Netherlands, French, French East, and South African missions. He is managing director of the Priesthood Home Teaching and Family Home Evening programs, and also of the Church's Military Relations Committee. Elder Packer is an educator. He studied at Weber State College and received his B. S. And Master's degrees from Utah State University, and a Ph. D. From Brigham Young University. He has served for many years as a member of the administrative council of Brigham Young University and the Church Unified School System. He _ presently 404 serves as a member of the Church Board of Education and _ the Board of Trustees at Brigham Young University. For three years Elder and Sister Packer and their family were in New England where Elder Packer served as President of the New England Mission. Elder Packer was born September 10, 1924, the tenth of eleven children of Ira W. And SST UTCRCROKIUTT s'a'n'y'y'y'u!'''x'e\''''y 'el e's— The Packer family, beginning with Elder Packer, Lawrence. Standing: Laurel, Russell, Allan, David, Gayle, and Kathleen. Sister Donna Packer, Eldon, and Spencer, The insert picture is of Kenneth who is serving in the Australian West Mission. Emma Jensen Packer. He was born and reared in Brigham City, Utah. On July 27, 1947, he was married to Donna Smith in the Logan Temple. They are the parents of ten children. Elder Packer has long been a favorite of the youth of the Church. His inspiring addresses have acted as a beacon to aid many in their quest for the right way. He radiates __ spiritual strength and humility. Sister Packer has been a devoted helpmeet to Elder Packer, and their home is one of love and respect among family members. 405 Elder Joseph Anderson Called to Be an Assistant to the Twelve w At the Solemn Assembly during General Conference April 6, 1970, Elder Joseph Anderson was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Elder Anderson has _ served as secretary to the First Presidency since February 1922, when he became secretary to President Heber J. Grant. He served as secretary to the First Presidency with each succeeding President, George Albert Smith, David O. McKay, and will continue to serve temporarily in this capacity under President Joseph Fielding Smith. During this service he has been closely associated with all of the General Authorities. Some of his responsibilities have been to attend and keep the minutes of meetings of the First Presidency and the weekly meetings of the Presidency and the Council of the Twelve in the Salt Lake Temple. He has also served as clerk of the General Conference of * the Church, being responsible for the recording of conference speeches and proceedings, and has prepared and edited the official Conference Report. Elder Anderson was born in Salt Lake City, November 20, 1889 to George and Isabella Wat- 406 son Anderson. He was reared in Roy, Weber County, and was a student at Weber Academy under President McKay. He — served a mission from 1911 to 1914 in the Swiss-German Mission. Elder Anderson has served for the past twenty-five years as a member of the Bonneville Stake High Council, and prior to that served as a counselor in the 33rd Ward bishopric. For many years he has been director, member of the executive committee, and secretary-treasurer of the Deseret Book Company. On November 11, 1915, he was married to Norma Peterson in the Salt Lake Temple. They are parents of a son, Joseph Robert, and two daughters, Mrs. Bette Peterson and Mrs. Elaine Card. Elder David B. Haight Called to Be an Assistant to the Twelve w Elder David B. Haight was sustained as an Assistant to the Twelve at the Solemn Assembly held at General Conference April 6, 1970. At the time of his call to be a General Authority, Elder Haight was serving as assistant to President Ernest L. Wilkinson at Brigham Young University, and had served as a member of the Church Priesthood Missionary Committee, and as a Regional Representative of the Twelve. From 1963-1966 he served as president of the Scottish Mission. Prior to that he served for twelve years as president of the Palo Alto Stake in Callifornia. Elder Haight has been active in civic affairs throughout his lifetime. He served as mayor of Palo Alto, Chamber of Commerce, the Downtown Merchants Association, director of the Red Cross Peninsula Blood Bank, on hospital boards and Boy Scout area councils. His business activities have included executive positions with ZCMI in Salt Lake City, and with Montgomery Ward in Chicago. Since 1952 he has been president of a retail store organization in Palo Alto. Elder Haight was born in Oakley, Idaho, on September 2, 1906, a son of Hector C. And Clara Tuttle Haight. On September 4, 1930 he was married to Ruby Olson of Salt Lake City. They are the parents of two sons and a daughter, David B., Jr., Robert Peter, and Mrs. Karen Huntsman. President of the 407 Elder William H. Bennett Called to Be an Assistant to the Council of The Twelve B On April 6, 1970 at the Solemn Assembly of the Annual General Conference of the Church, Elder William H. Bennett was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. At the time of his call, Elder Bennett was serving as Director of Extension Services at Utah State University, a position he has held since 1962. He was serving in the Church as a Regional Representative of the Twelve. He has been a member of the Priesthood Missionary Committee, the Priesthood Welfare Committee, a counselor in the East Cache Stake Presidency, and counselor in the Madison Branch Sunday School. Elder Bennett holds BS. And M. S. Degrees from Utah State University, and a Ph. D. 408 from the University of Wisconsin. He has served at Utah State University as Dean of the College of Agriculture, assistant director of cooperative extension, and as associate professor of agronomy. He was president of the Utah State Ag club and won the President's Citation from the Soil Conservation Society of America, along with several other awards and citations. Elder Bennett is a native of Taber, Alberta, Canada. He was born November 5, 1910, a son of William Alvin and Mary Walker Bennett. He is married to Patricia June Christensen, and they have one son and five daughters: Camille Kay, William Bradford, Mary Ann, Julee Hazel, Deborah Pat, and Jacqueline Bennett. PHOTOGRAPH BY -"— ENCLO TPabvey SED, with Love faiyy t iO. End you AS indole lat soit Stine Bee il ' f ) x; = +e a ~ 4 7. A; Pe bate 18 Lay so te? Btowsr < hw Na "Rise and Shine" Marian R. Boyer Member, General Board of Relief Society LeGrand Richards and his wife Ina Ashton Richards at the time of their 50th wedding anniversary. They have since celebrated their 60th anniversary. @ Nearly every morning of my childhood I was awakened by my father calling from the bottom of the stairs, "Rise and shine. Get up and put on your beautiful garments." Father has habitually been an early riser. The sound of water in the shower or from the hose outside has always been accompanied by Father's less than melodious voice. In true operatic fashion he serenaded us with such songs as "Nellie Bly Caught a Fly and Tied It to the Sky," "She's Only a bird in a Gilded Cage, a Beautiful Sight to See," and "Two Little Girls in Blue." His days always commenced as he has lived his life —with faith, enthusiasm, and "gusto." I would have to admit 410 his love for the Church and Heavenly Father came first, with the family a close second. In fact, Mother always claimed she was married to the family and Father to the Church. Father was taught the closeness of family ties in his own home. There were fifteen brothers and sisters who were devoted to each other. They were guided by a loving father and mother. A favorite story of mine, which Father tells, occurred at Christmas time when he was working in Salt Lake City and his father's family was living in Tooele. It had been a tradition for the family to be together for the holidays. Arrangements had been made for Father to catch the late train for home on Christmas Eve. It took longer than usual for him to finish his work so he missed the train. The thought of not being with the family being a dreary prospect, he hired a horse and undertook the forty-mile trip on _horseback. It was a cold night, with heavy snow falling. He wondered if he had been foolish to attempt such a journey and nearly turned back several times. The wind whipped the snow and seemed determined to keep him from his destination. When the train arrived in Tooele without him, Grandfather (George F. Richards) knew that Father would try to reach home some other way. One of the boys in the family was sent by horse and buggy to find the nearly frozen traveler. As Father was wrapped in blankets and settled in the buggy, he remarked to his rescuer, "I knew Father would send someone." The same family closeness carried over into our own home. We had family nights when I was very young, usually with our own family, but sometimes with other families in the ward. Fast day was always a special day. Father, when bishop of Sugar House Ward, let the children of the family help count the fast offerings and tithing. In those days donations were not made by check, but in silver and greenbacks. In fact, I even remember a few gold pieces. What fun the family had around the dining room table making stacks of coins and piles of greenbacks! How proud we felt when we were given the responsibility of count- "Rise and Shine" ing the money! Many lessons were learned and_ experiences related as the tithing was carefully counted and put in bags for delivery to the bank in the morning. Father always put the bags in the pan cupboard saying that if anyone tried to take them, at least he would be sure to hear. Many of the best times the family had centered around Church activity. As we were growing up a new meetinghouse was built. We were "permitted" to donate our war bonds to the building fund to pay for a bench in the chapel. I have memories of taking lemonade to the ward for the men working there; of Mother making pies for the carnival given to raise money; and of the whole family being involved in every project. We were proud of our father as the bishop, even though we resented constantly being reminded of our responsibility to be good examples to the other ward members. As children we lovingly called our father "Busy Shop" instead of bishop. A few years after the chapel was built and the organizations were running smoothly, the call was made in General Conference for men to go on a six months' mission. Typical of Father, he volunteered. This was his third mission. His first mission, as a young man, was in Holland. A few years later he returned to Holland as president of the mission. At this time there were three children in the family (all girls). Another -girl was born while we were there. By the time Father went on his third mission, which was to the Eastern States, the family 411 three, each player attempts to pull the other over by locking inside legs. This has been a favorite sport of Father's. He has achieved an agility and never have I seen anyone able to throw him. This day Father made short work of some of the older boys. He threw them over quickly and then challenged one of the grandsons who had a job working with a jackhammer to acquire physical fitness for football in the fall. On the first try, Father flipped him over easily. I believe the young man was a little afraid of his own strength as compared with that of his grandfather. On the second try the football player was again flipped over. After the third time we proclaimed Father the champion Indian Wrestler. He still reigns supreme. "Rise and Shine'' The memory of my father will live in the lives of many by reason of his missionary zeal and Church activity, but I shall always remember him for his love of family and children. At Christmas time it is traditional for him to carry a bag of silver dollars for the little ones. He delights in hearing the children sing the Primary song, "I Always Have a Happy Feeling When I Go to Church." I shall always remember the precious letters I have received from him on Mother's Day, but most of all, I shall always be grateful for Father who has strengthened our eternal family ties by officiating at the marriage of four of our children in the temple. These are some of the sweet remembrances I have of my father. SEA SONG | walked tonight beside the restless sea Alone beside you, in a world apart, And felt the ebb and flow of heart to heart That gilded us as moonlight gilds the sea. The tide was coming in. And on the sand | traced a message for your eyes to see You would not read, but smiling gazed at me. | knew you read my heart if not my hand. The tide came in. We watched until it went Again to sea, leaving the landscape bare Except for treasure shells laid here and there— The sea's fair price to land for sand-space rent. My words were gone; the sea left not a trace. But still my message shone upon your face. —Eldoris Pauline Leavreault - 413 EDITORIAL / THE 140th ANNUAL @ The 140th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 4, 5, 6, 1970, was held in the great Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. Marking the 150th anniversary year of the First Vision to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the conference was significant in emphasizing the divinely directed continuity of leadership and authority and the great growth within the Church. In a Solemn Assembly on Monday, April 6th, President Joseph Fielding Smith was sustained as the tenth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and as prophet, seer, and revelator. Each quorum of the priesthood individually, beginning with the First Presidency, and then the general assembly, gave unanimous sustain- | ing votes. Greatly beloved for his wisdom, counsel, and sixty years of devoted and faithful leadership, President Joseph Fielding Smith, grandson of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith (brother of the Prophet Joseph), comes | — eee to his office bearing the heritage of divinely directed leadership, as well as the legacy of devotion to the gospel. President Harold B. Lee and President N. Eldon Tanner were SUS- | tained as first and second counselors, respectively, in the First | Presidency. Elder Boyd K. Packer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, was sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve. Three Assistants to the Council were sustained: Elder Joseph Anderson, Elder David B. Haight, and Elder William H. Bennett. In a time of radiant spring weather, greening hills and flowering valleys, the report of growth in Church membership came to the saints as a reminder of the restoration and the labors of missionaries for one hundred and forty years.! President Smith in the opening session of the conference expressed his gratitude for the restoration of the gospel: | am grateful beyond any measure of expression for the blessings the Lord has given to me, and to the faithful members of his Church in the various nations of the earth, and to all his children everywhere. Volume 57 June 1970 Number 6 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer GENERAL CHURCH CONFERENCE! Thank him every day of my life that he has restored in these last days his everlasting gospel for the salvation of all who will believe and obey its laws. | thank him for the life and ministry of each of the good and great men whom he has called to govern and direct the affairs of his latter-day kingdom. May | say in particular how much we miss President David O. McKay. As we all know, he was a man of great spiritual strength, a natural-born leader of men, and a man beloved by his people and honored by the world. For all time to come, men shall rise up and call his name blessed. President Harold B. Lee, in explaining the orderly succession plan in the Church, said: The beginning of the call of one to be President of the Church, actually begins when he is called, ordained, and set apart to become a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles.... Each apostie so ordained, under the hands of the President of the Church who holds the keys of the kingdom of God in concert with all the other ordained apostles, gives to him the priesthood authority necessary to hold every position in the Church even to a position of presidency over the Church if he were called by the presiding authority and sustained by a vote of a constituent assembly of the membership of the Church. President Nathan Eldon Tanner, in addressing the saints on living the principles of the gospel, declared: All the laws of God. And the laws of nature and the laws of the land are made for the benefit of man, for his comfort, enjoyment, safety, and well-being, and it is up to the individual to learn these laws and to determine whether or not he will enjoy these benefits by obeying the law and by keeping the commandments.:.. As important as it is that we attend the house of prayer and keep the Sabbath Day holy, teaching spirituality cannot be left to the churches alone. Parents have the first and great and important responsibility to teach the laws of God in the home. In his closing address, President Smith beseeched the blessings of the Lord upon ''the good and the upright among ail people': | pray that the Latter-day Saints and all who will join with them in keeping the commandments of. The Father... May so live as to gain peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come. Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Watch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Zeima R. West Helen G. Lach Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine: 415 Jennie R. Scott Resigns From General Board of Relief Society Relief Society sisters throughout the world will miss the influence of Jennie Randall Scott in her work as a member of the General Board of Relief Society since her call to fulfill a mission with her husband to the Cumorah Mission. They have been assigned to assist in the Hill Cumorah visitors center. Sister Scott served on the Board from September 2, 1959 until her release, March 11, 1970. During these ten years she has given outstanding service in all aspects of Relief Society. She has served on the education committees, special lessons for Lamanites, and has represented Relief Society on civic bodies and private social agencies. She gave valued support to the Relief Society social service volunteers. She has always undertaken the varied and many assignments given to her in a spirit of humility and performed the assignments admirably and with quiet efficiency. Sister Scott and her husband are well-suited to missionary service. They met while serving in the Western States Mission. The united love and best wishes of the General Board go with them as they continue in unselfish service to the Lord. May they find fulfillment and joy in this new calling and receive the blessings they so richly deserve. BEYOND THEIR DREAMING The dream precedes the fact, they always say, And boys in very fact will often stay In leafy tree-houses through day on day, While dreams of being birds in flight will stray Across their buoyant vision late or soon. And then some year they rise and fly away To scan the polar ice; to quote the Word In awesome, happy voices out of space And in the distant solitude they trace The handiwork of God upon the face Of the long-dreamed-of landmarks of the moon, In flight beyond the ken of any bird! —Ilris W. Schow 416 8 ooo Ramona W. Cannon Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain and Senator Margaret Chase Smith of the United States have both placed on the Gallup Poll's list of the World's Ten Most Admired Women annually since the list was first published twenty-seven years ago. Fifteen hundred and eleven adult men and women chose the 1969 list. On the list of most admired women or the ten runners-up were such differing individuals as Mrs. Golda Meir, Madame Ghandi of India (both admired for the way they handle their difficult premierships), Mrs. Pat Nixon, Pauline Frederick, Mrs. Martin Luther King, Helen Hays, Pearl Buck, and Sylvia Porter. Most winners are outstanding for their humanitarianism. Beth Ryan, at the age of fifty-eight, left her Portland, Oregon, field of journalism and became for two years a staff writer on the English-language China Post, a newspaper with a present circulation of fifty thousand, in Taipei, Republic of China. The newspaper-oriented Huang Family started the China Post eighteen years ago, and today brilliant Nancy Huang is the publisher. Mrs. Ryan found some fabulous women in China. Notes on a few follow: Dr. Wen-yah Koo, who teaches pharmacology at Taiwan University Medical College, has analyzed thousands of Chinese herbs. She--carefully collects, cures, and stores them, and even raises some. For eighteen months she worked in a hospital laboratory on Long Island, New York, assisting with cancer research using some Chinese herbs. One deterred the growth of cancer in rats, but required continued research. Her book, A Study of Chinese Drugs, won a $1,000 prize in China and awaits publication in English. 418 Dr. Ruth Wright, who was the first dean of students at an American coeducational college (City College of New York), has been director of studies at the Language Center, a subsidiary of Taiwan University, where college graduates learn English to meet the needs of local business. She selected and trained the teachers. Mrs. Litlian Dickson, world-famous founder of Mustard Seed, Incorporated, has worked out of Taiwan since 1927. 'Mustard Seed projects dot Taiwan with hospitals, maternity wards, clinics, leprosariums, TB sanitariums, trade schools for boys and for girls, kindergartens, homes for orphans, babies, and boys and girls released from prisons, blind girls, handicraft centers, training for kindergarten teachers and nurses' aids."' Mrs. Nora Chu, a women's normal college president, took time to lunch, in rotation, with every student and her counselor. A majority of the homemakers in Denmark are working commercially in their homes. The high development of arts and crafts accounts for a considerable amount of this domestic industry. Dr. Clara M. Ambrus, principal research scientist at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, New York, has reported to the American Cancer Society a new treatment—the outgrowth of research on leukemia—which appears to be effective against hialine membrane disease. President John F. Kennedy's son Patrick was a victim of this ailment. Research is trying to improve this treatment and make it generally available, cost-wise. The Law of Nature Is Best Verona Toronto Bowen w The oak-wooded acre was chosen with care and after much deliberation. We wanted to keep the feeling of nature around us. We had lived so many years in the city and our gardening in*™™ stincts had risen to the surface asking for release. This acre seemed the perfect answer. A young, handsome stand of oaks was the front half of the acre and the back was open to the sun for our home and garden. I can truly say the acre has never let us down through each joy and lament. We landscaped the front to the delight of squirrels and birds. Then we so placed our breakfast nook and kitchen to share their busy world of flight, food, and song. We put bird baths half hidden in the natural ivy, a perch here and there and feeders for crumbs from the table and chicken scratch feed. The area is just as it was when we bought it except for the addition of some azaleas, rhododendrons, hydrangeas, ferns, and such things compatible to the setting. It is a haven for birds, and often a rabbit is seen hidden in the greens or scurrying about under the trees. In summer it is cool and in winter it lends protection from the elements, but always it is inviting. Ge ur A. Dear | _ a birdhouse to put in the r oft ees. We situated it in the tree where we could enjoy the bird family that might move in, and yet it would feel quite unwatched. It was a charming little house, very sturdy, with a perch at the entrance of a very small round doorway. In the trees it looked like a small log cabin suspended in sky and tree. We were joyous anticipating each day some little owners. We learned it was a little wren house and I looked them up in the bird book and watched to see if we had them in our area. We did, so surely they would find the house and move in. Birds of all kinds flirted with the house, even the big jays and robins, and once a mockingbird. Then some friends told me if we had the entrance facing the morning sun we would be sure to have some birds move in. My husband moved the entrance to face the morning sun. Day after day went by, and then the summer and the fall, and all the winter it looked bleak, cold, and lonesome. The 419 ae | a"™ friend brought us ae June 1970 next summer was a repeat of the same. After six years we had quite forgotten about the house. This spring while sitting at lunch one day I was suddenly aware of a pair of birds in great activity around the house. I recognized them to be little wrens. They shyly investigated the perch, then the opening, and finally one darted in through the hole. It flew out again. In a few moments it tried going in again and then out. The flight was so quick and with such precision that it was like a little jet. I extended my lunch hour for some time to watch. I was fascinated by the careful scrutiny the wrens gave the little house. I felt like saying to them, "Had I known you would be interested, I would have had it fresh and spring housecleaned for you." By the second day I knew they had moved in. We were all joyous, enchanted with their antics, and watched them at all sorts of times. We could hear them cheeping in the house, and it was such a welcome sound. At last the little house was occupied. What a happy event! The blue jays became aware of the house and its occupants. They had always been so possessive of the grove, chasing the other birds away if they could. They flew to the perch, pecking at the hole, making the wrens miserable. Sometimes they perched on the house ready to fly after them when they came out of the house. I cringed at their naughtiness. Finally, my husband borrowed the neighbor's small gun that was mostly noise. When the jays came around he let 420 them have the noise—not the gun. Being very smart birds, the blue jays got the point and moved over to the neighbor's feeder. All seemed peaceful again, then the English sparrows found the jays were gone and they moved in like a plague. They attacked the wrens, sat on the house, and surrounded it. Never have I seen such miserable, mean little upstarts. They were completely undisturbed by noise— you might have thought they had been brought up on it. Then I discovered that if I went out with a towel and swooshed their way, they understood and flew away. Of course, they were right back, but so was I. It was a real battle—I waving the towel and they screeching and flying away temporarily. They were so pernicious and determined. Then I realized that in my zeal I had on occasion probably chased off the wren, too. My great sadness came when I suddenly realized the wrens could cope with it no more— there wasnocheep—the house was empty. Years of waiting and now a coldness in my heart for the dear little lost family. I was not alone in my feelings, for my sorrow was that of our household. All we could hope was that the wrens had found a secure and safe new home. A great decision crystallized in my thinking. Let nature be and let it solve its own problems and struggles. As in the life of man come the terrifying events and, as the birds' song tells us, reaching up into the heavens— the joyous moments. The little house had been empty for a very long time. I was sitting at lunch in the breakfast nook. A pair of wrens were looking over the house—very interested. Being wiser now— dared I hope again? Some months later I prepared the bird food, as usual, in the early morning but was surprised to find a handsome pair of doves sitting on the roof of the feeder. While I filled the feeder they flew to a branch of a nearby tree and waited. I came back into the house and watched from the window. Almost immediately the feeder was surrounded with small feathered friends, with the doves sitting on the roof. For months before the coming of the doves the jays had first priority at feeding time and not another bird could come near the feeder until they had finished. They located their nests so they could see the minute I filled the feeder, and they were so bold they flew in often before I had left the area. The jays were so The Law of Nature Is Best greedy and mean I often threatened to stop the whole bird project. Not a bird could feed until they were plump and _ full, having taken the choice morsels of cake and cookies. It seemed incredible that the mild, peaceful doves could so command a situation and discipline the feathered world. Often they feed with the small birds, but usually they keep guard patiently until the small birds have finished. They then take their turn, and the moment they leave, the jays zero in and eat the leftovers of which there are always plenty. ~ The house is still vacant, but it has been moved to what we hope will be a more secure spot. The doves seem to have moved into the garden to stay and we hope the peace they brought with them will be permanent. Left to her own, how well nature solves her problems. Ge SONG FOR SUMMER RAIN Oh, this is a lovely world the Lord has made; He must have loved us very, very much; The summer rain has gently washed each blade Of grass; the roses wear a subtle touch Of dew today. The skies are gray, But after summer showers nature hums Hymns of praises for refreshing cool, And bluer skies appear, a quiet comes And my reflection in the wayside pool Is brighter far Than a summer star, Or than the summer sun | know is there. Thanks, Lord, thanks very much that you should care This much for me To send the summer rain so blessedly. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 421 Jerusha Spends the Night Hazel K. Todd Chapter 6 ™ The week soon passed, and the explorers returned tanned and exhausted, but laden with trophies and happy experiences. Dennis had found himself an unusual bone which he insisted had belonged to a dinosaur, and which he dangled from a rope over his shoulder. "And he won't even give it up for Craig," Lynn laughed. Joe had a sack of arrowheads, and Suzey had a jar of unusual colored rocks that she had plans for making into beads. And there was a pile of loot stacked outside the door. "It would have taken a truck to haul everything they wanted," Lynn said, "but we could only bring what the guide said was legal. Joe did allow me a very special arrowhead for Craig, and I have plenty of pictures to convince him." 422 \ \. Vi Amy watched from her distance behind the bedroom door, peeking out now and then with wide eyes to share the excitement in her far-off way. "I brought her something," Lynn said, taking a fringed darkbraided doll from her bag, "an Indian doll I got from a trading post." "Try her," Jerusha said. But Amy closed the door and didn't peek out any more. "She's always been that way since her mother died," Paul explained. "Jerusha's the only one who's ever been able to win her, outside of the family." "I've been trying to get her magic formula," Lynn said. "You give it to her, Jerusha. She will probably take it from you." "We'll stand it here in the bookcase shelf," Jerusha_ said, placing the doll in the vacant space by a book. "I think some day she will accept it from you." Lynn was standing at the door now ready to leave, a very much alive young woman. A lock of her brown hair, blown by the ride, fell over her face, and she brushed it away with a girlish gesture. "Thank you, Paul Wilson," she said with a sudden seriousness in her wide gray eyes, "for the loan of your family. They're wonderful. We're going again next year, and we've decided to take you along, too." He was standing there tall and sedate, a handsome _§ sorrowseasoned man, the depths of his somber eyes alive with a life yet to live. "Is that so?" he said with a curious smile. "Well, [ll walk you to the car, and we'll talk about it." They left, and Jerusha stood a minute, a half wistful, pleasureful smile spread over her wrinkled face. And then she went to find Amy. Reading Latter-day Saint literature had become a_ very stimulating side interest for Jerusha. There was plenty of it around, and she carried it to her room and read in the evenings. She had come to feel quite at home in the meetings and other activities, and found it most enjoyable when she was asked to help with the lunch in Relief Society. One question after another sent her asking for help. She always had a few special ones for Ruth Johnson, and now with Lynn Barlow, she claimed she had no chance with both of them working on her. Then there was Paul, who was serving a stake mission and had her assigned for his special contact. Jerusha Spends the Night So, it came about that one morning at the breakfast table, Jerusha made her announcement. "Just how do you go about getting yourself baptized?" she asked Paul casually across the table. He put down his fork of scrambled eggs. Tears came to his eyes as he looked at her devotedly. "Jerusha, this is wonderful!" he said. Suzey jumped from her chair and came to throw her arms about Jerusha's neck, sobbing happily. Dennis let out a war whoop, upsetting his glass of milk into Jerusha's lap, and Amy clung to her as though she were about to lose her, not quite understanding what it was all about. "Well, it's about time," Joe said, continuing to eat his food, "but do you all have to mob her?" ew crusha bestowed an amused smile on Joe. "As a matter of fact," she said, "I didn't intend a simple question to cause quite such a commotion." But the family insisted it was something to celebrate. So, the following Saturday when Paul baptized her in the Church font, the Johnsons had the family over for dinner and Jerusha was the guest of honor. "I'm so happy," Ruth said, giving her a big hug. Mr. Johnson added his congratulations, and all the children were pleased. Lynn's eyes sparkled with friendship. "Now you can never leave, Jerusha. You belong here." Jerusha was silent a moment before she answered thoughtfully, "But you went to California from some Utah town, I understand." "Oh, of course," Lynn smiled. "T don't mean this is the only 423 June } 970 came brief until] they Paul for Just a 4 goblin hole n cut She sm him, a childlike, Wistful smile. "Tt might be Caught in I we haven Music loud €nough," "But I'm Sure Lynn is interesteg S admires: €Y Seem to enjoy each Other's too, and She very back to CaliJerusha turned her fe) little tots." "T know," Was fitfy and restless When €rusha sa W it was worr Ing Suzey who Shared her room She€ moved Amy's bed Into her Own roo his added to the And then, one afternoon, Amy 1 Up the lane from With ness thro day. Her Sleep Ping Parsley fo; her Jerusha Spends the Night eat loa doll in ¢ e bo kcase, my had €acher SAYS We can bring Paid no attention to it at al] erusha dropped her Shears Summer hen Lynn returns and caught the child In her arms She thought "Oh, OW nice, darling!" h At lun held the little 8irl from her ooked cho you are her think f TY her ere would never be another " He e next day as Jerusha Clasped her han everent] Ittle 4 s beginning to ador to his w rk Just to ¢ orld outside her ng before s ome. She looked at the Indian dollies tomorrow!" She Called Went about the house, She kept reassy ing herse]f that at last erhaps 5 e will accept jit next n he Topped it, Bave her a eeting Smile, and Went out the June 1970 through the window. Today with her doll at school would be a big step forward for little Amy. There was plenty of gingerbread left for supper from the day before, but more from restlessness than anything else, she gathered some apples from the fall apple tree in the orchard and made fresh apple pie. She was just taking the last one from the oven when she heard the screaming. Setting it hurriedly on the cupboard, she ran to the door. It was Dennis tearing up the lane, white and panting. "Amy's hurt! Amy's hurt!" he cried. Jerusha felt the blood drain from her head, sending the world into a spin before her eyes. She stared down the lane to where the school bus lights were flashing. In general there was confusion. She knew Joe and Suzey would be on a later activity bus, so there was no help now from there. "Go find your father quickly!" she said to Dennis and was in the car with her foot on the starter to speed the short distance down the lane. Amy was lying there on the ground, her helpless little body motionless, her small face white and still. The bus driver was holding the awe-stricken students back. He looked at her with misery and suffering in his face. "She left her doll in the bus," he said, handing it to Jerusha as though somehow the doll might help. "T didn't notice. Dennis said she cried that she had left her dolly and, before he could stop her, she rushed back for it." He looked at her in abject misery. "They had been clear of the bus. I just couldn't stop in time." 426 "Don't blame yourself," Jerusha said understandingly and dropped on her knees before the still figure. And then the ambulance was there and Paul, his face filled with agony. They lifted her with slow, careful hands onto the stretcher and carried her away to the hospital. Ma any long hours Paul and Jerusha sat in the waiting room, a long time for the serious brain operation, and then a long, long time while the wisp of life hung on a thin thread. There were friends who came solemnly and with words of hope and sympathy —the bishopric, the Relief Society president, and others. The Johnsons had taken Suzey and Dennis home with them. Joe preferred to wait at home where he promised to be on hand for any errand they might need. There had been prayers and an administration. "She is in the Lord's hands now," Paul said. And Jerusha, to whom prayer had taken on a new meaning, nodded her head in grave acceptance. "T have always been afraid for her since Dorothy died," Paul said, standing by the window and staring out into the lights of the night. "She was so lonely until you came." Jerusha came and stood by him. "But there is still hope, Paul." He smiled wearily at her, but he said nothing. So the night passed. And when morning came with its new beginnings, Amy had slipped away to her own new day. the burial Jerusha was so gratefu the night of the tragedy - Jerusha for her newly found hope "and picked it up and stared a moment nderstanding knew how it at the new dress she d made was tha au uld accept his for the special day. Then she Joss in th quiet id. She opene yawer her bed was over helmed Wt h the closeand laid the doll carefully 10 it ness of t ard mbers, th There was \ letter from dishes of food that came to he Lynn to the family expressing h r house deep-felt symp? OhnAfter it W i over, Ruth son's had inv q her back for came an helped Jerusha pac Christmas, and, course, She Amy's thing ntil other would see They rea arrangements d be made for _ the letter one night at the supper them. All tne little things Jerutable, eae ateful for the newly sha had sew with so mu h found fne "J wis cou Green among the green boughs, blending, In my heart | thank her For companionship. And those green days _—Pearle M. Olsen 427 JAPAN Lovely Land of Contrasts Caroline Eyring Miner INTRODUCTION Tony, our guide in Kyoto, Japan, the ancient capital, tiptoed up to a wooden box near the big Torii gate, the largest in the world, and threw in some coins. Then he clapped his hands in a pattern of seven claps to draw the attention of the universal gods before he prayed for his heart's desire. With such magic claps, we open this brief account of Japan—lovely land of contrasts. Japan is a land with the very old and the very new side by side as you will see both in the ancient kimonos and westernized costumes which the people wear. You will notice contrast in the quick restlessness of the city people since World War IT who seem to belong to nothing at all, and the tradition-bound peasants of the little villages. Japanese people love baseball and yet cherish sumo, an ancient form of ritualistic wrestling. You will notice contrast in the green and flowering islands and the neon-lighted capital of Tokyo. Soaring over Tokyo for an hour and a half before we could land, we saw the sacred Mount Fuji, through the clouds far distant, and below us the teeming city. Rimming the bay were strange fishing boats, green hills bordered by clusters of tiny tile-topped houses huddling along winding, hilly roadways. Japan is ancient and modern, happy and sad. The drabness of the houses of Tokyo contrast with the lively silks of the ceremonial kimonos seen in the country areas. I think of the complexity of Tokyo, largest city in the world, of the Ginza particularly, in contrast to the quiet rice paddies and lake areas. I contrast the crowded water fronts with the quiet little country villages shuttered and sleeping in the weeping rain. In Japan the very young and the very old are loved and cherished, another contrast. The practical business men of Tokyo contrast with the starry-eyed in city and country who are lovers of cherry blossoms and of the waxing and waning moon, and of blue morning: glories 428 Japan—Lovely Land of Contrasts and flaming maples. Japan is a land of big business and of little home businesses. It is the most highly industrialized and westernized nation in Asia and stands as a symbol of progress. TOPOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE Japan is a very small country composed of 142,726 square miles and is slightly smaller than Montana, a State in the United States. It is made up of four large islands, Honshu, Kyushu, Hokkaido and Shikoku and 3,325 smaller islands and islets extending in a 1200 mile curve off the northeast coast of Asia. It has great variety in surface features because the earthquakes have constantly changed this land. The islands are mountainous, volcanic, with very irregular coastlines. Fertile land is limited, so even much of the lower mountain area is farmed. As I traveled through the countryside, I thought that even the forests looked as if they had been raked and cultivated as every inch of good land is precious. The rivers are short, falling steeply in many places, so there is much water power available for electricity. There are five hundred volcanoes, some still active. The sleeping volcano, Fujiyama, with its perfect cone, is the highest point in these rocky islands, reaching 12,395 feet. It is sacred and famous the world over. Tourists search for it to photograph its beauty but find it cloud-enshrouded much of the time. The climate of Japan is mild and temperate except on the northern island of Hokkaido, where the climate is much like the extreme northeastern part of the United States. Rainfall is heavy, the rainiest months being May and June. The climate is moderated by the warm Japanese current. The average yearly temperature is close to seventy-two degrees Fahrenheit with summer temperatures up to ninety degrees. I found I could not stand to wear a plastic raincoat in the summer because of the heat. BEAUTY OF THE ISLANDS Because of the heavy rainfall, the islands are emerald green with luxuriant growth covering the slopes of the mountains. Beautiful evergreen trees are everywhere in the mountain country and even in the rice country there are little forested areas surrounding village shrines. The forest area is over half subtropical, a mixture of broadleaf evergreens and conifers. The temperate forests are largely oak, maple, and elm. The forests provide charcoal, wood pulp, fruits, nuts, bamboo, and mushrooms. Flowering azalea, plum, cherry, and chrysanthemums are everywhere in their seasons, making this lovely country a flower garden. Japanese gardens are famous for their pools with lotus-blossoms and water lilies and huge gold fish. Some of the gardens are famous for the miniature trees and plants, dwarfed by a special process known by these expert, painstaking gardeners. 429 June 1970 Birds are numerous and varied in Japan, some of the well-known ones being herons, hawks, nightingales, sparrows, cuckoos. Songbirds are enjoyed and protected. Only the brown bear, wild boar, and a few poisonous snakes are harmful animals found in Japan. Nara is famous for the many tame deer that wander around in the park area near the shrines and delight the tourists and children. Few places are far from the sea in Japan and few are far from mountains. This makes for magnificent scenery and for pleasant activities, mountain climbing and fishing and sailing. There are some beautiful lakes in the mountain areas and many resort hotels in the scenic parts of the country. THE PEOPLE Japan has over 100 million people and is therefore the seventh most populous nation in the world with only a rank of fiftieth in area. Sixty-five per cent of the people live in the cities. Seven cities in Japan have over a million population and Tokyo has more than ten million people. Osaka, the site of the International Exposition for 1970, is the leading commercial and industrial center. It has more than three million people. Kyoto is a beautiful green city with many unusual shrines and gardens. Block printing, jewelry carving, silk weaving plants are some of the artistic industries we visited. We saw workmen washing great strips of dyed silk in the canals. Japan is the only Asian country with a great middle class. The family is the basic unit of Japanese society and parents exercise a good deal of control over the children. We visited a farmer's home in which a grandfather lived with the young couple and their three small children. The kitchen and storeroom were on a lower level than the bedroom and dining room and front room. There was a Shinto family altar and a Buddhist altar in both living room and kitchen. A cow was in a little shanty lean-to at the back. The people of Japan are almost one hundred per cent literate. They love their country, and I saw large groups of sight-seeing students in dark uniforms at almost every shrine. Japan publishes more books than any other Asian country, and Tokyo is the publishing center of the Orient. Through education people get ahead in Japan and a degree from Tokyo University almost insures a person a good marriage, still largely arranged by the families through go-betweens. It also insures a good position. JAPANESE ARTS Japanese art emphasizes nature and, even today, this has withstood pressures of modernization. I brought home some beautiful wood-block prints distinctly traditional in design. Pottery and china use the flower designs rather extensively. Noritake china is commonplace in the United States where the price is reasonable for a beauti- 430 Japan—Lovely Land of Contrasts ful set of dishes. Japanese architecture reflects the traditional and is influencing architecture in the United States. There are many famous gardens, including the Katsura Imperial Villa, and the very sophisticated rock garden of Ryoanji Temple, both in Kyoto. INDUSTRIES The main industries of Japan are agriculture, fishing, manufacturing, and processing. The biggest handicap to industry is the lack of raw materials. Japan has sulfur, a little low-grade coal, and just a little oil. Almost all metals must be imported. Japan must trade or perish and she must manufacture and process to trade. Japan leads the world in the production of cameras, bicycles, motorcycles, transistorized radio and television receiving sets, and electronic microscopes and is doing very well in the automobile business as well. GOVERNMENT On May 3, 1947, the new postwar Constitution went into effect. It vests sovereignty in the people and makes the Diet (Congress) the highest institution of State power. There is a two-party congress. The Emperor is now the symbol of the State and the unity of the people. He only performs ceremonial functions. The Prime Minister and his Cabinet are the organs of real power. The courts are a separate entity. With these features, Japan is called a constitutional monarchy. Japan has forty-six Prefectures or States, each of which elects a governor. The cities also have their elective governments. MEMORABLE SIGHTS Many famous temples and shrines are scattered throughout Japan. There is a saying to the effect that if you have not seen Nikko you have not lived. This is an elaborate shrine set in a forest. I was intrigued with the many prayers tied on the branches of the trees leading to the shrine placed there by those who desired special blessings. It is at this shrine that you find the famous monkeys engraved with the idea: see no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil. A sukiyaki dinner in a large restaurant in Tokyo was a notable experience. The waitresses who prepared the food as we all knelt or sat on pillows about low tables, then sang and played quaint instruments and childish games. RELIGION Buddhism, Shintoism, and Confucianism, are three important Oriental religions of Japan. The usual faith is a combination of Shinto and Buddhism. It has been estimated that there are thirtyeight million Shintoists, sixty-five million Buddhists, and only 850,000 Christians. Freedom of religion is guaranteed. 431 June 1970 THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS In 1901, three stalwart missionaries, Heber J. Grant, Horace S. Ensign, Louis A. Kelsch, as well as a young elder Alma O. Taylor, only eighteen years of age, sailed to Japan to open that far distant country to the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. President Grant spoke these prophetic words: "I have the assurance in my heart that there will be a great and important labor accomplished in that land (Japan). The inhabitants are a wonderful people." (Conference Report, October 1903.) In addition to the four missionaries mentioned above, who at different times served as presidents of the Japanese mission, Elbert D. Thomas, H. Grant Ivins, Joseph H. Stimpson, Lloyd O. Ivie, and Hilton A. Robertson served as presidents. This was during the early period when translating was an important part of the work. Proselyting continued in Japan until the withdrawal of missionaries in 1924 due to the feelings of the Japanese toward the United States. The Japanese mission was reopened in Hawaii among the Japanese there, and the Church branches in Japan were directed from that island. This was considered the second period of the mission. After World War II began the third period of missionary work in Japan, starting in 1948 and continuing to the present. This period was begun under the leadership of President Edward L. Clissold. Many of the Occupational Forces were Latter-day Saints, and they assisted greatly in a spiritual as well as a financial way. Elder Matthew Cowley was the first General Authority to visit Japan after the War. He arrived in 1949. There were 2,200 people attending the meetings held by twenty-seven missionaries. Other General Authorities who have visited and encouraged the people in Japan have been Elder Harold B. Lee in 1954, who was instrumental in having the work begun in Korea and the Philippines; President Joseph Fielding Smith, who divided the mission into two missions: the Southern Far East Mission and the Northern Far East Mission, in 1955. Elder Marion D. Hanks and Elder Gordon B. Hinckley were in charge of the Asian area and gave much spiritual uplift and direction.. The Northern Mission was divided in 1968 by Elder Ezra Taft Benson and Elder Bruce R. McConkie, both newly assigned to preside over the Asian branches. The division brought about the Japan Mission with President Walter R. Bills in charge, and the JapanOkinawa Mission with Edward Y. Okazaki as president. He was the second Asian to preside. President Okazaki opened new headquarters at Osaka. He will head the missionary efforts of the Church at Expo 1970 under Elder Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. The Mormon Pavilion at Expo 1970 was dedicated March 13, 1970. Participating and directing the services were Elder Ezra Taft Benson, Elder Gordon B. Hinckley, Elder Bernard P. ILLUSTRATIONS BY THE AUTHOR 432 Rice fields in Japan make a magic green carpet. Rice is the staple diet. Brockbank. Elder Hugh B. Brown offered the dedicatory prayer. On Sunday, March 15th, Tokyo Stake with Kenji Tanaka as president was organized. The name of the Japan-Okinawa Mission has been changed to the Japan Central Mission with President Edward Okazaki still in charge. On March 22, 1970 Russel N. Horiuchi was appointed president of the newly organized Japan East Mission and Kan Watanabe was appointed president of the new Japan West Mission. Left: Mount Fuji, one of the grand views of Japan. It is a sacred mountain and the beautiful symbol of symmetry. Right: New Year's celebration in Osaka, 1967. Left: Deer in Nara Park are tame and a great delight to tourists as they feed them. Right: The Ginza section of Tokyo is as crowded as Times Square is on New Year's Eve. It is a forest of neon sign trees. In 1904 a translation of The Book of Mormon into the Japanese language was commenced by Elder Alma O. Taylor, assisted by Elder Frederick A. Caine, several of the Japanese saints and two Japanese college professors. In 1909 five thousand copies of this translation issued from the press in Tokyo. In 1957 Tatsui Sato made a revision of the earlier translation of The Book of Mormon, and in that same year he translated the Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and other works for the Church. The oldest wooden building located in Nara, ancient capital and seat of culture. R oe OT CMM pp =) "eeereoer A member of the Church in Kyoto displaying her beautiful kimono, worn mostly at celebrations today. ¢ = ber in Nagoya in a garden setting. A Church mem Lovely garden in Kyoto, capital of Japan in the early Eighth Century. According to the mo Left: Skj Za0. An ice storm has Made weird Bhosts of the trees at this popular resort. Right: Chapel in Abeno, = 'The Relief Society Magazine Fulfills Its Purposes"' Irene W. Buehner, Member, General Board of Relief Society Six stakes prepared beautiful displays for the Magazine department of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1969. The various purposes for which The Relief Society Magazine was published provided the theme for each stake to develop as it chose. Sisters from many parts of the world admired the displays, and Magazine representatives, particularly, gained renewed enthusiasm to encourage the reading of The Relief Society Magazine. "PROMOTES THE WORK OF RELIEF SOCIETY"' Oquirrh East Stake TRANSPARENCIES BY J M. HESLOP Evalyn O. Olsen, 7 A Stake Relief Society President TREASURE Connie K. Johns, pe8ta SEEKING Stake Magazine Representative 14E Lovely white handmade lace REL EF — draped over blue silk, covered the table. An antique trunk with raised lid revealed the '"Treasures of The Relief Society Magazine." From the interior of the trunk sparkling jewels and rich velvet fabric spilled onto the table depicting the "treasures." Gold foil discs placed on the table held open Magazines which indicated how the many programs of Relief Society are effectively promoted by the Magazine.. "EDUCATES, DEVELOPS, BENEFITS LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMEN" Bonneville Stake Elisa R. Wirthlin, Stake Relief Society President Isabelle Peterson, Stake Magazine Representative Three large blue frames edged with gold stood on the table which was attractively covered with a tailored blue cloth. The beautifully découpaged pictures within the frames were taken from Relief Society Magazines to portray the theme assigned. The "Editorials," "Spiritual Messages," and "Homemaking" all were designed to educate, develop, and benefit women. "SERVES AS A HISTORY OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Provo Stake Grace S. C. Milner, Stake Relief Society President LaRue B. Davies, Stake Magazine Representative A large green burlap-covered disc provided an attractive background for the lovely quilted Relief Society emblem and other cleverly contrived colored felt pictures of historical interest. Gold doilies placed on the blue cloth-covered table framed the articles and pictures taken from The Relief Society Magazine which portrayed events from the pioneering and colonizing periods up to the present day. This display pointed out that each issue of The Relief Society Magazine is carefully and accurately preserving a choice historical heritage for future generations. "ENCOURAGES CREATIVE WRITING" Wells Stake Pearl E. Lund, former Stake Relief Society President Gertrude S. Fullmer, Stake Magazine Representative The Wells Stake featured Alice Morrey Bailey as representative of the many writers who have been encouraged by having their prose and poetry printed in The Relief Society Magazine. Alice Morrey Bailey is an artist in many fields of endeavor. She designed and assisted in the preparation of this display. An elegant burgundy velvet cloth covered the table. An enlarged Relief Society Magazine in a gold frame was placed on an easel behind the table, and the center of interest was the thirty-one bound volumes of the Magazine marked to indicate the issues which contained the published work of Alice Morrey Bailey. "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IS READ AROUND THE WORLD" University West Stake Annie M. Ballantyne, Stake Relief Society President Margaret D. Scott, Stake Magazine Representative This display dramatically depicted the world-wide distribution and influence of The Relief Society Magazine. The University West Stake created a beautiful paper maché replica of a world globe. The round table was draped with an exquisite gold satin cloth. Miniature flags of various countries marked areas where the Magazine is being sent. Blue ribbons connected the map areas with the open Relief Society Magazines artistically arranged around the table. The Magazines featured an article or indicated a contributor from that particular part of the world. "CONVEYS INTERESTS, OPINIONS, AND STANDARDS OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Mesa Stake Ada J. Jones, former Stake Relief Society President (now a member of the General Board of Relief Society) Ethelyn J. Madsen, Stake Magazine Representative A background of folding screens divided the table into sections, each section denoting a period of time. Appropriate articles taken from The Relief Society Magazines from the various periods were displayed on the screens, and little dolls dressed in the costume of each particular time in history reflected the interests and standards of the sisters at that time. In the first section of the screen the 1915 copy of The Relief (continued on page 451): jngeest'y Opinions, f Stondards.,, "8 le VWAGLAINE "POSTERS WITH PURPOSE" Twenty stakes which had achieved a high percentage of increase in Magazine subscriptions were invited to submit one of their most effective posters to be displayed at the Annual General Relief Society Conference in October 1969. Three of them are illustrated here: Hamilton Stake in New Zealand sent this representative poster as an example of fine poster making. Concord Stake (California) sent a delightfully unique poster. The pages of heavy poster paper actually turned to reveal the many features to be found in The Relief Society Magazine. The third dimensional quality of this poster was carried out to the minutest detail. Davis Stake (Utah) presented this professional looking poster with its cheery message. Feta ete aa dow tp © I orrenge Gu" > i, Mere s77 tere ax 4 "Honeymoon Cafe" Bridal Shower! Luacine C. Fox fringe, and a sign that Teads "Honeymoon Cafe." Add flowers Or greene us fi (continued On page 45] ) 441 Lillies of the Garden and Field Leila Grace Bassford LILIES—what vistas of enchantment the word evokes. We conjure up in our mind's eye tall flowering spikes of trumpet-like blooms, or tiny groundhugging species that literally carpet their own particular spot of earth. But whatever the variety, it is always rewarding to have lilies in the garden. Known as the aristocrats of the garden, they lend distinction and beauty wherever they are placed, and their culture is surprisingly easy. For most varieties, given a minimum of tender loving care, a well-drained, partially shaded location, a bit of fertilizer, plus plenty of humus (half decomposed leaves are good for this purpose), and they will thrive and reward you with an abundance of extravagantly rich and fragrant bloom. VARIETIES Most of the better known garden lilies are hardy and multiply rapidly, and in a few seasons the lily culturist will 442 have extra bulbs and clumps of wellrooted plants to share with her fellow gardeners, which is half the fun of gardening. Two of the most popular tall garden species are the pure white Madonna Lily (Candidum) and the Regal Lily (Regale), white with lilac and brown shadings on the outside, and yellow shadings on the inside base. Both of these species adapt themselves well to garden conditions, and propagate readily. Day Lily (Hemerocallis) has long, sword-shaped leaves, and the multiple flowers, each lasting but a day, are borne on a tall leafless stalk. The older varieties shade from pale lemon to deep orange. The newer hybrids come in mahogany, rose, bronze, and red shades. These are a favorite with many gardeners, as they are exceptionally hardy, thrive almost anywhere, reproduce enthusiastically, and are a colorful and decorative addition to the midsummer garden. Even the dainty Lily of the Valley (Convallaria Mayjalis), with its graceful spike of white bell-like blossoms, whose appearance of fragility belies its hardiness, has all the charm, in miniature, of its taller, more imposing sisters. WATER LILIES The Water Lily(Nymphaea)is probably the most versatile of all garden lilies. The varieties include both the hardy, and the tender or tropical, the latter having both day-flowering and night-flowering types. The hardy types range in color from pure white to deep vermilion, with all sorts of shadings in yellow, bronze, and copper. The color range of the tropicals is an infinitely varied palette of blues, violet and purple, pinks, deep rose, and dark red. Most growers like to have some of both varieties in their pools. But one must be careful not to crowd them. They need room. You have no pool, and yet you love water lilies? Sink a galvanized laundry tub into a sunny spot in your garden, fill a box or other suitable container with at least a cubic foot of good rich soil, and plenty of nutriments (water lilies are gross feeders), plant one root of your choice therein, and submerge the whole in your laundry tub with eight to sixteen inches of water above the crown of the root. And there you are. Or there your lily is, when it has absorbed the proper light and heat to bring it to perfect bloom. Lilies of the Garden and Field WILD LILIES Equally as lovely as their cultivated sisters are the "lilies of the field" that star nature's wilderness gardens. Almost as soon as the snow melts, we find the petite Glacier Lily (Erythronium), sometimes called Dog-Tooth Violet, although it is not a violet at all, but a lily, blooming in the canyons and _ higher elevations. Indeed, I have seen them in Glacier National Park before the snow melted, whole fields of them, "fluttering and dancing in the breeze" like Wordsworth's daffodils, their brilliant, nodding yellow heads with drooping brown stamens in delightful contrast to the fields of snow at the base of the cliffs. The Sego Lily, a member of the Mariposa Lily family (Calochortus), with its thick creamy white petals and heart of gold, blossoms in May in sunny, sandy locations. It is especially beloved by Utahns, and is their State flower. As the early Mormon pioneers in the Utah valleys discovered, it has an edible root, and they used it to supplement their meager diet before the development of their crops. Transparencies by the Author Cupboards and Cannisters Designs, Arrangements and Photographs by JoAnne Baker Food storage can be a problem in areas where houses are not built with cellars. Sister Baker solved this problem by building food storage cupboards in the bedrooms of her home. Built unobtrusively in a corner of the room, these cupboards are decorated to match the room and its occupant. The cost for building such a cupboard was less than fifteen dollars. These cupboards are six feet eight inches tall, thirty-two inches wide, and eighteen inches deep. Cans of storable foods can be decorated attractively to make storage areas more pleasant, and such cans are welcome and wise gifts. These cans are coated with white enamel over papier maché. The flowers are pasted on, and the can is glazed several times. An old trunk makes a useful storage place. This trunk was painted and decorated. The decorative flowers on the outside were cut from the chintz material which was used to line the inside. Several coats of glaze were applied to the outside of the trunk. TRANSPARENCY BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Beauty In Jewel Prisit Peggy Tangren and Toy Stoddart Jeweled fruit knows no season. It can be used effectively with Easter decorations, at birthday parties, in wedding arrangements, and it does great things for the harvest theme at Thanksgiving time. It fits in perfectly with the lights and decorations of Christmas. But, best of all, it is a lovely and always ready table centerpiece for the occasional dinner party. Its brilliant beauty makes it worthy of the most elegant surroundings, and it becomes a conversation piece in any home. Jeweled fruit lends itself to a variety of arrangements. Make a jeweled fruit design on your mantel. For this no container is needed. When a gilded basket is filled with this fruit it adds immediate interest in an entrance hall. Arranged on a cake plate, as shown here, it is a sparkling centerpiece for a dining-room table. If a lower centerpiece is desired, an arrangement on a table mirror adds reflected beauty. In a low bowl-shaped compote, or on a large plate, the fruit is ideal for living room tables. A thousand starry lights shimmer when the fruit is placed under a lamp. One of the appealing aspects of this fruit is its fragile and delicate appearance, yet in reality it is firm and durable. With no more care than an occasional (continued on page 451) ai 4 f * '- or % THE PROVO TEMPLE SITE (Provo, Utah) by Dale Fletcher Reprinted from Brigham Young University Studies, Volume X, No. 4, Summer 1970 Courtesy Dr. Charles D. Tate, Jr. Editor BYU Studies Commentary on page 450 mMmentary on page 44 9 448 Metropolitan Museum Of Art, New York Painting on OPposite Page A Than Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1970 men;: ' 1 of what they Seek to Portray, During the latter quarter of the nineteenth Century jn France a 8roup of ' C.;; Were instrumenta| in discovering or inventing 4 different 4Pproach to painting, €Se artists Were largely Concerned With Capturing the and fixin I m transitory, the Spontaneous instant, g it Permanently On the Canvas, heir great interest Was to discovery a Way to represent the vibrancy of light, vlewed Istance, allowing the colors to the eye of the viewer. The Sensation Teceiy aS Very exciting, More real, and Similar ¢ the Instant sen Sation a Viewer ght have f a first Mpression. F you Will look d t the j xtaposed Spots of color j he Painting "S Wers," yo wil] he Ontrast § colors pla Next to eg h er—req against 8reen, yellow next to let, Tange next t e e ™MPressionists revelled in th eautiful] shimmer of reflected light and the richn Nature ike " flowers," their work almost ymn of 449 "TEMPLE SITE" (Provo, Utah) Dale T. Fletcher—American Collection of the Artist Painting on page 447. Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—''And to Every Man Is Given a Gift'' (D&C 46:11) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, June 1971 Each one comes to his own particular gift in his own way. Sometimes through early recognition and subsequent training one may develop such a gift to a point of excellence. Dale Fletcher was one who discovered his own gift at an early age and consequently its cultivation became a natural part of his training. Just as many families customarily enjoy activities with their children, so did the Fletchers. They went painting and sketching into the meadows, barnyards, and countryside. The children, armed with pencils, crayons, and paper, were motivated by their parents to look closely and record their impressions. By so doing they saw more and, seeing more, they developed a profound gratitude for the simplest forms of God's creation. The painting "Temple Site" was a direct result of a desire by Dale Fletcher to paint something for the first Festival of Mormon Art at Brigham Young University, in 1968. When Mr. Fletcher learned that the new Provo Temple was to be built across the street from his home, it became a sacred spot to him. Relative to his experience he said: "I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw and failed—light descending from heaven, cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement, eter- = marriage, achieving godhood, with all the angels hymning in the wild wheat." Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer, his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sunshine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To "see" not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake is truly a great gift. 450 THE RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE FULFILLS ITS PURPOSES (continued from Page 439) Society Magazine was shown and the little doll Standing on the table Was dressed in the accepted style of a pre-World War I woman In the last section a Copy of the Spanish Edition Published in 1 » and a doll dr aS a Mexican Senorita called er you have arranged the fruit to your Satisfaction, add the final artistic touch by filling in the smal] open spaces With velvet Coated sprigs of éreen, or with small Tis Strawberry Dream Cake Foil-wrapped Chocolate Kisses CHICKEN OVER HONEYMOON RICE 3 cans condensed cream of 3c. Diced cooked Chicken Chicken soup 6 tbsp. Chopped Pimento 1% c. Milk Pepper to taste 6 tsp. SOY sauce 9c. Fluffy rice % c. Buttered crumbs Serves 12 to 15. (For the fluffy rice use 414 ¢ Packaged, Pre-cooked rice and pre. Pare 4Ccording to directions. ) 451 June 1970 BUTTERED GREEN BEANS WITH ALMONDS 4 pkgs. Quick-frozen French % c. Almonds style green beans 6 tbsp. Butter Cook beans according to directions on package. Blanch and slice the almonds and sauté in melted butter. Add to the cooked beans and season with salt. Serves 12 to 15. ORANGE BLOSSOM MOLDED SALAD 2 3-0z pkgs. Orange-flavored 22 c. Cold liquid gelatin % c. Halved maraschino cherries 1 3-0z pkg. Lemon-flavored 1 c. Drained canned peach slices gelatin 1 c. Orange stfices 3 c. Boiling water 3 sliced bananas 2 tbsp. Lemon juice Dissolve the three packages of gelatin in the boiling water. Using the syrup from the canned peaches plus the 2 tbsp. Of lemon juice as a base, add cold water until the liquid measures 2% c. Add to the gelatin mixture. Chill until slightly thickened, then fold in fruits. Chill until firm. Cut into squares (or use a large ring mold) and serve on crisp lettuce with Creamy Fruit Dressing. Serves 12 to 15. CREAMY FRUIT DRESSING 24 c. French dressing Ye c. Sour cream '% c. Mayonnaise 2 tsp. Maraschino cherry juice Mix all ingredients until smooth. Store in bowl or jar and chill thoroughly. Makes 1% c. Dressing. RELISH PLATTER Cherry tomatoes stuffed with Celery chunks stuffed with cheese crab salad spread Sliced cucumbers Spiced watermelon rind Ripe olives Arrange relishes in contrasting rows on large platter. Garnish with parsley. CRISPY ROLLS Slash the tops of hard rolls lengthwise several times and spread with melted butter. Place rolls in pan and then slip into a large, heavy paper bag. Fold the end over to close and warm in a moderate oven (350°) for 15 minutes. STRAWBERRY DREAM CAKE 1 2-layer white cake mix 3 drops red food coloring 1 qt. Strawberry ice cream 1 c. Whipping cream 1 pkg. Frozen strawberry slices 2 tbsp. Sugar with juice Bake cake as directed in 2 9xl% inch round cake pans. Cool. Stir ice cream to soften; stir in 2 c. Frozen strawberry slices with juice and add the food coloring. Spread evenly in a third cake pan lined with foil extending over the edge for easy removal. Freeze from 2 to 3 hours. Stack the two layers, with the ice cream in the middle. Whip the cream, sugar, and about 4 c. Of the frozen strawberries until stiff. Frost the cake and place it in the freezer for at least 1 hour before serving, or until ready. 452 Martha Spratley Chadwick, ae Stake, American Fork, Utah, is adept at all types of handwork, and is generous in sharing her lovely articles with her many friends and relatives, and Relief Society bazaars boast many pairs of embroidered pillowcases. Sister Chadwick lives alone and cares for her home and yard. Her neighbors often receive a loaf of bread she has made. For over sixty years she has served as a visiting teacher. Her cheerful, optimistic, and industrious nature has endured for ninety-three years and endears her to her ten children, twenty-five grandchildren, and forty-two great-grandchildren. Her philosophy has been it's not how long we live, but how, and her life has been long in years and in service to others. Viva Irene Geisler Jensen, Farr West Stake, Ogden, Utah is best characterized as a homemaker. Her home has always been beautifully cared for, and her cooking is excellent. She makes her own drapes, helps with painting and wall-papering. Through the years she has made clothing for her family, and supplied Relief Society bazaars with beautifully constructed items. Her quilts are her most outstanding craft. She has made hundreds of quilts of all sizes. Each of her five children and nineteen grandchildren has his own personalized quilt made especially for him. She has won many fair ribbons. In addition to her handicraft talents, she plays the drums or piano for her husband's dance band. Sister Jensen has served in many executive positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. In Relief Society she has served in the ol and as organist. Eo ee f Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1970, page 48. Color pictures are not used in this department. All submissions must be made within two months of the event described. Ricks College First Stake (idaho) Relief Society Holds 'Old-Fashioned Quilting Bee,'' January 30, 1970 Left to right: Helen Lamprecht, homemaking leader Ricks College First Stake Relief Society; Cleda Auger, co-chairman for quilting bee; Jessie Morrell, Education Counselor; LuSeba Peterson, Homemaking Counselor; Jennie Cox; Marla Johnson; Lisle L. Andrus, President. Sister Andrus reports: ''More than 200 attended our 'Old-Fashioned Quilting Bee,' which was held in the Kirkham Ballroom on campus. Various quilting demonstrations were set up by the nine wards, with the homemaking leader from each ward in charge. Visitors rotated from one display to another to learn the skills of quilting, including how to figure yardage, cut, sew and press, mark, quilt on a frame, tie a quilt, quilt with crow's foot stitch, and bind a quilt. "The students had the opportunity to quilt on three demonstration quilts. Everyone was thrilled with both the instructions and with the beautiful quilts which were displayed." Box Elder Area Stakes (Utah) Place Chest in Civic Center for Display Left to right: Marie R. Davis, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society; Afton Olson, President, Brigham City Stake; Bernice Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake; Iva Lou P. Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake. Sister Nebeker reports: ''In 1930 a lovely hand-carved chest containing certain documents and photographs was put away, with plans by Relief Society leaders to open the chest in 1980. At that time there was one stake (Box Elder Stake) and thirteen wards. Presently there are four stakes and twenty-nine wards and two branches. "The chest has been stored away for the past forty years, however we felt that it is so lovely that it should be displayed. Inasmuch as Brigham City recently erected a lovely civic center, it was decided to place the chest there in a glass case. "At the time the chest was put away there was a special program in the Box Elder Tabernacle, and we anticipate a very special program when the chest is opened."' 454 nm = ey OF; Po REN Ap © >. Se Db eel i ~~ ai - —« - et ee June 1970 Hong Kong-Taiwan Mission, Taiwan District Relief Society Displays Quilts December 6, 1969 Front row, in white dress: Carolyn Mackenzie, President Tainan American Group Relief Society. Middle row, fourth from left: Lin Wang-Liu, President, Tainan Branch Relief Society; right of middle row: Judith Hohmann, First Counselor, South District Relief Society, who was in charge of quilt display; fourth from the left of Sister Hohmann: Chen (Li) Shu-Fang, President, Koashung Branch Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Chou Shih-Fang, First Counselor, Chiayi Branch Relief Society; Tao Yin, First Counselor, Pingtung Branch Relief Society. Elaine T. Hardy, Supervisor, Hong Kong-Taiwan Mission Relief Society, reports: "A delightful program was held in the Taiwan District of our mission at which several lovely quilts and other articles of handwork made by the sisters were displayed. This is the first attempt at these creative endeavors that these sisters have made, and the results are lovely. Sister Hohmann and a missionary sister, Carma Horne, taught the sisters to quilt, and the sisters were delighted. We are most proud of them. "The program for the event cansisted of three numbers from each of the branches. There were singing, dancing, and skits. Refreshments were served and a good time was enjoyed by all." Seattle Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Annual Christmas Family Hour, December 13, 1969 Seated in front: Eliza Fox, organist, Seattle Stake Relief Society. Standing, front row, left to right: Katheryn Conger, President; Karlene Avery; Muriel Marquardson; Enid Davis; Bonnie Johnson, narrator; Esther Fredrickson, chorister; Arlene Baker; Lorna Malmberg; Doramae Crabtree; Virginia Miller; Ardella Sorenson; Velma Tew. All are members of the stake Relief Society board. Sister Conger reports: ''The entire family was invited to our traditional Christmas concert. This year our theme was 'A Joyous Christmas.' This was portrayed through song and dance and an appropriate narration. This event is looked forward to each year by members and nonmembers in our area, and the sisters delight in its presentation." Kansas City Stake (Missouri-Kansas) Presents Quilting Bee February 16, 1970 Seated, left to right: Roweena Gillette; Marion Laudie; Alta Grimes; Georganna Clark; Joyce Sanders. Standing, left to right: Kathryn Wade; Marjory Nelson; Norma Tracy; Opal Nielsen, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society. Sister Nielsen reports: ''Prior to holding a quilting bee on a stake basis, board members visited each of the wards to create an interest in quilting and to give instructions where needed. 'Some of the sisters had to travel great distances to attend the stake event, but each ward brought a quilt to work on, and at the ringing of a bell every hour, the sisters moved about working on each other's quilts in order to become better acquainted. "Quilting ideas and patterns were exchanged and kits for quilting velvet throw pillows were available. "There were about twenty quilts and lap robes on display. A luncheon was served by the stake board. We feel that it was a most informative and enjoyable day for everyone." 456 June 1970 Australian West Mission, Bunbury Branch (Western Australia) — Has Active Relief Society Membership Relief Society officers in Bunbury Branch, front row, left to right: Jeanette Harvey, spiritual living class leader; Christine Gilpin, First Counselor; Marvel Gasser, President; Elsie Thomas, Second Counselor; Elizabeth Lock, Secretary-Treasurer; Anne Baverstock, organist. Second row, left to right: Mavis Chambers, visiting teacher message leader; Bette Watson; Daisy Irving, homemaking leader; Lynette Norman, social relations class leader; Marilyn Domroe, cultural refinement class leader; Elaine Hardy; Bette Clark; Helen Smith. Fern G. Hess, Supervisor, Australian West Mission Relief Society, reports: ''We are very proud of the sisters in this remote branch of the Church. They are far from Church headquarters, yet are faithful and carry on a full program of Relief Society, and seem to enjoy it very much." Samoan Mission Relief Society Holds First Annual Convention January and February 1970 Lorna Shute, Supervisor, Samoan Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Over 600 sisters attended two recent Relief Society conferences, one on the Island of Upolu (January 21-22), and the other on the Island of Savaii (February 4-5). Both conferences were highlighted by a good program, testimony meeting, and talent show. "The spirit and joy that each mother felt was almost indescribable. It is a wonderful and precious thing when sisters dwell together. Fetalaiga Nonu is president of the mission Relief Society." St. George Stake (Utah), Shivwitt (Lamanite) Branch Has Active, Busy Relief Society Left to right: Mary Snow, President, Shivwitt Branch Relief Society; Dewalla Rogers; Crissy Bullet, Counselor; Annie Nokidineh. Jessie A. Jensen, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Shivwitt Branch Relief Society in our stake has made an outstanding impression on all of us, and is making great contributions to the Relief Society program. "One of its outstanding projects this year was to have a quilt for Christmas for each member, and this goal was accomplished; at one stretch they completed eight quilts within a month. "These sisters are outstanding in their attendance, and, during the past year, attendance has never gone below eighty-seven per cent. They conduct their own meetings and do a lovely job of presenting the lessons. Needless to say, we are very proud of them." 458 June 1970 East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Presents Visiting Teacher Convention and Luncheon January 30, 1970 Relief Society officers of East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, front row, left to right: Marsha R. Ferrin, Homemaking Counselor; Romola L. Hanchett, Education Counselor; Ada J. Jones, Member, General Board of Relief Society; Irene C. Lloyd, former member, General Board; Lois L. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Gale M. Kleinman, social relations class leader; Myrene T. Alvord, homemaking leader; Bernice S. Turley, visiting teacher message leader; Avon A. Price, chorister; LaVenda A. Mitcham, Secretary-Treasurer; Colleen H. Maloy, organist; Ina L. Price, cultural refinement class leader: Flossie B. Robinson, spiritual living class leader. Sister Tanner reports: ''Over ninety-two per cent of our visiting teachers attended our convention to enjoy inspirational remarks from our stake president, Glenn A. Jones, and from Irene C. Lloyd. A beautiful presentation of 'The Stranger Within Our Gates,' by Luacine C. Fox thrilled the sisters. ''A charm bracelet was given to each sister in appreciation for her devoted work. We feel that this was a unified and successful event, long to be remembered by those who attended." o OEE Montpelier Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 13, 1969 Front row, in dark dress: Mary Ann Davenport, conductor; second from right, front row: Alice Nelson, organist. Bernice K. Hansen, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Approximately 600 people attended the Christmas concert presented by our stake Singing Mothers. The program consisted of songs outlined by the General Board, and eighty-three sisters performed."' a NN Young Stake (New Mexico) Relief Society Leadership Meeting Focused on Magazine Sales January 23, 1970 Members of the Young Stake Relief Society Board and special assignment sister, front row, left to right: Revis Taylor, chorister; Faye Flack, Magazine representative; Jeanne Jack, visiting teacher message leader; Chlodene Reid, Secretary-Treasurer; Selena Hamblin, spiritual living class leader. Back row, left to right: Helen Foutz, cultural refinement class leader; Dixie Taylor, Second Counselor; Rhea Beckstead, President; Goldie Hunt, First Counselor; Bertha Dawson, social relations class leader: Marjorie Waite, homemaking leader; Avarilla Watts (sister with special assignment to Lamanites). Sister Beckstead reports: ''The theme of our January leadership meeting was 'Is Your Magazine a Locked Treasure, or a Fountain of Knowledge?' Each of the ward Magazine representatives was honored with a carnation, as each of the eighteen wards in the stake achieved over 100 per cent in the subscription drive. Our goal is to place the Magazine in every Latter-day Saint home in our stake. ''In the departmental meetings, each of the leaders stressed the importance of the Magazine. The homemaking department enjoyed a demonstration of Swedish embroidery, from instructions in the September 1965 Magazine. We feel that this meeting was a success and did much to encourage continued enjoyment and use of the Magazine."' 460 * * * * * % * * *k Lesson Department LRKKAAEA KHER EERE ES HOMEMAKING * * Development Through ¥ Homemaking Education * Woman's Role in * * % * * Family Preparedness ARK BOK KKK KKK KK KK KK Discussion 12 The Mechanics of Food Storage "For the Earth Is Full, and There Is Enough and to Spare; Yea, | Prepared All Things, and Have Given Unto the Children of Men to Be Agents Unto Themselves." (D&C 104:17.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 Southern Hemisphere: February 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out that a storage plan can be started regardless of space or circumstances. INTRODUCTION There are those among our Latter-day Saint membership who, though they recognize the wisdom of home storage and preservation of foods, are confronted with the problem of finding a suitable place to store these provisions. The question is asked, "How can we, who are living in small houses on limited budgets, obey this counsel?" or "Not havin a basement, how can we find a place to store more than is needed for our weekly supply of 462 food?" These are but two of the many questions which arise relative to the problem of where to store our provisions. Yet there are many who are meeting these challenges and proving the truth of the old adage, "Where there is a will, there is a way." Many of our homes do have basements or utility rooms where foods may be _ stored. When neither of these is available, however, garages and other facilities may be used if precautions are taken to follow proper storage procedures. Even for those who live under conditions where all of these facilities are lacking, there are ways to be found whereby a feasible storage plan can be worked out. HOW SHALL WE UTILIZE OUR AVAILABLE SPACE? 1. Storing Food in a Basement. A basement room that is dry all seasons of the year, free from steam, hot air and water pipes, or heat of any kind, and one which is closed off from the rest of the house is an ideal storage room. Under these conditions the average yearly temperature will be between 50 to 60 degrees F., the temperature at which most foods will retain their maximum keeping qualities. Not too many of us have such ideal conditions as these, to be sure, One family of six had as their entire storage space a basement closet and a small fruit room, and yet they succeeded in storing their one-year's supply which they kept in constant rotation. On shelves in the closet they stored dried beans, peas, rice, macaroni products, dried milk, and staples such as spices, flavorings, soaps, etc., in inexpensive tin canisters, gallon ice-cream cartons, and any cans with tight lids. On shelves in the fruit room, which they had provided with a good circulation of air by cutting a hole in the wall near the floor and covering it with an open grill to keep out bugs and mice, and a similar one near the ceiling, they kept home bottled fruits and _ vegetables, pickles, jams, and jellies. Under the shelves they stored case-lot purchases of canned meats, fish, milk, vegetables, fruit, shortening, flour, cereal, and sugar. They put slots of wood between the cement floor and the stored foods to keep any moisture away from them. Sacks of flour were alternated with sacks of sugar, spaced so as not to touch each other to prevent infestation of weevil. In the fall they purchased three sacks of potatoes, two sacks of onions (one of small size for cooking whole, and one of large size for slicing, etc.) which they suspended in their mesh bags on a nail or stood on slats of wood on the fruit room floor. Lesson Department They stored a bushel of carrots, washed and topped, in a loosely-capped creamery can which worked as the hydrator in a refrigerator. (Parsnips and turnips in smaller quantities were stored in the same way.) Several bushels of apples were stored in their garage and insulation was provided by encasing the boxeswith crumpled newspapers and covering with old blankets to prevent freezing. The motto of this family is: "It can be done, and it's lots of fun!" 2. Storing Food in a Small Apartment. Can this be done? One young couple was able to store more than a one-year's supply by utilizing an outside wall and corners of the room, away from water or heating pipes, to stack cases of food. An attractive curtain with a drawstring hid it from view. Additional space was found on kitchen and closet shelves and even in bookcases where the food containers were camouflaged as objects of art. Impracticable? They didn't think so. One of their safeguards was continual rotation and replacement. 3. Storing Food in a Garage. When the garage or other buildings apart from the house are used for food storage, care should be taken to protect the food from extremes of weather, either hot or cold. Circulation of air should be permitted around any stored items of food to prevent sweating or moisture damage to containers or cartons. Food containers should be placed on wood slats so that they will not be in contact with cement floors or walls. Spaces near open water, water pipes, steam outlets from any mechanical equipment, or areas where there are leaking roof or walls should be avoided. The walls of storage areas, particularly in buildings apart from the house, should be as airtight as possible in order to resist weather and insects. 4. Storing Food Underground. Vegetable cellars are ideal for such foods as potatoes, apples, onions, carrots, cabbages, etc. If the temperature is cool and if they are kept off the dirt floor. Where shelving space is available, cased or canned goods may be stored if tightly sealed against moisture contact. Under such conditions vacuum-sealed metal cans, commercially packed, will give 463 June 1970 adequate protection to food for several years. CONCLUSION own needs and conditions. As it is with anything we attain to in this life—if we really want to achieve it, we will work toward our goal and reach it. The axiom stated by Henry Ford is applicable here: "If you think you can or you can't, you're right." None of us should be discouraged in our efforts to work out a home storage plan to fit our o> a ee a ee ee ee ale vl = at ate oD —_— = === alee ate als Serena _ > ee = eats ale, ' rt Ses SPIRITUAL LIVING The Pearl of Great Price Preview of Lessons for 1970-71 Through a study of the Pearl of Great Price, the women of Relief Society will have an opportunity during the next three years to learn new truths, receive verification of truths known in other scriptures, and gain an increased testimony of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The objective of this course of study is expressed in these words: To motivate each Latter-day Saint woman to fulfill her exalted role in God's plan of salvation through an increased testimony of the gospel principles revealed in the Pearl of Great Price. The Lord has blessed members of his Church bounteously in bringing forth the Book of Mormon, in giving by direct revelation the Doctrine and Covenants, and finally, by adding to the already existing Bible, the small, yet important contributor of great truths—the Pearl of Great Price. This third modern book of scripture among the four standard works of the Church stands as a monument to the truth that the patriarchs from Adam through Abraham and Moses received revelation from God. The apostate religious world has gone 464 Lesson Previews a long way in its denial of the historicity of these ancient prophets of God. A prominent scientific theory of man's origin has given impetus to the idea that man's religions are the product of his cultural rise from primitive man to the present. Latter-day prophets have attacked, with the earnestness of inspired conviction, this falsehood against a belief in a personal deity and revelation from him. Against the false teachings of the world, the Pearl of Great Price stands as a witness to the doctrine of revelation from God to his prophets. The Pearl of Great Price was first published as a mission pamphlet in Great Britain in 1851, and in 1880 it was received in general conference as scripture binding upon all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Elder Franklin D. Richards, while an apostle and mission president in Great Britain, brought together the materials composing this book. The preface, written by Elder Richards, forms the basis for one lesson. The preface includes a prophecy made by Elder Richards that is in literal fulfillment. Fundamental doctrinal messages make up the remaining lessons. These lessons include the important doctrine of the premortality of man, animal, and plant, and the values derived from an understanding of this knowledge. Another lesson is concerned with the magnitude of God's creations and the lesson of orderliness which one may receive from it. A major contribution to our understanding of the justice of God is the fact that he gave the plan of salvation to Adam, the first man. In a world where, by and large, Satan has ascendancy over the children of men, it is necessary for Latter-day Saints to be fortified against his wiles; consequently, the works, designs, and enticements of the adversary of truth are given, with the ways provided whereby his efforts may be thwarted in one's life. Of all doctrines of the gospel, the most fundamental is the atonement of Jesus Christ. Basic to this act of mercy on the part of the Savior is a genuine belief in certain fundamental teachings concerning Adam and Eve. The Pearl of Great Price makes such an opportunity available. Finally, emphasis is given to one of the most important one- - sentence truths ever revealed. In this lesson one learns how one may accept the atonement of Christ for his individual salvation.. Inasmuch as one can read the entire Pearl of Great Price in less than two hours, it is recommended that every member of the Relief Society read it from cover to cover before the first lesson. One may read comments about a book of scripture, but when these comments are combined with a reading and studying of the book itself, the spirit of truth is felt more abundantly. The lessons for 1970-71 have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 1—The Grigin of the Pearl of Great Price Reading assignment: The entire Pearl of Great Price Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, March 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman to obtain a stronger testimony of the Pearl of Great Price as scripture. 465 June 1970 Lesson 2—The Doctrine of the Godhead Reading assignment: Books of Moses and Abraham Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, April 1971 Objective: To assist each Latter-day Saint woman better to fulfill her purpose in life by assuring her that God revealed to Adam a true knowledge of the Godhead that Adam's posterity might be reared in light and truth. Lesson 3—The Premortality of Mankind Reading assignment: Abraham, chapter 3 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 Objective: To gain a knowledge of premortal life and to examine the present-day value of this knowledge to a Latter-day Saint woman. Lesson 4—The Creation Reading assignment: Moses, chapters 2 and 3; Abraham, chapters 3, 4, 5 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, June 1971 Objective: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman the orderliness of God's creations and the need to have order in her own sphere of activity. Lesson 5—The Eternal Nature of the Gospel Reading assignment: Moses, chapters 6, 7, 8 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, July 1971 Objective: To highlight the justice of God in providing the plan of salvation to Adam and his posterity and to emphasize the security this gives every Latter-day Saint woman. Lesson 6—Satan and Mankind Reading assignment: Moses, chapters 1, 4, 5; Abraham, chapter 3 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, August 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand the reality of Satan and to encourage her to use revealed knowledge to counteract his deceptions. Lesson 7—The Atonement of Jesus Christ Reading assignment: Moses, chapter 6 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, September 1971 Objective: To show the Latter-day Saint woman that only in and through Jesus Christ is salvation available, and to inspire her to increase her faith in him. Lesson 8—The Lord's Work and His Glory Reading assignment: Moses, chapters 1, 5, 6 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, October 1971 Objective: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman that the Lord offers her the gifts of immortality and eternal life if she lives to be worthy of these gifts. SVE 466 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Preview of Messages for 1970-71 "And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed." (Luke 2:1.) Rome—preeminent, victorious, a colossus!—her proud armies and navies patrolled the known world. All roads led to her magnificent capital. Her emperors were worshipped as gods. At the height of her power, in one of her distant, troubled provinces, Jesus Christ was born. Unknown, unheralded in the splendid city of empire, he lived his short life, probably unheard of in the halls of that distant, earthly power. Today that Rome is only a memory. Her proud streets are fragmented. Her beautiful columns lie tumbled in her ancient forum. Her gods are historical oddities. But Jesus Christ, who was born and who lived in comparative obscurity, is the Savior of the world. Not all men realize this yet, but in all nations men pray in his name and praise him. A slim volume written by his worshipping disciples bursts with the power, glory, humility, and love of his earthly ministry. This year we turn to its pages to replenish the fires of our own faith. The titles and objectives for the eight visiting teacher messages follow: ' Message 1—Truth and Free Agency Northern Hemisphere: First Week, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, March 1971 Objective: Obedience to the Lord's principles will bring a divine fulfillment in an individual's life. Message 2—Gratitude Northern Hemisphere: First Week, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, April 1971 Objective: To remember that gratitude blesses both giver and receiver. Message 3—Peacemakers Northern Hemisphere: First Week, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1971 Objective: To emphasize that peace is a goal of the daughters of God. Message 4—Appreciation of Excellence Northern Hemisphere: First Week, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, June 1971 Objective: To kindle anew our pursuit and appreciation of excellence. 467 June 1970 Message 5—Respect for and Understanding of Authority Northern Hemisphere: First Week, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, July 1971 Objective: To realize that to accept, understand, and respect authority is a mark of maturity. Message 6—The Meaning of Worship Northern Hemisphere: First Week, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, August 1971 Objective: To refresh our understanding of the meaning of worship. Message 7—Responsibility Northern Hemisphere: First Week, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, September 1971 Objective: To remember that we are to be ''the light of the world." Message 8—Respect for Those Who Are Different Northern Hemisphere: First Week; May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, October 1971 Objective: To understand, respect, and love all the children of God. * HOMEMAKING DISCUSSIONS Education for Living A Lovelier You Preview of Discussions—1970-71 The home and the family are the center of the woman's life. The woman who devotes her talents to being a creative homemaker and a lovely wife and mother is making an unmatched contribution to society. In a world where young people are confused and uncertain, mothers must set the example of poise, loveliness, level-headedness and stability. In our course of study for this year we will give specific helps in good grooming, modesty in dress, and the importance of daily exercise. We will discuss the blessings that come to a woman and her family by her having right attitudes, improving her mind, watching her speech, and developing a pleasing personality—all factors in molding "A Lovelier You." Discussion 1-— You Owe It to Yourself to Become a Lovelier You Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 Objective: To help each woman accept her responsibility in taking care of her outward appearance. Discussion 2—Modesty in Dress Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 Objective: To show that one can be attractively dressed and still maintain Church standards of modesty. 468 Lesson Previews Discussion 3—Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 Objective: To show that one's actions speak loudly in revealing the kind of person she is. Discussion 4—Exercise, Posture, and Grooming Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, June 1971 Objective: To emphasize that proper exercise, posture, and grooming improve appearance, health, and self-confidence. Discussion 5—Proper Nutrition Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, July 1971 Objective: To impress upon each woman the fact that proper nutrition not only affects her health but also her appearance. Discussion 6—Improving Your Mind Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, August 1971 Objective: To stress that a mother can be more interesting and helpful to her family by continually learning and reading. Discussion 7—''Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee"' Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, September 1971 * Objective: To alert women to the advantages of using proper grammar and of having a voice that is pleasing. Discussion 8—Making Your Family Proud of You Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1971 Objective: To point out that a pleasing personality, proper attitudes, and good manners are of importance not only to a woman herself, but to her family. K SIMPLIFIED SEWING METHODS Preview of Summer Discussions—1970-71 The aim of the summer homemaking discussions will be to give the sisters some practical, simple methods for some of the more common sewing problems. Discussion 1—Setting in Sleeves Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, June 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, November 1971 Objective: To teach an easy method of setting in sleeves. 469 June 1970 Discussion 2—Putting in Zippers Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, July 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, December 1971 Objective: To show different methods of inserting zippers. Discussion 3—Bound Buttonholes Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, August 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, January 1972 Objective: To demonstrate a simple method of making bound buttonholes. Discussion 4—Some fundamental Sewing Helps Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, September 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, February 1972 Objective: To point out several worthwhile helps in dressmaking (neck binding, reinforcing cap sleeves, sewing on elastic, and stitching pleats for easy care). *K SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Preview of Lessons for 1970-71 The Relief Society, organized in 1842 by the Prophet Joseph Smith, has maintained the high purposes originally set forth. Efforts have been continuous and diligent "to raise human life to its highest level." This noble purpose is a particularly difficult achievement in the world of 1970 because of the very extensive impact of Satan. The foundations of the home and of society at moments seem to teeter on the brink of disruption, and any organization which is committed to perpetuation of the home and the enhancement of the individual has a most difficult assignment. The Latter-day Saint woman is standing in the forefront of the battle against Satan with his subtle and his open ways of trying to defeat God's purposes. The woman's function as a homemaker is expanded to include her ability to understand herself as an individual and as a woman, to transmit to her children healthy attitudes, and, by her behavior, to set an exemplary pattern for her children to follow. The lessons for the next year are aimed at providing guidelines and helps to the Latter-day Saint woman as she confronts life with a set of idealistic goals that are being challenged from every side. The role she must play in the world of the 1970s is a vital role for herself and for others. She must know herself and how she can 470 Lesson Previews meet life with all its temptations and frustrations. She must also know how to teach, to guide, and to provide spiritual guidelines for others and, particularly, her own family. The appropriate and effective blending of the temporal and spiritual dimensions of life is a challenging goal. To help the Latter-day Saint woman acquire additional ability to respond maturely to today's challenges is the goal of the lessons for the coming year. Lesson 1—Morality and the Individual Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Objective: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our social relationships. Lesson 2—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971 Objective: To help Latter-day Saint women become more aware of the presence and power of Satan in the modern world by giving guidelines and methods for distinguishing between God's morality and Satan's morality. Lesson 3—Today's Child in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman more fully understand the relationship between a growing child's attitudes (toward self, family, and Church), and his ability to cope successfully with the moral hazards to which he will be exposed. Lesson 4—Women Are People, Too Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, June 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be able to identify, understand, and satisfy her own basic needs in order to enrich her life, her family, and society. Lesson 5—Morality Makes Sense Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, July 1971 Objective: To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand and put into practice ways of developing moral strength in children. Lesson 6—The Hazards of Drugs and Alcohol in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, August 1971 Objective: By being better informed concerning the natures and usage of drugs and alcohol a Latter-day Saint woman will be better able to protect her family from these evils. Lesson 7—Self-Contro! And Discipline Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, September 1971 Objective: To understand that ''no" can mean that parents care. 471 June 1979 Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy Northern Hemisphere. Third Outhern Hemisphere: Third re, that they Might have joy" (2 Ne 2:25), and this lesson IS to Y Saint woman achieve More joy through a ealthy balance of ental, SOcial, and Physical dimensions of herself.: "Men a help the Latter-qa the Spiritual, m t Books, volumes ] by Bruce B. Clark and Rober ch class leader Could find Propriate to the gj | r P, and Second, to furnish a rich offering of Selections that Relief Societ take into their h or stimulating, enrichj ven though both of ¢ S Ize that it ma © seven new lessons and not Just of lessons already Studied. Ch lesson Will ref, number of Selections Spread throughout the fj SS leader Will have ano Which m Pportunity to choos Lesson Previews class leaders should particularly encourage all Relief Society members to share with their families the many excellent reading selections found in these volumes. The outline of individual lessons for 1970-71 is as follows: Lesson 1—A Family Reads and Sings Together Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 Objective: To present selections that enrich family discussions, provide wholesome entertainment and strengthen family relationships. Music Commentary: The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 1. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Publisher Homing Salmon—Del Riego Chappell & Co., Inc. 3013 SSA There Is Beauty All The Church of Jesus Christ Around of Latter-day Saints Hymns, no. 383 'Mid Pleasures and Payne—Bishop The Church of Jesus Christ Palaces of Latter-day Saints Hymns, no. 185 Lesson 2—A Thankful Heart Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 Objective: To encourage within a woman a spirit of faith and gratitude to God and an attitude of reverence and worship through poetry and the other arts. Art: ''Sunflowers'"' by Claude Monet (1840-1926) French painter Reproduction of Painting, page 448 The Relief Society Magazine, June 1970 Commentary, p. 449 Lesson 3—Sisterhood in a Worldwide Church Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 Objective: To develop an appreciation for the various cultures of the women in the Church through showing how people throughout the world share a concern for the — good and the beautiful. Music Commentary: The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 3. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Publisher The Gospel Gives Belle S. Spafford— J. Christian Co. Unbounded Strength Alexander Schreiner (to women in these last days) 1053 My Cup of Joy Ruth B. Lehenbauer Pioneer Music Press 1008 SSA In a World Where Sorrow Smith—Excell The Church of Jesus Christ Hymns, no. 74 of Latter-day Saints 473 June 1970 Lesson 4—''And to Every Man Is Given a Gift" (D&C 46:11) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, June 197] Objective: To encourage creativity among the women of the Church by examining some of the creative achievements by gifted members in the Church. Art: "Temple Site" (Provo, Utah) by Dale Fletcher, American Reproduction of Painting, p. 447 The Relief Society Magazine, June 1970 Commentary, p. 450 Lesson 5—Principles With a Promise—Faith and Optimism Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 Southern tlemisphere: Fourth meeting, July 1971 Objective: To encourage a woman through reading, as illustrated in the writings of Robert Browning, and singing to exercise faith and optimism. Music Commentary: The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of Lesson 5. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and Organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Publisher Eternal Life Dugan—Stickles The John Church Co. 323-4009 Lo, Thou Art Near Ranghild L. Linde Pioneer Music Press 1009 SSA Safsten—Mary D. Safsten | Am a Child of God Naomi W. Randali— The Church of Jesus Christ Mildred T. Pettit of Latter-day Saints Distribution Center | Know That My Redeemer Medley—Edwards The Church of Jesus Christ Lives of Latter-day Saints Hymns, no. 361 Lesson 6—An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, August 1971 Objective: To encourage greater Spirituality in the life of a woman through an appreciation of spiritual truths found in selections from the writings of William Wordsworth. Art: "The Little White Girl' by James Abbott McNeil Whistler (1834-1903) American Reproduction of Painting, p. 687 The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970 Commentary p. 690 Lesson 7—Ideal Family Relationships Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, September 197] Objective: To Strengthen family relationships through becoming better acquainted with selections in the cultural arts that portray love, understanding, and other family ideals. Art: 'La Bonne Mere" by Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806) French Reproduction of Painting, p. 688 The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970 Commentary p. 689 474 Outdoor Survival Skills © by Larry Dean Olsen WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF... Major catastrophe struck and you hadn't prepared your year's food supply? Major disaster struck and your family's food supply was contaminated? You were forced to leave home to face an unfriendly wilderness environment? SURVIVAL DEPENDS ON YOU... There may be a time when you are forced to live off the land or die. Outdoor survival skills could mean the difference between life and death for the Latter-day Saint family. This book clearly outlines all the skills needed to survive in an unfamiliar natural environment. A veteran in desert and mountain-waste survival, the author, Larry Dean Olsen, has spent months at a time living off the land, his life depending on the strength of his hands and his technical skills. A national authority on survival, he now supervises a survival-training program at BYU, leading groups on month-long ordeals in desolate areas. ORDER FORM Brigham Young University Press, Publication Sales, 205 UPB Provo, Utah 84601 Please sendme____——_—s copies at $3.50 each plus 25 cents for mailing and handling. Address City State Zip Code = 475 Name a June 1970 TRAVEL STUDY TOURS FoR L. D. S. YOUTH SCHOOL CREDIT FOR LONG TRIPS AN IDEAL GIFT Mexico ¥ Hawaii Auc. 14 $450.20 DaysCalifornia SAN FRANCISCO AES 6 DaYs Los ANGELES 69.00 6 Days e e River Trips COLORADO RIVER $49.00 4 Days YAMPA-GREEN $49.00 4 Days Hill Cumorah JULY 20. Z23DAYS$275( 28DaYS $292) Travel Institute OTH AVE-SALT LAKE, UTAH PHONE (801) 364-3935 A JULY 17,20 Days $249, QUILTING FRAMES by PALMERCRAFT * strong, unique, fold-up design. * frames of soft sugar pine. * stands of strong fir plywood. * stored on handles. * designed for closet storage. * attachments for baby quilts included. Regular 9' x 9' max. $20.00 3 size combinations Queen 10'x10'6''max. $21.50 4 size combinations King 10' x 13' max. 5 size combinations $25.00 plus tax.. Freight PALMERCRAFT CO. R. F. D. Lehi, Utah 84043 Ph: (801) 768-2703 or MORMON HANDICRAFT 21 W. So. Temple Salt Lake City, Utah New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-..55 Zone5 _~_---of/ 3) wonee3 =... 860 Zone6 __-_-- 85 Zone 4 _ 65 Zone7.-__-.-..95 Zone8_..-.- 1.05 re a PESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 476 WHEAT MILLS FOR YOUR STORAGE PROGRAM "Corona'' Grain Mill, model Ictsp for use ' with wheat, corn, nuts, etc. Easily adjusts for fine or coarse grinding. $11.75 postpaid west of Rockies. $12.75 postpaid east of Rockies. $14.95 postpaid to Canada. Utah residents add 53¢ tax. Extra plates for Corona mills $1.95 per set, postpaid. "Special'' quantity prices to church groups. Home Size Stone Ground Flour Mills better health. Free Corona mill with every all-grain mill sold. Automatic Cherry Stoner, Only $8.95, postpaid, Other models available. Write now for more information. Send orders to: SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 N. Main Smithfield, Utah 84335 Grind your own flour!. Eat your way to One of the finest YOURS aos | FREE! Ever! When you join LDS Books Club Hundreds of exciting recipes, plus sections on high altitude cooking, making laundry day easier and much more. A treasured addition to the library of anyone who cooks. Here's how to join: Simply send your check or money order for your first selection circled below. Your selection plus your free cook book will be sent postpaid. Each month you will receive reviews of several books. Buy as little as one book every three months to keep your membership active. With every four books you accept you receive a fifth book of your choice free... A savings of approximately 20%. Choose your first selection from this list of choice LDS Books. 1. THE HOUSE OF THE LORD 5. THE TEN MOST WANTED MEN By James E. Talmage $2.95 By Paul H. Dunn $3.95 2. PASSPORT TO SURVIVAL 6. THE WAY TO PEACE By Esther Dickey $3.50 By Mark E. Petersen $3.95 3. HI-FASHION SEWING AND 7. THE MIRACLE OF TAILORING FORGIVENESS _ By Helen S. Jones $5.95 By Spencer W. Kimball $4.95 4. THE FOURTH THOUSAND YEARS By W. Cleon Skousen $6.95 L D S - -_| Please send, without charge, my copy of ''Food for Thought''. Check or | a) money order in the amount of $ is enclosed for the follow- | ing regular club selection(s). Residents of Utah add 4%2% sales tax. Circle | number of your choice | Bo oks mm 3 4s CG | agree to buy a minimum of four LDS Books Club selections during the | next 12 months at the regular advertised price. | NAME...: | Club INC. ADDRESS | | P. O. BOX 400 CITY........ | _— LAKE CITY, UTAH 84110 STATE ZIP. | 477 | 6-70 | Anewseries on the Pear! Of Great Price A new series on the Pearl of Great Price, researched and written by Roy W. Doxey. The eight lectures offer * Comprehensive coverage of Pearl of Great Price. * Anindispensable supplementtothe Spiritual Living Lessons for both teachers and students. Topics discussed: The Origin of the Pearl of Great Price The Doctrine of the Godhead The Premortality of Mankind The Creation The Eternal Nature of the Gospel Satan and Mankind The Atonement of Jesus Christ The Lord's Work and His Glory Also available is the Pearl of Great Price Bibliography by Dr. James R. Clark. The reader will find this publication an excellent source for scholarly research which presents a variety of viewpoints concerning the Pearl of Great Price. ORDER FORM BYU PRESS Publication Sales 205 UPB Provo, Utah 84601 Please send me copiesofLecture Series on Pearl of Great Price @ $2.25 each plus 25c mailing and handling. Copies of Pearl of Great Price Bibliography @ $.75 each plus 25c mailing and handling. Name - Address __ City State Zip Code KSL Radio's Hill Cumorah Tour 16 days departing July 18 and July 25, 1970. $310 per person 23 Day Tour including Canada departing July 25, 1970. $438 per person For details, write: KSL RADIO 145 Social Hall Ave. Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 home of radio PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US NORTH PACIFIC COAST TOUR June 11-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25 CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 478 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations colurnn. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three manths before the birthday. 97 96 95 93 92 94 Mrs. Martha Swenson Richards Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Amelia C. Humble Bartsch Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lilley Gange Coles Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Clara Collard Nielson Provo, Utah Mrs. Lily White Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Catherine Archibald Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Carrie Riggs Phelps Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Sophia Jensen Potter Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Freda Johnson Christensen Kearns, Utah Miss Phebeth Ann Seymour Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Ray Riggs McKay Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Elyra Allred Aiken Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jennie Mable Brooks Pinkham Avery Suncock, New Hampshire Mrs. Freda Johnson Christensen Kearns, Utah Mrs. Kathrine Jensen Olsen Elmonte, California Mrs. Eleanor Post Peterson Safford, Arizona Mrs. Amanda Munk Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Margaret Boyle West Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Groves Crosby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Eva Elmina Penrod Sabin Boise, Idaho 91 90 Mrs. Edith Loretta Drake Tingey Centerville, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey Yeates Logan, Utah Mrs. Anna Norblad Anderson Tooele, Utah Mrs. May Pratt Silver Edgeworth Huntington Park, California Mrs. Ida Bertha Zollinger Hill Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Ella Berry Leigh Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Susan Adams Lewis American Fork, Utah Mrs. Ida Walser Skousen Chandler, Arizona Mrs. Annie Eliza Burrell Carroll Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Inez Curto de Guinaldo Buenos Aires, Argentina Mrs. Susannah J. Fowler Henefer, Utah Mrs. Emily Maria Maddison Hanson Providence, Utah Mrs. Maria Ann Porter Hardy Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mildred Ann Couch Harter Bend, Oregon Mrs. Ella Matthews Hymas Ovid, Idaho Mrs. Elenora Jensen Cleveland, Utah Mrs. Martha Marie Hansen Lindstrom Tacoma, Washington Mrs. Amber irene Severe Palmer Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Lydia Willis Paskett Henefer, Utah Mrs. Laura Emily Nay Stark Marysvale, Utah Mrs. Anna Neal Greenwood Waters Inkom, Idaho 479 BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining 20 MORMON CLASSICS: BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!) = x ~ ww: 5 & boa > 5 pwd x:? Z 2 e = & "Books that continue to prove their lasting value!" 1. Mission. Bible 15.50 2. Missionary Triple Combo.11.00 3. Marvelous Work & Wonder 1.95 4. Jesus the Christ— Talmage 2.50* 5. Articles of Faith —Talmage 2.95* 6. House of the Lord —Talmage 2.95* 7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95 8. Essentials in Church History 5.95 9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols.3.25 ea* 10. D&C Commentary 4.95 11. Meet the Mormons—Green 2.95* 12. Discourses of Brigham Young 4.95 13. Gospel Doctrine J. F. Smith 495 14. Art of Home Making-Hoole 4.25 15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea. 16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7vols.4.50 ea. 17 Discourses of J. Smith 4.95 18 Highlights in Life ofPres. McKay 4.95 19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie 6.95 20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50 NEW BOOKS IN APRIL 21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00* 22. 'Vols.2,3 195 ea* 23. Beginnings— Pearson 2.50* 24. Ancient Apostles 2.95* 25. Just a Minute— Landau 5.50 26. Prophecies & Prophetic Promises of D&C 4.95 *|deal Free Choices. (Order Other Books!) Please enroll me as a member and send me a free catalog. | agree to return the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the Feature Book" for that month. For every $20 of non-discounted books | will receive a FREE BOOK! | am purchasing $4.95 now and will receive a $3 book free for joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ per book ordered. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.) | have enclosed s.. Oo+ cea eete ono for the following numbered books:--.---.-.------------.-------------- eee eee "Beehive "Bookclub 626 "H"' St. Salt Lake City, Print Name: en ee eee es 480 Utah 84103 Cty_.. Ite:....--.. TSR 4) Accomplish more Through Better Human Relations THE SPIRITUAL ROOTS OF HUMAN RELATIONS $4.95 by Stephen R. Covey Here is a book fully in tune with the times by an author who is a popular lecturer and educator with the college youth of today. He examines problems in human relations from his vantage point as assistant tothe president of Brigham Young University where he has daily contact with today's youth. He has found these "spiritual roots to be at the base of all human relations: vision — commitment — understanding and example — communication and self-discipline."' This base is under attack on many levels of human relations; on campuses, in our national life, and throughout the world. Buy a copy of The Spiritual Roots of Human Relations and learn how these roots affect your success in your personal relationships and how these in turn may affect your overall accomplishments. 4 - — ca ~ ~ ~ om 5 ~ = oy - Ps = we he es 'es C4 ™) ¥ NOTE: All five volumes of 'OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS" will be available from Deseret Book. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me............ Copies Also include 25¢ for each book ordered to cover handling and mailing. Total cost $...0000.0. This must include 442% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by Lj check, [-] money order, or ["] charge established account. June R. S. Mag. 70 ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY "B The good old Simmer time. Remember'? Air Condition Electrically Now and Beat the Heat Do hot, sticky summers leave you wilted? Why not take the 'cool cure" and air condition electrically? Prices of electric room air conditioners are much less than they were 10 years ago. Electric central air conditioning systems cost less than the other type — enough less to pay for running electric systems up to 12 years. Get yours now before the summer rush — more models to choose from. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Every Year Electricity Does More for You. = a Pu oe ee os be 4 @ ° Qu 2 a C & oO =) S ° s ca n 'at Salt Lake City, Utah sy The | Lies licf Society Magazine WA ds eos: JULY 1970, To All Relief Society Magazine Subscribers: a In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in August, September, October, November, or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue. Those whose subscriptions extend into 1971 will be notified later of the provisions to be made to recompense them. The General Board expresses its heartfelt thanks to Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives particularly and to every subscriber for the loyalty shown over fifty-six years in magnificently sustaining this Magazine for the women of the Church. It has a present circulation of 298,250. The General Board bespeaks the sisters' enthusiastic support for the new adult magazine which will be published under the correlation program of the Church by the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve. The new magazine will contain material of particular interest to women. The Cover: Art Layout: Ilustrations: WATERCRESS SPRING ' It is here: along the sluice of ditch And river touching cliff Where sun begins.... Here, springing on the blackest waters, Green unfolds across the silent cold There, after ice has thawed | And winter birds have fled the sky. The time of seasons turns And you and |, In glad remembering of summers past And all the bitter-fresh of taste, Return to gather memories And sheaves of watercress. And in the mirroring water When | watch the sky's reflection In your hair.... The sundown crimson sunset Colors all the dusky trees.... | see the winters of the future In the cliffs, and seize The moment of my spring And count it grace. There is but little time to love And gather home This earth Before we lose our summer place. —Marilyn McMeen Miller Radiant Garden in Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 481 ae a SrmO | feel gratitude in my heart to all those who have made possible the publication of The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. It was a special delight to read the beautiful message by Elder Mark E. Petersen, ''The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood" in the January Magazine. | was touched to the depths of my heart, my testimony was strengthened, and my desire to be married in the temple and enjoy these blessings fully in my own home became greater. | try to put in practice all that | learn from The Relief Society Magazine. Cecilia Miranda, Buenos Aires, Argentina | had lived in Salt Lake City, Utah, all my life until we moved here to Alaska nearly two years ago. The association with the good sisters here has been a choice experience for me. | find that Relief Society women have the same sweet spirit the world over. | appreciate and depend on The Relief Society Magazine even more in my activities here, and it is good to have a companionship with all the dear sisters world-wide. Marva D. Beck, Anchorage, Alaska The poetry in The Relief Society Magazine has always brought me great enjoyment as its quality and artistry are consistently far above that of most publications. Jean H. Mathews, Florissant, Missouri Our entire family enjoys the Magazine. We are away from all our previous homes "settling in'' a new home here in England. | have particularly appreciated the sourdough and homemade mix recipes. Some of the missionaries here who cook for themselves are going to give them a try. We all look forward to the next installment of '"'Jerusha Spends the Night'' [current serial]. Even Dad comes home from his office to hear the developments. Jerusha reminds us of a dear friend in Moab. The children, particularly, appreciated the drawings of the characters [by Mary Scopes]. We enjoy the Magazine wherever we are. Mary Etta W. Parkinson, Leeds, England | felt | just had to write and thank you for giving us that beautiful story "A New Season for Christy' [Third Prize Story, April 1970, by Joan B. Kearli]. | even had to shed a tear or two, | was so moved. Sister Joan must be a wonderful woman to have written such a stirring story, exemplifying so much of beauty and goodness. - Elda L. Haycock, Blackfoot, Idaho | was especially pleased to see Virginia Maughan Kammeyer as the recipient of the First Prize in the Annual Relief Society Poem Contest [''Afterglow,'' April 1970]. The poem is truly inspired. As a convert to the Church, | count Sister Kammeyer as one of a few special friends who have taught me the meaning of charity. She is not only a talented woman, but also a choice human being. We should all be grateful for the many good and gifted women in the Church. Marylou A. Shaver, Rexburg, Idaho To me, The Relief Society Magazine is like clear water in a dark desert. There are already enough magazines that ''tell it like it is." | am grateful for a Magazine that 'tells it like it should be." | testify that the spirit of Relief Society rides with its Magazine to all corners of the world and blesses all it reaches. Sherry Downing, Sewell, New Jersey | thank my mother for sending me the Magazine as a gift for the last four years. Sometimes she would ask if | had read a certain story or poem, and if | said "Yes," then she would remark 'That's good." And if | said ''No,"' she would advise me to do so—''Read it. It will do you good."" And | do and they do. All the stories and articles in the Magazine are aimed especially for me. Ann D. Egelund, Salt Lake City, Utah 482 YY 1970 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Shar Pp Associate Editor Vesta P. Cra Business Manager Belie s. Spafford wford To All Relief Society Magazine Subscribers President Spafforg i 4 Ider Franklin D. Richards nN New York and Far 501 Woman's Sphere 502 Editoriai_ 531 otes fro Birthday Ramona W. Cannon Two Who c are Marianne Cc. Sharp mM the Field_p lief Society Activities Congratulations &come a Lovelier You e Individual ead. S and Sings Together Watercress Spring, Marilyn Mcm Third Nephi, araret B. Een Mi: T8ensen; 500 Cj OomMan's To Publisheg Month}. Y the Relies Soci Ne 364-25) 1. Of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1979 'Opy, Payable in advance. The Ma ine is Not se ires, Lake City, y lah, under the a, a, oc ePtance for Mailin * Act of Oct, "8, 1917, authorizeg June 29, 19) i i Manuscripts. 483 Birthday Con | SIN€Ss Oftice: 76 No address at Once, givi Be is lations to President Joseph Fielding Smith Ork in Building the Kingdom Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Sec Nd-class Matter losed, Rejecteg Manuscripts will be retained for six July 19, 197, a S ninetyOurth bj day, h Sisterhood th ch ex tend Congratula Ions to Pr dent Jos p elding Smith IS Words Of counse] Praise hay Uplifted the ts of any as he has expressed his love for R f Society d gh "gard for th Women of © Church fy his POSition ag a sor Relief fart. Much Suidance can be obtained from reading and rereading his Words of Inspiration delivereq at so Many Relief Society Annual] the afflicted h Who are in Physica], Mental, or Spiritua] need, wil] never be Correctly known. This, however, need not be our Concern In Interest lies in the fact that al] of thi has een accompli throu he spirit f love in @cordance w th the tru Spirit of £0spel of J, Sus Christ, I; Is Cleary to see at Without this Wonderfy] Organizatio » The hurch 9 US Christ ij er-da extolling t e virty Ining th duties of Relief Societ He as reminded t Isters tha they are to ehave k dly nd charj tably to ard th husba ds, that they ar, to rem M pure and InnoCent in the eyes of G » and live Up to the Pectations th rethren ave placed On th Society Snce the ¢ divine] INSpired oy Banization ln Nauvoo, © would do Well to fo low his advice a Counsel], to remember that his rds are Spoken from a art fil] ith love and respect or wo hood, nd alw YS to b ankful th t there; Inspired Prophet o the €arth tod ay the faith nd yers elief S Clety sisters roughout Is 485 @ In asking me to prepare this article, Sister Marianne C. Sharp, Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, wrote, "Many of the Relief Society sisters have expressed a need for counsel and direction regarding women's work in building the kingdom. In the midst of the complexities and problems of our present earthly environment, some words of helpfulness from you would be greatly appreciated." Recently, on one of my conference assignments, I was discussing with a good Relief Society member some of the aspects of successful homemaking. Soon thereafter I heard from her. I quote from her interesting and informative letter: In a recent Relief Society meeting we were discussing the lesson, "Work—A Road to Personal Fulfillment," and the subject began to elicit some personal, 486 Women's Work The Kmgdom individual attitudes on the very basic aspect of homemaking. One sister made the statement that she had many nonmember friends and neighbors who dropped in frequently during the morning hours. She wanted to impress them with a "Latter-day Saint" home and wondered if she should start her cleaning in the living room or kitchen. The responses were many and varied from "Uninvited guests should expect to take us as they find us," or "It depends on which door they come through first," to "Just make sure they feel welcome." This made me realize that though much has been written on the subject, many sisters still do not know how to plan their day's work schedule well enough to be considered good housekeepers. We can be grateful that throughout the ages God has counseled his people and helped them to solve their problems, and his counsel is as applicable to successful homemaking as _ to other aspects of life. It is interesting to note that as God has admonished his people through his prophets two words have frequently appeared—order and diligence. King Benjamin in a great address said: "And see that all these things are done in wisdom and order; for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength.... It is ae him say, "Don't be too busy to meditate and when the answer comes have the courage to execute it." Order commences with meditating—and meditation includes thinking, analyzing, planning, prayer, and fasting if needs be. To be most effective, meditation requires that time be reguin Building Elder Franklin D. Richards Assistant to the Council of the Twelve expedient that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order." (Mosiah 4:27. Italics added.) In connection with the matter we are discussing, the immediate prize is successful homemaking. In this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph Smith the Lord has told us that his house "is a house of order... And not a house of confusion." (D&C 132: 8. Italics added.) Today there are so many things to do, so many things crowding us. In this environment the words order and diligence are key words to success and happiness regardless of the activity we are engaged in. In meeting leaders, I frequently ask them what their greatest needs are. Almost invariably they reply that among their greatest needs is better organization of their time and work, or, in effect, more order and diligence. And it is not infrequent that many ask the question, "How does one develop the traits of order and diligence?' President McKay has given us some good advice in this connection. On one occasion I heard larly set aside to consider the things that seem to be required of you. Many times you find you have more to do than you can do in the time available. To develop an orderly pattern, consider the things facing you, analyze their importance and list them in the order of their importance. Give the things of prime importance first priority and develop a plan to accomplish them. Planning involves the development of effective ways which will save time and simplify the operation involved. Prayer is always advisable in planning the effective use of time. My friend who wrote me regarding successful homemaking continued in her letter: Your success formula of "Plan, Simplify, and Be Strong" is very applicable. Plan: This does not entail long hours of paper work. It can be anything from a small notebook written in at night before bedtime to a mimeographed sheet with spaces to be filled in by each given hour. But it must be written down, and it must have a place for short-term and long-term goals. It must also have space to plan ahead at least one to two months, preferably longer. For instance, you may have company coming in three months, and you plan to houseclean and do some redecorating. So many details will be involved that each week must have at least one major goal accomplished if you don't want to have too much 487 July 1970 planned for the last week and be too tired to enjoy your long-awaited company. Simplify: You can save yourself hundreds of hours in your lifetime by simplifying your home. Many living rooms don't get dusted as often as needed. Because there is so much clutter on everything, it takes more time than the average mother has. Kitchen counter tops are often the worst "catch-alls." Remove everything but those items that are intended to be there for convenience. And "simplify" your cupboards at least every six months. Go through closets and drawers frequently, sorting out those items that have been outgrown or will no longer be used. Be Strong: After you have made your plan, and simplified your home surroundings, don't let unimportant situations or interruptions prevent you from following your plan. It isn't being rude to explain to a friend that you can't talk on the phone now but will call her back. However, it is wise to keep a plan flexible enough that should your husband, as an example, call with an unexpected invitation to lunch or an afternoon at the beach or elsewhere, you can accept graciously and enjoy the time with him. A plan is not meant for work schedules only. Plan into your day time for other activities, such as study, time to develop your talents in music, art, handwork, dressmaking, cooking, and sports. Plan some physical activity, if only calisthenics or jogging around the living room or family room. Plan time to spend at least a few minutes individually with each child and your husband to hear about their day's activities and accomplishments. Plan time to help a neighbor, to take something you have made to a shut-in, to give comfort to someone bereaved, to share your testimony with someone and help him to gain a testimony also. Plan to be happy and to share your happiness with your loved ones. Plan time to pray to your Heavenly Father and time to listen to his counsel and receive of his strength. Isn't this really what life is all about? Many are prone to do the easy things and give those matters 488 attention that seem to be most pressing regardless of whether they are the most important or not. Through meditation, which includes prayer and planning, you select what might be called the first things to do and work out effective ways to do them. Undoubtedly, the two most important first things for us to do in this life are to provide for our families and to assist in building the kingdom of God. When called upon to accept an assignment in the Church, which is an important part of building the kingdom of God, many people wonder how they can give the time and attention necessary properly to fulfill the assignment and also meet their family obligations. By selecting first things to do and working out a plan to accomplish them, we develop orderly habits which make it possible properly to care for our families and have time to serve in building the kingdom of God. | counsel you to spend as much time as possible with your families. As parents our obligation to our families not only includes seeing that they are fed, clothed, and educated, but that their spiritual needs are taken care of as well. Certainly a good part of this must be done personally, allocating time to spend with each child individually, having a weekly family night, taking vacations together, going to sacrament meeting as a family, etc. In building the kingdom of God the Lord has said that we should first learn our duty. (D&C 107:99.) He has counseled us to seek out of the best books words of wisdom and to seek learning even by study and faith. (D&C 88:118.) Study should be rated among those things of first importance. In organizing our time and work, time should be regularly allotted for personal study. In accepting opportunities to serve in the Church not only do we contribute to the welfare of others, but we set a proper example for our children which will be a powerful influence for good in their lives. By selecting first things to do and in working out a plan to do them first, we have taken an important step toward accomplishing them. This is where diligence plays a big part. To be diligent in our work means to be effective and not just busy.: When the Lord counseled us to perform our assignments in all diligence, he meant whether it was convenient for us or not. To perform our assignments diligently, sacrifice of our time, talents, and means is frequently required but we know that sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven. We are thus entitled to the blessings which are predicated upon obedience to this principle of sacrifice. Being diligent also requires faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and in ourselves, and making up our minds to be orderly and diligent is a good part of developing faith in ourselves. Even though our assignments seem difficult, as we develop our faith and persevere we are able to achieve our righteous objectives. Women's Work in Building the Kingdom President Heber J. Grant used to say frequently, "That which we persist in doing becomes easy to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed but that our power to do has increased." To be diligent one must learn to persevere—yes, to endure to the end. To the end of what? Can we endure to the end of a day with the same dedication and enthusiasm we had at the beginning of the day, even though faced with frustrations and problems. Each year has 365 days—a day twenty-four hours— each requiring enduring to the end. However, remember what King Benjamin said, "it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength." He undoubtedly meant mental, physical, financial, orspiritual strength, or all combined. In all phases of my personal experience, I have found it wise to "survey large fields but to cultivate small ones." This involves the setting of goals—longterm and short-term goals. In surveying large fields, one in effect makes a master plan which he later develops in orderly stages. This is a sound way to proceed and avoid many disappointments which can _ result from over-extending oneself. "Surveying large fields and cultivating small ones" involves the principles of order and diligence and results in growth and development. These are basic principles of eternal progression. Again quoting from my Relief Society friend's letter: I have a daily and weekly schedule with goals—my goals for the next four weeks are: 489 July 1970 First Week 1. Plan extra time to prepare Relief Society lesson well. Read again from the story of the Prophet Joseph by his mother. 2. Prepare for the nonmember fireside. 3. Thank-you letters. Fourth Week Make side drapes for master bedroom. Buttons—buttonholes on Mary's dress. 3. Read to page 65 in Book of Mormon. My Relief Society friend's suggeStions are certainly in harNoe mony with the eternal principles of order and diligence. As has been indicated, these traits can be developed and are key words to success and happiness regardless of the activity in which we are engaged. May we apply these eternal principles in our lives and make our homes truly a bit of heaven on earth and a stepping-stone to eternal life which is the most worthwhile prize of all. Sa WE CROSSED THE RIVER (Crossing the Mississippi February 1970, in remembrance of the 1846 pioneer crossing from Nauvoo to lowa.) Second Week 1. Plan to reread The Book of Mormon. Read twenty pages this week. 2. Prepare to teach the Red Cross class. 3. Bake bread—take some to Sister Hill and Mrs. Bright. Third Week Read to page 45 in Book of Mormon. Send love package to Bill at BYU. Follow-up on families who attended nonmember fireside. Po) |S) La A triangle of winter birds fly low, From the river's edge we watch their flight. The river is frozen and covered with snow, The Father of Waters flows deep below, And we cross on the ice with cheeks aglow. The cold, gray clouds keep the sun from our sight, As the bevy of winter birds flies low, From the river's edge we watch their flight. The river is frozen and covered with snow, And a rollicking crowd ventures out on the ice. Their gay sweaters sparkle in contrast to snow, The Father of Waters flows deep below; The sun peeps out and is gone in a trice. The river is frozen and covered with snow, But we walk for a mile on the blue-white ice. We crossed the river on ice and snow. From bank to bank we walked with delight. The small children keeping their sleds in tow, The Father of Waters flows deep below. On the lowa side our steps grew slow, As we started the trek to the Illinois site. A triangle of winter birds flew low, On the Mississippi we watched their flight. —Sadie O. Clark 490 PHOTOGRAPH BY PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. They race to the channel, as stiff breezes blow, i THIRD NEPHI (17:11-22) "And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought." (3 Nephi 17:11.) Bring them unto me, he said And they their little children brought, Humbly sending them ahead With blessing and thanksgiving fraught, To him, who then commanded _ That the parents kneel; And so they did—and then he knelt, Having prayed unto the Father, Radiant in the joy he felt. So glorious were his words That those unglorified Can never comprehend Nor indeed abide Celestial utterance. "Behold, my joy is full,'' he said, His promised blessing drawing nigh, So unto them his word he kept, And then he wept —And so did |. —Margaret B. Jorgensen 17. A anemone ema PWARDS LUNCHE ITTEE | e State mothers and District of Columbia and Puerto Rico Mothers who Were honored and from whom the American Mother for 1970 Was Ts. Mamie Doud Eisenhower. The Honorary President Was in attendance and was honored With thirty-five Other women Chosen In recognition of their notable achievement, in thirty-five fields of endeavoy. The Names read like a Who's Who among American Y Congratulate ej Oved Pry Ident on this latest recognition N outstandj eature of th lunche S a musica] Presenta- 10n unde the rection of Sister Ellen N arnes of the 8enera] Card, by © Singing M hers of ew Yor ng Island New ersey, and ew Jerse Centra] Stakes With Me] N rborka as Soloist a ar, > ACCompanist Th 4rpist was athleen lenzle Inging Mot ers sang 48nificently d were given a Standing Ovation at the ©Onclusion of their five ber. 1 INC;, President: to the left of Mrs. Eisenhower Mr. Roy Fugal, chairman, Advisory Committee: at the left On the top "Ow, Belfe &. Spaftorg, Secong Vice-President American Mothers Com. Mittee; next to the top row On the right, Mrs. G. Stanley McAllister, Chairman, Music com. In the first two rows, Seated behing the flowers, 4re the State Mothers Of the Year. 493 Annual Relief society Cc. JNONYP (, ontest Announcement of Winners = The General Board of Relief Society is pleased to announce the names of the winners in the second annual Relief Society Song Contest. The first prize of $100 (sixty dollars for the music and forty dollars for the lyrics) is awarded to Audrey Dotson Beck and Helen Campbell Monson, both of the Denver South Stake Relief Society, for their lovely hymn entitled "The Song of the Righteous." Sister Beck of Littleton, Colorado, wrote the music, and the lyrics were penned by Sister Monson, of Denver, Colorado. The second prize of seventyfive dollars is awarded to Ruth B. Lehenbauer, of Dearborn, Michigan, for her hymn "I Seek Thy Peace." Sister Lehenbauer 494 Audrey Dotson Beck was awarded second prize in last year's contest for "My Cup of Joy." The prize-winning songs are programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses by the General Board of Relief Society. The General Board is pleased with the response to the contest, although there were fewer entries than last year. Ninety-three songs were submitted, including four from outside the United States. The committee of eminently qualified judges were impressed with the caliber of the songs. The winners are to be congratulated for their very fine abilities, and appreciation is extended to all others who entered the contest. dt Ruth Deiat Lehenbauer Helen Ca mpbell Monson She was graduated from Brigham Young University in 1952 with a degree in music theory and Composition. While at the university she studied with Dr. Leon Dallin. She served a mission in Germany and returned to teach language at Utah State University. There she met her husband, Tom. They have three small children. Asa prize-winner two years in a row, Sister Lehenbauer has exhibited great talent for both composing music and writing lyrics. 495 And then, nearing her sixtyfirst birthday, Aunt Lucinda had left them. She had told Lila only yesterday that she was one of the most contented and grateful women in the whole world. She had known romance even though her sweetheart had not returned from the war; she had reared four children who loved her; and, until six months ago when she had had to retire because her knee hurt so much, she had been the finest principal in the district. Even though the townspeople thought she was severe and unyielding in educational and civic affairs, they respected and admired her. Aunt Lucinda had the McIntyre beauty. She was tall with dark hair and eyes to match and, Lila remembered tenderly, she also had a dignified mysterious charm about her. Hadn't she kept the secret of Blueberry Hill all these years? Lila felt a twinge of conscience at her eagerness to know what that secret was. L. Ila opened the door and stood very still as she looked at Johnny. He was the happy-go-lucky, debonair one of the family. He isn't smiling now, she thought. He looks like a little boy ready to cry for his mother. Lila drew in her breath for courage, but the sweet curve of her young mouth trembled. "Lila Bob!" he said, and the old familiar nickname for Lila Barbara was a heartthrob from her childhood. "I didn't know she was sick. I still can't believe it. Why didn't you tell us? We would have been here!" Lila leaned against the door frame. She was so tired of answerThe Secret of Blueberry Hill ing this same question that had come over the telephone that morning from Elizabeth and Steven, and now Johnny. "Why didn't you tell us, Lila Bob, so we could have seen her again?" Tears of regret misted Johnny's blue eyes, those mischievous laughing blue eyes that had been the beacon light in Aunt Lucinda's life. Just a note from Johnny or Elizabeth or Steven could make her whole day a shimmering rainbow. "We'll make everything nice for each other," Aunt Lucinda had always told them. "We'll work together to send Johnny to art school because he has such talent as a cartoonist. That boy! He can draw anything!" And they all had, Lila remembered now as she looked at Johnny who was a cartoonist for a national syndicate. Everything about Johnny MclIntyre spelled success. His carefully tailored gray suit, his blue striped tie, his reddish blond hair, a shade darker than her own, with a natural cowlick that brushed over his forehead Everything but the sideburns was familiar. Aunt Lucinda wouldn't like those sideburns, Lila thought. But she would melt with love for him as Lila was doing now. "Oh, Johnny—Johnny," she murmured. Then she was weeping against his shoulder and Johnny was soothing her. "I know, Lila Bob. You will miss her more than any of us because you lived here with her. I know how you feel." Lila did not answer, but to herself she asked: Do you Johnny? Do you know what it's like to find someone you love gone for- 497 July 1970 ever? To be all alone in a big old house with two floors and a tornado cellar? Lila heard the telephone ringing. She went to answer it. "That was Elizabeth. She and Steven are at the airport. Will you go for them, Johnny?" "Come with me," he coaxed. "The house can take care of itself. If anyone comes they can wait for us." "But Johnny! That's not the way Aunt Lucinda would. Want us to do. She was so hospitable." "IT know," he admitted. "Funny thing! There was always something good in that old freezer in the cellar. She seemed to know when folks were coming or when a tornado would blow through Skylark. Even though it didn't ever hit our house, we had plenty to help others who were in its path." "The neighbors will come," Lila added. "We should be home." "Leave the door open," he argued. "Who will steal anything? This is Skylark—not Chicago." Lila looked at him as she dried her eyes. "We've had thieves in Skylark," she told him. "Things have changed here, too. Only last week Aunt Lucinda said we better lock our doors at night." "No!" Johnny pulled a face. "Don't tell me people in Skylark have to lock their doors. I didn't know we even had a key to this old house." "Two keys," Lila replied. "Aunt Lucinda had them made last week after we saw those strangers coming down from Blueberry Hill. But [ll go with you—it won't take long." "Blueberry Hill," he repeated 498 after they were seated in the car and headed down the highway. "How I've wondered about Blueberry Hill! Why wouldn't Aunt Lucinda let any of us go up there, Lila Bob? Do you think there was something dangerous, like quicksand?" "Oh, no, silly. Quicksand comes in swampy country." "Not always," he said. "I saw a cowboy in a western picture who. Got in quicksand." Lila shook her head. "T don't know. All of us were on our solemn honor never to go to the Hill. Even when she went to NEA conventions and I was here alone I never went to the Hill. I just couldn't break my promise to her. The secret she had kept was very sacred to her, Johnny. It was more than just a place. It was sort of a—well— like a pledge she had made to herself to keep us from some danger. Something she was determined to live up to." "I know," he agreed. "I felt the same way. So did Steve and Elizabeth. We kept our promise to her. Remember the time I was down below in the hollow and I saw those strange men going up there? I ran to tell her and she sent me on an errand to the store. I stopped my bike on the highway and looked back. She was climbing up that hill with a determined stride. She had Grandfather's cane in her hand. I know her knee hurt her even then, but I don't think that was why she took the cane. I rode off to tne store and when I came back she was in the kitchen making my favorite chocolate-puff cookies. She put a quart of milk in front of me on the table and told me emory, "J Work a little harder, kimp a little More to get him through," "That's What we did," Johnny Said. "An now, look at him! He's Planes, " he Said. Lila smiled, « t's a 800d airand...» She hesitate. Johnny looked at her, qWizzically. 499 "Aren't you forgetting the Lila Was never quite Sure if North River Country Club? Aunt Aunt Lucinda really disapproveg UCinda to] that Cott but She went Cceptj & Scott' alTingto kes yoy there Once Invitations, 1 would I awhile." really notice that he w 8rown Ua bit her lip unt Lucinda UP Now and Ore her Clothes as ad thought was foolish to well as an Man at the lub, accept Scott's Invita lons because and reddish Ond hair © needed a Partner for the Club Styled at p la' Parties, Aj] Siness People "You n e ch ge," Johnn In town be °nged to the Clu and said Suddenly. « € back to cott Har 8ton was NOw presjansas Cit With here jg ent of the ank since his father's nothing ¢ keep you here now," eath ago ardly lla lift dh d, lookj g only thought f h as little Pen if s Went ¢ ansas City Lila Mc ntyr the Small loan With Jo nny? ] cott €partment She k ew he didn't Harringt N wake Up? Would he ink of attractive, Miss her nh Needed a Part- &Townup woman aS part ner at the C] b? Ould he even after he ft his Partment On with you. Som I think Aunt enter Street here he lived jn Lucinda Would w Me to go for quiet content ent with his book 4 change," 4nd goog mus "Tl Show you t town!" Was in art School," had 80ne to grade Schoo] With Lila blinked her €yes to hide! Z 7 the Occas Pleased him She So much had to be done There Would say: « eeds a gir] who was Aunt Luce; da' funera] to will dema some gs Ifice fro be Plann d, th Ouse to be Sold lM; not a SWeet little angel like and there wa lueberry Hill you e an who What Would Aunt cInda want can appreciate Dresden-lik them to do with Blue erry Hil]? Eauty and ¢ ke care of it." (to be continued) CINQUAIN The border 500 Mrs. Walter (Janet) Davidson, of Longmont, old and American Mothers Committee has Selected a Young Purpose is the Same as that American Mother Program: the moral and spiritual the home," and to help Parents. Mrs. Richard Dexter (Alta Rust, Vernal, is the Utah M d Presided there. Has given outstanding Service to Civic Mrs. Cyril (Evelyn) Beck, another Latter. Day Saint, was named First Merit Mother Barnes Of the Society conBarborka, Soprano Soloist; and Kathleen Kienzle, harpist. And Second VicePresident of the American Mothers Com- @ Special honor in the department of "Organizations." (See Page 492 of this issue of the Magazine.) 501 EDITORIAL / Two Who Care ''Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world." '«" |, Love one another; as | have loved you...."' "|. Pray for them which despitefully use you." ''... Go to the house of mourning."' ''Judge not, that ye be not judged."' These and many other admonitory words of Holy Writ pertain to the calling of a visiting teacher. The attributes of loving, cherishing, and comforting permeate the visiting teacher's work. It is the very essence of charity—the motto of Relief Society. It is a privilege to be found worthy to be a visiting teacher and a blessed calling which requires personal preparation in the realms of spirituality, physical effort, intellectual activity, and charitableness. An opportunity is extended to two visiting teachers to enter about eight designated homes each month as emissaries of the Lord to the sisters in the home. Before beginning the calls it is well to go over in one's mind the conditions in each home which one may expect to find and resolve and plan with the companion visiting teacher the development of the message in a particular home, where this is felt to be desirable, and how one may make the sister in the home feel that she is cherished— that two visiting teachers do care. In one home may be found loneliness, in another heartache, or there may be sickness. A young mother may be overburdened, or sorrow may have entered a home. Moreover the needs may shift as the months go by. A fervent prayer by visiting teachers humbly offered in behalf of the great visiting teaching work to be accomplished Volume 57 July 1970 Namber 7 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 502 Oomes. En Making their Visits, the red to 80 the Second Mile a € their Callings, Nd the More their ca nt Overse Sisterly Watchcare Ove ICN goes two t Truly Should be Uplifteq llings. They € and the Preside e Visiting teachers. He Lord ha l es, directs, r hi Marian R. Orlene J. P, Marjorie M. 503 Norma A. Wranay oll ws Long afterward when I remembered Ronna's doll, it was as if I stood again beside my little sister gazing up at it, beautiful, new, beyond reach. My sister must have been four or five that summer, I two years older, and our playmate, Ronna, just between. Ronna was a chunky little girl full of giggles. We had a jolly time together, except when she was determined to dress and undress our darlings. Of course we wanted to share our dolls, we told each other. But how could we stand by and watch them suffer at her unskilled hands? "Ronna, don't be so rough with Crin and Toodles!"' I told her one day. "Mama said they might come unjointed if you pull their arms way out like that!" 504 The corners of Ronna's mouth set firmly into her cheeks. "Not either rough!" she retorted. She pulled Toodles' arm from the shoulder socket until the elastic showed, then let it snap back into the pink sleeve. "You are, too!" I cried. "Let me take her...." Ronna pulled away, clutching my doll. "Ill put her in the buggy," she said, but her brown eyes still snapped with indignation. My sister had grabbed Crin and scuttled to the safety of the back porch. Crin and Toodles were fairly large dolls. They were well made, the shoulder and hip joints fitted firmly into sockets and were threaded with strong elastic, which was then tied in the middle of the bodies. The wigs were of real hair sewed to a cloth foundation and then glued to the heads. Long lashes enhanced the opening-and-closing eyes. When Santa brought them ND Wore blue 'Don't Make he y," I Said Uk dregs With bonnet to Match. "wy Ma doesn't ike g arreling y Toodles, brunette, was And you kn don't have ¢ dresseq. In Pink. Both had ainty go home yet." ace-trimm nderwear silk "Well, n, let me Play with nit sto ngs, and Ny slip. Toodles " aid a, Starting Pers. Think; 8 of ¢ now, | toward b gy. Can on] Onder ho any of "All gnt," | agreed, "ir you ama's smal] Conomies went won't Undres But What wil] Into their Purchase Price I play With?" When Ronna came to play, "You Can play With Julia," she always told Mama how long said MY sister, She could Stay. Then We set up I went into the house jn Ousekeepj On the Porch of Search of Julia. S TVivor of Many ur adobe fay Ouse. S etimes summers, her ]j P cloth 5 d we dressed u ma's tie. And chipped bisque fe t had best around ap Ons for long Skirts and be Covered w thsom thing prett Poked oy a Under ladies' I found Soft w Uare with als, saved f, b Mama and pink edging wh ma had Our aunt ten Journe Made for One of her Ww babies, With the dolls and buggies to the and later g to us, T en J CK yard, an n the Sparse tie 4 ribbon 4round the doll' &Tass unde, th big locust tre Smooth head Oxes o g Were g ats; a en [ t back to the yard arge uptur den box was my Sister was Wheeling Crin y Our picnic bl he ear] and down the p th, Singing her Summer the tree's laq branches to Sleep, Ronna w Sitting under made a bowe fragrant White the tree try} Pull Toodjes' b OSsoms, |, the brittle dark Pink dress oy, er head Without Pods, Crunched Y our f, t, minUnfastenin the butt dow Bled the; dry ell with the e k. Warm dust onna! OP! You' pull " to play With Crin er head off!" today," R "nounced one d flare Ronna's cheeks afternoon - en't Played « M not!" tily, she put the With her ¢ r ng time." doll into th egy. My sister clutched Crin to 'T told You not to undress her OSom. " U can't! T last her!" I Tl bending OVer the.! E time yoy Played with her yoy buggy, and half expecting to See Combed Some of her hair out." ~—Toodles' Jooseneg head lolling Quickly, She put Crin into her on the Pillow. "Here—put this UBBY besid the Te dy bear and over her—she m urt." Covered the ith a nket Wiftly, unrolled Julia and onna's ling set. "You combed anded Ronna the woo] Square It out Yourself," € said. « 'T tried © careful," Said YOu won't Je » Pll go home!" Ronna. She ¢ ked th Squar Y Sister' ac egan to Over the q ll crumple, «py n't either!" She "Yo can wrap Julia in this Said red bandann f apa's," Vy July 1970 sister offered. She rummaged in the buggy and handed me the large handkerchief. "Won't you let me play any more?" asked Ronna, her mouth drooping. "You can help wheel the buggy," I said. We started along the path, wheeling the dolls to sleep. After a few moments I said, "Ronna, why don't you bring your doll sometimes? You don't have to play with ours all the time." Ronna shook her head until her short dark hair flew about her face. "No! I don't want to!" she said. My sister had reached the front gate and turned back. "Here comes Mama with the play dinner!" she cried. Mama hurried across the yard, carrying a wide shallow pan. She whisked a white dish towel over the upturned wooden box and set the pan on it. "Well, now, I guess you girls can set your dishes around," she said. Then she went back to the house with her quick, light step, toward whatever task she had left unfinished. We lifted out a plate heaped with jelly sandwiches, whole slices cut into fourths, the syrup pitcher filled with cold milk, and the play dishes. "This is my favorite jelly," I said, taking a bite. "We helped Mama pick the wild currants." "Mine, too," said Ronna, licking the red sweet from a corner of her mouth. "Here come the birds!" I said. "Mama said to eat your crusts!" my sister reminded me. "I do, most of the time," I answered, tossing one to the hovering birds. 506 "Pour some milk into my cup," said my sister, holding it out. "You can drink one of these little cupfuls in one swallow," said Ronna, giggling. The birds cheeped and fluttered for tidbits, keeping their distance at the edge of the picnic place. We emptied and refilled the cups. The pile of sandwiches disappeared. When Mama came back for the pan and the dishes she said, "It's been an hour, Ronna. But do come again." Sometimes, as on that day, we walked part way with her, trundling the small-wheeled buggies over the dirt sidewalk. On the way we discussed our dolls' ailments, their colds and sore throats, their aches, and their occasional naughtiness.. My sister and I didn't go to Ronna's to play very often. When we did, we stayed out in the back yard making mud pies, patting them flat with sticks, and leaving them in the sun to dry. A week or two later when we were there my _ sister said, "Ronna, haven't you got a doll?" "Sure I have!" said Ronna. "I got her for Christmas!" "Where is it? Can we see it?" I asked. "T'll ask my mother." Ronna hurried to the house. In a few minutes she opened the back door and beckoned. With careful feet we walked onto the shining floor of the clean kitchen. Her mother said some word of greeting and stood looking down at us, her hands folded. For the first time that day I was conscious of my tousled hair and my dusty shoes. Bis Ronna said, "Come on into the bedroom.". She led the way and pointed to a shelf. There was the doll, smiling out from the slim box edged with paper lace, her beauty shielded by a lid of transparent iaterial. Our eyes widened. Bites ciirrameninees coms "Oh—it's— beautiful...!" | eee 8 Ronna beamed. She stood on a stool and lifted the box down. Then she took the lid off and we gazed at the smooth, red-gold curls, the shimmering yellow silk dress, the white slippers and stockings. Ronna lifted the skirt, revealing filmy underwear. "Her eyes open and close, just like your dolls," she said. She tipped the box. Dark lashes curled softly on pink cheeks, like those of any fairy princess. "Real hair, too," Ronna said. "You can touch her, if you want to." Our fingers were strangely clumsy, fingering the curls, stroking the yellow silk. After a few minutes Ronna put the lid back on the box, climbed Ronna's Doll onto the stool, and restored it to the shelf. "Come on," she said. We followed her to the back yard. "Ronna, don't you ever play with your doll?" I asked. "Oh, sure, I hold the box, like today," she answered. "But—don't you undress her?" _ I wanted to know. "Or feed her?" asked my sister, thinking, perhaps, of the many times milk had left a sticky trail down Crin's stomach. Ronna bent her head until her dark hair half hid her face. She poked one of the mud pies with the toe of her shoe. "No..." she said slowly, "that would spoil her. My mother said so. I have to keep her in the box to keep her nice. Because she cost so much, I guess." "Your doll is sure pretty. Just like new," I said. "We have to go now. Goodbye, Ronna...." All the way home our words exploded like popcorn. "Wouldn't it be awful to have a doll you couldn't even play with!" "Do you think it's jointed?" "It was still fastened in the box!" "It's sure pretty, though...." "No prettier than Crin and Toodles when they were new...." We hurried through the front hall to the bedroom and found our dolls still taking their naps. We snatched them from sleep with kisses. The aura of love that had veiled a dwindling of perfection was pierced by sudden awareness. We smoothed their dresses and combed their matted hair. We searched the bottoms of the buggies and the toy box for their shoes and stockings and bonnets. 507 July 1970 Then we sat in our rocking chairs holding our darlings in reassuring embrace. "Maybe Santa would bring new wigs for Christmas...?" I ventured. "Maybe. And I'm not giving Crin any more milk. It fades her face," said my sister. "Milk's too messy for dolls," I agreed. Several weeks went by before Ronna came again. We were in the bedroom getting the dolls and the Teddy bear ready for the journey to the back yard when we heard her voice in the hall. "I can stay an hour...." I had just put Toodles in the buggy. "She looks nice," said Ronna. "I want to play with her." "All right. If you won't undress her." I turned reluctantly toward the toy box for something to wrap around Julia. All at once I heard a gasp. I whirled. My sister was staring at Ronna, her mouth round with shock. Ronna was yanking the dress over Toodles' head without unfastening the buttons. I snatched the doll. "I told you not to undress her!" I cried. "Anyway, we're going out to the yard. You can play with Julia." Ronna's mouth tightened into her cheeks. "She's only a cloth doll. I won't play with her! If you won't let me play with Crin or Toodles I'll go home!" she said. "Go home then! You've got a doll, a brand-new one. Play with your own doll!" I cried. I glared into eyes dark with anger, at tears spilling onto flushed cheeks. "I can't play with 508 my doll! And you know it! I think you're mean!" Ronna shouted. "I don't care!" I yelled. Ronna stomped down the hall. The front door slammed. My sister's face began to crumple. "Never mind. Let her go home," I said. My sister started toward the kitchen. "T'll—I'1] see if Mama is making the jelly sandwiches," she said. I knew she was going to tell Mama what had happened. My cheeks were hot as I bent over the dolls. I was a long time tucking the flannel square and the pieces of blanket. By the time my sister came back from the kitchen, a trace of jelly along her upper lip, both buggies were neatly arranged, Crin and the Teddy bear in one, Toodles and Julia in the other. "Mama's making them. She said to take the buggies out under the tree and eat out there," my sister reported. The doll buggies creaked through the hall and onto the porch. It took both of us to ease them down the steps, one holding the handle and the other guiding the front wheels. Then we started along the path. Ronna was sitting on the dry grass under the locast tree. She kept her glance turned away from us, her wet lashes stuck together in points. The warm late summer air hummed about us. My sister and I were very busy with the dolls. All at once she said, "Here comes Mama with the lunch!" I felt sure my sister must have ee i ee Said that Onna had e home By the next sy €r, Ronna ut when am t the pan dow. And her Parents h Oo d away here were thr PS in it from our t With he begin. "T ght th 18 cups to ning and Pening of Summer day," Ma old us, Smiling a] after sy Mer, her ll, like around, « Y don't Spill as Toodles and Crin 4nd Julia and easily as the dolly cy Now, the Tedd 2 caMme part of Set your Plenic oyt." hen she Our Vanished childhood hurried back to the h €ars later Was to think of it eatin ilence, all again. | St pure ased 8lancing sid 4YS at each Other ristmas q lls Wn two aS We took Small bites little 8irls, One doll wi braided "Y ther Makes d hair and a red ult, the ther With Sandwiches ' Ronna, at last blonde curls, Wearing a blue Jelly Squirted at the Corners of orma] €Y mouth "Th Y're Ovely!" XClaimed )! Ped her Cup for a My friend Who wags Shopping With Y Sister tip long drink of milk. "Tp, better me. "But of Course, you intend in these bi PS," she Said tokeep them p Orawhile, 9 "You' t White mys °0 expensj Y regular play tache!" d nna, Siggling aren't they?" MY siste Saw th beaut ful untouched hey can have m crusts," doll jin Its bo nN the helf. | I Said, tossing ne reckless|y SaW again the sm ll fac » Wet Our hai Won't be curly," With f rage, and heard a Said Ronn, child's y echoing, "'T can't "Won't be anyway," | agreed. Play With my dol]! And You know Teezes Shook the locust tree it! Again MY cheeks burned. And a few Pods fell] on Our heads "IT s Id ha et her p ay 8gles Ingled the chirp with Toodles th day," | Said of the darting birds. Aloud. When Mama Came back to My friend Stared. "Pardon 8et the Pan she Said, "It's been Me,,. 9" 4n hour, Ronna. But do come "Oh, I Must have been dreamagain." Ing!" | answered, « OF course, A long Sigh Slipped from beof course the girls will Play tween Ronna's lips, "Oh, I will!" With the dolls. That's What side and out 7 na x Pin A WOMAN'S TOUCH There was land... Dry. Barren, unappealing. Demanding, and taking the very lifeblood and soul Of those who dared to claim it. Then came a woman Whose heart cried out for beauty. With precious seeds and cuttings carried countiess miles Each one a memory of a much-loved garden. Then came beauty— The glory of God's creations Partnered with the woman's tender care and dreams and hopes "And the desert blossomed as the rose." —Theilma A. Thacker " a. - ~s,) " MY c/Viemory GARDEN Elaine J. Wilson ws Today I walked in my flower garden, admiring each lovely color and scent. But I wasn't thinking of the plants alone. I was thinking of people. Most of the plants in my garden are gifts or exchanges from others. I have some small, gray succulents that were given to me by a very wonderful friend. When she was i] I went to help her and, as she regained her strength we walked in her garden and she gave me slips and starts of flowers and succulents. Her friendship is a warm treasure in my life. So, as I look at the star-like succulents and think of her, my inner self glows with warmth, too. Not so with my double Shasta daisies! These come from a friend who fills me with envy because she is so talented. As. I look at the stark white petals, I have to remind myself that I am getting close, too close, to envying her talents. What | must do is work harder to develop my own talents. There are the brilliant orange-red cannas with the deep plum-red foliage. These leaves make attractive floral arrangements, SO neat and uncluttered. This is ironic because the woman who gave them to me is a poor housekeeper. But here, again, I must teach myself to be less critical, not to judge. Perhaps I would do no better if we exchanged places. As I look at my many Echeveria, I feel remorseful. How well I remember my young son rushing in to tell me that Mrs. Jones was giving us some hens and chickens. Without thinking, before he had a chance to say more, I snapped, "What will we do with chickens in a city!" After I had finished sputtering, he explained that they were hen and chicken plants. I had to apologize for my abruptness. Now, I have hen and chicks several places in my yard. When I look at them, I try to remember that I am inclined to jump to conclusions. I need to eliminate this factor from my life. | want to develop qualities of understanding and empathy. I think of the man who gave me several rhizomes of iris, saying, "Tris are the poor man's orchid." They are delicately beautiful despite their inexpensive cost. As it is in life, some of the more ordinary values are just as beautiful as those that seem more exotic. Old and tested friendships will, or should, mean more to us than knowing someone of notoriety, just because of who they are. I shall try to let my good friends and neighbors know that I love them and appreciate them and not just make a fuss over someone important. My garden brings much more into my life than bouquets of rainbow colors and perfume. It gives me a chance to evaluate myself and reflect on life's meaning, and to appreciate the goodness all around me. Byki MEATLESS CASSEROLES Delicious, Satisfying and Nutritious Part I Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society Some of us are old enough to remember food rationing when the dilemma facing the shopper was not so much what she could afford but rather what was available in the markets. Meat and many other food products were at a premium. Homemakers vitally interested in the well-being of those depending on them for daily food, found it necessary to seek out menus and recipes that were not meat oriented —main course dishes that were appealing, satisfying, and nutritious. Excitement reigned when such a choice recipe was discovered. We recognized it as a friend, cherished it, used it again and again and always shared it with friends and neighbors. Usually, it was a special flavor that gave it taste appeal. Sometimes it consisted of the same old ingredients mixed in a new and interesting way or sparked up by an unusual combination of ingredients. Most of them tasted surprisingly delicious to family members who seemed not to notice or care that they contained no meat. The homemaker's dilemma may not relate to which foods are available, but she must decide what she can afford and still keep her food budget in balance. Why not bring out some of those meatless recipes you may have tucked away? Revitalize their appetite appeal by making a change or two or adding a new flavor. Here are a few recipes that were served often and heartily enjoyed by my friends and neighbors and which have continued through the years to be family favorites. EDNA'S VEGETABLE TIMBALES 114 c. Cooked peas 1% c. Soft bread crumbs 1% c. Canned corn 3 beaten eggs 1 c. Drained canned tomatoes Yc, melted butter or substitute 1 tbsp. Chopped onion salt and pepper to taste Combine all ingredients and bake in greased pan for 45 to 50 minutes in moderate oven. Place in pan of hot water during baking to retain moist texture. Serve with cheese sauce (1% cups medium white sauce to which 1 cup grated cheese has been added and blended.) Serves 6. CLEO'S MACARONI LOAF 1% c. Elbo macaroni 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 1% c. Milk, scalded 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley 1 c. Soft bread crumbs Y2 tsp. Salt % c. Melted butter % c. Chopped pimiento 1 c. Grated cheese 2 well-beaten eggs Cook macaroni in boiling salted water, drain, and rinse. Pour scalded milk over bread crumbs, add butter and remaining ingredients. Bake in greased loaf tin in moderate oven for 40 minutes. Serve with or without mushroom sauce. This is delicious just as it comes from the oven. For mushroom sauce add % cup chopped mushrooms to 1% cups medium white sauce. (You may wish to sauté mushrooms in a small amount of butter before adding to white sauce.) Serves 6. 512 Meatless Casseroles MARGARET'S RICE RING 3 c. Cooked rice, 1 c. Uncooked Y c. Chopped green pepper rice 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 3 eggs slightly beaten 1 c. Grated cheese (nippy preferred) VY c. Milk 2 to 3 tbsp. Chopped parsley 1 tsp. Salt 4 tbsp. Melted butter dash of pepper Mix the ingredients together in order listed. Pour into a greased 2-quart mold. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for one hour. Fill ring with creamed peas and carrots or celery or any other combination you may desire. Serves 6 to 8. MILDRED'S MEATLESS LASAGNA Y% ¢. Chopped onion 2 tsp. Salt 1 clove garlic, minced 1 tsp. Basil (optional) 2 5-0z. Pkg. Noodles 2'' wide 3 tbsp. Cooking oil Yy |b. Cheese sliced #2 can tomatoes lc. Sour cream 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley ¥; ¢. Grated Parmesan cheese. 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 8 oz. Can tomato sauce Brown onion and garlic in hot oil. Add tomatoes, parsley, sugar, and seasonings; simmer one hour. Meanwhile cook noodles according to directions on package. Alternate noodles, sliced cheese, sour cream, sauce, and grated cheese in 9'-pan. Bake 30 minutes in 350 degree oven. Cut in squares. Serves 8. CATHERINE'S CARROT CASSEROLE 22 c. Grated carrots 1 tbsp. Grated onion 3 eggs, beaten 1% tsp. Salt 1% tbsp. Butter melted 1% c. Grated cheese. 2 c. Cooked rice Cook the carrots in % cup boiling water for 5 minutes. Drain and save juice. Combine carrots with eggs, butter, rice, salt, onion, and cheese. Mix well and pour into greased baking dish. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for 30 minutes. Sauce for Casserole: Measure carrot juice and add enough canned milk to make 2 cups. Melt 4 tbsp. Butter and stir in 4 tbsp. Flour. Stir in carrot and milk mixture. Cook until mixture thickens. Add 1 pkg. Frozen peas and cook until peas are tender. Serve over baked casserole mixture. Serves 6 to 8. PHYLLIS' CREAMED NOODLE RING 1 8-ounce pkg. Narrow noodles 2 tbsp. Grated onion 2% c. Medium white sauce Y tsp. Dry mustard ¥2 |b. Cheese, grated 3 eggs, slightly beaten. Cook noodles in boiling salted water, rinse, and drain. Alternate layers of noodles and cheese, in greased 9-inch ring (2 qt. Ring mold). Pour remaining ingredients over noodles. Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. Turn out on large platter and fill center with creamed vegetables. Serves 6 to 8. (To be continued) 513 .. W This afternoon my grandchildren and I Pi cking went picking potawatomies. These are the ] | small crimson wild plums that grow alon Potawatomies the ditch banks of the fields and by wal Mabel Luke Anderson and picking them is one of the delightful fall excursions we enjoy. After the first Indian summer days, when all nature is touched with golds and reds, the children start asking when we are going picking potawatomies (even the young ones on whose lips the big word is almost trapped). Last week we did go, but too soon. The plums need to be nipped with the frost to make them sweeter. It was not a trip in vain, though, for we saw the reapers getting in the last of the crops, and harvest fields awaiting the reapers, and heard the "fields of barley sigh like the sea and flow in gentle waves beneath the wind." On such occasions one can try to explain simply the age-old cycle of harvest from the plowing of the land to the gathering of the grains. Meadows were dappled with placid cattle and all contributed to serenity. Autumn has a gentleness all its own. This was one of the golden days, a lovely October day of leisurely mellow sunshine. As we wandered homeward laden with wild spoils of the harvest, the sun was sinking below clouds _tinged with rose and violet, the haze was_rising over the fields, the tang of frost was in the air, and the scent of smoldering leaves. We agreed that the charm of October was special. I think the impact of autumn color against the blue arch of the sky cannot be matched at any other time of the year. Walking in the crisp country air, in quiet lanes, is like a balm after fever. There was a lovely silence about everything, but if one looked closely and listened there were live things about. As we rustled through the carpet of fallen leaves, a tiny field mouse went scurrying, sparrows and starlings cried their objection to our sharing their feast. I remembered that poets tell of "birds singing from autumnal trees." We were lucky enough to see a squirrel fussily harvesting its winter's food. Gossamer threads clung to our faces and clothes. 514 Picking Potawatomies The afternoon was a blaze of color, the gray hills which form the backdrops to our valley were splashed with gold and green, russet and saffron. The fields were splendid from palest tans and yellows to rich brown. Even the weeds along the roadsides were colorful as if to atone for their useless life. On the plum trees, bright crimson fruit, touched with gold, was hanging among the foliage that the fingers of autumn were already painting yellow and bronze. As we walked among the trees, leaf after leaf lost its hold and fell slowly at our feet, unless occasionally whirled away by a playful breeze. Our baskets and buckets were soon filled to the brim with the tempting fruit. We knew why they were also called "squirt" plums. We could not resist one now and then and as we bit on the tough skin, the delectable juice squirted into our mouths. It was rewarding to put our hands up under the leaves and get several of the plump plums, offering a worthwhile vintage to a jellyintent housewife. I knew that soon they would be made into glowing jars of jams and jelly, with that tangy, tantalizing taste that only the wild fruits of the harvest produce. As we went home carrying the precious hoard, I recalled stories I had heard from pioneer lore of how abundantly the wild fruit provided special treats for the pioneers who had to live off the land. Autumn glory—surely each year as we leave it we may forget its loveliness, and must go through the same process of wonderment, days of warm, mellow sunshine, the rich coloring of hill and field and meadow, the misty haze and the gorgeous sunsets. One of the best days of my autumn is when we gather the wild plums. YOU NEVER KNEW | KEPT ALL THESE The heart-shaped rock we found beside the spring, A feather from a blackbird's red-tipped wing..: This golden goblet of an April daffodil You found, the day we climbed the topmost hill.... /¥ A daisy with its last love-petal clinging... A seashell with the ocean's song still singing.... The time you whispered that we would never part— Yet picked for me this small, red bleeding-heart.... This pine cone that you salvaged from the leaves— You never knew that | would keep all these. But such small treasures | have not kept in vain, _ For | have all these memories.... To relive again. —Alda Larson Brown 515 Mama Was a Hero-ine! Maryhale Woolsey # That rain! Nobody in Willow Creek Valley would ever forget it. It was the talk for years to come; the old-timers declaring they had never seen its like in all their days; and the youngtimers declaring they hoped never to see its like in all theirs, again. It began the second evening after Papa started out for Huntington, our nearest railroad station, with a double-bed wagonload of honey to ship East. We had watched him drive away into the very early morning with the sun not up yet and the air crisp, and the team acting even more skittish than usual. "They'll quiet down after they've pulled this load a little while," Papa had said. "I'll have to rest them quite a lot. I hope you put up plenty of eats, Lib. [Pll want to munch something every time I stop, most likely. 516 PA pples =a CarrotSan everything—enough to do you a week, Jack," Mama said. For days and days Mama had been writing her list of things she hoped he could buy at the town stores. Things she couldn't often get at our country store, which was our post office, too. "Don't worry," she told Papa. "You may think I'm asking you to buy the town out, when you start buying things." Papa said, "Maybe I ought to give it a once-over right now...." He patted his shirt pocket where Mama had carefully pinned the folded-up shopping list. "No, Pll manage. I'll probably just hand the list over to that nice clerk in the Biggs Department Store, and let her get the stuff ready for me. Especially the woman stuff." Then Papa laughed, and Mama laughed, and Bill and Freddie and I laughed, too, because when both Mama and Papa laughed, nobody else could help laughing along with them. This talk had been over the breakfast table. Mama had fixed breakfast while Papa was out doing early chores and hitching up the horses. It has been exciting to get up in the night and. Do breakfastgetting and eating by lamplight, and to watch Papa climb up to his high wagon seat and sit a moment or two with the reins held tight, just looking around at us all. "You kids be good, now. See you mind Mama all the time." The wagon made queer little groans as the horses started up, and in another minute they were all turning down the lane. Passing the smaller gate in front of our house, Papa looked back and waved to us. We hurried to the porch, from where we could watch Papa cross the creek bridge and turn the corner a little farther on. He would be out -of sight then. Now we would go back to bed awhile, to make up our lost sleep. But I lingered a little longer, making believe I could see through the hill and think about Papa's long day and wonder. To me it seemed wonderful to think of city people far away—a thousand miles, maybe more— spreading biscuits or toast or even hotcakes with the luscious golden honey Papa's bees had gathered from alfalfa and clover fields through the long, hot summer days. And to remember Papa's saying to Mama how it meant a lot to us to get this load of early "prime" onto the eastern markets. He had practically smacked his lips as he said it—as if he himself might have been a city man getting a first taste of that sweet, golden, brand-new crop honey! Mama Was a Hero-ine! The rainstorm blew in Tuesday night. The wind's noise awakened us, and the first thing we heard next morning was the patter of rain on our roof. That first day the rain was welcome. It had been many weeks since we had had any. We made rain hats out of folded newspapers, like the soldier hats we made in winter, to march around tables when we couldn't go outside. In the rain, now, we paraded up and down the walk from porch to gate, over and over, and even went out into the roadway where soft dust was becoming soft mud. When Mama called us in, we played games while she carefully unfolded our rainhats and spread the big sheets of paper over chairbacks to dry. The second day of rain was less gay, and we were already tired of staying inside. But when, by late afternoon, the rain was still pouring and the sky's dark grayness not a bit lightened, Mama pinned oilcloth capes around Bill and me and told us to put our rubbers on and come out back and help her carry in more wood frem the big pile Papa had been chopping and piling to last us while he was away. After supper Mama read to us and tucked us all in, smiling and hugging us each in turn, but I didn't go to sleep for what seemed a long time. I saw Mama standing by the front windows, as if hoping Papa would come driving up the lane, when we all knew that Papa wouldn't be coming before Friday night, and it wouldn't even be Friday morning until tomorrow! That night the rain poured fastest and loudest yet, and, 517 July 1970 when we got up next morning, our front and back yards were ponds of water. Freddie saw the ponds first, and as if he didn't believe what he saw from the window, he ran and opened the front door. "Oooh, lookie, lookie!" he exclaimed. "It's a lake out there! Well... Almost a lake...." Bill and I scrambled over for a look. The front yard was all puddles, so wide and deep-looking that they did seem like one wide spread of water, dimpling and splashing a little as big raindrops fell into them.. Our woodpile was an island, a small hilly island standing up out of a yard full of that meanlooking, mud-colored water. Freddie, beside me in a moment, exclaimed, ""Mama, is it going to come right in our kitchen? It's trying to come up our steps!" "Do you think," I asked Mama, "it's raining like this all the way to Huntington and raining on Papa?" "T just wish I knew!" Mama said tightly. "I hope he didn't start back here yesterday afternoon... That road...." Her shoulders gave a small shudder before she turned back toward the stove. "Come on, boys. Breakfast will be ready before you can count a hundred." We didn't try to argue, that fragrance could only mean cornmeal mush cooking, and we were hungry. "I wish it would stop!" Bill exclaimed, pulling stockings on. "T'm tired of indoors play. It's no fun anymore." But that morning Mama let us make honey candy, a big kettleful which we didn't finish pulling 518 until past dinnertime. Dinner's lateness, however, didn't matter; we had sampled the cooking honey at every stage from no ball to soft ball and hard ball to the long-awaited crispy crackle, and we weren't hungry at all. In the afternoon we heard a shout from out front. Our nearest neighbor was sitting at our gate on his roan horse looking very wet, with rain making rivers down his black rubber jacket and down the horse's ribs and rump. We all went out onto the porch to hear what he said to Mama. "Thought I'd drop by and see if you're all right, Missus. Jack is away, isn't he?" "Yes, he is, Mr. Babson. He expected to be home before tonight, but I don't know...." "He may have some trouble, that hill road. You folks need anything?" "No, but thank you. I wish this rain would stop pouring down on us." "Tl amble along, then, and take a look at your bridge. The one up by Coles' place is gone. Coles came around collecting a crew to rebuild, rain or no rain. He's gone on to West's ranch, and I'm going by Scott's place to get a couple or so of his harvest hands and keep them out of mischief. I'll be coming back this way and ['ll let you know what I see down there." He rode on, and shortly came back again. "Your bridge is all right so far, Ma'am. Can't tell though... I hope Jack makes it early, the creek may be rough tonight... So long, folks!" That afternoon the frontyard lake—as Freddie insisted on our calling it—was lapping at the steps of the porch, and around the well's stone foundation. Mama put on her boots and rain cape and carried bucket after bucket of water. She filled all her big cooking kettles and the wash boiler and both washtubs. "Isn't it ever going to stop raining? And why," demanded Bill, "do we have to have all this water inside our kitchen?" "If the rain goes over the well's foundation the water will be too dirty to drink or to cook with. It would take several days for it to get clear again," Mama explained. Freddie went to a front window and stood a long time looking out at the rain and chanting, "Rain, rain, go away... Come again another day—but not for a long time." His sober expressions made the rest of us laugh. We all began singing "Rain, rain, go away.. Don't come back for lots of days...." The singing made us feel better, and our supper of ham, potatoes and gravy, and canned peas, tasted very good, especially ending with chopped apples and cookies. We had eaten early. Mama finished first, and got up and went to the windows again, looking out at the sky. "Oh, I wish I knew where our Papa is!" she exclaimed suddenly. | Later, when both Freddie and the baby were safely tucked in bed, Mama bent over Freddie and said, "Darling, Mama and Eddie and Bill have a job to do, and we have to leave you and Baby here awhile. Can you be a big man and wait quietly until Mama Was a Hero-ine! We get back? It's for Papa we have to do it," she added quickly, when Freddie's mouth opened and his smile changed to an unhappy look. "You'll help us do this for our Papa, won't you?" He nodded gravely and said, "Will Papa be home pretty soon?" "Soon—we hope," Mama said. "Goodnight, darling. Sleep tight." In the sitting room Bill and I were waiting, listening, and regarding each other intensely. We were bursting with curiousity, and at the same: time feeling more than a little scared. I tried not to show it, but I felt it and was sure Bill did, too. When Mama came in, carefully closing the bedroom door except for a little crack, we sat up straighter, and Bill asked, "Mama, what are we going to do?" "Well... You heard Mr. Babson say that our creek might be pretty rough tonight? Well, if Papa comes along in the stormy dark, he might have trouble with the horses because the water might be a flood and frighten them." "The horses might run away and Papa might get hurt," Bill said as Mama paused. "That's right, Bill. We are going down to the creek and put a light near the bridge so Papa will know there's danger there. Then he'll stop the horses in time, and find out what to do." "But won't the rain make our light go out?" I asked. "Not Papa's new lantern," Mama said. "It has a storm shield. But look... It's starting to get dark, so we have to hurry. Eddie, find your overshoes and Bill's." With warm sweater jackets 519 July 1970 under our oilcloth capes, and Mama wearing her tall boots and carrying the lighted lantern while Bill and I each carried a coil of rope, we soon emerged into the gloomy twilight world of storm. The lane was all soft mud except where small rivers ran along the wheel ruts. About halfway Bill stumbled—a waterhidden stone turned beneath his foot, Mama thought it was. She let him hold the lantern while she tied rope around each of us, with spaces between, before going on. "This way," she said, "we can't get lost from each other." As we neared the creek, we could hear a roar of water. We stopped at the bridge and stared hard into the stream which seemed to reach high up its banks and had white edges that curled and twisted. Fear curled inside me; I had questions to ask, but was afraid my voice would shake and tell Mama and Bill what a scarecat I was. I saw Mama take hold of the bridge guide and step out onto the bridge, testing it. I had seen Papa do that once when we were having to ford a stream soon after a summer cloudburst. But Papa had used a pole. "It seems... Solid enough," Mama said. "Now, listen, Ill tie your end of the rope to that fence post back there, and this end of my rope around my own waist. It's a good long rope, it'll reach across the bridge." "Mama! Do you have to go across the bridge?" Bill asked. "Of course. The lantern must be over there, because Papa must see it before he drives too near. But I'll be all right if you two 520 helpers will remember what I tell you—and do it. If I yell, both of you pull hard on my rope. Hang onto it tight, and move back away from the bridge, because a yell would mean I've slipped off into the water, see? When I get across, though, [ll wave the lantern to tell you I'm all right. Do you understand everything?" We did, we assured her. She gave us each a quick kiss and stepped away onto the bridge. The water seemed to roar louder and louder. My heart seemed to stop beating every time the lantern bobbed the least bit, and coldness seemed to freeze me into an ice statue. At last the lantern moved high up and we knew Mama was safely on the other side. She moved on a little farther, and we could see, vaguely, the tree beside the road where she was hanging up the lantern, and tying it to a branch, and, at last, she was coming back towards us. It was Bill who thought about coiling the rope as she came nearer. It seemed to me that water was running, now, over the bridge itself. And, of course, now there was no lantern to watch, which would tell us Mama was safe. Then I saw that its little beam of light seemed to be following her. Faintly I could see the caped shape of her coming slowly nearer. What a joy, after that seemingly endless time, to have her back with us, safe and sound! We hugged and kissed her, not minding the least bit her wetness nor our own. Soon we were sloshing homeward again, and the sloshing had a glad, wonderful sound. Soon we could see a tiny square of light ahead, and knew it was the lamp in our front window, leading us through the deepening dark, our own lamp guiding us home. We had reached our gate when the sudden different sound reached us—a loud dull boom, and with it a crashing of wood. An ominous cruel sound among the slithering, splashy noise of the rain. Mama's breath caught, mixed with a queer moaning, "Oh—oh.." like a long loud sigh. "It's gone," she said. "Oh, aren't we glad we went and put a light to warn our Papa!" Inside our house, all was quiet. And warm. We got out of our dripping rain wear and into night things and cuddly crocheted slippers. Mama surprised us with cups of hot chocolate. Then we knelt together and said "Amen" to Mama's prayer that our Father in heaven would watch over our Papa wherever he might be this stormy night. And then we went happily to bed. We were eating breakfast, next morning, when we heard shouting. First, quite near, the familiar "Halloo-o0-00-ooh!" that was neighbor Elmy's greeting, different from anyone else's we knew. And then, farther away— and down our lane—but indistinguishable as to words, our Papa's voice. We rushed to open the front door and out onto the porch, all of us together. Rain was still falling, but less of it, and the drops barely dimpled the front-yard lake. Our porch steps were above water, and the well's foundation showed plainly. Mama Was a Hero-ine! These I noted in one swift look before my eyes found what they sought: Papa. Papa, riding Eagle, bareback, and _ leading Prince along behind. I never have been able to remember what words ran through the joyous bedlam that followed. I do remember Mama asking, when Papa and Elmy had reached our gate together and stopped, "Where's the wagon?" in an alarmed tone, and Papa's reply, through a wide grin, "On the other side of the creek. The horses could wade, but the wagon has to wait till the water goes down some." After awhile, a sudden hush fell around us. Papa was asking— repeating something he had already asked but said again because Mama was stammering so. "I said, who hung my new lantern down in that tree last night?" "Why—I did... I was... Bit by bit, we 'told Papa all about it, while Papa just sat and stared as if he couldn't believe it. It was Elmy who said at last, "You're a brave girl, Libbie. A brave girl if I ever saw one. What a woman! Jack, do you know how lucky you are, having a wife like her?" Mama's face was all pinky, and Papa's was even pinker. He said after a long silent time, "She'll do, I guess." I sat still, thinking the great thought—our Mama was a heroine, brave as any in a book! I looked out the window, amazed. The sun was shining! The bad storm was quitting, and Papa was safe at home again, and Mama—our own Mama—had become a hero-ine! " 521 The Catch-All Drawer Louise Wynn One of the first things I remember about our old house is the catch-all drawer. It was unlike the other drawers in the kitchen. It didn't hold just silverware or just dish towels and pot holders. It held tinkertoys, pick-up sticks, marbles, jar lids, can openers, nails, screws, thumbtacks, paper clips, a monkey wrench, a hammer, a screwdriver, and anything and everything else for which we didn't have a special place. The catch-all drawer was a treasure box for a small child. We could find anything we wanted in it, and it always contained a few things we couldn't even identify. We never had to go all the way out to the garage to find the right nail for hanging up the picture we had just made in Primary. Mother could find the baby's lost diaper pin there. If we ran out of houses and hotels for the Monopoly game, we could be sure to find enough in the catch-all drawer. If we couldn't think of any games to play, Mother would get an empty spool, a piece of soap, and a rubber band from the drawer, along with a knife and toothpick to make a little wind-up machine that would roll wherever we pushed it. When we moved into our new house I was about eight years old. I was helping Mother arrange things in the kichen, and I noticed that one drawer was still empty. I said, "Oh, good, this one will be the catch-all drawer." Mother's quick answer was that we weren't going to have a catch-all drawer any more. ""We're in a new house now, and we're going to do things differently. All those things we used to put in the catch-all drawer are going to be put where they belong." We children found out soon that Mother had similar plans for all areas of our new life. We would no longer throw our schoolbooks and coats on the living room couch when we got home from school. No more dirty hand marks on sinks and towels. No more unmade beds in the morning, no more mud tracks in the house in the winter, and so on. She really did try to change us, but somehow we knew that none of us would change permanently just because of our new house. We were all the same no matter where we lived, and as the strange new house became our familiar home, even Mother would forget to enforce her new rules. The drawer I had chosen to be the catch-all drawer became just that in a few months—it had become a habit and a necessity for us as had many other things. As we children grew up, we learned gradually to care for the household articles and we remembered to make our beds and do the dishes without being told, but we never stopped using the catch-all drawer. Now I see in my own married life patterns developing and habits forming just as in my childhood family, and my explanation of this is simple. The catch-all drawer in the new house is my reminder that my future life depends on what I do now as much as what I am now is the result of my actions in the past. ——: 2 - WONDERING Mother, when you were a girl, When you were just my age, Was 'lectricity invented? Were bustles all the rage? Mother, when you were a girl You had no T. V. Set! Tell me, then, did you and Daddy Dance the minuet? —Louise S. Davis 522 A Day At A Time Mary Clough Several years ago we planted some giant sunflower seeds. They grew taller and taller, and one day we noticed that the leaves turned with the sun during the day. We had always thought it was just the flowers that did so. Eventually the flowers unfolded and became larger than dinner plates and faithfully followed the sun's orbit each day. One night about eleven o'clock we happened to turn a flashlight on one of the flowers. It had been facing west before dark, but now it had turned again and was facing east, waiting for the sun to come up in the morning. We flashed the light on the others and found they, too, were waiting with faces to the east. We continued to observe them at night and found they were always turned expectantly to the east before midnight. In a few weeks, when they had fulfilled their purpose, they were too heavy with seeds to turn and follow the sun, so they remained motionless with heads bowed to the east. I thought there must be some kind of lesson or inspirational thought to be gained from this, and so I wrote the following lines: jj A DAY AT A TIME Ne Have you ever watched the sunflowers "% — 4. That follow the path of the sun? They slowly turn from east to west Until the day is done. In the darkness they turn east again And before the midnight hour They're awaiting dawn's gentle fingers To strengthen each golden flower. When the dark of night overtakes you And you find you are not through With all the tasks that life requires And you're tired and discouraged, too; You also can look forward To the first faint light of day And ask the Lord to give you strength As you kneel to him and pray; Having faith that he will help you In his wisdom, so sublime, To overcome the trials of life As you take a day at a time. SAN FRANCISCO The sea—the sky, in mist The city floats, Never static Like the mountains Are static. Frozen waves Are the mountains, The sea and the city move. —Grayce E. Cutler. 523 =~ a Catherine O'Donnell Kemp Hiatt, Riverton Stake, Utah, is always eager to learn new methods or kinds of handiwork. Her home and the homes of her family and many friends are beautified by the various types of work she has completed. Her quilts are beautiful creations of many types, and she is always willing to help others to learn the arts she has enjoyed for so many years. Sister Hiatt is the mother of ten children. There are forty-eight grandchildren and. Twenty-two great-grandchildren. All of them have received lovely gifts made especially for them. In Relief Society, Sister Hiatt has served for many years as quilting chairman, and for forty-eight years she has been a faithful visiting teacher. She has performed with the Singing Mothers for many years. All who know her are inspired by her love of life. Lucinda Hurst Cardon, Mesa Stake, Arizona, has been quilting for eighty-one years, or since she was eight years old, and she is still making quilts for her family and for Relief Society. In her patchwork quilts, the materials bring back fond memories of clothing she has sewed. She has made at least one quilt for each of her ten children, forty-seven grandchildren, 103 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. In addition to her quilting, she attends eight or ten temple sessions each week. She has been an active worker in the Church organizations, and is still a visiting teacher in Relief Society. Everyone who knows her is impressed by her devotion to the gospel and her love for others. Spends the Night Hazel K. Todd Chapter 7 Conclusion = t/ @ Jerusha had insisted on Suzey's going with her girl friends to a special movie. Suzey had taken Amy's death very hard, she had had her care so much before Jerusha came. "It will be good for you," Jerusha said. She had finished the dishes and was just replacing the broom to the closet after sweeping the floor when she noticed Paul sitting by the window in the living room. He was _ holding Lynn's letter and gazing out the window in a preoccupied way. "He cares for her," she said to herself, "but he will never do anything about it." She thought a minute watching him from her distance. "Not with things the way they are now." She thought a minute longer, and then she patted her hair into place, took off her apron and folded it neatly on the kitchen table, straightened her shoulders and walked with quick steps over and sat down by him. He turned and smiled at her. "T've been thinking for awhile now," Jerusha began, "that it is about time I went home." He stared at her. "I was just going to spend the night, you remember." "But I thought this was going to be your home, Jerusha." "But [havea little house under a wild crab-apple tree in West Virginia." "We can't do without you. You belong to us!" "Now don't say anything outlandish like that," Jerusha quipped. "You know very well you got along before I came. Besides, you need a new start. That's what makes life get somewhere." He was silent a moment. "I should be getting used to losses," he said. "Now, don't go feeling sorry for yourself. You aren't that way, Paul Wilson!" "T'm sorry," he said apologetically. He looked at her lovingly. "Tt's just that we have come to love you so much—and depend on you. I know we can't be selfish...." "Nonsense!" she ejaculated. "You know I've had the time of my life." She paused. "You know, I found the two most precious things of my life here. I can't wait to convert all my old friends!" she chuckled. "That'll be a good project. Besides," she added, "who said anything about divorcing 525 July 1970 myself from the Wilsons? I'll be back to pester you every once in awhile." "At least that will be something to look forward to," he said. She gazed at him tenderly. "T did keep my promise, you know. I stayed as long as Amy needed me. "Yes," he said, "I wish there were some way to show you how grateful I am." She looked down at the letter in his lap. "There is," she said and smilled at him through the corner of her eye. "Just don't let go of that letter. And read it once in awhile." She stood up and laid her hand devotedly on his shoulder. "Good night, son," she said. "I just took a job teaching Sunday School for as long as I'm here. I've got a lot of studying to do." The next morning Paul was waiting for Jerusha in the kitchen before the family awoke. "T've been thinking," he said with his usual courtesy, "it would be best not to tell the children yet that you're leaving." "Of course," she said reassuringly, "I'm not going to run away tomorrow. I'll give you plenty of time to work things out." She added, "And since I don't have Behemoth to ride back in, I have to think about it awhile. Besides, winter is dull traveling with nothing to see but snow and naked trees. Maybe when the spring flowers start blooming, I'll just take a bus tour and end up at my little house." "Maybe you'll change your mind by then." She looked at him fondly but unrelentingly. "Please don't count on it," she said. 526 Christmas was coming, and Jerusha pitched into the preparations with so much enthusiasm that no one in the family could escape the contagion. The Christmases since Dorothy had been gone had not been such happy events as this. Paul had provided gifts for his children. They had put up a Christmas tree. Friends had brought gifts and invited them to dinner, but there had been no one to bake fruit cakes and fancy cookies, to produce trays of fudge and taffy and piles of carmel corn. There had not been holly wreaths on the doors and snow men on the window panes, and a sprig of mistletoe tied with red ribbon from the light fixture in the living room. "I must work extra hard," Jerusha told herself, "to make up for the absence of little Amy." She was arranging a nativity scene on top of the bookcase. She paused and looked at the Indian doll still standing on the shelf with its feather headdress and its fringed jacket. How little Amy would have loved to help her fix the Christmas things! She wiped her eyes with the corner of her apron and scolded herself. "See here, Jerusha Appleby, you know very well little Amy is all right. Where is a better place for a child at Christmas than with her own mother! Fine example you are trying to promote happiness around here and blubbering yourself!" So she pinned a tiny bell on the brown fringe of the doll's jacket and hummed a bit of "Away in a Manger" they had sung last Sunday in Sunday School. Joe and Suzey picked out the Christmas tree and brought it home, beaming with pride. It was a densely needled pinon with a beautifully tapered top. They stood it in front of the window and covered it with spangles of glory. "It's just right," Jerusha exclaimed to the pair. Joe's dark eyes flashed with pleasure. "We thought you would like it, Jerusha. It just seemed to match you." "Never knew I looked like a tree before," Jerusha laughed, "especially a fat one." That brought a snicker from Dennis, so they hung a few more tinsel bells just to show it didn't matter if she resembled a Christmas tree. Then it was the day before Christmas, and everyone was jittery with excitement. Along in the afternoon the door opened and Ruth Johnson and Lynn came in with their arms loaded with gaily wrapped packages. There were greetings and handshakes and everybody talking at once. "You've driven me_ beyond good sense," Paul declared as he came bringing a few more bright bundles out of hiding and stacked them under the tree on the already extravagant a pile. "So what!" Jerusha chuckled. "After all Christmas only comes once a year. Blame it on me. I've never had a family since I was a youngun." And she pulled him under the mistletoe, climbed up on a chair, and kissed him squarely on the forehead. Suzey had such a good time over it that Paul pulled her under the spot and planted a kiss Jerusha Spends the Night on her cheek. And then he grabbed Dennis snickering behind a chair. Dennis took the kiss on his nose as a matter of course, wiping the place with his sleeve. "Don't look at me," Joe ejaculated, gazing about the room as if he needed a place to escape. His eyes caught on Lynn standing under the Christmas tree. He snatched her by the hand and dragged her off guard. Under the magic sprig. "Next!" he said, a peculiar twist to his teasing smile. Jerusha's heart made a queer flip-flop. She waited breathlessly. Paul stood a minute tall and stately, his fine masculine face filled with some sort of strange conflict. He was looking intensely into Lynn's face, blushed pink with excitement. A wisp of brown hair fell over her face, and she brushed it away unconsciously. Then he took her in his arms and kissed her tenderly on the lips. Nobody said anything. They just stood there waiting until he held her from him, looking lovingly into her face as though no one else were there. "Lynn, darling, will you marry me?" he asked. Her eyes sparkled with happiness. "Of course I will, you big lovable lug!" she said, and he drew her head onto his shoulder. Joe broke the silence. He grinned sheepishly. "Here I just try to keep from getting kissed by a man, and I end up with a stepmother." "How about this gang, Lynn, can you take them?' Paul asked. "Never found one yet," she 527 July 1970 said with a wink at Dennis, "that I couldn't handle." Ruth was picking up her coat. "T have a lot of things to do, and I'm sure you don't want to go with me just now, Lynn," she said with mock sobriety. "Tl bring her back," Paul smiled. Ruth stopped at the door and turned, smiling. "Looks like I've lost my Christmas guest," she said, "unless we double up." "At our house!" Jerusha and Paul said almost together, and Jerusha added, "This calls for a real celebration." y+' few days after Christmas, Jerusha rode. Into town with Ruth to do some shopping. When she returned, she found Paul and Lynn waiting for her. "We want to talk to you," Paul said. Jerusha looked from one to the other shrewdly. "Been plotting something most unreasonable," she said slyly. "I can tell by the looks of you." "Not unreasonable," Lynn laughed. Then she arose from her chair and came to Jerusha and took her two wrinkled hands in her own. "Jerusha, we're afraid you're going to leave because of us, and we don't want you to. We love you. We want you." "You belong to us, Jerusha," Paul said. A lump of gratitude and love arose in Jerusha's throat, but she swallowed it sternly, giving herself a mental poke. "Nonsense! I'm leaving because it's about time I took care of my own house. Probably has cobwebs hanging clear to the floor." 528 "T told you it wouldn't do any good," Paul said to Lynn. "Can't we induce you to stay?" Lynn pleaded. "Nope." She unloaded her packages on the table. "When is this big event going to transpire?" she asked. "As soon as Lynn's school is out in the spring," Paul said. "Good!" Jerusha mused aloud. "Just about time for me to get ' things in order. And I think you'd better tell the family now." She chuckled. "They ought to be willing to trade an old wrinkled bag for a pretty young goblin hunter." "You're really hopeless!" Lynn laughed. "But, Jerusha, what are you going to do for a car?" Dennis asked when the aftermath of the news to the family subsided. "You don't have Behemoth any more." "Don't rightly know yet, Dennis," Jerusha said, "probably ride an excursion bus and have the time of my life with a new experience." The winter fled rapidly. Paul was as though he had taken a new lease on life. He whistled about his work, and no more did she find him silent and somber as he went about. Once she caught him with the Indian doll in his hands. He was standing looking at it thoughtfully. "Do you think Amy would ever have accepted it from Lynn?" he asked. "Why, of course she would," Jerusha said. "She just needed a little time." Paul took her hand as he had done that night when she had promised him not to leave Amy. They stood a moment facing each other, remembering, sharing the same poignant cadences of a sweet memory. Then she softly slipped her hand away, placed it fondly on his arm a minute, and then smiled and went on about her dusting. So spring came with its crocuses and its daffodils, its songbirds and its butterflies freeing themselves from their winter cocoons, spring with all its bursting new life. The time for other new beginnings was close. Jerusha had her things in order. The house had been cleaned from basement to attic, the clothes cleaned and pressed, patched, and buttons sewed on. "Don't want to leave any of my neglect around for a new bride," she said. Every time anyone went to town, they brought her back a packet of travel folders. She marked out a route here and a route there. "But I haven't found just the right one yet," she said. And then, one evening after she had noticed curious whisperings for two or three days among the four of them, they suddenly all burst in upon her at once. "There's something we want you to see," Paul said. And Suzey tied a blindfold over her eyes. "Land sakes alive!" Jerusha exclaimed, "I haven't played Blind Man's Bluff for more than fifty years!" They led her from the room and slipped the blindfold from her eyes. "Surprise!" they sang in chorus as her eyes beheld the modest shiny new car. "Mercy!" she gasped, "not for me—not another Behemoth!" Jerusha Spends the Night "Not Behemoth, Jerusha. We named it New Start because of someone very near and dear to us who taught us all about new beginnings." Paul put his arm about her shoulders. "It isn't half enough for what you have done for us!" "And I'll bet it won't conk out like Behemoth did either," Dennis said, grinning at her. "And it will take you on any route you want," Suzey smiled happily. She turned to Joe with misty eyes. "And what could you say?" she asked of the jaunty young man whose hard-earned confidences she so cherished. He dropped his eyes to the ground and scraped the toe of his shoe across the dirt. Then he looked into her face with frank admiration. "Just that I hope this car will bring you back." "Every summer, I promise, for an anniversary visit in memory of the day Behemoth broke down." And then she went around the circle of her dear ones and kissed each one, and even Joe made no bones. So the last few weeks marched away, and Lynn and Paul were married and returned from their wanderings. It was a bright summer morning in June. The rose garden was covered with glory. The bachelor's-button row along the fence was a maze of blue waving in the morning breeze. Jerusha was packed snugly in her new car among a pile of going-away presents from so many friends. "It was such a nice overnight stay you invited me on, partner," 529 July 1970 she said to Dennis, standing long-faced with Skeeter and the others. "What'd you have to go for?" he said soberly. "Ah," she said with a sunny smile, "next time I break down in front of your gate, I'll probably be too old to go back." Paul caught her words quickly. "There'll always be a welcome sign, Jerusha." "Your room will be waiting," Lynn promised. Jerusha gazed out over the familiar surroundings that had become so dear to her—to the willow tree with the bench where little Amy had rocked her doll, to the ridge where Dennis had gathered stink weeds, to the hen house where she had won Joe. Her eyes rested fondly on them a minute and then returned to her friends. "Next time I break down," she said, "Ill just trade my little house under the apple tree for one at the end of the lane." "We'll do just that!" Paul said, his face lighting. So she rode away down the lane through the gate that had been left open for her. For a minute she looked at the sunflower patch at the side of the road where Behemoth had rested until the junk man was summoned to haul it away. She chuckled to herself softly, blinked a sudden tear from her eye, and sped away down the highway, the wheels in her head beginning to spin out the details of her new adventure. Hemlock greens the streaming miles, And fir communes with the gentle sky. Gold, green, and fallow-brown lie DEPARTED FROM DESERT The checkered fields, quilting all distances. The unwinking black eyes of berries Dorothy J. Roberts Coax, by the roadside. Frail mist weds the sun, And the tossing sea talks in incessant liquid Accent to the shore. Beauty drops Its easy mantle to all periphery While | remember one white lily, Determined, on the blistering hills of sand. 530 Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue Publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society Presidents and mission Relief Society Supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of "Notes From the Field," inasmuch as a Sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. - n" Palomar Stake (California) Relief Society Presents 'Sweetheart Dinner and Fashion Show," February 13, 1970 Palomar Stake Relief Society Officers, seated, left to right: Arveila McArthur, First Counselor: Phyllis F. Fox, President; Shirleymae Jones, Second Counselor. 531 July 1979 East Pocatello Stake ( Idaho), Sixth Ward Singing Mothers resent Concert, anuary 25, 1970 Front row, left to right: Ajj Skelsen, Narrator; Chery! Dd, Soloist: Maude Ounselor, Sixth Ward elief Ss } Society: Mar lana, horister, Sixth War '€f Societ Sister Johnson reports: « Sixth ard s 'N Sacra t meetin e Ti Soloist, ¢ '0S, and a Sextet. Th Presenteg.» INging Mother E Six numbe Ss Presenteg OUD san S, and so © Program Berlindg Hawkins: Ma Barner Caro] McCloud: ennie Mae Br; aMs, Presi ent, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports "We are we 8raduated Our first eighteen women, 4 New class began March with thirty Six enrolled. Executive secre ry, Max A. Ryan. Heh S taught first aiq fee! Fortunate to have him. T. OSE receivin h an temporary aid to Victims fo) accidents Or ill d now Stake 0 the city firemen, and we © course are trained to give immediate esses jin the home." Relief Societ Sponsors ram § inar, anuary 39 970 OCiety: race Dj ter; Evelyn Astl Standing, left to right: Nancy Warren: Louise Ahlgrim: Mary Kendrick: Laurie "erst; Jeg °0d; Bertha Hy © semin ne rd Prepared a home den Puzzle some Patterns 'Severg] INSpirin d informative talk Fre given to help those in attendance foster a b nursery p Ogram 'ghlight of the Seminar was a demonstration lesson Elven by » USing Severa| Children, "As 8ift o Nco Bement from th Stake boar €ach by the Stak Oard." 532 ward was furnished uffet luncheon WAS Served Smith, President, Pocatello S Ardath Jo Son, resident, Eas Second Ow, left to ght. Making a Re Cross First Aig Program available to all sisters IN the Stake, "We have f an accident or Sudden j Seated eft to right: Doris velyn direction Of Sister Oris Werner, €ach ward in the st Materials for the lessons for an assigned Month or Making fig el b with a kit Of materials f ard Relief Soc ety; Ranae Wrigh, First Ounselor OCatelio Stake elief s Clety; E! Clark econd @ Drake, Organist, ast Pocatello Stake Relief Februar wonder fu] 'NStructor IN our former Stake President, and no » and better to care for We ner, Counselor, Santa Monica Stake Reliet th, Pre dent, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "yy der the Was asked to gather teachin © materj IS wer. Displayeq at figures ¢ £0 along Ith one of the lesso: aking rhythm 'NStruments Ab July 1970 South Bear River Stake, Tremonton First Ward Relief Society Sisters Learn Candy-Dipping Skills Homemade candy being boxed by Roberta Fronk and Iris Mortenson, chairman of the candy project. Irene P. Kerr, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Tremonton First Ward of our stake has instituted a successful fund-raising project. Early in October, a special committee begins to shop for choice nuts, chocolate for dipping, and other ingredients which go into making candy. After the planning and shopping, the centers are made and stored to mellow. "Shortly before Thanksgiving, all sisters who would like to participate are called to a two-day 'sweetmeet.' Here the work is carried out in assembly line fashion, with sisters molding centers, applying an extra bottom of coating, repairing rejects, placing the candy on trays. The sisters who are skilled in the art of dipping chocolates patiently teach anyone who wishes to learn. The candy is placed in one, two, and three-pound boxes and stored for holiday use. Over 300 pounds of candy were sold before Christmas. A special booth at the bazaar featured the candy. "Ella Holt is president of the Tremonton First Ward Relief Society." San Fernando Stake (California) Conducts Home Nursing Program Front row, at left: Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society. Back row, at left: Eva Schaub, Homemaking Counselor. At far right: Sandra Finley, trained nursing instructor. Sister Easton reports: ''We have appreciated the cooperation of the Red Cross in conducting two initial training classes for our home nursing program, as well as for providing the equipment we use. "We feel that the program is successful. Already fifty-four women une enrolled in the program, and many more intend to." Weber Stake (Utah) Spanish Branch Actively Engaged In Relief Society Activities Seated in front: Leota Shupe, Counselor, Weber Stake Relief Society; lone Hurst, President. Standing, left to right: Ruby Martinez, Secretary-Treasurer, Spanish Branch Relief Society; Amada Satelo, Second Counselor; Angela Jacabo; Sarah Mitton; Eva Nelson; Roy H. Maughan, Branch President; Emma Poole; Rose Martinez; Consepcion Ramos; Henriatta Barker, organist; Wilma Minjarez, President. Sister Hurst reports: ''The presidency of the Spanish Branch Relief Society are dedicated in carrying out their responsibilities, although the branch is very widely scattered. During the canning season the sisters were taught to preserve fruits and vegetables. Sister Minjarez invited those who could come to her home to learn there. She and her counselors visited the homes of those who were unable to come, taking her own equipment. "The Relief Society is making quilts, and the sisters are carrying a full Relief Society program, although visiting teaching is a challenge because of transportation problems. This branch has just completed its second assessment toward the Ogden Temple. Their projects have been making tamales, enchiladas, pillows, and other articles. We are very proud of their efforts and they are an inspiration to all of us.'' 534 = x g 2s s S Ss Ge July 1970 Walnut Creek Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert, December 7, 1969 Front row in white dress: Francelle E. Larsen, chorister, Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society; second row, extreme right: Nada Fluckiger, organist. Muriel P. Cottle, President, Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our Singing Mothers concert was enthusiastically received by a large audience, which was most gratifying, as it was specifically a missionary effort. "The concert began by foretelling the birth of Christ in scripture and song. This was followed by joyous music heralding his birth, and we closed with praises to God the Father, and the Son. "Selections by the individual ward choruses were directed by the ward choristers, and the stake group combined for several numbers. An especially lovely flute obligato was performed by Annette Bristol and a drum accompaniment on snare drums was performed by Patrice Keddington. Narrator for the concert was Beryl Harmon." nn Ben Lomond Stake (Utah), North Ogden Fifth Ward Uses Unique Quilt To Aid Building Fund Officers of North Ogden Fifth Ward Relief Society, left to right: Alberta Roberts, First Counselor; Norine Jensen, President, Arlene Terry, Second Counselor; Orvil Terry, Bishop; Barbara Leatherow, quilting chairman. Margaret C. Jones, President, Ben Lomond Stake Reticf Society, reports: "A unique fund-raising project was undertaken by one of the ward Relief Societies in our stake. The sisters sold signatures to be placed on a quilt which was presented to the bishop along with a sizeable sum of money for the building fund. Even the young members of the ward were able to sign the quilt. In the center of the quilt is a reproduction of the building. It is a beautiful, artistic quilt and sure to be treasured by the bishop for many years to come." He Japan Mission, Hokkaido District Singing Mothers Sing at Conference February 1970 Elsie M. Bills, Supervisor, Japan Mission Relief Society reports: ''Singing Mothers representing the Sapporo, Muroran, Asahigawa, and Otaru Branches of our mission sang at district conference. "Relief Society is progressing very well in this district of the mission and we are very proud of the sisters here. A full program of Relief Society is being carried out in the branches, including a morning and an evening Relief Society in the Sapporo Branch. "The Singing Mothers were conducted by Masako Ito and accompanied by Tatsuko Koreyasu. District President is Janet Hirano, and her counselors are Hisako Yanagisawa and Hideko Katagiai, with Yumiko Asari as secretary." 536 Nebo Stake (Utah) Relief Society Holds Homemaking Festival February 19, 1970 Nebo Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Grace A. Wightman, SecretaryTreasurer; Betty H. Winegar, First Counselor; Delphia F. Holdaway, President; Edith T. Hiatt, Second Counselor; Pearl B. Winnie, homemaking leader. Sister Holdaway -reports: "All of the wards in the stake helped to make our Homemaking Festival a memorable occasion. Quilts, pictures, paintings, ceramics, needlepoint, and other interesting articles of handicraft were displayed and help given to those who wished to learn how to make various articles. "The sisters were enthused and happy with the attendance, and felt it was a most worthwhile experience. Refreshments were served by the stake board." 538 %* %* * * x x % x k Lesson Department ae! | SPIRITUAL LIVING Pearl of Great Price 2K 2K 2K 2K OK 2K 2K * RIKKI REE Lesson 1 The Origin of the Pearl of Great Price Reading Assignment: The entire Pearl of Great Price Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman to obtain a stronger testimony of the Pearl of Great Price as scripture. INTRODUCTION When The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized on April 6, 1830, two books of scripture were available for the instruction and guidance of the members of the Church. The first of these, the Holy Bible, accepted by Christendom as its guide to salvation, had, in 1820, inspired the boy Joseph Smith to seek guidance from God as to which of all the contending churches was God's Church. In March 1830, the second ancient scripture, the Book of Mormon, was published that modern man might learn that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the true way of salvation, and that disobedience to God's commandments will bring destruction to modern nations as it did to two great pre-Columbian civilizations upon the American Continent. By 1835 therevelationsreceived by the Prophet Joseph Smith were available to the Church under the title the "Doctrine and Covenants of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Subsequent editions of this book of scripture contained additional revelations. By 1921 this book contained its present number of 136 sections. As the Doctrine and Covenants had developed through several 539 July 1979 THE MODERN BEGINNING OF THE PEARL oF GREAT PRICE (Some of the following inforMation erived from the excellent book The Story Of the Pearl Of Great P, Ce, Written by Dr, James R Clark, Member of the Brigh Youn University faculty. ) From 1837, the time the gospe Was introduced into Great BriSensing the need to Provide Members of the Church In Great Britain, tWo-thirds articles ith Which ade y e 185] dition of th earl of reat Pyj 77, and (3) Doctrine a nants, Section 87. E following In other Ch Ications, beginning In 1839 until an e of these, Doctrine and Covenants section 132, appeared in the Pearl of Great Price in the 1878 edition. Class Discussion Wherein does the first edition (1851) of the Pearl of Great Price differ from the present (1921) edition? CANONIZATION The canonization of the Pear] of Great Price as scripture for the Church as a whole was performed in the Fiftieth Semiannual General Conference of the Church held October 10, 1880. After President George Q. Cannon, counselor in the First Presidency, presented the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price to the conference, President Joseph F. Smith, the other counselor, said to the conference: "I move that we receive and accept the revelations contained in these books [Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price], as revelations from God to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to all the world." ("Fiftieth Semi-annual Conference," Millennial Star, Vol. 42 [Nov. 15, 1880], p. 724.) Class Discussion Discuss why it was important for the membership of the Church to accept these two books as scripture: 1. As related to Latter-day Saint belef in continuous revelation 2. As being basic to the restoration of the Church Lesson Department TRUTHS TO MAINTAIN AND DEFEND THE FAITH The ancient scriptures in the Pear] of Great Price are the Books of Moses and Abraham. The Book of Moses was received by revelation, using the Book of Genesis as the guideline. On this matter, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: The Prophet Joseph Smith began a revelatory revision of the Bible, but it was not finished, for which reason the Church has never adopted it as a whole. The parts we accept will be found in the Pearl of Great Price in the Book of Moses and the revision of the twentythird (last verse) and the twenty-fourth chapters of Matthew. (Church News, July 31, 1954, p. 9.) In June 1830, the Prophet Joseph recorded that the Lord "vouchsafed for us a supply of strength, and granted us 'line upon line of knowledge—here a little and there a little,' of which the following was a precious morsel," and then there followed the first chapter of the Book of Moses, which was not in the Book of Genesis. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957], Vol. 1, pp. 98-101 [commonly called Documentary History of The Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) It was while the Prophet, with the assistance of Sidney Rigdon, was "translating" or revising the Book of Genesis that the Lord revealed chapters 2 through 8 of the Book of Moses (chapters 6:45-68, and 7, being an "Extract from the Prophecy of Enoch''). The Book of Abraham, the second ancient scripture of 541 July 1970 the Pearl of Great Price, came to the Prophet in an unusual way. Four Egyptian mummies and two rolls of papyrus were sold to the saints in July 1835, by Michael H. Chandler. When the Prophet translated the hieroglyphics on the Ppapyri, he discovered that they were the writings of Abraham and Joseph, who was sold into Egypt. (DHC, Vol. 2, pp. 235-36.) The Book of Abraham is the translation of the writings of Abraham. Having translated the plates of the Book of Mormon, written in reformed Egyptian, the Prophet was familiar with Egyptian hieroglyphics. On Monday, November 27 1967, in a special ceremony at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art, eleven papyrus pieces once owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith were presented to President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency. | (Church News, December 2, 1987, p. @ Improvement Era, J anuary 1968, p. 12.) The appearance of this material 132 years after it came into the possession of the Prophet was acclaimed by Latterday Saints as important evidence that the Prophet had Egyptian papyri which he translated as the Book of Abraham. The best information available to the Church for almost one hundred years was that the papyri and the mummies were destroyed in the Chicago fire of 1871. (Improvement Era, January 1968, p. 12.) The recovered Papyri are only portions of the material possessed by the Prophet. The wellpreserved Facsimile No. 1 of the Book of Abraham is part of the collection. 542 From these ancient scriptures precious truths only alluded to in the Bible are revealed in greater clarity while truths not mentioned in Holy Writ are made known. TRUTHS ALLUDED To Important contributions elaborated upon in these ancient scriptures and mentioned in the Bible are: (1) the premortal existence of the spirits of men, (2) the antiquity of the gospel of Jesus Christ, (3) the creation of man and other forms of life, and (4) a miscellaneous number of truths. These subjects will form the basis of future lessons in this course. To mention only a few truths not found in the Bible will be sufficient for the purpose of this lesson: (1) the temptation of Moses by Satan. (Moses 1:12-23.) (2) The name Jesus Christ and the expression "mine Only Begotten" (Moses 1:16-17; 4:28, 6:57) are not found in the Old Testament. In other words, the Old Testament, in its present form, does not identify the New Testament Savior Jesus Christ as God who gave revelation to the Old Testament prophets. (3) The vision of the beginning of the world to the end received by Enoch. (Moses 6:58-66; 7:1-69.) There are many facts mentioned in the Pearl of Great Price which give greater understanding of the period of the patriarchs and of Moses than does the information in the Bible as it has come down to us. To mention only a few: (1) There _were written records from the beginning. (Moses 6:5, 46.) (2) Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters besides Cain and Abel, which explains where Cain got his wife. (Compare Gen. 4:1-2, 16-17; with Moses 5:2-3, 16-17, 28.) (3) The earth as the mother of men is a living organism, yet inanimate to man. (Moses 7: 48-49.) (4) A clarification of the expression "sons of God" as distinguished from "daughters of men." (Compare Gen. 6:1-2 with Moses 8:13-14.) (5) The Lord did not repent that he had made man, but Noah repented that God had created man. (Compare Gen. 6:6; Moses 8:25.) There is a consistency and harmony of truth found in the modern standard works of the Church compared with the Bible which bear evidence to the fact that Joseph Smith was blessed with revelation from a divine source. In fact, the three modern book' of scripture are witnesses to the validity of the Bible. Class Discussion Name and discuss one of the teachings not in the Bible but revealed in the Pearl of Great Price that impresses you. PREMORTAL EXISTENCE OF LIVING CREATURES Put yourself in the place of the nonmember acquainted with the teachings of the Bible and think how you would like to know the full meaning of such passages as the following: Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest Lesson Department forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. (Jer. 1:4-5.) Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessings in heavenly places in Christ: According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world...; (Eph. 1:3-4.) Where wast thou when I laid the foundations. Of the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding. When the morning _ stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? (Job 38:4, 7.) The fact that men and other forms of life existed before this life is clearly indicated in the Pearl of Great Price. (Moses 3:4-5; Abr. 3:22-28.) THE ANTIQUITY OF THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST The idea that the gospel of Jesus Christ was known from the days of Adam to the days of Christ is not a part of the common "Christian" creed. New Testament writers, however, indicate that baptism and _s salvation through Christ were known to Old Testament prophets. (Gal. 3:8, 16, 17, 19, 24-26; (1 Cor. 10:2.) These truths were known to the patriarchs and to Moses. (Moses 5:9-12, 58-59; 6:58-66.) THE DIVINE MISSION OF JOSEPH SMITH Joseph Smith received the Lord's appointment as _his Prophet to open the last dispensation of the gospel. (D&C 1: 17.) By revelation Moses knew that there would be one who would be like him in the last days to restore religious truths. And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book 543 July 1970 which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men—among as many as shall believe. (Moses 1:41.) That the Bible would be changed and many important truths lost to the world was also known to Nephi centuries before Jesus' birth. (1 Ne. 13:23-29; 21:1.) The function of a prophet is to receive the word of the Lord and to make it known to the people that they may be led in paths of righteousness. When inspired by the Holy Ghost a prophet's words become scripture. (D&C 68:2-4.) When one considers that Joseph Smith was the means of restoring the Book of Mormon, receiving' the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, the number of pages of inspired truth which were given us through him outranks those of any other prophet of record. It was foreordained that he should be the restorer of scripture and also reveal scripture for the salvation of men. (2 Ne. 3:6-11, 14-15.) Another function of a prophet is to testify to revelation received by other prophets, for by the Spirit he may know of the truth of former revelations. The Lord said that in a day when the "Christian" religious world would lose faith in the Bible as the word of God, when the Bible's authenticity would be attacked by those who should be its supporters, creating distrust in its message and even in the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Lord would vindicate his prophets of old 544 through his modern Prophet. So he did through Joseph Smith. Class Discussion Viewing the contents of the Pearl of Great Price as one of Joseph Smith's contributions, how does it attest to the mission of Joseph Smith as a prophet? A PROPHECY Elder Franklin D. Richards in his Preface to the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price (deleted in later editions) prophesied that the day would come when Joseph Smith would be known in the world as one of the greatest men who ever lived, and the day would come when the world would recognize him as a prophet of God. The Lord prepared the Prophet for his calling in the eternal worlds before this earth was created. It was known to Isaiah that there would be a "not learned" person who would receive an ancient book from the dust of the earth that would contain doctrine and increase faith in Jesus Christ. (Isa. 29:12, 24.) That book is the Book of Mormon. Furthermore, Nephi knew that Joseph Smith would be a great seer, even a choice seer, who in the last days would do the _Lord's work and thus perform a work of salvation for men. (2 Ne. 3:6-15.) The impress of his work would be felt among all men, even to the extent that in the millenium the peoples of the earth would come to accept that work. (D&C 1:17-23; 84: 96-102.) Millions had already heard his name, others have accepted him as a Prophet and Lesson Department have had the desire to let Many good and evil throughout the world._. Others receive the same blessing, from the day it Was spoken until this (D&C 103:5-7,) To him Was given moment, and from now on until the name," and that the Priesthood heralded abroad to the nations of the would remain With him forever. Earth, and will be held in honor or (D&C 122:1, 9.: a ' Except for Jesus Christ, no But the honor i which it js now held: by a f will b d by be j man who has ever lived has done that nd eg =. Let Smith Said, and Many others 1919] p. 606.) could say With him: Joseph Smith is g Prophet of Goq— Class Discussion living, not dead; for his name will never; meng The angel that visited him and Why do you believe that the Prophecy declared God's Message unto him, told. As Joseph Smith will be ful. Im that his name should be held for filled: Message 1—Truth ang Free Agency He was free, incredibly and The big city, far from home, Wonderfully free, Free to live Was exciting With its endless posto do was his own boss. And trying out new ideas, embracin dad had een very decent about first this one and then that §lving him money. Oh, he was ere was no limit to what they truly fre Would not try. In this heady July 1970 world of new values, he began to see how much his family missed by sticking to old-fashioned ideas of morality, such as the denial of free love. All the forbidden things that troubled them were not really bad. Just some old Puritan notions. Drinking was fun, drugs were fun, gambling was fun. It was true that his money seemed to be going fast, but he did not need to worry. It was one for all and all for one; everyone was his friend. It became a very pleasant life. One day, however, the money was gone. Economic want stalked, not only his life, but the area in which he lived. His friends suddenly were out when he called. Those who did take him in were starving as he was. He began to look around him at what "freedom" had brought to him and his friends. When the fun was over, there were the diseased whose lives would be forever marred by sickness. There were children unwanted and neglected. There were those prematurely old, their thinking evil, their lives full of poverty and neglect. Worse, they loved evil, exploiting and preying upon their fellowmen. Gradually he became aware that no one really cared about or for him. When he did find someone to love, affection lasted only briefly and then went out like a tiny flame in the wind. One day he could stand it no longer. He went into the countryside and hired out as a day laborer, but wages were low, and he was hungry all the time. He began to see that freedom was far different than he had imagined it to be. He had tried to find himself; instead, he had 546 become lost. Today many prodigals are as beguiled by the philosophy and enticing face of evil as was the prodigal son of whom Jesus spoke. (Luke 15:11-32.) How are we helping our children and ourselves to avoid mistakes and "lost" years from which for some there will be no return? How are we aiding them to understand the way of truth and freedom? Jesus pointed the way, "If ye continue in my word... Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." (John 8:31-32. Italics added.) Man is free to choose, but he must choose God's way or he will not find true freedom. The principles of righteousness are the same today as in the days of Jesus. Freedom is indeed wonderful. President David O. McKay said, Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man... Free agency is the impelling source of the soul's progress. It is the purpose of the Lord that man become like Him. In order for man to achieve this it was necessary for the Creator first to make him free. ("Free Agency and Its Implications," Church Section, Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 16, 1950, p. 4.) The Lord has said "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Luke 11:9.) One must have the faith to act on this promise. Often children and adults reject the way of the Lord because they do not see that the gospel principles were designed to help them in the real world. From the time the child is young we should take the time, the hours necessary, to listen Lesson Department to what is troubling him and help By prayer, Study, and righhim to understand the application teous living we use our free agency of these Principles. We must according to God's plan. The constantly show an increase of "freedom" from responsibility love so that hi i a HOMEMAKING—a Lovelier You —.——__ _ Discussion 1—You Owe it to Yourself to Become a Lovelier You ee yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples. |.!"" (D&C 93:35.) OBJECTIVE: To help each woman accept her responsibility in taking care of her Outward appearance. INTRODUCTION temples of God, cleanliness and To Latter-day Saints, temples modesty are first considerations. Are not only havens of spirituality, A woman who treats her body but supreme examples of all that as a temple is grateful to her 18 lovely and beautiful on this Father in heaven for the loveliearth. Our bodies are often hess of her hair, her Special colorcalled "tabernacles of the spirit," ing, her features, her skin, and "... Yea, man is the tabernacle of her Vitality,, j God, even temples. | |" (D&C Brigham Young admonished 93:35.) To think of our bodies the women to make themselves as temples, therefore, commits us beautiful Let the Sisters take care of themselves, on ee and make themselves beautiful, and if woman who emulates her divinity any of you are so Superstitious and remembers that, as in Our ignorant as to say that this is pride, [ ° 547 excellency of the beauty which dwells in the society of the Gods. Were you to see an angel, you would see 4 beautiful and lovely like angels healthy and beautiful, by cleanliness and proper jet..-- (Discourses of Brigham Young, Comp ohn A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City Deseret Book Company, MOTHERS SET THE EXAMPLE "Tf there lS anything virtuous, lovely, oF of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." (13th Article of Faith) As mothers, we must ever keep in mind that the home, more than any other influence, will mold the conduct of our children. Child's early entirely set for our children. Responsibility as wives and mothers to walk uprightly before our families. Mothers should set the standard of cleanliness and loveliness in the home by careful attention to their grooming, proper dress, and care of their bodies through wholesome nutrition and exercisechildren iS by example and not by preaching. If you would teach cleanliness of body, be clean; if you wou teach correct standards of dress, dress properly yourself. Would you have your children practice wisdom and temperance in the being 4 548 food they eat? Then you as the mothers must refrain from intemperance. Amother, as an example of that which is "virtuous should ask herself whenshe selects her own clothes, "A loveliness? Do I dress to attract the attention of others? Do I want my daughter to dress only to to be neat and clean and attractively dressed at home for our 5. De we take care in being tastefully dressed when we attend a special function with our children? They want to feel MOTHER wisDOM as AN EXAMPLE OF It is becoming increasingly difficult in our society to refrain from artificiality. Modern advertising tells us that everything must look good, taste good, and d. If it doesn't, tists" are put to work to ""amprove" the product. The result is that become should be one of dignity which accepts the added years with grace and pride. Discussion Question When high standards of dress seem to crumble about us, do we maintain our level-headedness and use good judgment in our own choice of clothes? Lesson Department CONCLUSION A woman is often judged by her appearance. First impressions are important. A woman needs to accept the responsibility of maintaining a pleasing outward appearance for herself as well as for others. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 1—Morality and the Individual Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our social relationships. WHAT IS MORALITY? Most of us think that morality is the same as chastity. With a little more thought, we might add the idea of honesty, obedience to law, or dealing justly. But important as these concepts are, they are not the whole of morality. Basically, morality is the love of what is right and good. We are moral to the extent that we show that love in our treatment of other people. THE IMPORTANCE OF PEOPLE A moral person has the proper regard for the individual. To be moral is to value human life. The scriptures teach that "the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) At the Creation God had such high regard for man that he "crowned him with glory and honour" and gave him "dominion over the works" (Ps. 8:5-6) of his hands. Christ's teachings are filled with examples of his regard for people of all ethnic and national origins, poor and rich people, sick people and well people. His regard for people is the essence of his gospel. Eternal life, "the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D&C 14:7), is the prize he would have all his children win. Those winning this prize are to share with Christ all the Father has. Recent space explorations have excited the imagination of the world regarding man's accomplishments and possibilities. In the ways of the world they tell us about the importance of man and represent a "giant leap" 549 July 1970 faith that place of habitation. The moon every living thing" and the reSponsibility to earth" as he used its resources ular events as space exploration will help man to realize his and the importance God attaches to the work of man, the "pearl" of his creation. Question for Discussion Inasmuch as we believe in the importance and worth of People, why is it so difficult to accept them as they are? INDIVIDUALITY To value people truly and to hold them in esteem—to cherish 550 Samuel Chose the boy above his older brothers to be anointed king of Israel, the Lord Said, "Look not on hi countenance, or on the height of his Stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh The Lord dividual or a people to help carry out his purposes in the earth, but "and he inviteth them all to come unto him and partake of his 800dness; and he denieth But God does not expect his children to be "alike" in the sense that they must all be the same. We should expect people to be different, if we accept the principle of free agency. Among the three and a half billion people living on earth today, no two are the same. Not even identical twins are identical. Each person has his own body structure, physiology, chemistry, and ways of behaving. Differences so vast that they almost defy description help to explain such everyday puzzles as why one child eats heartily and another picks at his food, or why members of the ward have such different ideas about the architecture for a new chapel. To be specific, the nervous system, closely connected with personality, is subject to variations. Investigations, which admittedly are not complete, show that "warm spots," "cold spots," and "pain spots" on the skin are different for each individual. In a recent study, the distribution of pain spots for twenty-one healthy young adults was shown to have a high degree of variation. Under controlled test conditions the right hand of one young man A—tested in a particular area— was found to be "highly sensitive over a seven percent area, while a second person B showed 100 percent "highly sensitive" areas. On A's hand 49 percent of the area was free of pain. (Roger J. Williams, "The Biological Approach to the Study of Personality," Theories of Psychopathology, ed. Theodore Milton [Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1967], pp. 23-24.) This simple difference of Lesson Department sensitivity to pain may explain why some _ highly _ sensitive mothers overprotect their children, while others, less sensitive, may be indifferent to minor injuries to their children. Mothers may mistakenly believe that their children feel or fail to feel pain as they do. Studies of personality yield even wider variations among individuals. No two people react to stress in the same manner. Some appear to thrive on daily crises, while others confronted with these same crises become ill. Differences within the same family are well known. One child accepts responsibility easily and anticipates new challenges with pleasure. Avoidance of responsibility may be the typical reaction of another child in the same family. Family home evenings can be a source of satisfaction to some families because of the enthusiasm and preparations of a particular child who loves this part of the Church program. Question for Discussion Why is an individual enhanced in your eyes by knowing some special quality about him—a talent, ability, skill, hope, ambition, or desire for his family or friends, for example? Differences among _ people surely add to the interest, richness, beauty, and challenges of life. These differences can also pose very serious problems unless we learn to recognize and understand them. We need to accept differences and to affirm individuality. Few disasters are more tragic than those that result when a parent has a _ preconceived notion of what his child 551 July 1970 should be, and then sets upon a course to mold that child into his idea of a_ successful adult. Our children are not ours as houses and other possessions may be ours. They are born to us, but they are only lent to us. They are ours to teach, especially by example, to counsel, and above all to love. Bach should be respected as a special person, different from every other person and worthy of love in his own right. The discovery has been repeatedly made that the compatibility of spouses is enhanced when they accept each other as they are and do not try to make each other over. One newly married woman confided that all would be serene with their marriage as soon as she cured her husband of his habit of being late to his appointments. Twentyfive years later she confessed that she had learned patience while she waited for her husband, but had not changed his habit of being late. Learning to accept and appreciate differences can. Broaden and enrich our lives and make us more responsive to the needs and wishes of others. Question for Discussion Why are you responsive to those who individualize you and accept you without judging you? PURPOSES OF, RELIEF SOCIETY Caring for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate, manifesting benevolence, teaching morals, and enlarging and elevating the scope of woman's activities are among the high purposes stated for Relief Society members. 552 (Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, [Salt Lake City: General Board of Relief Society, 1968], pp. 7-8.) Whether or not these inspiring purposes will be achieved depends on what the women of the Church do to become the living embodiments of the purposes by their personal examples of benevolence and service, by their appreciation of the worth of various ethnic groups in society, and by their progress in learning to know and apply gospel principles in all social relations—in the family, among neighbors, in associations with the poor and the sick (physically, mentally, spiritually,) and in mingling with the economically and culturally deprived. A visitor in Salt Lake City, Dr. Gisela Konopka, a professor of Social Work at the University of Minnesota, was taken on a tour of the Relief Society Building. President Belle S. Spafford, in her usual gracious manner, made Dr. Konopka acquainted with the program of the Relief Society, and showed her the beauty and decor as well as the many functional qualities of the building. She invited her admiration of the gifts of exquisite quality from thestakeand mission Relief Societies from far-off places such as delft from the Netherlands, Royal Copenhagen from Denmark, Navajo Yeibichai rugs, Satsuma vases from Japan, Belleek from Ireland, crystal from Sweden and Czechoslovakia, Dresden and Meissen from Germany, grass skirts, mats and lauakau baskets from the Islands of the Pacific, and a tablecloth from the Philippines. On a plaque in the lovely In giving Compassionate Service, women of the Relief Society have an °pportunity to "reap blessings" as they cause the poor and needy "to rejoice," Social Telations are a sci eing, regard. €, physica] Condition, or atus, eavenly Messengers appeared to Joseph Smith in the Lesson Department tion, > either in their Own or Others' expectations criticism, for in Own eyes we appear to be better and Pharisees July 1970 be more fully realized by the concepts of individualization, acceptance, and a non-judgmental attitude? SUMMARY Morality is basically a warm regard for every human being. It delights in the miracle of creation and the infinite nchness of society and people in all walks of life. The moral life truly makes sense to all people whose concern is to serve their fellowmen. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—A Family Reads and Sings Together Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To present selections that can enrich family discussions, provide wholesome entertainment, and strengthen family relationships. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 1. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Homing Salmon—Del Riego 3013 SSA There Is Beauty All Around Hymns, no. 383 'Mid Pleasures and Palaces Hymns, no. 185 Payne—Bishop As indicated earlier in the preview of lessons for 1970-71, the lessons during the coming year will draw upon selections and discussions already printed in the five volumes of Out of the Best Books published during the past six years. It is felt that there are so many excellent se- 554 Publisher Chappel & Co., Inc. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints lections in these books—far too many to have been fully covered by any Relief Society group— that another year of stimulating lessons might be developed using the books already in the hands of the Relief Society sisters. New approaches will, of course, be employed in reexamining these ree ee cn Selections Probab nothing has bee emphasized Ore in the Church during the Past few years than the need harm Y; love, Spiritualit Courtesy, and joy within the family unit. Corre. Sponding With this emphasis, two of the cultura] refinement lessons or 1970-7] ll focus Upon the amily. This Tst lesson COvers Selections Specially 4ppropriate or readin Y fami to enrich amily discussions, Provide Whole some entertainment ithin the Ome, and trengthe fami| telationshipg that is, s Ories and Poems specially Suited to read Ing by the fami] group Then, at the end of the Year, esson Teview e€ sSeections +4 Portra fami] groups Showing love, Understand_ ing, and other family Ideals. E€ se. Their families Some families have done this With Wonderfy] results. Other families are now encouraged to 0 the sam Question for Discussion What Stories, Poems, Ovels, Plays, Or essays have embers of + € class found especially valuable for reading in st any reading that a family does together will have beneficja| results. Unfortunately Lesson Department What child? Are your children these Same We hope that almost every se. Selection In the Out Of the Best 555 July 1979 i " by Charles Dickens, vol. 1, pp. 246-74 "The Happy Prince" by Oscar Wilde, Vol. 1, Pp. 352-60 "My Little Boy" vol. 2, Pp. 8-23 "The Leader of the People" Steinbec » Vol. 2, Pp. 166-82 "Jacob and the Indians" by Stephen nt Benét, yo). 3, pp. 262-75 Tdeal by Handcart" Stegner, Vol. 4, 60-65 "Early Marriage" by Conrad Richter, Vol. 4, Pp. 121.34 "Learning the River" by Mark Twain, vol. 4, Pp. 194-2098 by Car] Ewald, by John by Jean E. "The Tiger" 5 William Blake, vol. 1, PP. 91-92 ang 6 "Little Jesus" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, Pp. 94-95 "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, vol. 1, Pp. 304.28 Hired Man" by Robert Frost, yo}. 2, pp. 183-89 Emily Dickinson, Vol. 4, Pp. 7-8 "Talk" by John Holmes, vol. 4 pp. 209-12 The Fish, the Man, and the Spirit" by Leigh Hunt, vol. 5, Pp. 68-69 (Bruce B. Clark a Thomas, Out Of the Best 1-5, Salt Lake City: Carefully as they an unforgettable lesson in highway Carefulness will re. M reading together Kar] Buy an All Grain Stone Grinding Flour Mill Today Immediate Delivery Also available: High protein wheat for use or storage. For full information, write: & ALL-GRAIN = FLOUR MILL Dept. R. S. P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 Openings available for full or part-time sales representatives. PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25 K CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 K HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Does fruit season get you down? With a TUTTI-FRUTTI juicer it can be a lot of fun. Please your family with delicious drinks all year. Create your own special jellies and fruit syrups — all with a minimum of effort. Greta Ashdown (Tutti-Frutti Headqu.} 612 E. Pheasant Way Bountiful, Utah Phone: 295-1005 Rex Ashdown 769 W. 3650 No. Ogden, Utah Phone 782-7305 Fred and Jean Peacock 3294 W. 3650 So. Arlene Cooper Box 82, Rt. 1 Idaho Falls, Idaho Phone 523-0399 Velva McBride (Health Ways) 430 Main Ave. So. Juicers available in aluminum or stainless steel. 557 Granger, Utah Twin Falls, Idaho Phone 299-1646 Phone 734-2301 July 1970 selections that are equally rewarding. Let us mention just a few books that families might share through hours of pleasant reading together. First and foremost are the scriptures and the writings of our modern prophets, which we should all learn to love for the beauty and truths in them, and which should be part of the daily reading of all members of the Church. Then, there are classics such as the Iliad and the Odyssey, fascinating works from centuries ago. Many people are afraid to read them, fearing that they will be dull or remote or too difficult. They are quite the opposite; the very reason they are classics is that millions of readers, young and old, in many lands and languages, have been charmed by the excitement of the adventures they unfold. Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn, a wonderful adventure story when we first read it as children, seems even better when we reread it as teen-agers, and continues to grow greater and deeper, and more thought-provoking when we return to it as adults. Almost everything Mark Twain wrote is delightful for family reading, but Huckleberry Finn is his masterpiece. Tom Sawyer is a wonderful children's book, but Huckleberry Finn is for readers of all ages. Or, if we want a shorter work that will capture the interest of the whole family, we can read together such a warm and emotionally appealing story as The Red Pony by John Steinbeck; or George Orwell's little novel Animal Farm, a brilliantly clever modern satire against communism; or Alan 558 WHEAT MILLS FOR YOUR STORAGE PROGRAM "Corona"' Grain Mill, model Ictsp for use with wheat, corn, nuts, etc. Easily adjusts for fine or coarse grinding. $11.75 postpaid west of Rockies. $12.75 postpaid east of Rockies. $14.95 postpaid to Canada. Utah residents add 53¢ tax. Extra plates for Corona mills $1.95 per set, postpaid. "Special" quantity prices to church groups. Home Size Stone Ground Flour Mills Grind your own flourl... Eat your way to better health. Free Corona mill with every all-grain mill sold. Automatic Cherry Stoner, Only $8.95, postpaid, Other models available. Write now for more information. Send orders to SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 N. Main Smithfield, Utah 84335 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 -~-_---.75 Zone3 _-.---.60 Zone6 __---.85 Zone4 __-_..65 Zone7 -~---- -95 Zone8- - - - -1.05 — 1600 Empire Road, Sait Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Paton's Cry the Beloved Country, a novel concerning modern South Africa, beautifully poetic with its emphasis on love as the solution to the complex problems of our modern world. If we are especially interested in teaching our children to love reading, we should be aware that they are perhaps not ready for the depths and heights and greatness of Shakespeare or Milton or Chaucer. Perhaps they are not ready for the rewarding complexities and difficulties of T. S. Eliot or Henry James or Joseph Conrad. But they can hardly resist the excitement of the novels of Charles Dickens or Robert Louis Stevenson or Sir Walter Scott, or the rhythmical delights of such poems as Browning's "Pied Piper of Hamelin" or Vachel Lindsay's "The Congo" or Edgar Allan Poe's "The Bells," and other poems, Young readers are still charmed by Lewis Carroll's children's classics of a century ago, Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass, which contain such enchanting poems as "Jabberwocky," or with such a modern children's favorite as the little novel Where the Red Fern Grows by Wilson. Rawls. High school readers are challenged by the stirring biographical portraits in the late President Kennedy's Profiles in Courage. Not all books are for all readers, but everyone should make reading a rich part of his life, and anyone who does will be forever richer in mind and spirit. Perhaps Emily Dickinson said it best in two of her poems: There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Lesson Department Nor any coursers like a page Of Prancing poetry. Is traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll; How frugal is the chariot That bears. A human soul! (From volume 4, p. 11.) He ate and drank the Precious words, His spirit &rew robust; He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was dust. He danced along the dingy days, And this bequest of wings Was but a book. What liberty A loosened spirit brings! (From volume 5, p. 70.) Class Discussion What specific benefits have you and your family enjoyed through reading experiences in the home? Are there values beyond those found in reading itself? A Happiness is total Glecttic living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 559 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 99 98 96 95 94 93 92 560 Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Estella Cole Cordon Ogden, Utah Mrs. Altera Ericksen Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Safford, Arizona Mrs. Kristina Sorenson Anderson Monroe, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rosa Bell Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Yakima, Washington Mrs. Emojean Dudley Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Anna Christine Gulbransen Petersen Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Edith Stoddard West Point, Utah Mrs. Emma Nicholena Borg Young Helena, Montana Mrs. Emma Hawkeswood Hammon Clark Roy, Utah Mrs. Emma Baumgartener Hasler Midway, Utah Mrs. Julia Hurst Hawkins Lewiston, Utah Mrs. Johanna Antonia Ibel Holmes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Rachel Slade Rollins Hutchinson Whittier, California ~91 90 Mrs. Edna Ryerson Cox Hipshire Troutman Mrs. Janet Thwaites Purdy Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Jeane Hunter Salmon Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Johanna Nielsen Anderson Farmington, Utah Mrs. Florence Romaine Wahl Crandell Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Maude Smith Griffin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Jeannette Quayle Humburg Montpelier, Idaho Mrs. Rosa Green Kennedy Randolph, Utah Mrs. Patty Orilla Sessions Hatch Scott Mann Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Amy E. Loader Prince Murray, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ellen Vincent Anson Manila, Utah Mrs. Ida Emma Baker Condie Malad, Idaho Mrs. Emma Johnson Durnell Provo, Utah Mrs. Susannah Stephens Fowler Henefer, Utah Mrs. Lydia Gertrude Cook Fredrickson Roosevelt, Utah Mrs. Myrtle Grimes Ilwaco, Washington Mrs. Anna Christina Osell Horrocks Los Angeles, California Mrs. Hannah Jane McCleve Jackson Gilbert, Arizona Mrs. Elizabeth Green Thorpe Perry Ogden, Utah Miss Clarissa Raddon Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lydia Knudsen Rawson San Gabriel, California Mrs. Lillian Lestra Haws Cook Terry Bellflower, California ANNOUNCING NEW PAPERBACK EDITIONS from Deseret Book OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS The 1970-71 Cultural Refinement lessons will be based on selections from all five volumes of Out of the Best Books. These books contain selected reading from the world's greatest literature and each volume follows a particular theme. To meet the need Deseret Book will publish all five volumes in paperback editions. They will be the same in size and content as the earlier hardbound editions. The paperback editions will not be ready until August, but orders placed now will be filled in the sequence received. Individual copies priced as follows: Vol. 1 "The Individual and Human Values''..................$2.75 Vol. 2. ''Love, Marriage and the Family''...0...00.. Oo. $2.25 Vol. 3. "'Intelligent Family Living''....$2.25 Vol. 4 "The World Around Us''.......$2.25 Vol. 5 "Community Responsibility''..................$2.25 SAVE $1.25 Order All Five Volumes Just $10.50 A limited number of hardbound copies of volume 5 are still available at $3.25 each. SER ee ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me items circled: 123 4 5 Total cost $....................... This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 4'2% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from Callfornia residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: CJ check, 0 money order, or Cl charge established account. Name Address City State Zip July 1970 R. S. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Sweeten & up your day! 2 A sweet treat recipe from Cpthiaceact ENGLISH TOFFEE COOKIES 1 cup butter 1 cup U AND | SUGAR 1 egg yolk 1 egg white, beaten 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 cups sifted flour 1 cup ground pecans Cream butter and sugar thoroughly; add egg yolk (unbeaten) and beat well. Add vanilla, flour and one-half of the ground nuts. Spread dough thin on greased shallow pan, 10'2 x 15 inches. Spread beaten egg white over top. Sprinkle with remaining cup of ground nuts. Bake in slow oven 300° for 45 min. Cut at once in small squares. U and | Sugar Company Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. The Relief Society Magazine AUGUST 1970 The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: COLOR ME HOME Color me rose—dip deep in sunset. Cut sharp the cliffs that hold up the sky. Color my rim—roll in the cedars In walls of olive and deep shadowed green. Silver my bushes—wash clean and polish. Cluster my daisies with sun-setting gold. Color my gorges deeper than midnight— 'Color river with shadow and sun. Wash in the evening—blue veil the evening Float blue the canyons—the mauve-chiseled walls. Color me evening—blue down of evening. Blue velvet evening. For I... Have-come home. - —Hazel Loomis Mount Christina, New Zealand Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Cliff Country Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 Drow var and Ser We love The Relief Society Magazine. It has been a choice part of our training program throughout our married life. My husband and | are eagerly awaiting the next issue. He is the patriarch of the Whittier Stake, a convert of almost forty-nine years, a person beloved by all who know him. Ina May Rollins Reinsch, Whittier, California Thank you for the bound volume of The Relief Society Magazine for 1969. It arrived safely and in excellent condition. It will take its place in our library beside the bound volumes throughout the years. | am constantly referring to the contents of the Magazines, and am pleased to see our elders using them for references and inspirational thoughts. Ardella A. Davey, Supervisor, Canadian Mission Relief Society, Brampton, Ontario, Canada | wish to express my appreciation to my friend Virginia Helms for sending me this interesting, informative, and inspirational Magazine—The Relief Society Magazine. Although | am not of your faith | enjoy all the articles, and particularly the poetry, and especially the lessons. What a comfort in these days of need. Geraldine Dennis, Montgomery, Alabama | was just looking over the contents of the May Magazine when:! Came across the story ''Whatever Will Become of Rory!'' It just made me sit down: and read it right away. We have a son Rory who is nine years old, and the story, word for word, and our son Rory are alike. The day the Magazine came the principal of the school had just phoned to tell us Rory had been in some trouble. When we talked to him about it he just said, ''Mom, | really. Don't mean to get into trouble. It just happens." The story made my husband and myself just laugh because we really felt the story had been written about our Rory. Jolayne Hudson, Calgary, Alberta, Cana | just had to write and tell you what a lovely issue the May Magazine is, and what a thrill it was to find my little reminiscence ''Whatever Happened to Singing?" a part of it. | especially enjoyed Sister Pettit's article about her sweet mother (''A Beautiful Journey," by Aline R. Pettit of the General Board of Relief Society), and the article "Children Grow Up With Poetry,"" by May C. Hammond has great cultural value for use and reference in the home. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah | was thrilled to read the article ''A Beautiful Journey' in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine. | recall serving as a visiting teacher in the Las Flores (California) Ward, where | well remember Sister Lydia Rawson's outstanding monthly message to us. She and her family are an inspiration to me. Rita B. Crapo, Rexburg, Idaho We really love The Relief Society Magazine. | even read special things to my husband and children. It has so much instruction, entertainment, inspiration, beautiful pictures, and poetry—all in one little Magazine that will fit in your purse. Shirley A. Harvey, Barre, Vermont | do enjoy the sensitive poetry from the sisters everywhere published in the Magazine, besides its many other valuable features and its inspirational helps to me in my position as one of the social relations teachers in our Brigham Young University Ward. Lea Diane Seabury, Provo, Utah | enjoy the Magazine so much and also my position as cultural refinement leader in our ward. | often think | am learning more teaching cultural refinement than | di in four years as an English major. Judy Shell Busk, Long Beach, California 562 The Relief Society Magazine Volume 57 August 1970 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 Report—19th Plenary Conference of Internationa! Council of Women Belle S. Spafford 583 Keep the Magazines Sylvia Lundgren 584 Relief Society—Arctic Style Marva D. Beck 594 A Grateful Heart Marva Jeanne Kimball Pedersen Fiction 570 The Giving Edith Larson 596 The Suitcase Floy Daun Mackay 601 The Secret of Blueberry Hill—Chapter 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 562 From Near and Far 577 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 578 Editorial—The Mother and the Missionary Louise W. Madsen 580 Lucile P. Peterson Resigns From the General Board of Relief Society 581 Notes to the Field—The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet; Notice to Subscribers; Relief Society Literary Contests Discontinued 611 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 639 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 587 Treasure From Grandmother's Cupboard Grace Diane Jessen 588 A Rug for Long Wear and Easy Care Edythe K. Watson 590 Born Cooks Pearle M. Olsen 593 Hobby Features—Jane C. Edwards and Jutta O. Carr 595 Shall | Deem Her My Enemy? Cora Hill Arnold Lesson Department 619 Spiritual Living—The Doctrine of the Godhead 625 Visiting Teacher Message—Gratitude 626 Homemaking—Church Standards in Dress 628 Social Relations—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality 633 Cultural Refinement—A Thankful Heart Poetry 561 Color Me Home, Hazel Loomis; 569 Old Photograph, Vesta N. Fairbairn; 569 On the Crest of a Cloud, Nona H. Brown; 576 ''And Know That | Am God,"' Celestia Rees; 581 My Pen, Margaret B. Jorgensen; 582 Housecleaning Time, Wanda B. Blaisdell; 583 Tall, Alda Larson Brown; 585 A Little Hand, Leah J. Leonard; 586 Small Sanctuary, Dorothy J. Roberts; 589 Reflection, Sandra Lundquist; 592 Earth's Renewal, Maxine R. Jennings; 595 His Father's Keys, Carolyn K. Dickson; 600 The Floweing, Iris W. Schow; 610 Regrets, Ruth G. Rothe; 632 Solace From a Book, Lila L. Smith. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 563 yaneD STATES g AMERICA A group of United States delegates and observers with Pre A sident Belie Ss, Spafford (2nd from left) at the Garden Party held at the Grand Patace, Bangkok, Thailand. Report XIX Plenary Conference of International Council of Women Belle S. Spafford @ Eighty-two invitation of the National Women's Suffrage Relief Society gates to a conference held in Washington D. C. In observance of the fortieth anniversary of the first public "Declaration of Independence" for women which demanded for them social, industrial, educational, and political rights. This Washington conference has been called "the greatest woman's conference ever held." There were seventy-seven women's organizations represented, with a number of distinguish- 564 ed women from foreign countries in attendance. The conference, primarily called to promote woman's suffrage, resulted in the founding of a National Council of Women of the United States to be made up of national women's organizations or organizations whose prosrams were of national significance, and the formation of an Internationa] council of Women to be made up of the national councils of the respective countries. The National Council of the United States was to meet biennially with annual meetings of its board. The International Council of Women was to meet triennially. The councils have SUrVived the Chan 4 century and have Proved them. Selves effective instruments in Promoting human Ing and SOcia] Well-being. ] Patronage of Her Majesty, Queen Sirikit. The Nationa] Council of Thailand Was, o resident, who Object of ICW js "T Ment of women hancement Interna tionaj Counci} of Women There Were 2PProximately 400 rePresentatives | attendance. Uring the C Councils yw, residence to t boarded the Plane So important did gs filiation With t National Interests and determin ations The United States Counci] de Cgation of ent Women (there were O Servers) Which as President f the United tates Council] I was Privileged to lead as Chairman, Performed extremely ell. Each egate Was special] qualified to deal Intelligent] and effectively With Matters y d Consideration in € sectio Ich she Was 4Ssigned, y. Competent, experij- 565 August 1970 enced, rational, and forwardlooking as were our delegates, they were restrained in speaking and at no time, in my opinion, could their actions have been interpreted as trying to dominate the Conference. Personally I was extremely proud to belong to the group. Originally fifteen sectional divisions were scheduled, corresponding to the standing committees. Later, some were combined. Discussions in these sectional meetings were based upon reports from international standing committees and _permanent representatives of ICW, and on reports of member councils. Sister Florence Jacobsen, President of the YWMIA, served as the NCW/US voting delegate in the very important section, "The Child and the Family." Whiile space does not allow for a report of the discussions of each section, I would like to give a brief report of the section "The Child and the Family" which should be of special interest to Relief Society women, along with a brief report of the sections on "Media," "Films," "Radio and T. V.," and "Press" to which I was assigned and which have great influence on our family life and the attitudes and viewpoints of our children. This subject is under consideration for the fall conference of the United States Council of Women. Sister Jacobsen, in reporting the discussions of the section on the "Child and the Family," said: "We talked of problems from infancy to old age. Of foremost importance was a consideration of the child-parent relation- 566 ships—better and more comfortable communication between the two. It was the feeling of the women that greater responsibility rests with parents in improving and strengthening this relationship. "Employment of youth demanded attention. It was the opinion that one reason unrest is developing among the youth of the world is their excessive amount of leisure time and the lack of challenging employment. They want to work and be productively employed, the women maintained. It was the opinion, also, that youth would be strengthened if more involved in voluntary service programs. "There was lively discussion on drugs—their increasing use, abuse, and control, as well as a consideration of treatment for addicts. The Conference recommended more strict national and international drug laws, along with public education programs and the establishment of treatment centers as helpful solutions to the drug problems. "Sex education was also a topic of discussion. It was the general feeling that sex education belongs primarily in the homes with provision being made for training parents when and how to teach children in this sensitive area of child guidance. The Church and the school are supporting agents," Sister Jacobsen said, "but the spiritual element should remain with the home." Early in the Conference, decision was made to amalgamate the sections of Media, Films, Radio and Television, and Press, and to name the combined section "Mass Media." This was done because discussion revealed a recognition that while each has its own unique features, they are closely related in many ways and a consideration of any one usually leads to a discussion of one or more of the others. Reports of member organizations showed wide differences in the various countries regarding the development, use, and programming of the various forms of Mass communication. For example, South Africa and Afghanistan have no TV; some countries have only black and white TV. Canada complained about the flow and impact of U. S. Films into Canada which they "do not necessarily like." The delegate said it was "like sleeping against an elephant. You can't move it and it keeps crowding over into your space." Legal regulations of the various forms of media were discussed, as were their values International Council of Women and evils. They were seen as powerful educational forces which, if guided, might almost revolutionize educational procedures. The evils to which women object are violence, nudity, sex display, and vulgarity in films and other forms of media, along with the false image of woman, particularly in commercial advertising. There were twenty-two resolutions considered, of which twenty were adopted. Some had modifications in the original wording but the general intent was not greatly altered. An important resolution submitted by the U. S. And Canada, however, titled "Peaceful Resolution of Conflict-Peace-Making and Peace-Keeping" was considerably modified due to national interests of some of the countries represented. I didn't see how it could have been otherwise in view of existing conditions. 567 August 1970 The Queen Mother of Thailand greets a number of the United States delegation at the Royal garden party, at the Grand Palace, Bangkok, Thailand. At the left is. ICW President, Mrs. Craig Schuller-McGeachy. The thoughtfulness and generous hospitality of the Thai women were evident from the moment we arrived until adieus were spoken. For example, Sister Jacobsen and I arrived near 2:00 A. M. To be met at the airport by two charming Thai women. The entertainment was superb. The Prime Minister and _ his wife entertained at a reception at Government House; the Lord Mayor of Bangkok at a buffet dinner at Lumbini Park. The Thai Council was host at a Garden Party and Buffet at Nai Lort Park—a literal fairyland of lights, music, and dancing, with Western and Thai food attractively served in the garden. This evening was referred to as Thai Evening. By Royal Command, the delegates were entertained in the Garden of the Grand Palace, where they had the honor of shaking hands with the Queen Mother. Homes were also opened 568 to the delegates. The U. S.. Ambassador to Thailand, The Honorable Leonard Unger and Mrs. Unger were extremely considerate of the U. S. Council, lending great help with our American Indian Exhibit (as was Pan American Air Lines). Ambassador and Mrs. Unger entertained at a reception in honor of the U. S. Delegation, followed by a dinner for selected guests. Other guests were invited to dinner parties given in beautiful private homes. Mrs. Unger attended a number of the meetings. The articles for the American Indian Exhibit. Represented the. Finest of our American Indian Culture. Articles were contributed by the Southwest Indian Mission, the Northern Indian Mission, Alaska, and individuals representing tribes throughout North America. Some items were donated through the YWMIA and a large portion through the Indian Relief Societies. A booklet accompanying the display, prepared by Sister Jacobsen of the YWMIA, was a unique and an authentic piece of work. A meeting of Council presidents, which was of special interest to me, led into a proposal that the purposes, organizational structure, and procedures of the ICW be studied and evaluated, including the frequency, plan, and length of the international conferences. Time did not allow for action on this. All in all, the Conference was International Council of Women a broadening experience, enlarging one's understanding of people of the different nations and increasing one's respect for them. The Conference is bound to be productive of good. It created in me a new sense of pride in the U. S. Council and the able women identified with it. I felt the two: Mormon organizations havemuch tooffer organized women of the free world, and in turn, learn from them. Attendance at the Conference taught me, personally, the potency of restraint in leadership. OLD PHOTOGRAPH Beloved, though mine, those eyes, that smile, that face — Are alien to our eternity, our embrace. In a far-off season, a time forsaken, The reason forgotten, that picture was taken. Now, happiness-haloed, | am not the same, Am not the portrait in the bedside frame. For love makes eyes More deep and wise. —Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn ON THE CREST OF A CLOUD On the top of the hill is our dwelling place And the fog slithers in from the sea And it gathers the vanishing world outside In its mantle of mystery. As the ghost horses graze. In the field below, On the highway beyond them play All the dim circled lights of the passing cars That are hidden in folds of gray, But we stay content in our little house, Like an island upon a cloud, And the children speak softly, as though the spell Would be broken if games were loud. —Nona H. Brown 569 w Laura refused to let her mind dwell on the fact that in three days she would be alone in the big old house with the gingerbread porches. Instead, she kept her attention fixed on seven-year-old Teddy's sunbleached head bent over the words he was laboriously printing. He looked up, his freckles wrinkling with self-satisfaction. "Tm leaving you a_ surprise, Grandma" he said. "A surprise—for me?" Laura questioned. "It's so you won't miss me... You will miss me, won't you?" he asked, suddenly fearful. Laura made a movement as if to hug him, and Teddy hastily covered his printing. "Don't peek. It's the surprise. Can you read my spelling?" "Shall I help you with the spelling?" "Yes, but..." Teddy wanted the help, but he was reluctant to 570 The Edith Larson ask any word that might give away his big surprise. He finally settled for dear, grandma, your, loving and grandchild. Laura assured him that from these words she could have no idea of what he was planning for her. The letter took so long it was bedtime when Teddy stopped writing. Tomorrow his mother would come for two days of visiting before she bustled Teddy off home to school. It took the two days for Laura to convince her daughter that she could and would remain in the old home alone. Laura reminded her that she now had neighbors since the Newtons had moved into the long unoccupied, shack-like house across the road. Laura well knew the loneliness she was facing. Even with Teddy there, she had had her lonely times after her husband Simon died in June. True, she was thankful for Simon's sake GIVING that the years of suffering were over, that he was with Heavenly Father where there is no more pain—but she missed him. They had been very close. And now she would miss Teddy also—active, happy-go-lucky Teddy, who could be so thoughtful and loving at the right time. The last morning of his stay, she rose determined to present a cheerful face. When they heard the school bus stop across the road, she joined Teddy on the porch to wave to the nine Newton children, shining in their new school clothes. As they solemnly filed into the bus, they looked just like any other group of children—and for that Laura felt a glow of satisfaction. "IT wish I could go with them. It must be fun to take a school bus," sighed Teddy. "Mama and Daddy need you, Teddy. They lent you to me all summer. It's their turn now." "T know, but I can wish, can't J?" Yes, he could wish and Laura could wish, too. She could wish that Myrna lived nearer to her. She could wish that the Newtons were different than they were so that she could fill her life with their needs. But wishing would not change facts. When, at last, Myrna and Teddy were in the car ready to go, Laura had a momentary qualm. Perhaps she was wrong to cling to the old home. Then she straightened her shoulders and waved until they were out of sight. She would not falter. She had made her decision. She must learn to live with loneliness. She turned back into the house, now grown so strangely quiet. The Giving The scuff of her slippers on the hardwood floors set up a rhythm: Teddy is gone; Teddy is gone. Somehow her steps led her automatically to the sewing rocker by the south window, from which she had watched Teddy at play all summer. No, she mustn't sit there. The side lawn with its great spreading cottonwood and its sand box looked too empty in the brilliant September light and shadow. She had left the breakfast dishes on purpose, over Myrna's protests—left them so there would be something that needed doing to fill the emptiness. But even the kitchen seemed hushed this morning. The familiar hum of the frig and the tick of the ancient clock accented the quiet. Laura ran hot water into half the double sink. She was usually thankful that Myrna had insisted on her modernizing the kitchen when Simon became bedridden, but today she would have welcomed the old, time-consuming inconveniences. The kitchen, too, looked out on the side yard. In spite of herself, her eyes were drawn to the empty space where whirlwinds of activity had become so normal. Pictures from the long summer flashed before her eyes as she mechanically washed, rinsed, and dried the _ dishes, arranging them neatly below the counter. Yo first she saw Teddy playing there by himself and remembered how she had worried lest he become lonely here on the farm that was no longer a farm—no animals, no crops—just isolation. But Teddy seemed to have infinite resources for self-amusement. He 571 August 1970 carried on long conversations with his trucks, graders, and tractors. " Then she saw three children standing by the fence and watched Teddy as he drew them into his circle of influence, the instinctive host. They. Were the Newton triplets, part of the mountain family that had just moved down from the hills with ten of their eleven children. The triplets had changed the picture in the side yard, though Teddy's blond robustness dominated the three slim, dark figures that seemed to flow around him. Even his shorts and sleeveless shirts contrasted sharply with the ragged overalls and haphazard tops of Jerry, Terry, and Vi. It was three days before Laura realized that Vi was a girl. The sound augmented. War whoops and gun-fire, cheers and laughter brought the yard to life. And the sound diminished. Four heads came close together in solemn conclave. Teddy was being persuasive, the others just as obviously reluctant. Then, the quartet rose as one, and, Teddy leading, filed toward the house, each with a hand raised as if leading something. Of course—a horse! A knock at the back door. Laura hurried to open it. Teddy, straight-faced, swept an imaginary hat from his head and asked, "Could you spare a bite to eat, Ma'am, for us saddle-blistered cowpokes? We've come a long ways since we ate last, Ma'am." "But, of course! Just hitch your horses to the porch rail and come m." The horses were quickly disposed of, but at the door the 572 triplets balked in spite of Teddy's urging. "We're too dirty," said one. "We might track up that nice floor," said another. "Maw told us not to bother nice people," added the one that later turned out to be a girl. "Tt's no bother at all. Teddy always has milk and cookies at this time. He'd love to have you join him," invited Laura, her heart going out to these forlorn, undernourished-looking youngsters. Broa so the milk and cookies turned out to be sandwiches, too, spread thickly with peanut butter and jam, all of which the foursome devoured asrapidly as Lauracould produce them, even while the triplets eyed the neat kitchen with its gleaming appliances. But the next day the triplets could not be induced to share Teddy's lunch. Laura felt her impatience mounting. The need was so obviously there and nothing made her feel better than fulfilling a need. She would call on the children's mother that very afternoon. In the old house across the road, she found a timid-appearing, work-bent woman who seemed embarrassed to have Laura call on her. "The house isn't settled yet," Mrs. Newton apologized, but Laura realized that no amount of settling could put the stuffing back in the davenport, make the round oak heater more attractive, or dress the ragged, barefoot children who hung curiously in the background. Never had Laura exerted herself more to put someone at ease. To some extent she was successful. She learned that the Newtons had always lived far back in the hills because Mr. Newton liked it that way. But now there were teenagers. Theoldestboy— Marine private Tom, home on his first furlough—had persuaded his father to let the mother and children come close enough to town so the school bus could transport them. They had attended a one-room school in the mountains only when weather permitted a ten-mile ride on mule back. The triplets had never been to school although they were Teddy's age. "T'm sure Teddy would love to help them catch up a little," Laura offered enthusiastically. Mrs. Newton's mouth set in a thin line. "We don't need help," she stated. Laura must have _ looked surprised for her hostess went on to explain: "Mr. Newton—he says living near town is all right if we don't get like the people that live off the government. We've never needed charity and we don't now." Laura hastened to explain that Teddy was lonely by himself, that he loved to play school, but 'how can one child play school alone? As a favor, wouldn't Mrs. Newton allow the triplets to join him even though school did always include a mid-morning snack? The idea of a snack at school intrigued all the children. Was it the custom in town schools? Laura explained about surplus milk, only to find that the government's part in the program was a stumbling block. However, it was finally agreed that the twins The Giving could snack with Teddy if Laura had chores for them to do to pay for the food. This deal set the pattern for that whole fantasticsummer. The Newton children were both shy and proud. Laura shuddered to think of the effect on them should they appear at school dressed as she grew accustomed to seeing them. She loved to sew. She could foresee the sewing needs of this one family filling all the vacant hours after Teddy went home. But her offers were turned down. She studied the problem and she prayed. How could she give the much-needed help without offense? Since Mrs. Newton didn't know how to sew, Laura was able to make dresses for the girls while giving the mother lessons. Laura learned a great deal during those lessons. She learned to love and admire the determined little woman, who carried her load so gallantly and so proudly. Belinda Newton might be timid about social contacts, but she never seemed to weary of work and was quick to learn. But she never took a lesson without paying for it. Laura was kept busy devising jobs. The boys cleaned out her shed and cut wood for her fireplace. The oldest ones painted the rail fence and restrung the grape arbor. The reciprocal help became so complicated that Laura often feared she was getting more than she gave, even though the sewing lessons branched out into other phases of homemaking. In August, Tom sent his mother a Japanese-made sewing 573 August 1970 machine from the PX. Laura had never seen anyone as happy as Belinda when she brought her girls over to show Laura the clothes she had made them for the first day of school. Even though the hems weren't quite straight and one dress was a little too long, Laura gave nothing but praise. When to keep still was one of the things this curious summer had taught her. Early in the summer, Laura had discussed the Newton case with Bishop Burns and Sister Johnson, the Relief Society president. However, even though the Newtons were Latter-day Saints, they refused all direct Church aid. They had been out of touch and no amount of talk about the Church Welfare Program made any impression on them. True, they didn't have clothes to go to Church in, but they were out of the habit of going anyway. The best the bishop could do was suggest that various members use the older Newton boys when they had to hire extra help. After one trial, the boys found many temporary jobs. And so Laura was pleased when, two weeks before school was to start, the boys and Belinda marched solemnly over to her house and asked advice in buying school clothes with their earnings. She remembered so vividly the quiet pride with which they had counted out the bills and coins. But her heart sank. What they had saved would do little more than buy shoes for the nine school children. She thought a moment. "The first thing," she finally suggested, "is to buy shoes. To fit everyone 574 perfectly, shoes must be new. For other things — pants, shirts, underwear, sox—if the money won't stretch for new ones, you can do what many of our members do—buy at the Relief Society rummage sale next week. Clothes are so expensive nowdays! And of course, the money helps the Relief Society. We are trying to build up our welfare fund. Some poor family will benefit by what you spend there." The Newtons decided they could wear second-hand things proudly if it benefited the poor. And they would count it a favor to be paid for in more split kindling if she went with them as a guide on their shopping expeditions. After buying the shoes, there was only $10.57 left for all the other needs. The rummage sale committee met the day before the sale to sort the donated items and get everything ready. Laura spent her time sorting out things that would fit the Newton children and putting them where they could be easily found. "The next morning she drove her neighbors to the sale early. She had volunteered to open up. By the time anyone else appeared, the Newtons were happily loading Laura's car with enough clothes to see them comfortably through the first weeks of school. The cost, by Laura's careful computation, was exactly $10.50. She lost one battle though. Since she was working at the sale that day, the Newtons refused a ride home. Six miles wasn't far to walk. If she would bring the clothes, that was favor enough. Yes, it had been a full and wonderful summer. And _ there might still be things the Newtons would let her do for them. She wanted to get all of them active in Church. She and Teddy had made a small start in this direction, yet even as she warmed to this thought, she knew the Newton wall of pride would never really break open for an outsider like her. But thinking back over the summer was no way to spend the rest of her day—her long, empty day. With forced cheerfulness Laura went through the morning ritual—making beds, sweeping, dusting. She even picked fresh flowers and arranged them in the dining room. The glads were so lovely. It was only noon. She ate because this was one of the things Myrna had fretted about. She did up the few dishes. Now what to do? She would look for Teddy's surprise. It was strange she hadn't already run across the letter he had written. © But no amount of looking produced Teddy's note. She began searching in unlikely places and came across a box of pictures she and Simon had taken in Hawaii during one of their rare holidays. She became so absorbed in the memories they evoked she didn't look out when she heard the school bus stop. She had just put the box away when, a quarter of an hour later, the doorbell rang. There on the doorstep stood the triplets, still in their school clothes. Their smiles were friendly, yet somehow fearful. Jerry was in the lead, holding out an envelope; Terry carried a _ tightly The Giving clutched bouquet of daisies; and Vi held her arms out stiffly to support a board on which rested a cloth-draped loaf of bread. Laurasmiled. "Please come in,' she invited, holding the door open wide. "I'm so glad to see you." The children didn't budge. Jerry extended the envelope ' a / | "For me?" Laura asked, and took it. The only word on it was Grandma in Teddy's uncertain printing. The surprise! How clever of him to have it delivered! "Thank you," she said, and then as the children just stood there, she repeated, "Won't you come in?" No one moved. What was she supposed to do? 575 August 1970 "Can't you read it?" Vi asked, and to Laura's surprise she saw that the child was close to tears. "Oh, of course. How stupid of me!" How could she tell them she wanted to treasure Teddy's first letter in private? Sage that wandered crookedly down the page. Dear Grandma I no you will mis me I am giving you 3 grandchild to take my plas but don forget me pleez your loving granchild Teddy ps they can play with my toys Tears welled up unbidden. Dear, dear Teddy, but then Laura saw that the smiles were gone and only the fear remained on the three faces before her. Downing her own emotion, she smiled warmly at the triplets. "Three grandchildren! How wonderful! But now you really - must come in. IT can't have my grandchildren standing outside the door." Shyly but happily they edged into the house. Vi, bringing up the rear, said, "Maw sent you a loaf of her bread so we can stay to supper if you ask us." hesitated and then added softly, "Grandma." Laura hugged her. "Of course, you're going to stay for supper. And it was so thoughtful of your mother to remember that I never bake bread when I'm alone. The toys are right where you put them. Why don't you all play in the sandbox till our supper's ready?" As she prepared the sort of meal that Teddy loved, Laura looked out the window at the no-longer-empty yard with 4 heart full of gratitude—gratitude for her seven-year-old grandson and for a neighbor who knew when not to be too proud. ~~ "AND KNOW THAT | AM GOD" "Be still, and know that | am God." Is deaf with loud disclaim "You are not fair!" "You hurt my heart!" "You drove the shaft of hatred in!" Be still. In depth of spirit thought the whisper comes To spirit ears; In strength it moves, in love. The silken cord, Silent, unseen, Eternal, Stronger than the bonds of death. Be still, and know that | am God. —Celestia Rees 576 A bird cannot be heard! The clamoring soul | | Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was Signally honored with the Presentation of a bronze medal at a meeting of six hundred music directors at the annual conference of the Mutual Improvement Association of the Church in June. The award was given: to Mrs. Smith for her "Service to Youth' and for her outstanding musical gifts and especially for her "singing joyfully." At the meeting the President and Mrs. Smith sang a duet. In the Arts Section of the Salt Lake Tribune for June 28th, Mrs. Smith was featured in a special illustrated article portraying her many artistic gifts and describing her "exceptionally rich and beautiful contralto voice and her singing with the Tabernacle Choir since 1918." LaVern W. Parmley, President of the Primary Association of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was named "Woman of the Year," by La Sertoma International, a woman's international service organization. The announcement was made at the La Sertoma annual convention in Chicago in June. Mrs. Parmley was cited for "humanitarian service to mankind, not only in her community, state and nation, but in the world."" She has been Primary president since 1951; and is the only woman to serve on national Boy Scouts of America committees, and was named a member of the National Religious Relationships Committee of the Boy Scouts in 1968, and was also named a member of the General Scouting Committee of the LDS Church. Turi Wideroe, an attractive thirty-twoyear-old Norwegian, is the first woman pilot for a major commercial airline in the western world. Mrs. J.- Willard (Alice) Marriott, vice. President and director of Mariott's Hot Shoppes, and a member of the Board of the National Ballet Society of Washington D. C. Has been appointed by President -Nixon, Chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center of Performing Arts. The committee will advise the Center's Board of Trustees on cultural. Activities. Mrs. Marriott, a former Utahn living in Washington D. C. Is an active Latter-day Saint and has held many prominent roles in political and Civic -affairs both in Washington and nationally. Mrs.: Paul A. (Lorna) Clayton, an active Relief Society worker of Salt Lake City, has been appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the Board of Directors of the John F. Kennedy Performing Arts Center in Washington, D. C. Unusually well qualified, Mrs. Clayton was, ten years ago, a member of the Organizing board of the Utah Branch of Young Audiences, Incorporated: two years ago a national board member,: assigned to Utah; and as of September first, she will be a member of the national board at large. Queen Elizabeth 11 of Great Britain and Princess Anne made a nine-week tour of Fiji, Tonga, New Zealand, and Australia in the spring, and were joined by Prince Philip and the Prince of Wales for most of the trip. Mrs. Bernice Gibbs Andersen, of Corinne, Utah, was honored in May as Mother of the Golden Spike Celebration, at Promontory, Box Elder County, Utah. Writer and historian, she applied her enthusiasm and pioneer spirit to the creation of annual re-enactments of the joining of an eastern and a western railroad by the driving of the famous Golden Spike at Promontory in 1869. 577 Editorial / The Mother and the Missionary w One of the great contributions the women of the Church can make to the building of the kingdom of God on earth is to prepare their children to be missionaries. Knowing as we do that we are living in the Saturday evening of time, that the second coming of Christ is imminent, that the gospel must be taken to every kindred, tongue, and people, and that the members of the Church must do the Lord's work in this respect, it is apparent that there must be a great corps of young people ready to do their part of the work. A mother readies her children for their calls to be missionaries by creating in them the desire to go on a mission and fostering that desire throughout their growing-up years. She starts very early in their lives to implant the idea of making themselves ready. It is necessary to instill in them a willingness to serve since ''the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind'' (D&C 64:34) of those who serve him. An unwilling or slothful servant is not profitable to the work. The attitude toward a mission call as one of the important opportunities afforded to Latter-day Saints is usually the result of the parents' careful nurture and training. A mother prepares her children to be missionaries in two important ways, aS she guides their growth and education in spiritual and religious matters, and as she trains them. In the practical, temporal-aspects of their lives. The spiritual training begins. From the: moment of birth as the child feels the security of the love his parents have for him and as he. Is taught to understand the great love his Heavenly Father has=for him. — Children learn to pray as the family gathers in prayer and with his first attemps to speak, mother teaches him to pray. Early and continuous involvement in Church activities,: attendance at sacrament meetings, participation in Church auxiliary programs give him a foundation of understanding. A wise mother encourages attendance at Seminaries and Institutes of Religion to give him a rich store of knowledge.. He should take advantage of opportunities to receive the benefit of counsel and hearing the stirring testimonies of returned missionaries. Habits of study should be well established. Volume 57 August 1970 Number 8 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 578 A mother, anxious to do the Lord's will and to instill in her children the same desire, will assist in holding productive, effectual Family Home Evenings. With her husband she will teach the gospel to her children. Her abiding, burning testimony will inspire them. Sons, honored in their priesthood, understand the great significance of the ordinations to the various offices of the priesthood. Daughters, honored in the wonderful role God has prepared for them, know there is a great work for them to do. The latter-day work has need of the strongest, most faithful, intelligent, and diligent men and women. Practical training is of vital importance. Young men and women who have learned self-reliance, self-discipline, self-control, and selfconfidence meet the rigorous demands of a mission well equipped. Good mothers teach their children to take care of themselves, to be independent to the extent of having firmly grounded habits of personal care. Proper health habits, cleanliness, pride in personal appearance and surroundings, all tend to make successful missionaries. Such simple things as bathing, brushing one's teeth, keeping clothes in good condition, and knowing how to spend money wisely come from good home training. Boys and girls should know how to prepare simple, yet nutritious meals. Good eating habits are essential if they are to keep well and have the strength for their labors. Boys as well as girls should know how to make their beds, keep rooms neat, wash their clothes and to make the best use of time. Some mothers are over-protective of their children who leave home unequipped in the very essentials of taking care of themselves. This is a disadvantage to the missionary and is often a burden to his companion. Early in life parents should provide projects to help the children earn money to be banked in a ''mission account."' A mission requires all of one's talents and abilities. How fortunate the missionary who has been taught to develop his talents, who has, for instance, had music lessons. Since missionary work is person-to-person and success in approaching people to bring them the gospel depends in a measure on the basic amenities of politeness and courtesy, mothers are encouraged to teach their children good manners, to give them the confidence of knowing what is right to do in social contacts. Poor table manners Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Otiene J. Poutsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen _—_ Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Elizabeth 8. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waidron Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer 579 August 1970 are so offensive to some people as to make them withdraw from further contact. It is important that missionaries know how to act in the homes of the people they contact. The practice of good manners should be simply second nature to a missionary. It is in the home he learns to be courteous and thoughful of others. A mother's work does not end with the preparation of a missionary. He needs her loving support, her frequent letters, her prayers and fastings for his success while he is on his mission. The Lord's work deserves the best efforts of all who have a part in it. The blessings that come to a mother who prepares her children to be missionaries are worth all of the effort required. The quiet satisfaction, the happiness of a goal accomplished, the soul-filling joy that comes from the accomplishments of her children, the spirit with which her home is blessed while the missionary lives close to his Father in heaven, the heart-warming knowledge that her children are actually in the service of the Father, and the assurance that, in ail likelihood, they have set the tone of their lives, all are of supreme comfort. Each mother feels a little like Hannah as she gave her son to the Lord's service—an expression of her gratitude for having been given the privilege of bearing and rearing children worthy of the call. —L. W. M. Lucile P. Peterson Resigns From the General Board of Relief Society Relief Society sisters worldwide will miss the influence of Lucile P. Peterson in her work as a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Sister Peterson has resigned from the Board as of June 3, 1970, in order to fill a mission call with her husband M. Blaine Peterson, who has been called to preside over the South German Mission with headquarters in Munich. Sister Peterson has served on the Board since her call on September 29, 1965. During this time she has served on various educational committees and has filled many regional conference assignments including trips to foreign missions. She has inspired the sisters and fostered greater participation in the programs of Relief Society. She was chairman of the visiting teacher committee at the time of her resignation. She has always undertaken the many and varied responsibilities given to her in an attitude of sweet humility and has served with quiet ability and admirable efficiency. Sister Peterson and her husband are sure to be well received by the members and missionaries in Germany, and their service will be valued by many. The united love and best wishes of the Board and the sisters throughout the Church go with them as they continue in their unselfish service to the Lord. May they find joy in this new calling and receive the blessings which they so richly deserve. 580 Notes to the Field CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEXTBOOKS The 1970-71 Cultural Refinement lessons will be based on selections from all olumes of Out of the Best Books. To meet the needs of class leaders and class Vol. 1 "The Individual and Human Values" -_______ | $2.75 Vol. 2 "Love, Marriage and the emmy" = 2.25 Vol. 3 "Intelligent Family Living"---_-_.____. 77 2.25 Vol. 4 "The World Around Us" -.--.. 22 2 2.25 Vol. 5 "Community Responsibility"... 22 7777 2.25 581 CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEACHING AID PACKET A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces, with commentaries (printed in the June and September 1970 color sections of the Relief Society Magazine) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 4, 6, and 7. The kit containing the four art masterpieces and commentaries is available from the Deseret Book Company for the price of $2.00, postage prepaid regular third class mail. Overseas orders should be sent direct to Deseret Book Company by international money order. (These cannot. Be obtained through the General Board of Relief Society.) If airmail service is desired airmail postage for approximately 12 ounces should be included. All orders for this kit should be placed with or picked up at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or at the Deseret Book Company branches in the Cottonwood Mall in Salt Lake City, Utah, or Orange, California. VISUAL AID KITS No visual aid kits have been prepared this year for the spiritual living lessons, visiting teacher messages, or social relations lessons. Notice to Subscribers In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in August, September, October, November, or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue. Those whose subscriptions extend into 1971 will be notified later of the provisions to be made to recompense them. Relief Society Literary Contests Discontinued As the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, the Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest will be discontinued. The poem contest (formerly the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest) was first conducted in 1923, and the story contest was initiated as a part of the Centennial observance of Relief Society in 1942. The 1970 prize-winning stories and poems were published in the April Magazine. The General Board extends gratitude and appreciation to the many talented women whose work has contributed to the high literary standards of the Magazine and whose thoughts, clothed in effective language and beauty of expression, have added to the quality and the value of the Magazine. 582 Keep the Magazines Sylvia Lundgren Throw them away! How can I? What a pity I was even tempted. The pile of old Relief Society Magazines had sat there for days waiting for me to become courageous enough to throw them away. As Relief Society president I had inherited the Magazines and many other odds and ends when our small ward had moved from one rented building to another. What should I do with the old, abandoned Magazines, when copies of each were in my personal bound volumes and in the Relief Society files? The first magazine I picked up reminded me by the cover that I had marked one like it, special, and that I needed the article "Modesty Protects Virtue," by Elder Mark HE. Petersen to read to the children again. So I decided to save that one. "Pictures for the Home," told me exactly how to mount the beautiful picture I had found at the meeting house in a pile of throwaways. I couldn't possibly throw that one away. A lesson on Robert Frost and his lovely poetry—I must reread it. I'd saved that one, too. It would be handy to have them separate and not in a bound volume. "A Message to Young Mothers'—I'd been looking for this very message to inspire the young mothers of the ward. It went on the save pile, too. "Your Poem and You," telling the fundamentals of poetry writing. That is one of my secret ambitions. How could I have missed this article back in May of 1964? This must never go. Just look at these bazaar items: Ribbon-covered fruit, Snowflake Ornamental Silk Panels, Christmas wreaths made of pine cones, all the instructions right there. I must start gathering cones right now, this summer. "Handy Gifts for Christmas"—I think our sisters would be interested in these. "Hand to the Plow," one of my favorite continued stories, which reminds me, to whom did I lend this volume? I must get it back and lend it to another new convert to strengthen her as she reads what this dear sister did to go to Zion. Each Magazine gave me some happy remembrance. Many reminded me of my trips to Annual General Relief Society Conference when I was on the stake board. These happy little Magazines completely lifted me out of my world of housecleaning and put me in a calm, peaceful attitude. The last Magazine just happened to fall open to the article, "The Worth of The Relief Society Magazine." Worth... What are they worth? How can you put a price on a friend? All the money in the world cannot buy the wealth of inspiration in these dear little Magazines. I cannot throw away these treasures. I must find a spot for them. A TALL Tall? Yes.... As tall as uplands are higher than the low.... As tall as regal hemlock or proud poplars grow.... You were kind-tall... Generous-tall.... Temple-spire-tall, as the highest timber. All this... Of you, We will look upward... And remember. —Alda Larson Brown 583 Relief Society —Arctic Style Marva D. Beck m It was fourteen below zero on the thermometer outside the dining-room window as the big boys left for school. Daddy had long since left to teach his earlymorning seminary class, and except for the icy windows life went on as usual, with not much thought to the cold outside. This was Relief Society morning, and with Mother being the president, the whole family usually helped to assure that everything went smoothly. Besides, this was homemaking day. That meant an extra trip or two to the car for the big boys to carry supplies and casseroles and salads for lunch. Daddy had made sure that the car was "plugged in" before he left early in the morning. (If we don't have extra heaters in the car and plug them in during the winter the car just won't start! This happens occasionally, anyway, and that means a frantic call to a counselor or a neighbor to get a ride for Mother, two little ones, and mountains of supplies and books!) Well, finally the car started and we edged our way to the church. Luckily we are only about 584 four miles away... Many sisters came much farther. Despite the bitter cold, many faithful sisters were there and we all spent an enjoyable morning quilting, and painting, embroidering, and doing the countless other things that homemaking meeting brings. At noon Daddy dropped by and picked up five-year-old Todd to take him to kindergarten. This was such a help, as then Mother didn't have to leave the other sisters... Especially right at lunch time. On their way to school they came across one of the sisters in the ward who was stuck, and so, in their chivalrous way, they stopped to help her get her stalled car out of the roadway and back to Relief Society. This made them a few minutes later than they expected. As a result Todd was late for school. When he arrived at his room, which is a relocatable building parked adjacent to the regular school building, the teacher had already called the roll and taken the children into the regular school building for gym. Todd went in, realized no one was there, and wondered what he should do. With five-year-old logic he decided there was no school that day and decided to return home. The school is nearly a mile in the other direction from our home! On his way home in the cold he suddenly realized that Mother was not home, but at Relief Society! What should he do? The only logical thing would be to walk to her at the chapel nearly five miles away... In subzero weather! The route he decided to take runs nearly all the way on streets with no houses... Past a local high school, a park, and otherwise unoccupied property. [ wonder what people thought as they saw this little tike trotting down this lonely road on such a cold day. Todd reported that about six cars stopped and asked him if he would like a ride. He "No, thank Id me not Tangers, and my way to € came to the ered a fourway stop, and it was difficult for him to cross this busy street. At this point a kindly gentleman stopped and helped him across the street. When he finally arrived at the church nearly two and a half hours later, the initial shock of seeing him turned to concern for frostbite and other effects of the cold. On seeing him walk into the cultural hal] where I was Sewing, said, "Todd, what are you (G) Relief Society—Arctic Style doing here?" He smiled through the tears and said, "Mommy, there wasn't any school today, so I wondered if I knew the way to the chapel, and here I am!" € were nearly ready to leave the church and £0 home. It gets dark about 2:30 in Alaska in the midwinter, and ] Just wondered what he would have done if he had arrived, found the doors locked, and wandered home again in the darkness. The ironic thing was he had dressed fairly warmly and had his: knitted hood to put over his face, but he left it off because he thought if we were on our way ome we wouldn't recognize him with it on. We were a family that ni out our hearts mightly thankful ght as we poured to our Father in heaven for the extra protection he had given to our little son and brother. He was surely with this little fellow as he journeyed back to Relief Society. Todd just laughs about it now and says, "I guess I can be a Tenderfoot Scout now... I've got in my five-mile hike!" A LITTLE HAND A little hand Steals into mine, And | am co We walk the And she is c This is a str And On this same She asks me j d, in faith | smile; am surprised that when | lead tolerable my own long mile. | nod my hea And How equally as stran But with her hand mforted of Pain: pleasant countryside onfident again. Ange new world to her ge to me; in mine | walk path more hopefully, f | know the Wway— —Leah J. Leonard 585 PHOTO BY DOROTHY J. 'the Hei SMALL SANCTUARY - Little sod-roofed cellar, —_ Blurred by more than the tulle of sfiliow. Small sanctuary, half-earth, half-heaven, Guarding the stored globes of summer. He,. So tall, leaned through such a tiny door, Harvest in his fingers, our winter store. Still mounded under cloud and cottonwood, So low the rafter of your fragrant 'dark it hardly' parts the cool of afternoon.; There once the varied orbs, heaped ruby and g Waited our hunger on their beds of sand.. Such as these knew his hoe, his scythe, his hand, —Dorothy J. Robert: Treasure From Grandmother's Cupboard Grace Diane Jessen preserved them for us. 587 i ee Ne See: |.. Be? Skhaetd menor Paver a +R es th 2 Ee a a ar a Pee eos Be ae ee EE APR ER ARS SSSALG Ra LENE REREAD ne Se 7" Pana he mae ee ee rare " PHOTOGRAPH BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS A Rug For Long Wear and Easy Care Edythe K. Watson, Member, Genera! Board of Relief Society m= Rug making is a fascinating and ancient art. Women down through the ages have designed and created many varieties of handmade rugs. Homemakers from nearly every land have left a rich heritage of rug making. Our Mormon pioneer women, because of the need, braided and hooked their own rugs for floor coverings. Some of you may still remember those used by your grandmothers. Rug making at home is no longer a necessity, but Relief Society women throughout the Church still take great pleasure in this craft. Some rugs are made solely for service and durability, while others are chosen for beauty and comfort. Relief Society homemaking displays have shown evidence of the ingenuity and creativity of women in pursuing this interesting art. Modern threads and yarns are a sheer delight to work with. They add beauty, long wear, and easy care to the many other desirable qualities of handmade rugs. This lovely crocheted rug displayed in the accompanying picture offers many possibilities in color and versatility. Dark shades were chosen in this instance to match the decor of a library, though the pattern can be equally attractive in white or any desired color or combination of colors. As the rug is made of washable yarn, laundering is no problem. The stitch is simple so it can be made quickly. Here are the instructions: 588 A Rug For Long Wear and Easy Care INSTRUCTIONS You will need 6 skeins of washable rug yarn (gold, brown, and blue were used for the rug in the accompanying picture). Loosely chain 15 inches of single crochet. In second chain from hook, make the ist puff. (Puff: yarn over and bring up loop three times in single crochet or chain). There will be 7 loops on hook. Yarn over and go through all seven loops. Chain 1 to secure puff. Chain 1, skip stitch, make puff in next single crochet. Chain 1. Continue to last single crochet. In last single crochet make six puffs. Put a marker at beginning and end of these six puffs. A small safety pin or a colored thread will do. Now continue on along side, crocheting a puff opposite each puff on beginning row to last single crochet or chain. (Always chain 1 between each puff.) Crochet six puffs in this last chain. Mark beginning and end of six puffs as before. These six end puffs serve as the basis for the increase to be added. Next row. Continue around with 1 puff, chain 1 in each space, to the increase at the end of the row. In the space between the first two puffs of the six puffs increase make 2 puffs. Chain 1. Next space 1 puff chain 1. Next space 2 puff chain 1. Next space 1 puff chain 1. Next space 2 puffs chain 1. (8 puffs altogether.) This begins the diamond point and continues the pattern increase. There will now be three increases at the end. Continue around side with single puff pattern to the increase at other end of rug and make increase there as was done on first end—2-1-2-1-2. Continue, crocheting same pattern, around rug, adding on each row an additional puff in spaces between double puffs at increase end. This continues to build the number of single puffs between increases as the rug grows in size. Keep the double rows of increase even. Crochet 5 rows of gold yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 4 rows of brown yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 4 rows of blue yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 4 rows of gold yarn, bind off, change color. Crochet 3 rows of brown yarn, bind off, change color. If you wish to use yarn of just one color, you will not need to bind off as indicated with color change. Edging: Single crochet in each space around rug. Two rows of blue yarn, one of gold yarn, and one of brown yarn were used for the edging of this rug. A 10> Vv REFLECTION Even after all this time they still remain, The deep quiet pools of sadness. Secluded, forgotten, until stirred By a ripple of haunting melody, Or plumbed by a remembered gesture, The turn of a phrase. | see your face in their mirrored depths, And remember how, in later years, we smiled At the memory of tears shed for the short separations Of our youthful love. Perhaps the days of our separation will be soon spent, Your tender, teasing smile again will chide me For this grief. Slowly the waters settle and are still once more. —Sandra Lundquist 589 i i Da Born Cooks Vv 4 M4 Pearle M. Olsen 3 Ny Former Member, A ' 4 General Board of Relief Society y aay, zi "S33555 ue rawr" @ Some women were born to be at home in the kitchen. Mother was such a one. I think of her deft hands and quick steps as she fairly flew about while measuring, mixing, and preparing food. Her gray-blue eyes always sparkled with anticipation as she removed her baking triumphs from the oven, or planned her current menus. Cooking to her was a privilege, and she made a special event of each foray in her kitchen, always with her dark hair neatly coifed, and wearing an attractive housedress. Taking or sending bread, soup, or a cake to the elderly and ill was a pleasant part of her daily routine. And it was pure delight to her to cook special dinners for invited family members or friends who usually dropped by to help celebrate her birthday. Mother copied her recipes in a notebook. Files became popular later on, but Mother held to her original system of recording recipes. Many of them had been handed on to her by her mother, whom she always called Mama. And even when using the same recipe she was often prompted to compliment her Mama's excellence when comparing results. Where her Mama's recipes had originated, I am not sure, but I venture to think that some of them were cooking ideas of her own mother. Table fare was plain in her home. She had been the eldest child of Utah pioneers, and foods were not plentiful, so she appreciated the more basic ones. She even made a variety of cheeses from the milk of her one cow. When I was a child Mother's Mama had a wondrous garden, orchard, and berry patch, and meals eaten in her home were unforgettable. Her fresh tie-on apron and her twisted crown of graying hair marked her as a queen in her own kitchen as she bustled about preparing food. Many things cooked by both Mother and her Mama were from no written recipe at all, but were the result of word of mouth tried and true proportions and methods. Sometimes just a pinch of this or that ingredient made the difference between success or failure of a prepared dish. The coal and wood stoves of their day had to be well understood in order to maintain even heat in a slow, moderate, or hot oven, or to determine the exact spot on the stove that would produce the proper temperature for best results in surface cooking. Mother acquired a cake recipe that brought better results each time she used it. Her friends tried making the cake, too, but they always claimed hers was best even though she demonstrated her secret of sifting the flour several times. They named the cake in her honor, calling it Virginia Cake. Two of my favorite dishes were her Salmon Croquettes and Corn Fritters. For one of my birthday parties Mother served the croquettes. They made such a hit with my young friends that she hurriedly made more of them, and she was actually pleased to have a good reason to do so. The following recipes have become traditional in our family and I would like. To share them with others: 590 Born Cooks HAM LOAF Grind 'eft-over ham. Mix half as much cooked rice with the ham. Moisten with enough cream or milk to hold together. Add grated or minced onion to taste. Add paprika to taste and salt if needed. Pour into loaf tin or casserole pan. Bake in moderate oven at 350 degrees. Cut or spoon to serve. BS PUMPKIN PIE FILLING 3 c. Peeled, boiled squash (or pumpkin) Add to mixture: 1 tsp. Flour 1 tsp. Cinnamon Y% tsp. Salt —, Y% tsp. Allspice 1 qt. Milk 14 tsp. Mace Mix and strain together. 1% tsp. Nutmeg 1 beaten egg (if small, use two) Taste mixture to tell if more salt is necessary before baking in crust. Bake in a hot oven (450 degrees) for 10 minutes, then in a moderate oven for about 30 minutes or until well set. This makes filling for 3 pies. DILL PICKLES Cucumbers (enough to be covered 1 qt. Vinegar by the vinegar-water mixture) % c. Salt 3 qts. Water sprigs of dill as desired Stir to dissolve salt while heating mixture to boiling point. Pour over cucumbers previously packed in sterile jars with sprigs of dill. Seal. 588 CHILI SAUCE 18 ripe tomatoes (medium size) 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 large green pepper ' 4 tsp. Allspice 2 large onions '% tsp. Ginger 1 c. Vinegar pinch red pepper 1 c. Sugar salt to taste Grind tomatoes, green pepper, and onions together. Add remaining ingredients. Boil until thick. Bottle and seal. SALMON CROQUETTES 1 tall can salmon 1 c. Soft bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Minced onion 1 tbsp. Parsley 1 tsp. Lemon juice % tsp. Pepper '% tsp. Salt 1 egg, beaten 1 tbsp. Oil or melted butter Mix all ingredients together and mold into cone or pyramid shapes. Fry, turning often to brown sides. | like to stand the cones in a buttered pan and bake for 30 minutes in a 400-425 degree oven. Makes 8 cones or six if larger ones are wanted. 591 August 1970 VIRGINIA CAKE little hot water and cooled 1 level tsp. Soda in 1 c. Sugar 2% c. Flour '% c. Butter Y, tsp. Cloves 2 eggs (whites beaten separately) - VW tsp. Cinnamon ¥ tsp. Cream of tartar Sift dry ingredients together 5 or 6 times. Mix with other ingredients to which chocolate has been added. Add 1 c. Chopped nuts just before baking. Makes three layers. Put together. With caramel frosting. Ia CARAMEL FROSTING 1 c. Sugar % c. Cream Boil six minutes. Add 1 tsp. Vanilla. Stir until cool. Spread. Ee FRUIT SALAD DRESSING ly c. Sugar lc. Boiling water - pinch of salt grated rind and juice of 1 lemon Add to thickened flour and water mixture. Pour into jar or bowl to cool. When cold add whipped cream as desired. 208 CORN FRITTERS To a can of cream style corn add two beaten eggs (1 large or 2 small). Thicken with 1% cups crushed soda cracker crumbs. Salt and pepper to taste. Spoon into patties and brown in oil or shortening. Ia EARTH'S RENEWAL Lyric with April, mountains reach for sky, Pearl-shadowed in the rose and gold of dawn. Above the quickening stream, a killdeer's cry Pours spring's ecstatic melody upon A fledgling breeze. As seedling freshness spills Over the meadow's fragile green and gold, Even the hint of snow returning fills The heart with more of joy than heart can hold! Though coats of storm are wrapped around the elms, (Cloud fringe and sharp twig patterns intertwined Like worn fur. Trappings), though winter overwhelms A leafy freshness with a crystal kind, No frost, returning, stills or censures long The blush of earth's renewal, nor its song. —Maxine R. Jennings 592 Yc. Cocoa Or chocolate dissolved in a 3%, c. Brown sugar 6 level tbsp. Flour lc. Sour cream (not too thick) butter the size of an egg grated rind and juice of 1 orange Jane Clegg Edwards, Bonneville Ward, East beautiful inside and out. The picture. The doll she for which she has made new clothing from the sa Her two children, six grandchildren, and the many lovely things she has given to them, are made with love and great skill. Jutta Obst Carr, Parkersburg kinds of handiwork. She has knitted over for her two children. She keeps her Branch Society meetings since she Provo Stake, Utah, keeps her home, is skilled in many most of the clothing useful items she has floral arrangements. About eight years ago, and is now was sixteen, and has served ears. She has served as a counselor in her branch, as chorister, lor on the district board, and currently rict board. A Grateful Heart Marva Jeanne Kimball Pedersen "T'm calling to thank you," came the voice of my dear friend Gayle, over the telephone today. "Thank me?" I was puzzled, for she was the one who had done me all the favors lately. "Yes—for the gospel," she replied. "Your great-great-grandfather isn't here for me to thank, so I'm thanking you." She went on to explain that in her research that morning she had discovered that her ancestors were among the early converts to the Church in Great Britain, being baptized in the River Ribble, which runs through Preston, England, in the summer of 1838. And with pride and love, I accepted this posthumous tribute to one of the noblest of my forebears, Heber C. Kimball, who helped open the British Mission in 1837. I remembered how in his ordination to the apostleship, he was promised that many millions would be converted by his instrumentality. Surely Gayle is one of those millions. And what of our friendship had her ancestors not heard the gospel? What if Heber C. Kimball had not proved valiant—had not possessed the faith and courage necessary to leave his wife and little ones in the care of the Lord and travel with only money enough to pay his passage to what must have seemed, in those days, another world? In his own words, he went... Because a dispensation of the Gospel had been committed to me; and I felt an ardent desire that my fellow creatures in other lands might hear the sound of the everlasting Gospel, obey its requisitions, rejoice in the fullness and blessings thereof, and escape the judgments which will come upon the ungodly. (Orson F. Whitney, Life of Heber C. Kimball [Stevens & Wallis, Inc. Publishers, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1945], p. 114.) And today I am rejoicing in the blessing of a beautiful friendship made possible by the efforts of my great-great-grandfather preaching the fulness of the gospel in a distant land so many years ago. Today, accepting Gayle's gratitude vicariously for my long-deceased progenitor, whom I hope to be worthy to meet one day, I have a new reason to be grateful to him myself—a reason I have not considered in depth before—a reason which will be ever present in the future, especially as I witness the developing friendship among my six children and Gayle's eight. And I shall wonder how many others of my friends are my brothers and sisters in the gospel because of Heber C. Kimball. And, finally, in my contemplation comes the solemn thought: how many of my descendants will rejoice in coming years because of my missionary efforts? Will their precious friendships be with people whose ancestors I had a part in bringing to a knowledge of the gospel? My patriarchal blessing promises that the spirit of my ancestry will rest upon me, that all the gracious qualities that permeated their lives will give me courage and fortitude to accomplish my mission on the earth. May it be so. I resolve to increase my faith and diligence with each passing day. 594 Shall I Deem Her My Enemy? Cora Hill Arnold I didn't like her! I don't know why. I just simply didn't like her. I am sure those who study these things would have said it was a "personality clash." I found fault with everything she did—not always to myself, I am ashamed to admit. I heard from others that she felt the same way about me. She seemed always to force herself into the limelight, to show everyone how important she was. How I disliked to see her achieve. She was never very friendly to me, and I would pass her with a cool nod or a polite "hello." When I thought about her—which was too often—I was miserable because to dislike a person does make one unhappy. And then one day I heard she was ill. So what? It was not my worry. But it was, and I couldn't forget it. Because I have an active conscience I finally went into my kitchen and stirred up some applesauce cupcakes and swirled a favorite frosting on carefully, not forgetting colored candies for the top. And I took them to her! Her face lighted up with surprise and pleasure, and a warm glow spread over my heart, washing away the angry prejudice at once. As I walked from her home to mine I was smiling and the day was bright and beautiful. Now she is one of my close friends. We have great fun times together. We have much in common and I have found her to be a most choice person with a delightful sense of humor. She has many talents and is extremely modest about them. When she achieves I glow with pride. Someone has said, "Hate is love gone wrong. We hate those whom we might. Have loved." I only know my loss would have been great had I continued to deem her my enemy. HIS FATHER'S KEYS His father takes my little son On all the errands he must run— The two of them walk side by side. My little son is filled with pride To be on every one of these, Entrusted with his father's keys. At first | longed to rescue them For purse or pocket once again. My mind could only visualize Their loss. But now | recognize The wisdom of his father's act, The existence of a simple fact: Many doors require keys; And faith and love are two of these. —Carolyn K. Dickson 595 (he Suitcase Floy Daun M, win y wa Sam 8 = Julie flung open the top of the suitcase on the bed and sat down beside it. The suitcase was only half full—or perhaps it was really only half empty. Julie was going to decide which it was this very day. One more dress would surely make it more full than empty, and that would mean she could leave Hartsville. At first she had tried the objective approach and made a list. She took a piece of paper, folded it in half, and put all the reasons to stay on one side, and all the reasons to go on the other. It didn't work. Somehow, when the disadvantages presented themselves, she got so angry she didn't want to be sitting down writing them all out. Besides, she kept losing the list. (She thoroughly suspected Paul of "losing" it when the disadvantage side got sufficiently long.) 596 Then she had Ad on tangible evidence. She put her suitcase at the foot of the bed, and when something just terrible happened she packed a dress. When something good happened she took one out. There were only two problems. Paul kept stubbing his toes on it when it was his turn to get up at night with the baby. The other problem was that what she had thought would be a short-term decision turned into several months— and half her wardrobe seemed always to be packed in that suitcase. Julie ran her fingers over the dresses. She laughed when she realized how long it had been since she had worn the blue knit at the bottom. She had put it in the suitcase the day Mr. Stover's cow fell in the town's water supply. They had been sitting in church when Brother Fuller had announced they would need all the men right after the meeting to come to the small reservoir and remove the cow so the open ditches could fill again and supply the houses with washnot drinking OF cooking water—that had to be prought from the spring five miles down the road). Julie thought of the first time she had turned on the tap and a dull gray liquid poured out. "Paul! Something ist with the pipes." and turned on the tap. Time it was prownish-red. "What time ls it?" Paul asked. "Por goodness sakes, Paul, what difference does that make? You'll have to get somebody to fix it." "Tt makes a difference, Julie. If you want clean water you have to get up water comes to the houses open ditches. Out during the night and, if you are one of the first ones up You can have clean water. Time in the morning the is well stirred up." "Paul, please When you said you ful... Loving our neighbor and that: sort of thing. | thought it would be.. Well, courageous. Bu it's awful! Just awful!" Paul put his her. "Julie, these children need me. Their parents only went to the third or fourth grade because there just haven't been schools by the mines. They want so desperately to have something better The Suitcase Please stay." It had been 2 long time since she had worn too. She had little store and post office when she saw Jerry followed closely young boys just out of school. "Took out, Jerry!" she screamBlood spurted from a deep slash on the side of his head and neck. Julie grabbed the tucked beside Troy in the stroller, folded it quickly, and ran to Jerry. Her arms slipped around his unconscious body, her hand applying pressure with the folded diaper. "Billy, run for Jerry's mother. Out here and call the doctor in Fairgrove. We'll meet him in the emergency room of the hospital." Roger left. "Jim, you take Troy over to your house and tell your mother I've gone with Mrs. Barton to the hospital—and Jim, you take good care of my boy." rs. Barton pulled the car to a screeching halt alongside the booth, dashed out of the car, and Julie, or we can't make it in time." August 1970 The car sped off in a shower of gravel. Julie started off after Troy, ashen faced and limp. Four hours later Brother Fuller knocked at their door to report they had driven the forty-five miles to Fairgrove in twenty-five minutes. Jerry had survived. It was no less than a miracle, but Julie understood the anguish Mrs. Barton had felt. If Troy had-an emergency how could she make it to the hospital in time? There would be no car for Julie. Paul needed it to drive the twelve miles to his one-room schoolhouse at Little Creek. No, a young mother without a car shouldn't be here. And that night she packed away the green wool. The blue sweater had been in the suitcase twice. Julie put it in the night Paul told her they were going to have a_ potluck supper at the church. Julie was elated. There were no movies, no TV in Hartsville. Church events provided their sole entertainment. 'When isit?" she asked eagerly. "Next Friday." "Oh, not next Friday, Paul— that's the 28th and you won't get paid until the next Monday. What did they tell you to bring?" "A casserole for eighteen," Paul answered hesitantly. Julie wanted to cry—she wanted to cry so much she became cross. '"Who ever heard of living in a town with only one little store—a store that doesn't carry bread because the women bake their own—and practically no meat because the men prefer deer and pheasants." Julie disliked wild game, but in despera- 598 tion had given in to deer meat. "Can't you make something out of the deer meat in our locker?" Paul was trying to be helpful. "Paul Scott, how long do you think one small deer lasts when you have to have it every night for three months? Do you know what's left in our locker? Three packages of ribs. Do you know why we've had scrambled eggs for supper the last two nights? Because I'm still trying to muster the courage to eat deer ribs." They were both silent then. Julie wasn't angry with Paul, but, for the moment, she wished he had chosen to stay in Los Angeles. He could have made almost double his present salary there; but Paul had some kind of gnawing inside him. It made him feel that people blessed with good things—education for example—had an _ obligation to share them with others. Julie's feelings softened as she thought of what a good man Paul was. "Paul," she started, but Paul interrupted. "Julie, I have an idea." Julie brightened. "Yes?" "How about a rabbit casserole?" "Rabbit!" she shrieked. "And what's next—prairie dogs, porcupine?" And with that she went into the bedroom to pack the blue sweater. On Friday she took it out. Thursday, she read in Paul's Sportsman's Magazine that rabbit has a flavor like chicken. She thought about it, got out her cookbooks, and decided her feelings about wild game weren't going to keep her from that dinner. "Paul," she asked timidly when he came home from school, "do you suppose you could try to get us a rabbit or two for the supper tomorrow night?" When she was besieged for the recipe for her "chicken casserole' she never told. She just took the blue sweater out of the suitcase. She put it back the day the gas bill came. When Paul opened the door that evening he found Julie in the hallway carrying an ax. "Where are you going with my ax?" he questioned with surprise. Julie answered calmly, "I am going to convert the gas heater to a wood heater, and I'm about to start my wood supply." As Paul stood dumfounded, Julie started up the stairs. "That's not the way to the chopping stump." "I am starting my wood supply, Mr. Scott, from the useless second story of this drafty, miserable old barn." And up she went. Of course Paul went up after her. "You're joking," he said, as he caught hold of her arm—the one with the ax in it just to be sure— "I mean—you've got to be joking!" "You think I'm joking!" she answered, and thrust the month's gas bill into his hand. "The way you were joking, I suppose, when you told me we were going to have a big three-bedroom house to live in. A fine three-bedroom house it is—two bedrooms upstairs with no heat, and the bottom story so drafty even our relatives won't stay overnight." Paul looked down at the bill and collapsed on the top step. The Suitcase It was $65. Julie marched down to the bedroom, ax still in hand, to pack the blue sweater again. The yellow dress was put in the day she "broke" the sheet. Everything went wrong that day. Troy fell out of the high chair, the pilot light went out on the stove, and she spilled a bucket of wash water all over the kitchen floor. By the time she was able to get the washing off the line, the sheet had frozen. When she pulled it, the whole corner popped off as if it had been pottery. Paul thought it was funny that every other week they would have an automatically turn down corner. Julie didn't laugh—it was on her side of the bed. The gray skirt had been put in the night she was awakened by a sudden shrieking howl. She had sat straight up in bed, eyes wide and heart pounding. "What's that?" "What's what?" Paul had yawned and turned over. "Didn't you hear it?" "Tt must have been the wind. Go back to sleep." Paul didn't take kindly to being awakened for nothing. Getting up with Troy was enough. Julie wasn't convinced. She leaned back on the pillow, but she didn't close her eyes. She had just decided she might as well try to go back to sleep when the howl came again. It was right beneath their bed. "Paul!" she screamed and pounded his shoulder. "Wake up! It's under the bed!" Paul was awake now. He flicked on the light and blinked his eyes. He looked under the bed, and then finding nothing, shushed Julie into silence so he 599 August 1970 could listen. In a moment the howling began again. Paul gave a relieved sigh, clicked off the light, and climbed back into bed. Bed. "Nothing to worry about, honey. You remember Delyle, the Government trapper? Well, he says there're badgers, coyotes, and bobcats that come into town in the winter to get out of the cold. It's just one of them under the house." "Coyotes.. -badgers.... Bobcats?" Julie repeated numbly "... Under the house." She stepped out of bed, clicked the light on, and packed the gray skirt. The white blouse was packed just yesterday. Paul's car had skidded off the icy pavement near the turn into the school grounds. Even truck drivers Said it was a treacherous piece of road. Paul was lucky, or, as he said, blessed that he wasn't injured. Today the roads were clear, but she wondered about the next storm. Would he make it through that, too? Julie couldn't keep the suitcase at the bottom of the bed any longer. It was either time to go, or time to stay. The balance certainly seemed to indicate a time to go. Troy cried. Julie lifted him gently from the crib and snuggled him to her cheek. "Almost ready for lunch, sweetheart?" Troy giggled contentedly as she carried im into the kitchen and settled him momentarily in the playpen. "Better move this," Julie said aloud, as she Picked up Paul's sweater he had hastily thrown over the chair that morni "The color clashes with Strained carrots." A wrinkled piece of_ school paper fell from the pocket. Julie picked it up and moved toward the wastebasket. It was probably nothing, but she had learned never to throw away any paper, however insignificant or ragged, without looking to see what it was, first. This time it wasn't one of Paul's "idea" notes. The writing was scrawled and smudgy. Dear Mr. Scott: Sally told us kids you wasn't coming back next term. When I told my foks my ma cried. She told us to pray hard so I been praying long as I can. I got a job raking tailings after school and I will give you my 50¢ if you won't go. I love you, Billy Julie studied the wrinkled note until all the words seemed to run together. She folded it carefully and tucked it back in the pocket. Then she looked at Troy. "You be a g00d boy, Troy. Pll be back in a minute to get your lunch, but right now I've got some unpacking to do." 58 THE FLOWERING Regret is the small taut rosebud, Petals folded tense and new; Repentance is the rose in flower, Spangled with crystal dew. —Iris W. Schow SYNOPSIS: Johnny, Steven, and Elizabeth McIntyre have returned to Skylark, Kansas, when their sister Lila informs them that their beloved Aunt Lucinda, who reared them from the time they were orphaned at an early age, has passed away. They must plan the funeral, and dispose of the estate. They were always forbidden to go to Blueberry Hill, and wondered what the secret or danger of the Hill was. There had been several offers to buy it, but their aunt had refused to sell. Johnny has persuaded Lila to return to Kansas City with him. W "Here they come!" Johnny called out as Elizabeth and Steven walked toward the gate where Lila and Johnny were waiting for them. Lila noticed the tall, darkhaired young man walking between them. Norman Strong! Her heart lifted at the sight of him. Norman had come to Skylark for Aunt Lucinda's funeral! Dear, kindhearted Norman, always nearby when she really needed him. Then she wondered The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 2 if he were on his way to San Francisco and had merely stopped over to pay his respects to the family. He traveled for Hoffman Hardware Company and it could be coincidence that he was on the same plane as Elizabeth and Steven. Anyway, she was happy he came. He was looking at her now with the same wistful smile that she remembered from their childhood. "You knew I'd be here," he said holding her hands in both of his. "When Elizabeth called me this morning I knew I would come if I had to hang onto the wing of their plane. I want to help you, Lila Bob." There it was again, that old nickname from those long ago days. "Norman," she murmured. "Tm so glad you came. Really glad." The moment was very confused as they all circled around Lila. Her regal, beautiful sister, Eliza- 601 August 1970 beth, who was now head nurse at Center City hospital, enfolded Lila in her arms and _ wept with remorse because she hadn't been here to help Aunt Lucinda. "We might have saved her!" she said, tearfully. "All these new methods we have now to help people and my own darling aunt had to die without one bit of help. Oh, forgive me, Lila, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I'm just sick about this whole thing." "T know, dear," Lila comforted her. "We all are. But Aunt Lucinda was all right when she went to bed. She was reading when I peeked in an hour later. Dr. Harrison said her heart just stopped beating." ped!" Elizabeth insisted. "Steve and I should have made her have regular checkups and proper attention—there I go again saying the wrong thing!" "She had a checkup last week," Lila said, defensively. "Dr. Harrison said she was good for twenty years." "Dr. Harrison was wrong!" Elizabeth looked down from her regal height and Lila thought, Elizabeth is beautiful when her dark eyes flash with feeling. It was easy to forgive Elizabeth because she did love Aunt Lucinda with a fierce devotion. And she was a nurse and wished she could have helped her. "How about a kiss for your big brother?" Steve cut in. He was the gentle peacemaker in the family. No one ever argued with Steven. Somehow everyone nearly always thought he was right about everything. Lila put her arms around his 602 neck and clung to him for comfort. "We're still blocking traffic," Johnny interrupted. "Let's start for home. Then we can have some real old-fashioned arguments like when we were kids. You can referee, Norman." As they turned the corner onto Clover Street Lila could see a man on the front porch pacing impatiently back and forth. They all recognized Orson Ketchum at once. "Of all people!" Elizabeth said. "Whoever thought he'd be the first one here!" "Now Elizabeth—" Steven placated her, '"'he's come to pay his respects to Aunt Lucinda." "Well—maybe," Elizabeth conceded as she stepped out of the car. "But I'll bet he's come to buy Blueberry Hill. Anyway—let's give him the benefit of the doubt." So they all greeted Orson Ketchum as a friend of Aunt Lucinda's and not as her lawyer who had tried to buy Blueberry Hill for the last twenty years. "T noticed you are locking your doors, too," he said to Lila after the greetings were over. "It's a sad day in this country when us folks out here have to lock our doors day and night." "Signs of the times, Mr. Ketchum," Steven said as they went inside the house. "We didn't have a key to this place when I was a boy. We were honest ourselves so we figured our friends and neighbors were honest, too. But nowadays it's hard to tell the tramps from the citizens. We used to have about two tramps a year drop by. Aunt Lucinda gave them a good meal but they had to work for it. 'We MclIntyres work for everything we have,' she would tell them. 'So if you're well enough to tramp across this country, you're well enough to cut us a stack of wood.' " Orson Ketchum's long face with deep lines from nose to mouth creased into a_ smile. "Sounds just like Lu McIntyre," he said. "A great woman. Strongminded, unyielding, even a little stubborn, but a really great woman. I always called her my beloved enemy. I will miss her—more than I can tell you children. We need more people with her courage and convictions." His voice faltered and he cleared his throat. "There was nothing she wouldn't do to make good men and women of you. And she did sacrifice for you—I can tell you that now." His voice broke again. It was a moment before he continued. "I will miss Lucinda. It's like losing someone you had to live up to. Someone who made you strive harder to be a better person. You all know what I mean. Well—now I'll be going on." He reached in his coat pocket and took out an envelope. "I came to give you this. It's not to be read until after her funeral. That was her request." They all looked at him questioningly as he handed it to Lila. "No..." he shook his head. "No, Lu didn't know she was going to leave us. But she was a woman who took care of things, just in case the unexpected did happen. Good-bye now. My wife and I will be at the funeral. I suppose it will be Wednesday." Lila walked to the porch with The Secret of Blueberry Hill him. "Thank you for coming, Mr. Ketchum," she said kindly. "We all appreciate it so much." "Take care of that letter," he said. "Put it in a safe place." She watched him start down the path; then he stopped and looked at the bright red roses on both sides of it. Suddenly he stooped, picked a tiny bud and put it in the lapel of his coat. It was the first time in her life she had noticed Orson Ketchum even look at a flower. That was a real tribute to Aunt Lucinda, she thought, pensively. Had _ they misjudged him all these years, she wondered? Did people go through life having feelings of prejudice against other people because they didn't understand them? "Oh, Lila!" Susan Wilkins called across the lot next door. "I have a telephone message for you. I wrote it down so I wouldn't forget it." Loita walked halfway across the lot to meet Susan. Sunflowers were a yellow glory all around her. She loved them even though they were sticky this time of year. Home wouldn't be home without wild sunflowers to brighten this vacant lot between the Mcintyre and Wilkins' houses. "Mr. Harrington called twice while you were gone," Susan told her. "I didn't know where you were so I couldn't explain." "Thanks, Susan. I should have told you we were going to the airport." "He seemed real charming," Susan added, smiling at Lila. "He said he would be over later. I wrote it down." Lila folded the note and put 603 August 1970 it in her sweater pocket, with the envelope. "Hello, Miss Lila." She turned to look at the tall boy getting off his bicycle. He leaned it against the wall of the house and walked through the sunflowers toward Lila. It was Casey Wilkins! She hardly recognized him lately since he had let his blond hair grow down over his ears. Only last week Lila had heard Aunt Lucinda refuse to let him mow her lawn until he cut his hair. "Then your lawn will grow real long, Miss McIntyre," he had answered. "I like my hair this way. It's the style." MAunt Lucinda had looked him over, head to toes. "Casey Wilkins, now you listen to me. You're a good boy. I've liked your work. I like the way you treat your mother since your father was killed last year and 'you ride your little sister Pearl to school on your handle bars. But the way you've let your hair grow all bushy over your ears and around your neck is downright unsightly." "It's the style, Miss MclIntyre," he had insisted determinedly. "You should get with it." "Get with it!" Aunt Lucinda had repeated to Lila as she stamped into the kitchen. "That boy! Only fourteen, and he told me to get with it. That boy's mother should use a cane!" _ Lila 'had laughed and _ told Aunt Lucinda that Casey didn't mean to be disrespectful to her. "Maybe not," she agreed. "But he'll have to get a haircut before he can have his job back!" The lawn had grown shaggy 604 the past month andso had Casey's hair. Now he walked toward Lila as she stood in the path between their homes. His mother went back into their house. "T just heard—" he said, "about Miss McIntyre, I mean. I feel awful—sad—inside." He looked at Lila as though coaxing her to help him find words to say what he meant. "I feel like something strong and good—has gone out of this crazy world. I didn't even mean to offend her Miss Lila. I wanted to cut her lawn but I didn't want a haircut. She didn't understand—how it is—with a boy these days." His voice stumbled. He kicked at the dirt path. "T'll cut the lawn for nothing, if you'll let me, Miss Lila." Lila looked at this tall, lanky boy wanting to make up for disagreeing with Aunt Lucinda. She wanted to tell him he could have his job back but she could not do it. She wanted to say, oh yes, Casey, you can have your job back even though you haven't trimmed your hair. But that wouldn't be fair to Aunt Lucinda. Casey looked ungroomed with his blond hair lopping over his ears and down the back of his neck. She would be unfaithful to Aunt Lucinda's efforts to help the young people of Skylark if she gave in to his request.. "Tll have to think it over, Casey," she said. "You know Aunt Lucinda thought you would be a leader at Junior Club. She did make strict rules but someday you will know she was right." "Long hair is in," he persisted. "I don't want to be out." "No one wants to be out," Lila agreed. "And you don't have to be, Casey. A leader who is a strong character can set the style. He can lead the other boys. She only wanted you to look like a gentleman, Casey." He blinked his eyes and bent his head. "T_liked her, too," he muttered, "a lot. She was like a—well—" He lifted his head and looked at the big oak tree near the front porch, spreading its long leafy branches over the picnic table and the old swing. "She was like that tree, Miss Lila. Always standing there. Even when the wind blows like a tornado coming, I get up at night and look out the window. If that big old tree is still there I know Skylark is still on the map. I feel okay again. That's the way I felt about Miss McIntyre. She gave me my bike when I needed it for my paper route," his voice faltered again. "Now—she's gone. I didn't cut her lawn—look at it! Why did she have to die, Miss Lila?" Lila's throat pinched in. She saw the wistful questioning in his young eyes, the tremble of his mouth and she prayed earnestly, Oh, Heavenly Father let me know how to answer him. He is so young; just at the crossroad, neither boy nor man. I want to say the right words to him. The sky above them was very blue, the Kansas sun was warm and bright; the air was heavy with the fragrance of growing things. A flock of birds flew into the branches of the oak tree. Life about them was serene and peaceful. Lila drew a long breath. "T think her work here was finished, The Secret of Blueberry Hill Casey," she said very carefully. "She was needed somewhere else. After she rests awhile and visits with all our dear ones, she will progress. You learned in Sunday School that we believe in eternal progression. Don't you remember that she told you that work and prayer were the greatest things in life? I am sure there is work in eternity. She would want us to think of her as doing things, planning things, building things. She was a poet at heart, Casey. Many times I have heard her quote the lines, 'Build thee more stately mansions, oh, my soul.' Let's think of her as building more stately mansions." He looked steadily into Lila's eyes. "You mean, doing the Lord's work, Miss Lila?" he questioned. "That's what I mean, Casey. Only you said it better than I did." "Okay," he said slowly. "We'll think of her that way. But—I'll still miss her." Lila breathed a deep sigh of relief as Casey turned and walked back toward his home. Suddenly heswung around and ran back to Lila. "I just thought, Miss Lila. Now we can go up to Blueberry Hill. I promised Miss McIntyre that I wouldn't go and I never did. Neither did little Pearl. But now—it's different. Don't you think so?" Lila's fingers touched the envelope in her pocket. "Not until after the funeral, Casey. Please, let's all wait until we know what she wanted us to do." Lila took Aunt Lucinda's letter from her pocket as she went back into the living room. Elizabeth was resting against the gaily colored pillows on the 605 August 1970 lounge. Steven, Johnny, and Norman were seated in front of her with their feet propped up on the ottoman. They stopped talking when they saw her. "Looks like a pow-wow," Lila said as the men got to their feet. "Come in, join us, suggested, smiling at her. "First I must put this letter in a safe place," she answered, walking toward the mantel. "How's this?" 3? Steven Ie Carefully she put the letter behind the Dresden clock that Aunt Lucinda had brought back from her European tour before the children came to live with her. The clock had been her most treasured possession. "Everybody, remember where _I put it," she told them. "How can we forget?" Johnny questioned. Elizabeth stood up, stretched her arms above her head. She is so queenly beautiful, Lila 606 ee Le thought, admiring her firm, lean body and lustrous black hair. Her dark eyes were bright and intelligent and she was tall, five feet eleven. She wore her clothes, even her white uniforms, with charm and dignity. But now, Lila noticed, there was a droopy weariness about her posture as though she needed quiet and rest. "Let's go upstairs, Elizabeth," Lila said on a sudden impulse. "A good idea!" Steven agreed. "You girls relax. We'll take care - y / of everything down here." Lila and Elizabeth went upsigh. "We've had such good talks right here, Lila Bob. Remember how you came bouncing in here after Norman taught you how to skate when you were only ten years old? We were all so proud of you!" "I remember," Lila mused, sitting down on the side of the bed. "And later on everyone thought it was wonderful that we won the junior prize at the Midwinter Marathon. We skated longer than any other couple." Elizabeth pulled a face and shook her head. "You mean Norman won it, Lila Bob. Johnny told us he practically carried you around that skating rink the last quarter of the race. Even Aunt Lucinda had to agree." Lila's cheeks pinked up. "I know," she admitted. "I would have flopped out at the half if Norman hadn't made me go on." Elizabeth looked closely at Lila. "We were wondering—what } are your plans—now?" she asked. Her eyes were warm and loving. "You can't live alone in this big old house. We won't let you. You are very precious to us. It's high time we do something for you." "T_I haven't had time to make plans," Lila answered, "except a short trip to Kansas City with Johnny." "He told us. We all think you should reach out for life and happiness." Lila lay down beside her sister. Did they think she had gone stale here in Skylark, she wondered, achingly. After all she had been needed here. Aunt Lucinda had needed her. Elizabeth talked on in her practical way. She had always thought daydreaming was a waste of time, Lila remembered. You have to do things, she had told Lila last spring—not just wish for them to happen. "We can sell this old house," Elizabeth said. "It could be used as a small emergency hospital. Skylark needs a hospital. Steven and I have always planned to build one here where we could take care of our own townspeople. We are saving our money to start the project. Would you like to join us, Lila? We'll ask Johnny, too. He makes big money now." Lila_sat up, looking at her sister. "Money!" she repeated. "Elizabeth, it will take a lot of money to finance a hospital. Even a small one. Think of the new equipment. That is the reason we don't have one in Skylark. Money!" Elizabeth's eyes narrowed as she looked steadily back at Lila. Ee ES eee The Secret of Blueberry Hill "Do you think Scott Harrington's bank will lend us the money? You've worked in the loan department for two years. You should know how his mind works by now." Lila did not answer quickly. She had learned not to make quick decisions or rash promises. "J don't know," she answered, carefully. "Scott has the last word on everything after the board of directors has made its decision. Yes, I have worked there for two years, but, Elizabeth! I really don't know Scott Harrington. He's quiet and aloof at the bank. I have been to the North River Club with him but that is all. That was formal; as formal as Scott is." Elizabeth's eyes were quizzical. "I have wondered about you, Lila Bob. Do you still have that little-girl crush on Scott?" Lila swallowed hard. So Elizabeth hadn't forgotten how Lila used to look at Scott when he came home with Steven. Her blue eyes flickered from her sister's. "You do!" Elizabeth said. "Don't say that!" Lila gasped. "He doesn't even look at me. Not really. Not as a grown-up girl. I'm just little Lila McIntyre in the small-loan department. The kid sister of Steven and Elizabeth. He asks about you both— often. But he scarcely notices me." Elizabeth's eyes went over Lila from her sunny light hair to her shapely feet. "Scott Harrington must be blind or stupid or in a rut," she said, indignantly. Then her voice gentled. "You are such a darling, Lila Bob. Your hair is like our 607 August 1970 mother's was, golden-red and curly. Natural, too. That's such a treat these days when you see all this lank, straggly, unkempt hair. And your eyes are as honest as the sun over Kansas. Your mouth was made to say sweet things and croon to babies. That is why Aunt Lucinda hoped you would marry young. Once she nearly suggested that she had a boy picked out for you." "She hoped it," Elizabeth insisted. "You're not like I am, Lila Bob. Everyone who looks at me thinks I am able to face the world on my own. I guess I am. But you—well, you need love and marriage. And babies. Ill have to get on without those things." Lila's heart quickened. Had she heard a wistful longing in Elizabeth's voice? Did her strong capable sister have a womanly yearning for a home and husband and children? Elizabeth had been away from Skylark for eight years, except for vacations. College, nurse training school had kept her busy. Now she was superintendent of nurses at Center City Hospital. She was the symbol of success to Lila and yet—there had been a tone of longing in her voice when she spoke of marriage. Elizabeth closed her eyes and lay quietly. Lila thought again how lovely she was. Would there ever be a man equal to Elizabeth, she wondered? One who could match her regal manner and not feel frustrated. Lila leaned back on her pillow and closed her eyes. She wanted everything good and _ beautiful for her sister, whatever it might be. 608 "You're tired." Elizabeth patted her hand. "Let's try to sleep awhile." Lila pretended to rest but her mind was in turmoil. This was a time of change and crises in her life. Only the Heavenly Father could show her what she should do, she thought as she finally drifted off to sleep. Johnny's voice awakened them. He was standing in the doorway. "Hi, sleepyheads! It's almost five o'clock. Time to wake up." Lila got to her feet. "Oh, Johnny! Why didn't you call me sooner. I should have started dinner. Now I don't know what we'll have to eat!" "Come here, Johnny," Elizabeth said. "I want to talk to you. Dinner can wait." Johnny shook his head. "Not now," he said. "A certain guest downstairs won't wait much longer. Better powder your faces and comb your hair. The great Scott Harrington is_ getting restless." Lila's_ throat pinched in. Scott Harrington was downstairs! Elizabeth yawned as she sat up. "He'll have to take us just as we are," she said. "Without glamor. A fresh white blouse and a dark skirt will be appropriate, Lila Bob." Lila, looking at Elizabeth a few moments later as they went downstairs thought how Elizabeth was always right. She knew the right thing to wear, the right thing to say and the right time to keep still.. Now, dressed in her tailored white blouse and dark skirt, she looked like a cross between Florence Nightingale and Princess Grace. ny | A il HL) Scott came forward to meet them. Lila noticed he was impeccably dressed in a dark suit and gray tie and his hair was freshly combed. His smile had warmth and friendliness and the priceless ingredient of compassion. He had lost his father, his only close relative, a year ago. "Elizabeth!" He extended both his hands. "It's been a long time since we saw each other. And Lila," his smile included her. "That little girl I have seen every day. She is my right-hand helper." There was a moment when Lila felt that was a special compliment. Then he turned his wholehearted attention to Elizabeth. He touched her elbow and led her to the window seat. "The whole town will miss your Aunt Lucinda," Lila heard him say. - Lila walked over to Steven who gave her a brotherly kiss. "You look rested," he said. "T must start dinner," she told him. "Everyone will be starving." "That's taken care of,' he said. "Johnny and Norman have cooked up a meal." Scott came forward in his \ knew it was he who had suggested | a 'that they start dinner while she The Secret of Blueberry Hill commanding way. "I want to ask you all to have dinner with me at the North River Club. We can have the private dining room. I know you would prefer that—tonight...." His voice trailed off. He was looking at i Johnny and Norman standing In the doorway of the dining room. Both of them were wearing Aunt Lucinda's kitchen aprons. Beyond them Lila could see the ' table set for dinner. She met Norman's eyes. She and Elizabeth rested. No one had ever been more thoughtful of Lila than Norman. Even in this moment a flash of memory tinkled like a bell. Norman had been the boy who carried her down the mountain to the ski lodge when she sprained her ankle. He had patiently taught her to skate and swim when Steven and Johnny had given up. It was Norman who had walked her to school when she was afraid to go through the Old Hollow alone. Now all eyes were on Lila waiting to hear her answer Scott. Her throat tightened. How could he expect them to accept his invitation when the boys had prepared dinner here at home? But Scott was accustomed to having his suggestions accepted. And his suggestions were really commands. Lila lifted her head and her chin squared off. She would not hurt Norman and Johnny even though she did work for Scott Harrington. Before she could speak she was surprised to hear Elizabeth's voice, gracious, but positive. "I'm sorry, Scott. The boys have 609 August 1970 prepared dinner here. Please stay and dine with us. We would love to have you, but we can't leave now." There was a breathless pause. Lila felt the thump of her heart falling like a hammer. Would Scott say goodnight and leave abruptly? Lila had never heard anyone turn him down before this moment. He met Elizabeth's dark eyes and a sort of challenge passed between them as they looked steadily at each other. Then Scott smiled and Lila thought, it's like watching ice melt in the sunshine. He touched Elizabeth's shoulder. "Of course I'll stay," he said gallantly. "Thank you for the invitation. We can go to the club another time." Lila hurried to the kitchen to help serve dinner. Scott was really a human being, she thought in amazement. All the girls at the bank thought he was a computer without a heart or a soul. A moment later Elizabeth came in. "Whew!" Johnny wiped his head. "That was putting the top man on the spot. I could see little Lila collecting her unemployment insurance." "Thanks, Elizabeth," Lila murmured, "I wouldn't have let Norman and Johnny down for all the jobs in Skylark." "No, we wouldn't! And we didn't!" Elizabeth said. "Now that's over, let's have dinner. I think Steven should ask the blessing," she added. There was a broiled T-bone steak for each one, a baked potato, string beans, cucumber and tomato salad, bran muffins and Aunt Lucinda's blueberry jam. Scott Harrington was a charming dinner guest. He carried the conversation from one moment to the next and every time Lila looked at him he was looking at Elizabeth, waiting for her approval or reply. At last he had found a woman who was a challenge to him. Lila pretended to enjoy her dinner in spite of the little sick feeling that came over her. (to be continued) DS REGRETS Her years were very few upon this earth, The curtain fell too soon upon her drama, So unexpectedly, During the second act; And we who stayed behind to carry on, Wondered if we had played our roles, As well, as wisely, As the parts were written. 610 —Ruth G. Rothe ith the December 1970 issue, Stake Relief S are advised to make nO further Submissions Of "Notes rea i dy on hand for the remaining issues of the ight: lice A, Campbell, visiting teacher Message leader, Rose Park North Stake Relief Society. Laura ¢. Miles, former President. Back row, left to right: Fay F. Evans, First Coy €cond Counselor. E lety.' | Was caprrj Out in valentine decorations and favors. The Program Consisted of | e one, Ithin Our Ga es,' and Music Provided by Sixty-nine Si of Marilyn Mecham and accompanied by C 611 August 1970 Moapa Stake (Nevada) Sponsors Literary Contests, Song-Writing Contest, and Singing Mothers Concert March 9, 15, 1970 Left to right: Edith Knight, winner in short story; Carrie Andersen, essay; Yvonne Lyon, cultural refinement class leader, Moapa Stake Relief Society; Lou Jeanne Lewis, poetry winner, Louise Stewart, song winner; Verna Bowler, chorister. Elaine Whipple, President, Moapa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The winning entries in a literary contest held in our stake were printed in a lovely booklet and distributed at our Singing Mothers concert. The winning song was performed by the Singing Mothers. '"'Two concerts were held because our stake is so widely scattered. The sisters had to travel great distances to practices, but we were most pleased with their cooperation and with their performances. We feel that these contests and their winners do much to encourage creativity among the sisters of our stake. Dearborn Stake (Michigan) Singing Mothers Present Spring Concert, April 3, 1970 Front row, at left: Hallie Baker, chorister, Dearborn Stake Relief Society. Seated at the piano: Joyce Michels, stake organist. Marianne Beggs, President, Dearborn Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A lovely narration tied together, fourteen musical numbers presented by our Singing Mothers in their spring concert which had the theme, 'Looks Like Spring Is Here.' ''An essay contest 'What America Means to Me,' was held in conjunction with the program, and two patriotic numbers were sung setting the stage for the reading of the winning essay by Barbara Harris of Ypsilanti Ward. Spanish Fork Stake (Utah) Thirteenth Ward Celebrates Birthday of Relief Society in Old-Fashioned Way March 17, 1970 Morgan Coombs driving Marie Huff, President, Spanish Fork Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, and her counselors Norma Jones and Gloria Anderson on a tour of the ward to extend invitations to the Relief Society birthday celebration. Virginia F. Moody, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: ''One of the most unique and outstanding events in our stake was the birthday celebration in the Thirteenth Ward. The spirit of 1842 was brought to life by the horse and buggy ride to extend invitations, the authentic pioneer costumes, and the decorations and menu. "About seventy sisters attended and were delighted with the event. Pioneer furniture and articles were used as decorations. The dinner consisted of chicken and homemade noodles with mashed potatoes, buttered carrots, homemade bread, and home churned butter. The dessert was cake topped with jelly and homemade ice cream. Honey candy and pouches of raisins were favors. An entertaining program under the direction of Clara Arnold was presented to the delight of all." 612 August 1970 Alpine Stake (Utah) Climaxes Sewing Classes With Fashion Show, February 19, 1970 Officers of Alpine Stake Relief Society, back row at left: Lurae Ault, homemaking leader; second from right and far right: Erma Burgess, former president; Helen Beck, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Burgess reports: ''A delightful Spring Fashion Show climaxed sewing classes conducted for the sisters of our stake. Sisters from each of the wards were taught basic sewing, alterations, and pattern fitting. Similar classes will be taught in the wards with these sisters as instructors. "A clever narration was presented while background music augmented the dresses of well-designed, modest spring frocks being modeled. The clothing ranged from dressy dresses to mother-daughter fashions." Helen O. Beck is the new President of Alpine Stake Relief Society. Murray Stake (Utah) Presents ''Fashions for Teens and Queens," March 14, 1970 Jacqueline Geddes and daughters Debbie and Lori model while LoyDece Jones, stake homemaking leader, narrates. Belva J. Petersen, President, Murray Stake Relief Society reports: ''The stake Relief Society sponsored a luncheon and fashion show which was most popular with the 360 who were in attendance. The ward Relief Societies assisted with the preparation and serving. "Twenty-seven models presented school clothes, sports wear, suits, knit wear, formals, wedding dresses, and lingerie. All of the clothing was home sewed and very lovely."' Monument Park West Stake (Utah) Seventh Ward Presents Relief Society Yesterday and Today March 16, 1970 Front row, left to right: Lloyd Allen, Counselor, Seventh Ward bishopric; Mary Ann Hillyard; Marcia Mansell; Afton Wood. Second row, left to right: Marie English; Marjorie Smith; Ranee Howe; Vilate Jones; Janice Thomas. Top row, left to right: Jim English; Leona Allen; Lillie Ann Bradshaw; Florence Parsons; Dorcas Seymour. Bernice D. Shea, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society, reports: "Monument Park Seventh Ward of our stake presented a most successful birthday celebration with the theme 'Relief Society Yesterday and Today.' "About 180 sisters joined with their husbands to enjoy an evening of dining and a program consisting of narration, pantomime, song, dance, and fashions. Much of the program was delightfully humorous. Lovely table decorations were done in blue and gold. Everyone who attended felt that it was an enjoyable evening. Organ music was played by Art Cochrane. '"LaVon Burt is president of the Seventh Ward Relief Society. Director for the birthday celebration program was Gloria Hyland." 614 August 1970 lovely Spring flowers jn blue and gold. The Menu consiste. Zine, with reference to where they Could be found." to Me.' Everyone Society, reports: "We were thrilled tries and the Outstanding talents displayed at our Cultural Arts Fair held in Conjunction with our Singing Mothers Concert. Chairman of the event i i Nselor, 616 August 1979 Ow, left to right: Glenda Staker, Cultura] retinement Class { North Stake Reliet Society: Celestia y T,.. I "mem » General Board Of Retief Ethel Erick n, Chorist ' Sanpete North take Relief Society, SPiritua| living Class | Message leader: Eda Ande ' € Relief Society, reports:: this year Was | hurch.* © skit entitleg « Oth ' e Family—Strength of ers of 1," written by ¢ Sti J % Sister iia I ecial honor to f Genera} Board, Back left to Sented to ylor S irley Black, Visiting teacher Visiting €achers and their Partners. T was 3 Sp ending, along with Sister Anna 8. Hart, formerly @ member of KAR K KK KK KK % Lesson Department SOOKE KK BK EK KK KK KK KKK * SPIRITUAL LIVING %& %& %* Pearl of Great Price 4 % % *% on RAK AK AK KKK KK KK KK Lesson 2 The Doctrine of the Godhead Reading Assignment: Books of Moses and Abraham Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To assist each Latter-day Saint woman better to fulfill her purpose in life by assuring her that God revealed to Adam a true knowledge of the Godhead that Adam's posterity might be reared in light and truth. INTRODUCTION The assumption of all scripture is that God lives. There is no attempt to prove that he lives, but man must rely upon what he has said about himself through his prophets. There was one occasion, however, when Korihor, the anti-Christ of The Book of Mormon, contended with the Prophet Alma over the question of God's existence. (Al. 30:19-48.) Korihor said he did not deny the existence of God, but he did not believe that there was a God, and he charged Alma with not knowing that there was a God, and he asked for a sign. (V. 48.) Alma answered: Thou hast had signs enough; will ye tempt your God? Will ye say, Show unto me a sign, when ye have the testimony of all these thy brethren, and also all the holy prophets? The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator. (Al. 30:44.) A FIRST PRINCIPLE OF THE GOSPEL The Prophet Joseph Smith said that it was the first principle of the gospel to know for a certainty the character of God and "to know that we may converse with him as one man converses with another." (Joséph Fielding 619 August 1970 Smith Comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1938] p. 345.) The Savior declared in praying to his Father: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3.) Class Discussion Why do you think that a knowledge of God is necessary in order for one to receive eternal life or godhood? APOSTATE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD The doctrine of God as known in many of the so-called "Christian" creeds is that there is one God, without body, parts, or passions; consequently, God is a spirit only. The Nicene Creed, formulated in the year 325, declared that there is one God, yet there are three Gods. An excerpt from that creed illustrates this doctrine: "So the Father is God, the Son is God, and the Holy Ghost is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God." (James E. Talmage. The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1890], p. 48.) Latter-day Saint belief in the Godhead is expressed in the first Article of Faith, as follows: We believe in God, the Etermal Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and in the Holy Ghost. (Article of Faith 1.) THE DOCTRINE OF THE GODHEAD RESTORED Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have received, from the many revelations through the Prophet Joseph Smith, a true knowledge of the Godhead. The first of these revelations was the First 620 Vision, received in the spring of 1820, when Joseph Smith was a young man in his fifteenth year. The following account of this experience restored the _ true understanding of two of the three Personages in the Godhead. I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17.) That God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ are separate beings of flesh and bone, and that the Holy Ghost, a personage of spint, is the third member of the Godhead, was subsequently revealed. (D&C 130:22-23.) From the Pearl of Great Price we learn that there were three members known to ancient prophets. In the account of the creation, we read the following: And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so. (Moses 2:26. Gen. 1:26 uses the pronoun "us" but without reference to "mine Only Begotten." See also Gen. 3:22 and Moses 4:28.) In the Book of Moses the Holy Ghost is mentioned as bearing record of the Father and the Son. (Moses 1:24; 5:9.) Men were called upon by the Holy Ghost to repent in the Adamic dispensation. (Moses 5:14.) The same power present today to baptize "with fire, and with the Holy Ghost" was operative in the days of the patriarchs. (Moses 6:66.) An explanation of Figure 7, Facsimile No. 2 in the Book of Abraham reads: "... The sign of the Holy Ghost unto Abraham..." THE ETERNAL FATHER Members of the Church know that God the Eternal Father is the literal Father of the Savior Jesus Christ, who is known as his Only Begotten Son, and also of the spirits of all men. He is known as "Elohim." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 466.) Latter-day Saints are therefore commanded to pray to him, as the Lord addressed his Father: "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name." (Matt. 6:9; 3 Ne. 20:31; D&C 18:18, 40.) About the Father of us all, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself was once as we are now, and is an exalted man, and sits enthroned in yonder heavens! That is the great secret. If the veil were rent today, and the great God who holds this world in its orbit, and who upholds all worlds and all things by his power, was to make himself visible,—I say, if you were to see him today, you would see him like a man in form—like yourselves in all the person, image, and very form as a man; for Adam was created in the very fashion, image and likeness of God, and received instruction from, and walked, talked and conversed with him, as one man talks and communes with another. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 345.) Class Discussion What significance does the above concept of the Father have for you? THE FATHER TESTIFIES OF CHRIST Of the several instances in the scriptures when God, the Eternal Father, testified of his Son Jesus Christ, four of these times are recorded in the New Testament. (Matt. 3:15-17; Luke 3:22; Matt. 17:1-9; John 12: 23-30.) The Book of Mormon account was on the occasion of the resurrected Savior's appearLesson Department ance to the Nephites. (3 Ne. 11:7.) In our dispensation, the Pearl of Great Price attests to the fact that the Father recognized the authority of his Son Jesus Christ when he said to Joseph Smith: "This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him!" (Joseph Smith 2:17.) Elder James E. Talmage pointed out the following regarding some of the ancient prophets: Unto Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham and Moses the Father revealed Himself, attesting the Godship of the Christ, and the fact that the Son was the Chosen Savior of mankind." (James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ [Boston: University Press, 1915], p. 39; see Moses 1:6, 31-33; 2:1; 4:2, 3; 6:57; 7:35, 39, 47, 53-59; 8:16, 19, 23, 24; Abraham 3:22- 28.) JESUS CHRIST AND THE OLD TESTAMENT PERIOD A Bible dictionary points out that the name Jehovah is one of the names of God (Exod. 17: 15), and out of reverence for the divine name, the Jews, around 300 B. C., used Adonai or Lord. Thus in the King James Bible "Lord" is used generally for the name of God. (John D. Davis, The Westminster Dictionary of the Bible, revised by Henry Snyder Gehman [Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1944], p. 287.) In a modern revelation, the voice of Jesus Christ is described as "the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." (D&C 110:3-4.) This identification of Jesus Christ of the New Testament with the Lord of the Old Testament period is clearly indicated in the theol- 621 August 1970 ogy of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. With the understanding of what God has revealed in this dispensation concerning Jesus Christ, Elder B. H. Roberts, a member of the First Council of Seventy of this dispensation, in reply to a learned rabbi's contention that Jehovah, God of the Old Testament, is the Redeemer of mankind, and, therefore, there was no need for Jesus Christ (Isa. 43:11), called attention to the fact that the Bible prophets foresaw the time when "The mighty God, The _ everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace," would be born. (Isa. 9:6.) Then Elder Roberts proceeded to show wherein the Prophet Isaiah predicted that Jehovah would have a body, for he was to arise from the dead, as the Lord said: Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew [sorrow] is as the dew of herbs [it will pass away], and the earth shall cast out the dead. (Isa. 26:19.) Therefore, if Jehovah is to be born, live, die, and then be resurrected, and if only he can save and redeem man from sin, then the God of the Old Testament becomes Jesus Christ of the New Testament—they are the same. THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE At least twenty-five times in the Book of Moses Jesus Christ is identified as the Only Begotten of the Father, even he who shall come "in the meridian of time." (Moses 7:46.) It was Enoch who pled with God, "I ask thee, O Lord, in the name of thine Only Begotten, even Jesus Christ, 622 that thou wilt have mercy upon Noah and his seed...." (Moses 7:50.) Jehovah saved Abraham from being sacrificed on an Egyptian altar. (Abr. 1:15-16.) In _ blessing Abraham and his posterity, the Lord said: "My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee." (Abr. 2:8.) THE BOOK OF MORMON The Nephite scriptures testify that God who led Lehi and his party to the American Continent and inspired the prophets to lead them throughout their history was Jesus Christ. The brass plates brought from Jerusalem by Lehi contained some prophecies of Zenock, Neum, and Zenos. These prophets testified, said Nephi, about the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, who would be crucified and buried in a sepulcher, and of the judgments that would come upon those at Jerusalem who had rejected the God of Israel. (1 Ne. 19:10- 14.) King Benjamin prophesied of the time when the Lord would be born among men, of his ministry, and of his great suffering for mankind, and that he should be called the Son of God, the Creator, even Jesus' Christ. (Mosiah 3:5-11.) It was the Savior—our Lord Jesus Christ on the American Continent anciently—who said that he was the one who gave the law of Moses and that he had fulfilled the law. (3 Ne. 15:4-5.) The importance of the doctrine that Jesus Christ is God of the Old Testament and also the New Testament was indicated by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., when he said: You will hear... Not infrequently that the God of the Old Testament is different from the God of the New Testament; that the God of the Old Testament has evolved into the God of the New—rather a rapid evolution, if it were true.... When that doctrine is reduced down, it means this: that God is what man conceives him to be; that man creates his God, instead of God creating man. No greater falsehood can be promulgated than that. (Conference Report, September 1950, p. 100.) CHRIST'S WORK Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten, the Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh and the Firstborn in the spirit. He is known as the Creator, for under the direction of the Father, he created worlds. During his mortal life he became man's example as the perfect being, but as President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: He came here; he restored the Gospel; he fulfilled the law of Moses; he did away with sacrifice; he declared to the people on this continent that thereafter their sacrifice was to be "a broken heart and a contrite spirit." (III Nephi 9:20) He lived, he died, was crucified, lay in the tomb, was resurrected, and by that act of sacrifice he made certain that every man and woman born to this earth will be resurrected. This was his work as Redeemer. Now I want merely to leave with you this thought: That Jesus, the Christ, was a God before he came here, was a member-of the. Trinity. He was divinely conceived. He' was half-Deity while he was here, but shackled with mortality. That from here he went to the other side to resume his position in the Trinity, again resuming his full Godship. ("Jesus The Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956.) Jesus Christ is the Mediator between God and man. He is Lesson Department our Advocate who defends or pleads for us. (Luke 22:31-32; John 17:11-26.) He is our Atoner whereby obedient men may return to God's presence. Class Discussion Why is the mission of Jesus Christ as Savior and Redeemer his principal function? GIVER OF REVELATION In his role as God of the Old Testament period, Jesus Christ or Jehovah; after the fall of Adam and his expulsion from the Garden of Eden; communicated with his prophets upon the earth. (D&C 76:12-14.) The Eternal Father has appeared to men on only few occasions, and then to introduce and bear record of his Only Begotten Son. President Joseph Fielding Smith, in speaking of the First Vision received by Joseph Smith, made the following observation concerning the importance of this truth: Had Joseph Smith come home from the grove and declared that the Father and the Son appeared to him and that the Father spoke to him and answered his question while the Son stood silently by, then we could have accepted the story as a fraud. Joseph Smith was too young and inexperienced to know this at the time, but he made no mistake, and his story was in perfect harmony with divine truth, with the divine law that Christ is the Mediator between God and man. (Bruce R. McConkie, Comp., Doctrines of Salvation [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954], 1:28.) Class Discussion Discuss President Smith's statement about Joseph Smith and the First Vision. JESUS CHRIST AS '"FATHER"' The revelations teach that Jesus Christ is both the Father 623 August 1970 -and the Son. He is the Son of God by birth into this life as well as being the Firstborn in the spirit: he is the Father by reason of the work that he has performed. (Eth. 3:14, Mosiah 15:1-4.) The First Presidency (Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, and Charles W. Penrose), in 1916, wrote that Jesus Christ is the Father in these ways: (1) Creator of worlds (Eth. 4:7; Alma 11:38, 39; Mosiah 15:4); (2) the "Father" of those who abide in his gospel (Mosiah 15:10-13; D&C 50:41; 25:1; 11:28-30; 35:1-2; Moses 7:1); (3) the "Father" by divine investiture of authority. The Eternal Father placed his name upon his Son, and, therefore, "'so far as power, authority, and Godship are concerned His words and acts were and are those of the Father." (The Articles of Faith, p. 471.) The First Presidency continued with this counsel: None of these considerations, however, can change in the least degree the solemn fact of the literal relationship of Father and Son between Elohim and Jesus Christ. THE HOLY GHOST The Holy Ghost, the third member of the Godhead, is the testator or witness of the Father and the Son. By his power men may know the existence and divinity of the other members of the Godhead. (Moses 1:24; 5:9; 6:59-60.) The Holy Ghost as a member of the Godhead is a personage of spirit; that is, he is as a man in form but not tabernacled with flesh and bone. (Talmage, The 624 Articles of Faith, p. 42; D&C 130: 22-23.) Moses, the writer of the Book of Genesis, used the pronouns "us" and "our" when the Lord said: "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness...." (Gen. 1:26.) In a sermon on the plurality of Gods, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: I have always declared God to be a distinct personage, Jesus Christ a separate and distinct personage from God the Father, and that the Holy Ghost was a distinct personage and a Spirit: and these three constitute three distinct personages and three Gods.... We have three Gods... And they are -plural.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1950], 6:474.) CONCLUSION Latter-day Saints should appreciate the primary functions of the three personages in the Godhead, as given in the following from the Prophet Joseph Smith: Everlasting covenant was made between three personages before the organization of this earth, and relates to their dispensation of things to men on the earth; these personages, according to Abraham's record, are called God the first, the Creator; God the second, the Redeemer; and God the third, the Witness or Testator. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 190.) There exists among the members of the Godhead a oneness that is perfect. As Elder Parley P. Pratt, an apostle of this dispensation, said: "Their oneness consists of a oneness of spirit, intelligence, attributes, knowledge or power." (Parley P. Pratt, Key to Theology [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1965], p. 42.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 2—Gratitude Northern Hemisphere: First Week, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To remember that gratitude blesses both giver and receiver. "Thanksgiving for a former doth invite God to bestow a second benefit." (Robert Herrick, Thanksgiving, The Home Book of Quotations, ed. Burton Stevenson [New York: Dodd Mead & Company, 1967], p. 824.) "Gratitude is the memory of the heart." (J. B. Massieu, "Letter to Abbé Sicard,' The Pocket Book of Quotations, ed. Henry Davidoff [New York: Pocket Books, 1968], p. 122.) Ancient Samaria was built on a hill that lies in a basin surrounded by mountains. The surrounding countryside takes its name from this former capital city of the ten tribes of Israel. And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God. And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. (Luke 17:11-19.) The Samaritans were hated by the Jews of Jesus' day. Descendants of apostate Jews and alien peoples, brought into the area by Alexander the Great, a Macedonian Greek, had adopted a corrupt form of the Judaic religion. Consequently, they were shunned by the Jews and enmity grew between them. Jesus, however, did not share their prejudices. Even though we are told that once the Samaritans would not receive him into one of their villages (Luke 9:51-56), he showed on other occasions that he judged a Samaritan on his faith and worth as an individual, and not as a member of a despised group. In the instance of the lepers, Jesus showed compassion to the Samaritan as well as to the others. This scorned man alone, this stranger, returned to kneel at Jesus' feet and give him thanks. Jesus' response to this expression of gratitude was to teach him the great lesson that faith had made him whole. 625 August 1970 We may well ask ourselves, Are we like the Samaritan, taking the time to express our thanks, or are we like the nine—too busy, too preoccupied, lacking gratitude? Not long ago a man, observing his garbage being collected, took the time to leave his warm house on a cold day and tell these men how much he appreciated their services. Their pleased astonishment showed how seldom someone bothered. As the men stood talking together, it was evident that all felt rewarded. How can we express gratitude to our Heavenly Father, our earthly parents, our spouses, our children, our brothers and sisters, our friends, our bishops, our teachers, our stake presidents, our stake boards, and all those who preside over and help us? If we look about us, we may be surprised at the number to whom we owe thanks. Many make our lives smoother and more pleasant. Do they not deserve thanks? As one expresses his gratitude, he knows within his heart that in the warmth of the ensuing relationship the giver and the receiver are blessed. HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 2—Church Standards in Dress Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show that one can be attractively dressed and still maintain Church standards of modesty. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith believed that if members of the Church were taught correct principles, they would govern themselves accordingly. All faithful Latter-day Saint women should be aware of "correct principles" when it comes to selecting and wearing their clothes. We might well ask ourselves how we would dress for a social function if we knew that a prophet of the Lord would be present. 626 WHAT ARE CHURCH STANDARDS OF DRESS? There are those who would like Church standards of dress spelled out in detail for them. But is it not sufficient to quote what our prophets have told us and then be guided by their counsel? Brigham Young spoke to the members of the Church about their clothes, saying, The daughters of Israel should understand what fashions they should have, without borrowing from the impure and unrighteous.... Have your dresses neat and comely, and conduct yourselves, in the strictest sense of the word, in chastity. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1966], pp. 214-16.) The Lord spoke to his people in Joseph Smith's day concerning ~ their dress as follows: And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands; And let all things be done in cleanliness before me. (D&C 42:40-41.) Here we are given three timeless standards: simplicity, creativity, and cleanliness. We are not expected to make everything we wear, although the Relief Society sewing courses have enabled many women to achieve the satisfaction of creating their own apparel and enjoying "the beauty of the work of thine own hands." But the basic standards are still applicable. The Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet Brigham Young, and our present day prophets have all emphasized that the key to proper dress is modesty, which is defined by one dictionary as "Freedom from showiness or ostentation. Propriety or decorum in... Dress." (Funk & Wagnalls Standard College Dictionary, [New York: Funk & Wagnalls, 1966].) Any clothing that is designed to provoke in_ the beholder unwholesome thoughts of envy, lust, or derision (as with freakish or far-out clothes) is clearly unsuitable for Latterday Saints. Our apparel should be clean, attractive in a wholesome way, and in good taste according to the best current standards. Lesson Department SELECTING OUR CLOTHES Clothes speak a very special language. They tell the world whether you are slovenly or careful, modest or immodest, whether you have self-respect or are inconsiderate. Clothes reflect our personality—whether we are quiet, outgoing, reserved, fragile, athletic. Our selection of clothes reflects our personal standards of behavior. Discussion Questions 1. When we choose our clothes, do we remember who we are? 2. Do. We realize we are setting an example for our young people? 3. Do we appreciate ourselves, not in an egotistical way, but in a wholesome, constructive way, recognizing our own worth and assuring our proper place in the world? BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR CHOOSING CLOTHES In choosing our clothes, it is well to keep these principles in mind: 1. Fit and Comfort. Do not buy any garment which is too tight or otherwise ill-fitting. If a garment does not feel right for you, don't wear it. You will not look well if you cannot sit, stand, and move freely without embarrassment, no matter how stylish your costume is. 2. Suitability. At all times wear clothing suitable to your age, your size, the occasion, and the weather. 3. Modesty. In clothes selection, as in all aspects of life, you must remember to be an example of modesty. You should never be a slave to the fashion of the day, but like a wise woman, know how to adapt what is currently in style to conform to Latter-day Saint standards. If these three points are kept in mind, you will always look and feel well dressed. 627 August 1970 Discussion Questions 1. Who decides the fashion of the day? 2. Do we permit the fashion of the moment to have more influence over us than the standards of dress approved by our leaders? CONCLUSION You are well dressed when your clothes are suitable to your age, the occasion, your position in life, your particular personality, figure, and personal coloring, but most of all to the standards of modesty set forth by the prophets. If you are truly well dressed, people will pay more attention to your personality than to your person. Remember that as a representative of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, you have been counseled to be "in the world, but not of the world." (See John 17:14-16.) When you dress according to these standards, you will not only merit the pride, respect, and admiration of your husband but also of your children and friends. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 2—God's Morality vs. Satan's Morality Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, Aprii 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help Latter-day Saint women become more aware of the presence and power of Satan in the modern world by giving guidelines and methods for distinguishing between God's morality and Satan's morality. INTRODUCTION For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad.... (2 Ne. 2:11.) It is abundantly clear from the scriptures and from the writings and sermons of our Latter-day prophets that Satan is a real personage of spirit, that he and his followers are upon the earth, and that Satan's purpose is to thwart God's work by bringing the souls of men to destruction. 628 It is also clear that this opposing influence is permitted to move among men to provide the quality of opposition which makes it necessary for us to struggle with ourselves. Through this struggle, we build the kind of strength essential within those of us who would ultimately hope to exercise the powers of creation with the attendant responsibilities. Brigham Young expanded upon Lehi's words, which are quoted above, when he said that "Sin is co-eternal with righteousness, for it must needs be that there is an opposition in all things." (Discourses of Brigham Young, ed. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1941], p. 78; Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 2-3.) This suggests that we need to develop the ability to recognize and deal with Opposing forces and evil influences beyond the term of our mortal probation. It j however, that we are tested and that we develop the Strength to resist evil as wel] as the desire to exercise and support righteousness, not in rigid, defensive, selfrighteous Ways, but in a mature, Open, secure manner which reflects love rather than hate and fear. It would appear from the Sayior's teachings that preparing Stressed the importance of developing compassion, love, and nonjudging acceptance of others aS a part of becoming truly moral. The Savior Said it very simply: "Thoy Shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." (Matt. 23:39.) DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN Gop's MORALITY AND SATAN'S MORALITY Ina dictionary definition, the word "moral" is characterized by practice or conduct; right and Conforming to a Standard of what is good and right. ( Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary [Springfield, Mass.: G.& C. Merriam Co., 1961], p. 048.) Lesson Department essential difference between the two views of God's morality the principle of assuming responsibility for one's own behavior as Lacking responsible, ethical, excellent behavior, Satan's morality becomes a tragic distortion I the Opportunity for freely chosen, responsible behavior Which conforms with what God has revealed growth. Lucifer felt so strongly about free agency and to relieve us of own behavior. His only remaining hope is to deceive arid beguile. The focus > Class Discussion In what essentials do God's morality and Satan's morality differ? 629 August 1970 WHAT IS SATAN'S MORALITY? The scriptures say that "the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made." (Gen. 3:1.) In this connection, Brigham Young described Satan's style as follows: The adversary presents his principles and arguments in the most approved style, and in the most winning tone, attended with the most graceful attitudes; and he is very careful to ingratiate himself into the favor of the powerful and influential of mankind, uniting himself with popular parties, floating into offices of trust and emolument by pandering to popular feeling, though it should seriously wrong and oppress the innocent. (Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 69; JD, 2:238.) That the adversary has an organization is evident from Joseph Smith's comments: "In relation to the Kingdom of God, the devil always sets up his kingdom at the very same time in opposition to God." (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956], p. 365.) Satan's morality today seems to be a more vigorous attempt to sell immoral behavior in the name of that which is rational and moral. Satan's current push seems to be less on selling pleasure in favor of selling what is "good" and "right." Look for the half truths and distortions in the following hypothetical advice given by Satan to our youth: (1) Take drugs and you will learn marvelous things about the creative potential of your own mind and the marvelous capacity of your body to experience pleasure. (2) The old rules governing sexual morality are obsolete, unrealistic, unnecessary, and damaging to your fine sensitivities. When your cultural traditions tell you to exercise responsibility in your sexual conduct, what has really been meant all along has been to be intimate only with that person whom you really love and with whom you have meaningful emotional ties. Legal ties and responsibilities are a mere form which are not important. Your feelings and intentions are the important thing. (3) Your body is beautiful and that which is beautiful is good to behold. Dress to emphasize that which is both good and beautiful and this is one way of demonstrating your freedom from old rules of modesty which were irrational and repressive devices invented by your forefathers to manage their fear of their own good impulses. (4) Your forefathers and your fathers have recognized and sometimes effectively used protest as a valid tool for achieving social justice, but have never had the vision or the courage really to achieve their own noble ends. The evidence of their grotesque failures lie all around you: poverty, warfare, controllable but uncontrolled disease, exploitation, and environmental pollution. Reject their inadequate, unmanageable, and unworkable structures and strike out in new directions, with totally new techniques and political arrangements. Demonstrate your own moral courage by tearing at the very roots of the decadent society in which you live. Class Discussion What are the half truths and distortions in each of the above statements? Note the absence of any appeal to personal and socially reponsible behavior. Note the absence of any appeal to selfdiscipline, respect for the teachings and experience of the past, or any appeal to those ideals and standards of noble behavior taught by the Savior and by his prophets. Note the mingling of truth and half truth with blatantly false doctrine. In (1) nothing is said about the disadvantages of using iicit drugs nor about the relationship between self-controlled, conscious behavior and personal development. In (2) nothing ls said about the qualities of commitment, loyalty, and sacrifice 1 to building @ strong has included them in the eternal nature of our relationships. Immodest socially tested concepts a5 propriety and good taste. (4) grossly underrates the accomplishments of the past and overlooks the In view of what we know about the adversary $ nature, purposes, methods, and techniques, 25 well as our own vulnerability and imdallthe HELP FROM THE HOLY GHOST If we are concerned about disLesson Depa rtment tinguishing between truth and error, between God's morality and Satan's morality, our attention on the yerequisites for having our lives illuminated DY the Holy Ghost All members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Holy guidance from this source in our efforts to live full and righteous lives. Receiving such help is, however, The kind of faith which leads to everlasting life can begin as 4 sma particle, even sO small that it is only 4 deal to bring to efforts to puild faith and seek wisdom. The Lord has said, And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith. (D&C 88:118.) There are many other actions available to us for strengthening faith. Some of them are fasting attending August 1970 compassionate service to others, bearing and hearing testimonies, and consulting with the home teacher, the bishop or branch president about troubling questions and problems. HELP FROM STUDY OF THE SCRIPTURES Our ability te distinguish between good and evil and between truth and error can be greatly facilitated by regular reading of the scriptures. The Latter-day Saint woman who is intimately acquainted with the scriptures knows a great deal about how the Lord has dealt with people in the past, will know more about what is doctrinally sound, and will be more clear about what the Lord expects of her. Through regular study of the scriptures, one can develop good judgment concerning what is right and what is wrong as well as a great desire to choose that which is good and right. SUMMARY Satan and his hosts are as real in the modern world as they have ever been. Satan's doctrine has been labeled as a form of "morality" because it is designed to deceive: One of his major strategies is to incorporate parts of true principles wherever: there is an opportunity for distorting their impact. This lesson suggests that Satan's "morality" can be recognized by the absence of an appeal to that kind of self-sacrificing, self-disciplined, responsible behavior whichisin harmony with the Lord's commandments and the teachings of his prophets. The help of the Holy Ghost is essential in discerning the more subtle forms of Satan's "morality." cote SOLACE FROM A BOOK In a crowded room, | heard the babble of many voices, Saw familiar and unfamiliar faces, yet— | was lonely. | walked beside a rushing brook, Felt spray as it tripped on rock and crag To nourish spawning moss. Again | was lonely. | followed a path through wooded hills, Saw sunlight play with shadows, Heard song of bird, hum of bee, still— | was lonely. Then | found a quiet niche, Opened a book, and friends came forth To sing, play, dance, weep, and live. Now | am nevery lonely! 632 —Lila L. Smith CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2—A Thankful Heart Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, November 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, April 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage within a woman a spirit of faith and gratitude to God and an attitude of reverence and worship through poetry and the other arts. We thank Thee, gracious Lord of Hosts, For all Thy generous hand Within the circle of our coasts, Show'rs on the teeming land. We thank Thee for the budding flower In summer glory drest, A revelation of the power Through nature manifest. —Theodore E. Curtis ART "Sunflowers" by Claude Monet (1840-1926) French, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. (Reproduction of Painting, page 448, June 1970) COMMENTARY We are grateful to the great artists in every field for what they reveal to us of the beauty of life that surrounds us and for the truth that is an essential part of what they seek to portray. During the latter quarter of the nineteenth century in France, a group of artists led by Claude Monet (sometimes called the pacemaker of impressionism) were instrumental in discovering or inventing a different approach to painting now called impressionism. These artists were largely concerned with capturing the momentary, the transitory, the spontaneous instant, and fixing it permanently on the canvas. Their great interest was to discover a way to represent the vibrancy of light, color, and. Atmosphere. Instead of mixing the colors on the palette and then placing them in the space on the canvas, they felt a greater feeling of vibrant light would occur if spots of contrasting colors were placed next to each other on the canvas, then viewed at a distance, allowing the colors to mix in the eye of the viewer. The sensation received was very exciting, more real, and similar to the instant sensation a viewer might have of a first impression. If you will look closely at the juxtaposed spots of color in the painting '"Sunflowers'' you will see the contrasting colors placed next to each other—red against green, yellow next to violet, orange next to blue. The impressionists revelled in the beautiful shimmer of reflected light and the richness of nature. Like ''Sunflowers,'' their works are almost a hymn of praise to the beauty of light.: 633 August 1970 In Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books (p. 49) we wrote: "Through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been champions of the spirit and defenders of the faith." In Volume 4 (p. 179) we said: "Music delights us when we are happy, comforts us when we mourn, gives courage when we are frightened, stirs us when we are apathetic, sustains us when we are soul-troubled, and fills us with religious adoration when we worship." As we ponder the noble painting and sculpture of Michelangelo and other great masters, or contemplate the messages of our Latter-day Saint artists (for example, "Life from Death," reprinted with commentary in Volume 3, pp. 240-42 of Out of the Best Books), we realize the visual arts can likewise stimulate and deepen our spiritual responses. Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books are found many stories, poems, essays, and discussions which express faith or relate to it in some significant way. In fact, three sections are centered on the subject of faith: pp. 47-107 of Volume 1, pp. 239-82 of Volume 3, and pp. 67-102 of Volume 4. In addition, many individual selections spread throughout the five volumes, also pertain to faith in one way or another. It is not the purpose of this lesson to reexamine all of those past selections. Rather, the purpose here is to bring together from the five volumes a few choice selections, especially some lovely short poems, and review these as expressions of reverence and worship. The month of November, when we celebrate Thanksgiving in the United States and all the world is looking forward to Christmas, seems a particularly appropriate month for such a lesson. Any or all of the following poems may be reviewed as especially suitable for study in this lesson and for use wherever short poems of faith and inspiration may be appropriate. "The Lamb" by William Blake, vol. 1, pp. 91-92. "Tt Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, vol. 1, p. 93. "Little Jesus" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 94-95. "The Windhover" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 96-101. "God's Grandeur" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 1, pp. 102-4. "Still Falls the Rain" by Edith Sitwell, vol. 1, pp. 105-7. "The Hound of Heaven" by Francis Thompson, vol. 1, pp. 343-51. Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare, vol. 1, pp. 453-54. "Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne, vol. 1, pp. 455-56. "And Death Shall Have No Dominion" by Dylan Thomas, vol. 1, pp. 457-58. "The Leaden Echo" and The Golden Echo" by Gerard Manley Hopkins, vol. 2, pp. 347-50. Sonnet 19 "On His Blindness" by John Milton, vol. 3, pp. 108-9. "Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman, vol. 3, pp. 149-50. "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet, vol. 3, p. 226. "First Lesson" by Philip Booth, vol. 3, pp. 252-53. Sonnet III by George Santayana, vol. 3, pp. 254-55. "The Tide of Faith" by George Eliot, vol. 3, pp. 276-77. "A Good Night" by Francis Quarles, vol. 3, pp. 278-79. Psalms 8 and 23, vol. 4, p. 71. 634 Lesson Depa rtment «Crossing the Bar" by Alfred Lord Tennyson, vol. 4, PP: 78-79. "Uphill" by Christina Rossetti, vol. 4, p- 80- «Conversations at Midnight" by Edna St. Vincent Millay, vol. 4, pp- 223-24. In addition to the poems fetch in more from the next house, in listed above, readers may wish taking upon us the misery of our neighComfort of Fait » in V jume 4 ma lie in his powels as old in a mine with t powerfu tatements on and be of no use to him; but this bell that faith b William aulkner, Prest tells me of bh ffiiction digs ow Be ap 4? Lies that d to me, this considera dent F. Kenne y, an tion of anothe +, danger 1 take mine own Thomas Carly! (pp 69-70). And __ into contemplation, and so secure ™ se for any who may jssed it, py making ™Y recourse to MY od, who we rep 4 her Volume ys our only security ere yp. 14-15) the profoundly beautiDiscussion Questions? Ful excerpt from John Donnes 1. What responsibilities of compassion, "Meditation 17" which he understanding, and happiness are sug: expresses o supe bly his faith in ested by Donne's tatement, "no man God and his feeling for human, Fe an island' no ae ac ow can we ma ure n < y interdependen'® ened" an "made fit for od" by are translated by age 5° sickness; and emotion and the rich imagery some by war, Some by justices God's of language tha characterize hand ls ln every tr nslation, 4 his han oetry Tt intende that poe Ss 'or W tolls; it tolls for thee. Neither ca" we call this a begging of misery, OF @ porrow- ': ing of misery, as though Wwe were not poems gs the ones listed earlier August 1970 only poems of faith, reverence, and worship in Out of the Best Books, but they are perhaps the ones most firm as expressions of faith, except for selections by Browning and Wordsworth to be included in special lessons later in the year. Most of the poems in the list are beautifully lucid and will communicate with no special difficulty to all readers, particularly with the aid of the brief discussions in the books. For readers who want the challenge of more complex works, Francis Thompson's "Hound of Heaven" and the three poems by Hopkins mentioned in the list will be especially stimulating. SUGGESTIONS TO CLASS LEADERS ON LESSON DEVELOPMENT We print here several of the shorter poems as space allows for the benefit of those readers who may not have the books: "The Lamb"' by William Blake Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? Gave thee life, and bid thee feed By the stream and o'er the mead; Gave thee clothing of delight, Softest clothing, woolly, bright; Gave thee such a tender voice, Making all the vales rejoice? Little Lamb, who made thee? Dost thou know who made thee? Little Lamb, I']l tell thee, Little Lamb, I'll tell thee. He is called by thy name, For he calls himself a Lamb, He is meek, and he is mild; He became a little child, I a child, and thou a lamb, We are called by his name. Little Lamb, God bless thee! Little Lamb, God bless thee! 636 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 ___--.75 Zone3 _.---.-.60 Zone6 __----:85 Zone4 _~_----.65 Zone7 -_--.--.95 Zone 8- - - - -1.05 | og __ DESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Happiness is fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department "| Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson ' Buy an never saw a moor, 0 0 5 I never saw the sea: All Grain Stone Grinding Yet know I how the heather looks,. And what a wave must be. Flour Mill I never spoke with God, Today Nor visited in Heaven; Immediate Delivery Yet certain am I of the spot = As if the chart were given. ——— &*> 4: 5 High protein ee wt Discussion Question HEE for What common factors are found in use or storage. These two poems which add to their appeal? For full information, write: nnet 146 by William Shakespeare _ a —" ALL-GRAIN Poor soul, the centre of my sinful earth ' ' F Rebuke these rebel powers that thee array! Poe Why dost thou pine within and suffer Dept. R. S. Dearth, P. O. Box 115 Painting thy outward walls so costly gay? Tremonton, Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Utah 84337 Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend? Openings available Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, for full or part-time Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end? Sales representatives. Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store; Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross: A SOUL-TOUCHING GIFT Within be fed, without be rich no more. So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds CPraye" on men,; Ading. And Death once dead, there's no more & ke dying then. Df Kathy 2h) Five prayers Exquisitely bound in Discussion Question ely Dv white moire with gold What is the central meaning of this lettering s t? =; - () = other of the 'Brids "Lead, Kindly Light" by John Henry Newman IN =llother of the Groom p F a! I Lead, Kindly Light, amid the encircling QW, His ters Theirs gloom, _). Wed Thou meon! HandKraft Art and Publishing Co. The night is dark, and | am far from P. O. Box 6323 otine— ' Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Lead Thou me on! Please send me ___ copies of Keep Thou my feet; | do not ask to see WEDDING PRAYERS by Kathryn Kay The distant scene—one step enough for at $1.75 each plus 25¢ postage and me. Handling for which | enclose $_ | was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou fa a CBS) Shouldst lead me on. << —_.. T.. | loved to choose and see my path; but re —— » a STATE ZIP Lead Thou me on! August 1970 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 *K HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Chencper d Bsig MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS-. 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 638 | loved the garish day, and, spite of fears, Pride ruled my will; remember not past years. So long Thy power hath blessed me, sure it still Will lead me on, O'er moor and fen, o'er crag and torrent, till The night is gone; And with the morn those angel faces smile Which | have loved long since, and lost awhile. Discussion Questions 1. What does the "Kindly Light" in line one symbolize? 2. What does Newman mean in line three when he says: "The night is dark and I am far from home." What is the night? Where is home? 3. What is the implication of the last line of the poem? "To My Dear and Loving Husband" by Anne Bradstreet If ever two were one, then surely we. If ever man were loved by wife, then thee; If ever wife was happy in a man, Compare with me ye women if you can. | prize thy love more than whole mines of gold, Or all the riches that the East doth hold. My love is such that rivers cannot quench, Nor ought but love from thee give recompense. Thy love is such | can no way repay; The heavens reward thee manifold, | pray. Then while we live, in love let's so persevere, That when we live no more we may live ever. These lovely poems center in both faith and gratitude. The two are inseparable. When faith is strong, we are filled with gratitude to God for all that he has given us and for the assurance of all that lies ahead. When gratitude is strong, faith follows naturally, growing richer and deeper with each thing for which we are thankful. 104 Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle 100 == 99 97 96 95 _"™6 * 94 93 San Diego, California Mrs. Annie Catherine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Jemima Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Anna Kristina*Nielson Busk Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Rosa Oditha Calvin Thomas Meeker, Colorado Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, California Mrs. Anna Marilla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Follett Elgin, Oregon Mrs. Edith Adams Smith Centerville, Utah Mrs. Esther Sperry Farnsworth Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Red Bluff, California Mrs. Jane Agar Lawton Brainerd, Minnesota Mrs. Isabella King Armstrong Stacey Simpson Laramie, Wyoming Mrs. Josephine Rasmussen Atwood Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Georgiana Hill Hawkins Winnemucca, Nevada Mrs. Alice Speer Stice Humphrey Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ann Martine McCormick Fredonia, Arizona 92 91 90 Mrs. Charlotte Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Lenora Zylks Gibson Rodessa, Louisiana Mrs. Ada Alzina Harper Martin Central, Arizona Mrs. Annie Turner Worley Wellington, Utah Mrs. Abbie Wordsworth Ashcroft Springville, Utah Mirs:- Ida Mary Upton Clark Keiraville, N. S. Wales, Australia Mrs. Louise Johnson Coleman Provo, Utah Mrs. Elnora Anderson Jensen Cleveland, Utah Mrs. Olga Petersen Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Christina Lindsay Hermosa Beach, California Mrs. Susannah Jane Sly Sampson Delta, Utah Mrs. Rachel King Slutznegger Manti, Utah Mrs. Alice Gygi Magny Buhrley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Naomi Butterworth Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma McCarrell Holmes Vernal, Utah Mrs. Ella M. Ogden Olsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elvina Clawson Rasmussen Santa Monica, California Mrs. Jennie Hopkins Stewart Lorenzo, Idaho Mrs. Melissa Poulton Wolstenholme Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. (Mamie) Gibbons Workman Salt Lake City, Utah 639 BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!) 15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. 4.50 ea. 16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7 vols.4.50 ea. 17 Discourses of J. Smith 4.95 18 Highlights in Life ofPres. McKay 4.95 19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie 6.95 20 BofM Digest— Hawkes 4.50 NEW BOOKS 21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special 3.00* 22. "Vols.2,3 195ea* 7. Teachings of Joseph Smith 3.95 20 MORMON CLASSICS: 5 Essentials in prove their lasting value!'' 9. Answers to Gospel 1. Mission. Bible 15.50 2. Missionary Triple Combo.11.00 3. Marvelous Work Quest. 5 vols. 3.25 ea* 10. D&C Commentary 495 11. Meet the Mor- 23. Beginnings— Pearson 2.50* 24. Ancient Apostles 2.95* 12. Discourses of Landau 5.50; el Doctrine rophetic Promises he F Saath 4.95 of D&C 4.95 & Wonder 1.95 4. Jesus the Christ— Talmage 2.50* 5. Articles of Faith —Taimage Zoe 6. House of the Lord —Talmage 2.95* a —. Eee the "Review Card each month or else purchase the that month. For every $20 of non-discounted books I BOOK! | am purchasing $4.95 now and will r joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 626 "H St.: Salt Lake City, Address: -....----—---a-n-a---------nennnne sere soecncenecas Utah 84103 — 06UlUlU 7. "Books that continue to mons—Green 2.95* Brigham Young 4.95 14. Art of Home Making-Hoole 4.25 "Beehive Church History 5.95 25. Just a Minute— ~ ae & *Ideal Free Choices. (Order Other Books!) ordered. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.) | have enclosed $ --.-..----- ANNOUNCING NEW PAPERBACK EDITIONS Available in August gy OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS The 1970-71 Cultural Refinement lessons will be based on selections from all five volumes of Out of the Best Books. These books contain selected reading from the world's greatest literature and each volume follows a particular theme. To meet the need Deseret Book will publish all five volumes in paperback editions. They will be the same in size and content as the earlier hardbound editions. The paperback editions will not be ready until August, but orders placed now will be filled in the sequence received. Individual copies priced as follows: Vol. 1 ''The Individual and Human Values''............0.....$2.75 Vol. 2. ''Love, Marriage and the Family''................0008.$2.25 Vol. 3. "Intelligent Family Living''....$2.25 Vol.4 "The World Around Us''.......$2.25 Vol. 5 'Community Responsibility''.......0......0.$2.25 SAVE $1.25 Order All Five Volumes Just $10.50 A limited number of hardbound copies of volume 5 are still available at $3.25 each. ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 12345 Total cost $............:.:: cceee es This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 44% sales tax from Utah residents ordering f: om Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: CD check, O money order, or Cl charge established account. Please send me items circled: Stat co cccccccec cece eects eee DlPiccce _ Aug. 1970 R. S. Sweeten up your day! A sweet treat recipe from Cptha cece LUSCIOUS LEMON BAR COOKIES CRUST 1 cup soft butter 1% cup powdered U AND | SUGAR Dash salt 2 cups flour Combine all ingredients and mix well. Press mixture into 9'x 13" pan. Bake at 350° for 15 minutes, or until nicely browned. FILLING 4 eggs, beaten \% cup flour 2 cups granulated U ANDI SUGAR __ 6 tablespoons lemon juice Combine flour and sugar, mix in beaten eggs and lemon juice. Pour onto the slightly cooled crust. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes, or until set. Cool and sprinkle with powdered U AND I. Yield: 3 dozen 112" cookies. Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, U and | Sugar Company Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Ilustrations: ACROSS THESE HILLS | have no loom to weave this tapestry When frost-fires spin their crimson in the clefts And lay their tawny shaw! Across the slopes. Why must. My forgetting, fickle mind Yield up the image, pale with time the hue, Or lose beyond recall the ragged way The aspens trail their gold along the creeks? For soon, too soon, as other seasons know, The year will drop its blanket on the land And | will turn heart-whole to peace of snow. The weaver flings his brilliant skeins each year, But | may never come this way again. All things pass, as this, and even now A bright leaf severs from the tree and floats To earth. The setting sun intensifies Magenta tones to purple, deepens blue, But douses light as dullness quenches pain, And | must hug them into memory, Before the dark decree that all must part, And love these autumn hills into my heart. —Alice Morrey Bailey Early Snow Transparency by Claire W. Noail, Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Aspens on Mount Timpanogos Photograph by Hal Rumel Dick Scopes Mary Scopes | just wanted to tell you how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. Our whole family reads it. As a home economics teacher, | find many of the articles helpful. We used the sourdough recipes (February 1970, by Edythe K. Watson) in a menu planning contest we entered. Our menus were State winners in Wyoming. Gilda Sims Evanstoh, Wyoming | was so pleased when | opened the July Magazine and found the story ''Ronna's Doll," by Norma Wrathall, my niece. | have just written to her about it. This story brings back memories of the days when the young girls of our families played house in the large bedrooms upstairs in the old home. Those were happy carefree days. Every issue of the Magazine is wonderful. | love the poems, especially the one 'You Never Knew | Kept All These,'' by Alda Larson Brown. I'm quite a ''keeper of things,"' too. | was attracted, also, by the illustrations for the poem. Mary Scopes is a delightful ilustrator. 'Picking Potawatomies,"' by Mabel Luke Anderson was interesting. How we used to enjoy the tangy taste of those plums! ''The Secret of Blueberry Hill," by Rosa Lee Lloyd seems to be a good one again, as all of hers are. Lucy W. Jones Sait Lake City, Utah As a child | spent many happy hours in the attic of my mother's home, searching out the poems and stories in her cherished and saved Relief Society Magazines, skipping the lesson material and preachments, but imbibing a testimony of the gospel, nevertheless, by the same lessons and preachments in story and poetry form. The Magazine has helped me to be proud of being a woman, a mother, and a homemaker, and prouder still of being a Latter-day Saint woman. Alice Morrey Bailey Salt Lake City, Utah We really appreciate it that the sisters in the United States have made it possible for us to receive the Relief Society Magazine every month. From this magazine we have been able to gain new strength for our work and new ideas for the Hamburg Stake. Through it we also have gained connection to all the sisters in the Church. To all the sisters who have donated the gift subscriptions, we wish to express our special thanks. Ilse Linds, Hamburg Stake Relief Society President For the first time since | have been in college this semester, | have found time to read my wonderful Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. Of course, | always like to thumb through the Magazines and look at the pictures, poems, and short stories and the letters in the From Near and Far department, though | might not have time to read any of the articles at that moment. Because of my schedule in college, | cannot attend Relief Society meetings as | should like to do, but the Magazine keeps my spirits intact. | wish to thank all the people who help to put the Magazine together, and for the dedicated love and work that you do in order to bring us this lovely work of art. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas | have read with interest the special feature ''Japan—Lovely Land of Contrasts (June 1970, by Caroline Eyring Miner). | am a convert to the Church and enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. It is a constant source of strength and information. | enjoy the lessons and articles on gardening, but hope sometime in the future the Magazine will publish a few articles on gardening in the Las Vegas area. Since we have six stakes and a growing membership in Relief Society, | am sure the ladies would like to know that one can really grow vegetables in this sterile soil. Jean R. Jones Las Vegas, Nevada 642 rm | | The Relief Socicty Magazine volume 57 September 1970 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 644 Temple Marriage: The Lord's Way ElRay L. Christiansen 667 Seeing Switzerland Frances C. Yost Fiction 652 And a Ray of Light May Gleam Lucy Parr 660 The Secret of Blueberry Hill—Chapter 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 642 From Near and Far 649 Helen W. Jeppson and Arlene S. Kirton Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 650 Notice to Magazine Subscribers 657 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 658 Editorial—Welcome the Call Marianne C. Sharp 694 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 665 Cookies for All Occasions, Mary J. Wilson 676 Brooches Edythe K. Watson 677 A 'Different' Birthday 678 About Fish Linnie F. Robinson 680 An Heirloom Quilt JoAnne Baker 681 A 'Bring and Brag" Table Miriam M. Richins 682 Autumn Portrait of a Spring and Summer Garden Darlene C. Dedekind 684 Reflections Leila Grace Bassford Lesson Department 689 ''La Bonne Mére" by Jean Honoré Fragonard 690 ''Little White Girl'' by James Abott McNeill Whistler 702 Spiritual Living—The Premortality of Mankind 708 Visiting Teacher Message—Peacemakers 710 Homemaking—Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control 712 Social Relations—Today's Child in Today's World 718 Cultural Refinement—no lesson planned for December Poetry 641 Across These Hills, Alice Morrey Bailey; 648 Nativity Bouquet, Haze! Loomis; 651 Return to September, Pansye H. Powell; 709 Lament, Oneita B. Sumsion; 711 My Pen, Margaret B. Jorgensen; 718 Your Sun Is Yonder, Alda Larson Brown. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as. Second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 643 w Toa Latter-day Saint, nothing is so important as to rear his family in such a way as to make possible the associations of its members throughout eternity. God designed marriage in the temples to unite families eternally. It ls the institution which makes family life possible. You and I lived in the preexistent world before our mortal lives began. There, we understood that to gain fullness of joy and success it would be necessary for us to be born of earthly parents who would serve as our tutors, advisors, and counselors. Next to the blessings of life is the privilege given of our Father in heaven to direct that life—to accept or reject, to obey or disobey, to choose right or to choose wrong. The right to choose is a choice blessing and at the same time an almost frightening responsibility for in making our choices we 644 Temple Marriage The Lord's Way Elder ElRay L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the T welve alone determine our destiny in the eternity. The words of a hymn which were written by William C. Gregg set this principle forth in a delightful way. Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heav'n. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. It is not the purpose or desire of the Lord to have families dissolved - automatically at the end of this life. Rather, it is his purpose and plan to perpetuate family relationships forever! I can think of no concept of truth that is so glorious and so comforting to mortal beings as is this! But he is a God of law and order. Eternal associations of families are realized only upon conformance to the laws, ordinances, and conditions upon which they are promised. For all who will have a_ blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world. (D&C 132:5.) BLESSINGS AND DESIRABILITY OF A TEMPLE MARRIAGE The blessings of a_ temple marriage are numerous. Since such a marriage spans our life on earth as well as eternity, some of these blessings are realized during this life and some in the period of existence yet to come. Let us enumerate a few of the reasons which make a temple marriage desirable. First: It is the Lord's way and certainly his way is the best way. The first marriage was that of Adam and Eve. It took place while they lived in the Garden of Eden when there was neither mortality nor death. This marriage was performed by the eternal power of God upon which death can place no limitations. Even though Adam and Eve disobeyed the Lord and because of their transgression they became mortal, their marriage survived death. It was an eternal union. Any marriage performed in the temple by an authorized person, and when sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the Holy Ghost, shall also be "in full force" after death. This is made sure only when the covenants and obligations have been kept through life by the recipients upon whom the blessings and powers were sealed. Temple Marriage:' The Lord's Way This ordinance is the new and everlasting covenant of marriage. This same sealing power was restored in this dispensation by Elijah the Prophet to Joseph Smith (D&C 2:1-3, also D&C 110:13-16), and it has subsequently been given to each successive prophet and president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who may personally delegate it to others. Second: Just as baptism is necessary to bring us into the presence of God, so may the sealing of husbands and wives bring them and their faithful children into the family kingdom, which is the celestial realm of glory, and make their exaltation possible. What would heaven be without the association with those we love? Death need not separate husbands and wives, and death will not separate them if they are sealed according to the ordinance of God and if they are faithful thereafter. There is something assuring and exultant in the knowledge and the assurance that though death may part them, yet in the first resurrection they shall come forth and enjoy the blessings and joy of family relationships. Their family will continue forever; there will be no more partings because there will be no more death. Of course, these blessings are realized only when we live in accordance with the laws of the Lord, or as he says: "and if ye abide in my covenant." What disappointment, what regret, what remorse, will be felt by those of us who should, because of neglect or indifference, fail or refuse to enter into the marriage covenant according to the 645 September 1970 way God has designed it! To refuse to enter into such a covenant would end with this life the associations of husbands and wives and parents and their children. But those who receive these powers in worthiness and abide by them shall arise when the Lord shall call them and they will be Christ's at his coming. And in the words of Charles W. Penrose: He will call their sleeping dust to life and they will still be joined together. Not only in spirit and in body be reunited, but as happy parents they will come together again, standing at the head of their posterity as Adam and Eve will stand at the head of the multitude who are quickened and raised from the dead. The eternity of the marriage covenant is a glorious revelation. Third: I have on occasions referred to the temple as "The University of the Lord," because therein we are taught the higher purposes and principles of life. We are there taught the reality of God and our personal relationship to him. In those holy places we are taught that we came to earth by design of our Heavenly Father and that we have a divine destiny, which may be attained by charting our course in life according to the restored gospel and by honoring the laws of the Lord. We are there given a "prescription" for happiness and success. Fourth: After a couple has been sealed in the temple as husband and wife, the children born to them are "born in the covenant," and throughout all eternity are the children of their parents. If the children accept the laws and ordinances of the gospel and live them, they will become legal heirs to the kingdom and to all its blessings and promises. The same assuranceis given tochildren 646 sealed to parents who have joined the Church and are sealed as husband and wife after their children are born. In such cases a binding ordinance sealing the children to their parents is administered. Sealed couples who adopt children by civil processes may have the same privilege. It is inconsistent to consider rearing children with all the care and attention that is required, and then have no claim on them when death comes. This truth gives solace and comfort to the bereaved. Fifth: In the temple we may draw near to the Lord, for after all, it is his house. His spirit is there and gives to the humble and pure, strength through meditation, prayer, and revealed truth. Sixth: The very fact that those who expect to enter the temple must be qualified as to their worthiness is in itself a blessing. The realization that we go to the temple because we are worthy, not necessarily to get worthy, motivates young people to seek the decent things of life. President David O. McKay once said:... The best and noblest lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Surely no higher ideal regarding marriage can be cherished by young people, than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young, such a standard is a protection to them in courtship, an ever-present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the temple to have their love consummated in an enduring and eternal union. (Gospel Ideals, p. 462.) Latter-day Saints who are married in the temple have found added strength to resist evil. This comes from their participation in the higher ordinances and in actually committing themselves to live more Christ-like lives. Such individuals will find that such affirmation made together provides a bond for their marriage which life's worst vicissitudes will only strengthen. There is no more solemn commitment in time or in eternity than marriage vows made in the temple. No force nor power lifts us so high as the keeping of those commitments. THE ROLE OF PARENTS Preparation for life, proper living, and happiness begin in the home! Preparation and plans for marrying the proper person in the proper place should be part of the home training. It is unwise, to say the least, for parents to leave to chance or to others the obligations and privilege of instructing and training their sons and daughters in matters which have such far-reaching effects upon their future as does marriage. If every girl and boy were taught fully to understand the lofty concept of eternal marriage they would want no other. It is not solemnized with the worldly glamor and pageantry, or for show or social prestige, and is not witnessed by a church filled with spectators. It is performed in the presence of parents, oftentimes grandparents, and a few close friends in a lovely sealing room, where that transcendentally beautiful ordinance, in which is given the blessing of association for time and eternity, along with other marvelous powers, outweighs all other provisions offered elsewhere. Temple Marriage: The Lord's Way A young woman or a young man will never marry out of the temple if she or he is sufficiently taught and is fully determined not to do so. How can parents teach and influence their sons and daughters so they will look forward toward marriage and then live to be worthy of it? 1. Start while they are young. Let your warm influence be felt in their formative years. In your own way explain the desirability of a marriage in the temple. 2. Provide for them reading material including talks and articles on the subject by General Authorities. 3. You should teach your children the advisability of associating with those of their own faith and _ religion. Companions in marriage are usually selected from the group with whom they associate. 4. Set a proper example! Create a home that has as its foundation kindness, courtesy, honesty, truthfulness, forgiveness, and apologies. Let your children see in you the sacredness of marriage. As parents, avoid backbiting, criticizing, and disputations. Someone said, "Live with a wolf long enough and you'll learn to howl." So it is with children. They acquire the traits of their parents. 5. Have the wisdom to use the divinely given program, the family home evenings, to help you reach and teach your sons and daughters. 6. Gradually help your children to realize that they lived before they were bom—that they are here to determine where and under what conditions they will live after this life ends. Usually this causes them to think and that is good. 7. Plan and do worthwhile things as a family. 8. At the proper time and in the proper way help them to maintain the highest regard for virtue and chastity. The Lord has not withdrawn that divine commandment, "Thou shalt not commit adultery."" Make sure that they realize that happiness can come only through obedience. 647 September 1970 9. Let your children hear you pray for them! Plead with the Lord for their welfare—spiritual and otherwise. President Harold B. Lee once told this heart-warming story: I am thinking of that Mother blessed with a family of girls who kneeled down each night and prayed to God that somewhere there would be a mother rearing some sons worthy to become the husbands of her daughters, and then, the daughters finally married. Intalking with the mothers of the sons, she found that those mothers had been praying ever since their boys were bom that somewhere God would be preparing some girls worthy to become the wives of their sons. I say to you, brethren and sisters, such lofty concepts of home, family, and the responsibilities of home and family, are certain guarantees to a happy and successful home. (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 53-54.) Our sons and daughters may forget much that we tell them, but surely the daily pleading with the Lord of a father or a mother for the protection and guidance of their children will be an everlasting influence upon them. 10. Finally, let them realize the importance of temple ordinances by seeing their parents go frequently to the temple to bring similar blessings to those who have died. Now, the thought may enter the minds of some as to the status of those unmarried women who would have entered into the marriage covenant, but have not had opportunity to do so, under the proper conditions. I take the liberty to quote here a beautiful statement made by President Joseph Fielding Smith in regard to this. Said he: You good sisters who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord, and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now, the Lord will make it up, and you shall be _ blessed—for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld, and he is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help. (Elijah the Prophet and His Mission, p. 51.) The eternity of the marriage covenant is indeed a_ glorious revelation! A NATIVITY BOUQUET Not orchids, you sent me juniper That crawls with vigor on my land. Not roses, you sent me sage With plumes like running dappled mares. Wild grape, you sent, not camellias, All set in green and nestled In a prim bouquet. | know the hour—the tilt of sun The blue washed air. | know the raptured gathering When I, too, gathered there. 648 —Hazel Loomis Helen Wright Jeppson and Arlene Sonntag Kirton Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society August 5, 1970 Society, and counselor and president in the stake. Sister Jeppson was graduated from Box Elder High Schoo] and attended Utah State University for three years. She speaks Spanish and is devoted to the worldwide sisterhood of Relief Society. The Jeppsons have four children: Robert (married to JoAnn Vicknair), homemaking arts, sewing and handicraft, and her special hobby is pastel painting. 649 a Notice Wapasine Subscribers In discontinuing the Relief Society Magazine as of December 1970, there are two choices open to Magazine subscribers whose subscriptions extend beyond the December issue. Subscribers may have their subscriptions transferred to the new adult (only) magazine, issue for issue, or they may have their credit balance refunded. In refunding, twenty-five cents will be paid for individual copies, $1.25 will be paid for six months, and $2.50 will be refunded for a year's subscription. If we do not hear from you by October 1, 1970, we will automatically transfer your subscription issue for issue to the new adult magazine. Should you have already been given a three months' credit on the Era subscription, and a three months' credit on an Instructor subscription, and you had six months' credit coming on the Relief Society Magazine you would then. Receive a year's subscription to the new magazine. If you desire to have the credit balance on your subscription refunded, kindly paste a copy of your address label from the last issue of your Relief Society Magazine to this form and send it to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, before October 1. & REFUND COUPON Since | do not desire to apply my credit balance to me. (Send coupon to Relief Society subscription credit to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main the adult magazine after December Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.) 1970, please refund the remaining Name Ward Address Stake City - State Zip Please attach here mailing label from your last magazine. 650 And a Ray of Light May Gleam Lucy Parr m With a sigh of satisfaction, Nora Hudson sank back from her kneeling position. Absently, she brushed at the soil on her hands as she glanced down the row of late marigold plants. In her mind she could already see their blooming, bright color the entire length of the driveway, right through the first frost. Hugh would be pleased that she-had found time today to get the plants set out. Now he would. Have time on Saturday for the trimming and spading he had mentioned. ~ Nora' glanced at the angle of the sun and quickly reached for her trowel. Pushing herself with this planting meant a further push to have dinner prepared by the time Hugh arrived. He had the *meéting tonight, so she mustn't be late. Nor could she linger here to, enjoy the fruits of stiff muscles and grimy hands, as she. Loved'to do after a day of gardening. One more glance-at a job well done, and Nora moved toward the back door. She stiffened.. Not again! Stepping behind the screen of the honeysuckle vine, Nora peered toward the front walk. Those two! Her impatience exploded. That made twice in the past week. And no guessing how many. Times in weeks before, even just the times she had caught sight of those two little imps slipping over to her garden. Nora wanted to shout her anger. But, as always, the words did not quite reach her lips. Those two always looked so little, so innocent. Innocent? No. Time after time coming right into the yard, helping themselves to her hard-won blossoms. Hers and Hugh's. This past year as much of his effort and interest as hers had gone into making this final, permanent home a place of beauty. And not a word was being said to stop this depredation. Not from that Mr. And Mrs. Estrada. As if they couldn't see—or didn't care. They couldn't help knowing where the blossoms had come from, time after time. Certainly not from their own yard. In early spring the Estrada family had bought 'the place next door. Certainly early enough to have spaded and planted and made the place look respectable. But no—not an ounce of effort—or pride. Well, perhaps not Cruz Estrada. The man was seldom home before full dark, even on these long summer days. She had heard that he held two jobs. But then at least the woman should have pride to do a little about the way the place looked. Self-pride. Neighborhood pride. But not a spadeful of soil turned this whole growing season. The lawn did get cut on weekends, and the shrubs barely trimmed. Nora let the screen door slam sharply, and then felt a touch of shame. The act had a hateful sound even to her own ears. And as she went about her hurried meal preparations, she found that some of her eagerness and satisfaction for the afternoon's accomplishment had wilted and drooped, like a poorly rooted seedling in the hot sun of her anger. "But it isn't too much to expect," she defended, as potato peelings fell away under her hands. "We waited so long—Hugh and I—to realize this dream of a real home, a permanent home. A place for putting down real roots—roots of friendship, and of trees and shrubs and flowers that spell a real home." The sort of things that mean no more wandering! Nora almost shouted aloud. Glancing at the small green house next door, Nora's impatience welled up once more. What was she to do? If the Estradas meant to do nothing about the thievery of those two, then surely someone must speak of it. To maintain silence gave the impression of condoning the acts. But they were so little, such big dark eyes. Little Carlos couldn't be many months past five, Tomas not yet four. And they still were somewhat strangers. Perhaps she had been remiss, she had not made the effort she might have toward being friendly. But it had been clear from the start that there was at least some language problem. Then so soon after the new neighbors had come, Nora herself had gone to Colorado to help Janet when baby Denise was born. Since then she had seemed continually to be at least one step behind where she had hoped to be in fulfilling the demands on her time. And there had been little opportunity, or encouragement, toward neighborliness. Mrs. Estrada seldom even stepped outside, a few times on the hottest days coming as far as_ the porch.... Nora pushed the thought from her mind, turning to plans for dinner and Hugh's arrival. The week passed rapidly. Saturday was a joy with Hugh at home, doing the garden work together in silence or with talk breaks as mood and proximity dictated. Nora could not resist pausing several times to check on the welfare of her row of marigolds. She kept close track of the mortality rate... Two plants that had succumbed to heat: prostration, two to the ravages of some sneaky, chewing varmint. But the re- 653 September 1970 mainder of the seedlings gave every indication of becoming firmly downrooted. "They wouldn't dare not thrive," Hugh teased when she leaned over the newly planted bed. "They'll grow, if for no other reason than to escape your displeasure at the mere thought of failure." Hugh laughed, leaning on the spading fork. But his eyes said that it was good, the two of them —the dream, right here in living color. On Sunday Ralph and Ellen drove the thirty miles for one of Nora's fix-ahead dinners between Sunday School and early sacrament meeting. As often as not they stayed for meeting in the old home ward. The visits were a pleasure that winter weather and slick roads would all too soon curtail. Nora set the last of the dinner dishes away and untied her apron. After she patted the wisps of hair into place, and slipped into her better shoes again, she would be ready to join the others for the two-block walk to church. "Oh!" Nora barely caught her sharp cry before it could become a wail of dismay. She lifted the kitchen curtain aside. Those two! They had gone too far this time. Simply too far for silence. Up to this point, the little boys had been content with petunias or asters, a couple of larkspurs. Always two—no more or less—one for each, though Carlos usually did the picking. But now! To have them start on her dahlias—the Silver Lady ones! For weeks to have watched the buds form, swell, and open 654 their hearts to the sun, white, flushed pink. And then to have those two take two of the best blossoms. Nora's throat choked on the rush of anger. She could barely form an answer, "Be right there," when Hugh called to question her delay. Along with a touch of lipstick, Nora drew a tight smile across her lips. There was no point in spoiling the remainder of Ralph's and Ellen's visit. And it seemed such a small thing—on the surface. But it was the accumulation of so many small things that had grown too large to bear. The smile settled naturally to her lips, but she had little to add to the conversation as the four of them walked to church, answered greetings of others in the foyer, and found seats in the chapel. Time after time, she pushed anger from her heart, only to feel it rising again. Through the first part of the meeting she felt distracted, out of tune with the service being conducted. And at last she determined that she must take a hand—no longer to look the other way. She would call on the Estradas tomorrow. Speak to the mother. Demand an end to the stealing. It was for the good of the little boys, too, wasn't it? Automatically, Nora put out a hand to help Hugh in holding the hymnbook. She would make every effort to speak calmly, even in a tone of triendliness. She would make that effort. But likely the mother would take exception. Or worse, meet her protest flippantly, the way so many young mother's now seemed prone to do. Nora's back stiffened in anticipation as her mind searched for words to meet whatever was to come. Without conscious thought she followed the words of the hymn. She had sung it often, the words familiar. And then her voice broke on a sharp note—almost a cry of despair. She felt Hugh turn a little as her hand twitched the corner of the hymnbook. But she held herself still, did not look at him. School thy feelings, O my brother; Train thy warm impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. Nora's head lifted. She looked directly at Bishop Barnes, half expecting the kindly man to be watching her. Had he guessed? Might he have seen into her heart, to read the anger and turmoil there? Thehymn continued, words entering her heart as never before. Gauge thy wrath by wisdom'sstandard; Keep thy rising anger down. Rising anger? It had risen out of all bounds. It had risen to block out all else—even the beauty of the sacrament service. With an effort, Nora forced her thoughts to center on Brother Alton, the first speaker. Then the Stoddard girls' duet. Words of the hymn continued in her mind throughout the meeting, and for the rest of the evening. Hugh asked for no explanation of her lapse of attention. And as yet she was unready to give one. She was a long time in drifting off to sleep. Rest would not come until she had at last settled in And A Ray of Light May Gleam her mind what must be done. She would go to see the mother. But in less anger than she had first intended. Next morning, Nora found herself facing the chore with a definite reluctance. Neighbors for more than four months and she did not even know Mrs. Estrada's first name. Perhaps this call need not be made, a part of her mind reasoned. A few words to Carlos and Tomas—might not that suffice? Resolutely, Nora tapped on the Estrada door. After a moment the door opened slowly. A puzzled expression on the young woman's face —a pretty face—and then a smile of recognition. "Oh—it is the Mrs. Hud-son. You would please come in?" Nora found herself in a neat, though sparsely furnished room. Bright and clean. She pulled her eyes from the two Silver Lady dahlias in a lovely vase on the table by the window. Later... That part must come later. Nora was vaguely aware of the two little boys hanging near the doorway, not quite sure whether to come inside. She was directed to the most comfortable chair in the room. In her halting way, the young woman attempted to set Nora at ease. "So good—that you should call. Not often do I go from house. But one day, and another, brings back strength...." "Strength? Then you have been—ill?" "Tll—yes. Very. But now I grow better.", And now Nora learned that Consuela Estrada—she asked the name—had lost a baby just days 655 September 1970 before the family had moved here. She had come to this house directly from her stay in the hospital. "And so—the gladness of a home is some saddened that there is not to be another child." The young mother's face grew sad with the words. Then her smile returned. ""But now I begin to do more. Now I can care for good home." She put a hand out toward Nora, then drew it back shyly. "So good to have neigh-bor. One to speak with." Consuela Estrada's smile was sweet to see. But Nora could not answer. She was glad that the young woman turned away from her. "And—oh—the flowers you have sent these weeks. From your own garden." Nora swallowed twice and still could not speak. Consuela looked toward the dahlias; sunlight streaked across the outer petals of one of them, making it appear almost translucent. The mother seemed not to hear the small stir of movement near the door. But Nora heard. She saw the quick, frightened expressions on the faces of the two little boys. Bravely they stood where they were, their big eyes looking deep into her own. Still Nora could not speak past the tightness in her throat. Little Carlos took a step toward her. "So much does Mama love things of beauty. Especially the sweetness of flowers. For long, there was not much beauty for her. Until now." Obviously, they had told their mother only a part. It had been for Mama, who loved things of 656 beauty.... Nora was not sure how she managed the words—or the smile. "But, now there can be many flowers for your mother." She was rewarded by a lessening of worry in the eyes of the two boys. The mother turned. "So good. That there should be neighbors." And so terrible that Consuela is only partly right in her belief, Nora thought in anguish. Terrible that there had not been neighborliness long ago. Terrible that she had not cared enough to learn of these neighbors, of their heartache and loneliness... Consuela, ill and a stranger.... But, oh, thank God for blessed repentance—that there could be a second chance. Time for partially making up, with the fall flowers yet to come. And in the spring—Nora's mind __ raced ahead. In the spring, when Consuela had regained her strength, an opportunity for sharing the knowledge of flowers which had brought such joy to herself, along with slips and starts and seedlings. The dream could be made better by sharing with others who also had waited long. In answer to Consuela Estrada's unspoken need for talk, Nora stayed far longer than she had intended. But she crossed the adjoining lawns with a feeling of freedom such as she had not known for much too long, a feeling of happiness, of gratitude. Gratitude! For this blessing of forgiveness. That there were not deep scars that perhaps could never have been healed. Flowers could be replaced. But a child's feelings—! A hurt. Not to be recalled. Ramona W. Cannon Senora Virginia de Velasquez of Panama was chosen coordinator in a seven-milliondollar administrative reform program directed by a commission comprising government officials of ministerial level and leading private citizens. She is one of a number of Panamanian women who have excelled in government administration. Mrs. Margaret Court of Australia defeated Mrs. Billie Jean King of Long Beach, California in the all-English women's singles international tennis championship contest at Wimbledon. This is Mrs. Court's third win, and Mrs. King has also won three times in the great Wimbledon spectacular. Women have been admitted to many universities, for the first time, during 1969 and 1970. Included are Yale, Assumption College, Rockhurst, and Kenyon. Elisabeth Mann Borgese, of Santa Barbara, California, daughter of the German novelist Thomas Mann, is the only woman senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. As senior fellow, she set up the six-day ''Peace in the Oceans' conference which opened at Malta June 28, at which two hundred delegates from sixty nations (including Jacques Piccard, Switzerland, and Clare Boothe Luce, United States) discussed international oceanic problems. Mrs. Marjabella Young and Mrs. Ann Buchwald (wife of syndicated columnist and humorist Art Buchwald) have coauthored a book for young boys, Stand Up, Shake Hands, Say How Do You Do? This is a light-hearted approach to the problem of manners, which once mastered, help to place a boy in command of situations. Women of the United States, according to the World Health Organization's longevity chart, rank twelfth among nations of the world in life expectancy— 73.7 years. Dutch women live longest—75.9 years; Swedish, Norwegian, French, and Icelandic women follow, in that order, and not far behind. Lieutenant Colonel Virginia Bernhisel, formerly of Utah, is assistant for congressional matters to the director of Manpower and Organization for Air Force Headquarters in Washington, D. C., with her office in the Pentagon. Mrs. Mal Englander, a forty-five-year-old grandmother, has been chosen chairman of the board for a proposed First Women's Bank. Of Florida. Nine women are seeking a charter to establish and operate this institution. One function would be to train women to take care of their financial matters. Very few banks managed by women exist anywhere, and it appears this would be the first in America. 657 Editorial / Welcome The Call w ''We would like you to be.....". How many times these words are spoken in the Church! Sometimes they bring a sense of fulfillment to the one being addressed. Sometimes a feeling almost of panic, but always an awareness of one's personal inadequacies and a deep response of humility are present. When one recognizes that the priesthood who do the calling are inspired of the Lord, it is no wonder that the usual mental response is, ''Oh, how can | do that? Oh, why did they ask me?" Yet the verbal negative responses are extremely rare because of the recognition of authority and the principle of obedience to that authority. Usually in calling a sister to an office in Relief Society her talents and capabilities are observed and she is recommended for the particular strengths she possesses which apply to the particular office to which she is called. That is not always the case, however, and hence the sense of panic which may possess a woman when she feels inadequate for a calling. If she feels capable there will not be much doubt in her mind but that she will accept the calling, other things being favorable, but if she feels poorly prepared and inadequate then she should give the most careful attention to her own ability to fulfill it. In the first place she knows that the calling has come from the Lord through his priesthood. Her Heavenly Father is seeking her progress, she knows, and so it may be the potential to which he is looking. ' A noteworthy example is a sister who was called to be homemaking leader who had never sewed in her life. Her feelings were almost indescribable, but she believed in obedience to authority and inspiration so she sat down seriously to consider how she could ever accept the calling. First thing she enrolled in a dressmaking class and she studied, Volume 57 September 1970 Number 9 THE GENERAL BOARD Belie S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 658 observed, and practiced other homemaking skills. She found that she developed a great liking for those skills and today she stands out as a most efficient homemaker, also well known for her capability as a homemaking leader. Her family life has become more meaningful and systematized. Another sister was called to be a cultural refinement class leader. She had not had a college education and felt unfitted for her calling, but relying on the help of the Lord she began to study and turned her attention to the arts. Her activities resulted in a change of attitude and living on her part which has greatly enriched her own life and that of her family and home surroundings. Basic to the acceptance of a call is a belief that if one does her best the spirit of the Lord will guide and sustain her. A woman must go forward in faith. She should not make apologies nor excuses before the sisters as to her weaknesses as that may cast reflection on the ones who called her, but she must go forward humbly and prayerfully. She was not given the calling to fail but to succeed. She has also been given the authority to fulfill her calling, so she must succeed. Each soul is precious in the sight of the Lord and he gives to each of his daughters the opportunity to progress on to perfection. Great growth and development in different fields come to an individual as she fulfills her callings in Relief Society. Through her close association with other officers and members lasting friendships are made in the loving bonds of sisterhood, associations of an enduring nature. To paraphrase a well-known phrase, ''Welcome the call that makes you go beyond yourself." —M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Orlene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Beilva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Rebe O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Elizabeth B. Winters Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore Helen W. Jeppson Arlene S. Kirton 659 The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lioyd Chapter 3 SYNOPSIS: Johnny, Steve, Elizabeth, and Lila McIntyre are making plans for the funeral of their beloved Aunt Lucinda. A childhood friend Norman Strong is staying with them. Lila has dined occasionally with her employer, Scott Harrington, the bank president, but does not feel she really knows him. Scott comes to pay his respects to the family, and seems captivated by the beautiful Elizabeth. ® Scott Harrington said goodnight shortly after dinner was over. "It has been nice to be together," he told them as they walked to the front porch. He hesitated, then he went on. "Your Aunt Lucinda was part of my life, too. She left her mark on everyone who knew her, old and young. She expected us to do certain things and we did them!" "How true!" Steven agreed with a heavy sigh. "I wonder— will Skylark ever have another Lucinda McIntyre?" 660 Lila couldn't speak for the sob in her throat. She walked to the end of the long porch and stood there looking up at the great white moon shining down on Skylark. Oh, Aunt Lucinda, she whispered to herself, I wish F could talk to you again. You knew what each of us needed and now we need you more than ever. She closed her eyes and a gentle peace came to her. Aunt Lucinda would want them to remember everything she had taught them and she had often told them that jealousy was self-depreciation. "Be proud of yourself and what you are," she would advise them. Lila lifted her head, gratefully. Those words were a message to her. She would be proud of herself and look forward to what life had for her. She must let go of the dream she had built up around Scott ever since she was a little girl. After all, he wasn't a knight in shining armor. He was an ordinary man, still charming and attractive, but older, too, as old as Steven and Elizabeth while Lila was only twenty-two. Someone touched her shoulder. Norman was standing beside her. "Let's go for a walk," he coaxed her. "T should help with the dishes," she protested, mildly. "Silly girl! There are three of them to do dishes. Come on." They strolled along Clover Street, hands swinging together. "Someday we'll have sidewalks out here," she said. "T like it this way," he said dreamily. "Country streets and ditch banks and sunflowers in the fields look good to me after those crowded cities." They walked on silently. He smiled down at her. "You didn't eat all your steak," he said. "I cooked that one especially for you." "Well done," she answered, "but juicy, too. That's a clever trick. You do so many things for me, Norman. You always have. And I haven't done any special things for you." He turned her around and made her look up at him. "You are special to me, Lila. Very special. Someday soon—I will tell you—but not tonight. Tonight belongs to our memory of Aunt Lucinda. If it hadn't been for her I might have given up hoping that you would ever —care for me—the way I care for you." A kind of wonder touched Lila's heart. Had Norman cared The Secret of Blueberry Hill for her all these years? Their eyes caught and held. Why hadn't she noticed before that his eyes were velvet brown and very serious. She had thought the wistful look in them had been brotherly tenderness because she was Johnny's sister and Johnny always teased her. "Norman—" she touched his hand. "I can't say how I feel— I'm so confused without Aunt Lucinda. She was so wise, Norman. How can I go on?" "It won't be easy for you, Lila," he answered. "You've been protected here in Skylark from the way some girls think nowadays. I am glad you have been— so is Johnny. Even though he teases you, he's really proud of you, Lila Bob." "I'm going to Kansas City with him after the funeral— just for a short trip." "TI know"'—he murmured. "I have to fly to San Francisco right after the funeral, too. I have commitments I have postponed. But anytime you need me I'll come to you. Remember that." "Thank you, Norman. [ll remember." They strolled on in silence. Norman seemed to realize she was heavy with grief for Aunt Lucinda. She wasn't ready to talk much or make decisions. The moonlight bathed them in silver glory. Norman said, "I can't get used to thinking of the moon as a great round rockcovered sphere of metal. Landing up there was marvelous. We are all grateful for scientific accomplishment, but do you know something?" "What?" she quisebiemials "Tl bet the astronauts who 661 September 1970 landed up there are still intrigued by a moonlit night. The world without the moonlight would be a very dull place. It would be like spring without blossoms or green grass or birds in the trees or the part of us that reaches out for beauty." "Norman," Lila smiled at him, "you're a poet. I thought you were all tied up with figures and sales reports and business meetings with maybe a game of golf or a ski jump on the side for exercise." His hand closed around hers as they walked on. "You have a lot to learn about me, Lila Bob," he told her. "Shall we go back now? You should sleep better after this walk." "T will," she said gratefully. "Oh, I will, Norman." Elizabeth and Steven were sitting in the porch swing when they returned. The fragrance of Aunt Lucinda's flower garden made Lila draw in her breath. "Johnny went to bed," Elizabeth told them. "He said he would like to sleep for twenty years." "That boy really worked. So did Norman. They cleaned the house and cooked the dinner," Steven added. "Who did the dishes?" Lila asked. "I shouldn't have run away." "Nonsense!" Elizabeth smiled at her. "The moonlight did you good. It's in your eyes and your hair—even your voice has a silver tone. Thanks, Norman, for taking our little sister on a moon-walk." "My pleasure," he grinned. Lila thought how young he is, tall and straight, with a freshly scrubbed look like a little boy 662 on his first day at school. Elizabeth stood up. "Bedtime," she said. "Norman, you and Steven can have the twin beds in the front room _ upstairs. Steven and I made them up while you were gone. Come on, Punkin." She took Lila's hand and together they went up to Lila's room. Elizabeth closed the door and kicked off her shoes. "First thing I do when I'm tired," she said. She sat down on the rocker looking at Lila who was stepping out of her skirt. "IT can work twelve hours a day," she went on, "and that's real work, with life and death responsibility, and yet I don't get as tired as I am right now. I guess—it's because Aunt Lucinda isn't here—anymore. She's gone —Lila Bob." Her voice broke and she covered her face with her hands. Lila knelt beside her and held her in a tight embrace. She hadn't seen Elizabeth cry like this before. Elizabeth was the strong one of the family. She was like Aunt Lucinda. "I know," Lila whispered. "What can we do without her? Who loves us the way she did? She was our mother and our father. We're lost, Elizabeth. Really lost." They clung together weeping. At last Elizabeth said, fiercely: "We have each other, Lila. Nothing must ever come between us. Nothing—no one." "No one ever could," Lila assured her, dabbing at her eyes as she got to her feet. She undressed quickly and put on a fresh white nightgown but she was still crying. She realized the struggle in- side her sister. Elizabeth had been aware that Scott was attracted to her. What woman wouldn't be, Lila reasoned? There had been magic between them at the dinner table. And later when he said goodnight, all his remarks had been for Elizabeth. His eyes had lingered on her as though really seeing her for the first time. No doubt Johnny had noticed and the thought that Lila would be hurt had sent him off to bed heartsick for her. Steven, too. And now Elizabeth was torn apart with grief for Aunt Lucinda and anxiety that Lila would be offended. Lila smiled down at her through her tears. How did you tell an older, wiser sister that you were able to realize that she had the charm and dignity that appealed to Scott. Someday there might be a way to say these things but not tonight. Tonight belonged to thinking of Aunt Lucinda as Norman had said, of going over in their minds what she would want them to do now that she was gone. Elizabeth dried her eyes with the handkerchief Lila offered her. Her voice was steady again. "Steven and I had a long talk while you were walking. We have decided to ask Scott for the loan for the hospital. He can at least think it over." "T think he will let you have it, Elizabeth. But it will have to be a civic project. Everyone in town will have to contribute. We need a hospital in Skylark. Only last month Toddle Dean nearly died before they got her to Porterville for an appendectomy." "Toddle Dean?" Elizabeth questioned. "Isn't she your friend The Secret of Blueberry Hill who sings in the choir?" "Yes—only now she _ sings solos and most people call her Thelma because she is slender and doesn't bounce anymore. She is such a darling friend. I would like her to sing at the funeral. Not long ago we had a "sing-in" here at home. Aunt Lucinda enjoyed it so much. She asked Toddle to sing a favorite song of hers. It isn't a funeral song but it sort of expresses the way Aunt Lucinda felt about everybody." "What is it?" Elizabeth asked. ""May the Good Lord Bless and Keep You,'" Lila told her. Elizabeth nodded. "If Steven and Johnny agree we'll ask Toddle to sing it. We must have the high school glee club. That was one of her favorite projects. We should have some special kind of flowers for her casket. Something— extraordinary—the way she was." Lila's eyes brightened. "Like Calla lilies," she exclaimed. "Johnny sent her a_ beautiful bouquet of Calla lilies on her last birthday. They came by air from Kansas City. Let's talk to him in the morning." "We will, honey." Elizabeth's eyes closed, "Calla lilies—will be perfect." Lila leaned over and laid her head on Elizabeth's breast. "I am so glad you are my sister," she whispered. "Go to sleep little Pie-face," Elizabeth murmured. It was a large funeral. People came from miles away to pay honor to Aunt Lucinda, to express gratitude for all she had done for everyone in the community. So many teenagers and young couples were in the congregation 663 September 1970 that Johnny whispered to Lila: "No generation gap here. I wish some of my far-our friends could see this crowd." "Aunt Lucinda about anybody's age," Lila whisBishop Campbell was a tall, lean man with a lined Lincolnesque face. The poems he chose were an inspiration and today as he talked about Aunt Lucinda some of the heaviness lifted from Lila's heart. She - sat quietly between Johnny and Elizabeth. Steven and Norman were together further down the bench. When Toddle Dean sang the song she and Elizabeth had selected everyone was misty eyed. It was a farewell to all those who had known her. Lila loved every flower that had been sent. She appreciated the little bouquets of sunflowers had contacted a his to bring it in a private plane. F course it was extravagant, Lila admitted, but it Was a symbol of their devotion to Aunt Lucinda. By two they walked up the aisle. Lila noticed their radiant young they were the boys in gray trousers with white shirts. She leaned forward staring at one boy as he took his place in line. Casey Wilkins, Standing proud and tall among them! Casey had had a haircut! No word that had been spoken, no song that had been sung, no flower of gratitude was a greater tribute to Aunt Lucinda than Casey Wilkins' haircut! Lila wept but her heart lifted and sang with Casey. She hoped Aunt Lucinda could look down After the funera] and the grave dedication, they drove to the airport to see Norman off for San with h Stained and her nose was shiny. Swift breeze tumbled her hair into a curly mass. "What a wind!" she said. Huge black clouds gathered together in the sky. Th a shadowy blur and whistling sound filled the air. "A tornado!" Norman yelled. "Hurry back, Lila. Tell Johnny to step on it! It's a real dilly!" "Don't 80, Norman," Lila pled, but he disappeared into the crowd getting on the plane. "Lila—make it snappy!" Johnny shouted to her. Suddenly the whole sky was a black funnel roaring toward them! (to be continued) Coshies for All Occasions Mary J. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society STUFFED DATE DROPS 1 Ib. Pitted dates (about 70) 1% c. Sifted flour 13 oz. Package pecan nuts Y% tsp. Baking powder V4 c. Shortening 4 tsp. Soda % c. Brown sugar % tsp. Salt 1 egg 12 c. Commercial sour cream Stuff dates with nut halves and cut into 5 or 6 pieces with scissors. Cream shortening and sugar until light. Beat egg and add to shortening and sugar mixture. Sift dry ingredients, add alternately with sour cream to creamed mixture. Stir in dates, drop on greased cookie sheet. Bake in hot oven (400°) 8 to 10 minutes. Cool and top with. Panocha icing. Se Panocha Icing 1 c. Brown sugar (packed) % c. Milk Yc. Butter 1% to 2 c. Sifted confectioner's sugar Melt butter in saucepan. Add brown sugar. Boil over low heat 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Stir in milk. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Gradually add confectioner's sugar. Beat until thick enough to spread. If icing becomes too Stiff, add a little hot water. Ae ENCIICHU ROCKS CEVA f > 1 c. Soft butter or substitute ¥2 tsp. Each—cloves and allspice 1% c. Brown sugar, packed % c. Buttermilk 3 eggs 6 c. Pecan halves 3 c. Sifted flour 1 Ib. Whole candied cherries 1 tsp. Soda 6 slices candied pineapple, diced Y% tsp. Salt 2 c. Coarsely diced dates 2 tsp. Cinnamon Cream butter and sugar until light. Beat in eggs. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk; mix well. Pour batter over nuts and fruits and mix well by hand. Drop from teaspoon on cookie sheets. Bake at 325° for 20 to 25 minutes. Makes from 10 to 12 dozen. % CHOCOLATE MINT COOKIES To 2 beaten eggs add 1% cup shortening melted and 1 c. Sugar. Add 2 tsp. Peppermint flavoring and 2 squares of unsweetened chocolate melted. Stir until blended. Add 2 cup of sifted flour and % cup shredded walnuts. Mix well. Pour this batter into a 9-inch square pan. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for 25 minutes. Cool the baked layer about 30 minutes. Thoroughly blend 2 tbsp. Softened shortening and 1 tbsp. Of cream. Add 1 tbsp. Of peppermint flavoring and 1 cup of confectioner's sugar sifted. Blend well. Spread 665 September 1970 frosting over cooled baked layer. Place in refrigerator for 5 minutes. When frosting is firm, spread over it 1 square of bitter chocolate and 1 tbsp. Of shortening melted together until well blended. Place in refrigerator for 5 minutes. Cut into % by 2% inch strips. Yields 45 pieces. A CASHEW COOKIES Y% c. Butter % tsp. Baking soda 1 c. Light brown sugar (firmly packed) % tsp. Salt 1 whole egg % tsp. Cinnamon ¥% tsp. Vanilla Y% tsp. Nutmeg 2 c. Sifted all-purpose flour % c. Sour cream % tsp. Baking powder Ye to 1 c. Cashew nuts (broken coarsely) Cream together butter and sugar. Add egg and vanilla and blend smooth. Sift dry ingredients together and add alternately with sour cream. Fold in cashew nuts. Drop spoonfuls (rather small) onto ungreased cookie sheet about 1% to 2 inches apart. Bake in 325 to 350 degree oven for about 10 minutes or until light brown. Cool. Frost with golden butter icing. Makes 3 dozen cookies. Es Golden Butter Icing 3 tbsp. Butter (no substitute) 2 c. Powdered sugar 2 tbsp. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Heat and stir butter in heavy pan until golden brown. Beat in remaining ingredients. Swirl icing over center of cookies, leaving edges uniced. Makes enough to ice 36 cashew cookies. The amount of icing you use depends on your individual taste; some prefer the entire cookie iced. In that case you would, of course, make additional icing. If you like a liberal amount of cashews, use the entire 1 cup; this makes a more crunchy product with a surface which is a little more rough. | personally prefer about % of a cup. One small package of cashews yields about this amount. UNBEATABLES 2 c. Powdered sugar Y% c. (3 or 4) egg whites ¥% tsp. Baking powder 2 c. Chopped nuts Y% c. Flour ¥2 c. Chopped dried apricots In mixing bowl combine sugar, baking powder, flour, and egg whites. Add nuts and apricots. Mix well. Drop onto well greased cookie sheets. Bake at 325° for 15 to 18 minutes. AR LACE COOKIES In a bowl mix together 1 c. Each of flour and finely chopped almonds. In a saucepan melt % c. Each of butter and another shortening. Stir in % c. Brown sugar and 4 c. Light corn syrup and bring mixture to a boil, stirring frequently. Remove the mixture from heat and gradually stir it into the flour and almonds. Drop the batter by half teaspqons about 3 inches apart on an oiled baking sheet. Bake the cookies in a slow oven (325°) for 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from oven, let cool about 1 minute and lift off the baking sheet with a broad spatula or pancake turner. Makes about 72 cookies. 666 THE PLACE AND THE PEOPLE Switzerland Austria, and on da PopuPeople speak Germ September 1970 Italian. In the southeast area is spoken still another language known as Romanish. Agriculture, manufacturing, and tourism are means of livelihood. Almost eight thousand hotels are available nightly. The capital is Berne, the largest city is Zurich. Other large cities are Basel, Geneva, Lausanne, St. Gallen, Winterthur, and Lucerne. The Congress of Vienna in 1815 recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. In 1919 the peace conference of Versailles reaffirmed this neutrality. Because of it, Switzerland is the seat of international organizations, among them the Postal Union, Telegraphic Union, Literary Property, International Labor Office, The International Red Cross, the World Health Organization, and others. Known worldwide for its high mountains, Switzerland has fifty summits over 12,000 feet high. Its glaciers are numbered by the hundreds and cover almost a thousand square miles. Hydroelectric power is the one resource which is plentiful. Raw products of coal, oil, tar, cotton, silk, cocoa, iron, steel, and copper are all imported. OUR SWISS RELATIVES Ernst Gerber, first cousin to Grandpa, and his beautiful French wife Theresa are here at the Zurich airport to meet us. The more than a hundred-mile ride from Zurich to their home in Arlesheim in a fine English car gives me opportunity to view the magnificent scenery. I try hard to receive a lasting impression of the countryside, for I know I may not pass this way again, and the earth was never dressed more beautifully. Quaint homes among the greenery of forest, grass, and shrubs are adorned with window boxes full of gay flowers of many varieties and colors. The Swiss are a neat people. They never leave a weed to grow. With a fine pride of country, a housewife sweeps up any debris in the street in front of her house. ARLESHEIM? The city of Arlesheim, Grandpa tells me, was originally Arles home, and gradually grew into its present size. The beautiful Gerber home at Arlesheim has three stories. The first floor is largely offices for the Gerber business, import-export of fine woods. A goodly number of buildings have, under one roof, both business and living quarters. Doctors usually have their offices in part of their homes. My room on the third floor is decorated in pink, with a large polar bear rug on the floor. The fine furniture is hand carved of exotic woods. My window on the west overlooks a garden growing in a natural appearing state. Tiny white daisies sprinkle the lawn. Vines and trees add a woodland touch. The Gerber garden is a refuge for the finest of Swiss birds. Regu- 668 Seeing Switzerland —1 ang Of Peace ch Morning at four a bird Chorus Serenades ys Simple "tweet-tweet." One listenj and Soprano, Ww; Ng can recognize alto, t ~ Wi such Melodious OVertures from t realize again the multiplicity of sights land. Switzerland att in and sounds In th Tacts Song birds lovely » and they are Protected and fed. It is from this oO Of three days at 4 time, to View the OWever, J » and learn a few Pa. It aring a dress and NO gloves, is feeding the hay pping Machine. With a fork, hey husband Chopped hay into a Wire Silage Container, Where the Pat amily is Stacking it Pon our Tr Which would accommone entire Wall is US large Slices of brown Urs apple Juice S w S Cannot be Sold for buildin lots, Trees can except When arked by an Officia] tree s never left Standing. Mme on a high building 'to and barges Move Steadily. To our night is Ger €, and we Stand on the tj ] September 1970 Basel area. The Canal Du Rhone has been cut through France from the Rhine River to the Mediterranean Sea. When the Suez Canal was operating, many small ships took this route to the Far East. Afternoon of the same day finds us hiking up a mountain to a medieval castle. Ernst gives a lesson in hiking—a slow steady pace, bending the knees slightly and flexing the muscles. As we walk he tells that when he was a very young man during World War I, he was a guide for mountain climbers. The second castle we visit is one which we can drive right up to in the car. The Swiss government preserves these ancient castles, some more than 600 years old, for everyone to enjoy. Often sharecroppers live in houses on the castle grounds. They raise the crops they desire on a sharecrop basis with the government. Trachselwald Castle in the Langnau area was painstakingly built of stone, in fort fashion, high on a hill. The castle rooms encircle a small courtyard where carriages of yesteryear could be safely kept inside the gate. Leading down from the castle proper is a long winding wooden stairway, with overhead shelter. At a lower level yet high on the hill, are several quaint old homes of ancient red brick. We are given a detailed tour—the room where school was held when the castle was in use; the smoke room above the fireplace where hams were cured. Fine old chests are found in each room. Their designs are ornate, and often they have carved or painted names, initials, and dates of long ago. Many fine old churches dot this inland country. Though we visit many, I will mention but one. The Mariastein Chapel was erected in 1636. The interior is well preserved and is rich with gold and statues. A steep stone stairway winds its way deep into the earth where other areas of worship are to be seen. Art is important to the Swiss. The art center in Basel is outstanding. These people did not wait for a grant from the government to buy fine art. Everyone raised money. Even little children contributed. Here Picasso's finest art is displayed. I buy small prints of original paintings which I especially like: Han Kuber's "La Famille," Rembrandt's "David Before King Saul," Vincent Van Gogh's "Mademoiselle at the Piano," Pable Picasso's "Harlequin," to name a few. Shopping in the quaint stores is most enjoyable. Clerks are so patient, so helpful. At the cleaners the clothes are folded and wrapped. Eggs are purchased at the bakery. People are busy going places, there seems to be little loitering. They are happy, neat, and clean. Long hair and mini skirts are not seen. Seldom do we see a person smoking on the streets. If someone were accidently to drop a piece of paper, the next person would pick it up. Road signs are clever drawings rather than the printed word. Crosswalks will have a picture of a man walking. A school zone sign pictures children crossing. If road repairs are being made a sign portrays it. One sees a picture easier than he would read a sign. Little folks and foreigners can understand pictures. 670 Seeing Switzerland—Land of Peace GENEVA under one large red-tile roof. We stop for lunch at Neichatel, a beautiful city on the shores of ake i 11, 1955, by President McKay. President Walter Trauffer is a fine sociable man. It is German-speaking day at the temple and I enjoy every moment of it. A CHALET HOME Next morning, after a delicious continental breakfast garnished with a generous serving of Swiss cheese, we start for the high mountains to see Grandpa's birthplace. Like most chalet homes, it houses family and animals under the same roof. We see the room where Grandpa was born. It is a rare occasion in Switzerland when a home goes out of the family, as Grandpa's did seventy-three years ago when his family LUCERNE Lucerne is a large tourist attraction. We travel there by car. An oil-topped winding road takes us high on a peak overlooking Lake Lucerne, which reaches out like fingers on a hand. This is the home 671 September 1970. Is q Sword. NN the background. The Teads: "Call God f aSsist Istance who can ucerne js Se 4S president of Uarters in Zurich He Cc © a beautify] ed. President Christensen States regard. Been designate by that term and has been existing as a all other combinations during the following Periods: November, 0 to the Present time. Here are NOW 4.679 members of the Church j Which includ A L | i ve in other areas under S e Afg anistan, Ethiopi Saudi Arabia Pola TVisor o the Relief So is President o the i r elief Society i lS President of the Bern-Luce The tj People nd and her 672 to January 3,577 are; F January 1898 to 1904; February 1940 to April 1946; A Witzerland 4nd 1,095 liye; Typical hotel and restaurant in Langnau, Switzerland Ernst Gerber home in Arlesheim, Switzerland 'El | Lake Geneva, the largest lake in Switzerland, surrounded by magnificent mountains. Castile at Arlesheim, typical of the many castles in Switzerland. Note how small the carriages had to be to pass through this gate. The castles are preserved for the enjoyment of the Swiss people and for tourists. Old Tower Bridge at Lucerne. The tower, anciently, was used to house prisoners. Beneath the gables of this famous bridge are more than a hundred paintings depicting the history and legends of the surrounding country. Gabled roof of the Tower Bridge, showing historic painting and inscriptions. A dc 1 et Lem > é3 'ext dens eriie\cn Te i Brooches— Lovely tc Look at Fasy to Mak Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society A love of things beautiful has ever been an inherent quality in women. The feminine desire for adormmment appears to have been present throughout all ages of civilization. Today one need only to browse among the shops and market places in most any part of the world to find them full of interesting, colorful jewelry, typical of that country and its culture. Though much of the jewelry displayed may be relatively new in design and finish, many of the most attractive pieces are replicas or adaptations of an older craftsmanship. Though probably relatively new in design and finish, they are all replicas, reproductions, or adaptations of the jewelry of some ancient era.. One of the earliest and most useful articles of jewelry was the brooch or pin (known to the Romans as a fibula). Irrespective of name, evidences have been found substantiating their existence and use by the earliest civilizations. They were a necessary invention, since their original function was to fasten parts of clothing together. Museum exhibits show fascinating examples of early Egyptian, Roman, and AngloSaxon creations. Some designs undoubtedly served as a basis for the present day safety pin. Down through the centuries as the mode of dress changed, the brooch cr pin became a most valued article. Historians tell us that at one time in early England these pins became so valuable and scarce that they were offered for sale but once each year and then for just two days. Undoubtedly women planned for this important event by carefully saving their money or, if they were fortunate, their husbands provided the necessary funds. The money used came to be known as "pin money" a term which we hear and frequently use today. Modern women have found the brooch a simple yet lovely accessory to a costume. Most of us remember a special brooch worn by our mothers or grandmothers. I have fond memories of a small delicately hand-painted oval one and a large impressive cameo brooch worn by the grandmothers in our family. Today, costume pins or brooches can be found in almost any color, size, or design. The price range is sufficiently broad to fit most any pocketbook so they are popular with old and young alike. Relief Society in recent years through our homemaking department has introduced several varieties of pins which one can make for oneself. Among them paper maché and simulated antique jewelry. These have been made and enjoyed by many Relief Society sisters. The pins or brooches shown in the accompanying picture are another example of interesting Relief Society handiwork, and I will venture to say few will guess at first sight their origin. A discarded eyeglass lens forms the shape and frame, add a pretty picture and a little know-how, and the brooch is yours. Won't you try one for yourself to match that special dress or suit? (continued on page 691) 676 When Mrs. Mark H. Greene of Salt Lake City observed her eightieth birthday, the greetings and the congratulations from the most important people—her children and grandchildren— A were handmade originals. They were so intimately expressive and so representative of each personality that Mrs. Greene re- "Different" gards them as treasures for long companionship. One card illustrates a bandmaster directing an orchestra which Birthday plays the theme GRANDMOTHER in large important letters; another card displays a figurine made of seashells, hand-painted and effectively arranged. A large and elegantly lettered card— gold on brown—carries the proclamation "Champ of Grandmothers." A grandson expresses himself in no uncertain terms: TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS TO GRANDMOTHER From your loving—talented charming devoted unselfish hard-working smart clever ingenious honest adorable GRANDSON Who is so much like you, Grandmother Happy Birthday! TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Great-grandmother Fisher lived most of her married life in Woolwich (northeast London) on the Thames river. Her husband was one of the heads of the shipbuilding at the Woolwich dockyards. In that locality it was a good thing she liked fish. Today we eat fresh fish from all over the world, and I suppose our cooking is influenced by those in our family who cooked before us. Great-grandmother liked fresh oysters for breakfast, and when she lived with us in Bountiful, Utah, her eyes sparkled when baked fish was served for dinner. She liked trout cooked in sour cream. Her son John Fisher of Bountiful had a private trout pond in the field below his house.: Baked Trout in Sour Cream Sauce 4 whole trout (red 1 pt. Sour cream snapper, salmon, 2 tbsp. Grated onion whitefish, or '2 c. Minced celery Aho other preferred salt and pepper About fish) to taste Fisn LE If the fish is whole, place thin lemon slices, some parsley, celery leaves, and shredded carrot Linnie F. Robinson inside. This is good for any whole fish. Combine ingredients for sauce and pour over the fish. Bake 45 minutes in 400° oven. Sprinkle Parmesan cheese over top. If the fish is frozen it may need 1 hour to cook. | serve green peas with the fish. Lean fish is more tasty if it is larded, and by "larding" we mean inserting bacon strips or salt pork in gashes cut in the sides of the fish to make the meat more fat and juicy. The lean fish include trout, black bass, cod, and the fish of the flounder family. Halibut is especially lean and is more flavorsome fried in deep fat or wrapped in cheesecloth and baked in milk, then served with sauce. Milk removes the strong odor of fish. Whitefish and mackerel do not need larding. Below is another sauce for baked fish. 678 Fish Sauce 1 pt. Salad dressing (homemade or other) 3 tbsp. Chopped sweet pickle dash garlic ¥% tsp. Onion juice (optional) salt and pepper to taste Combine ingredients and serve with baked fish. When unexpected company comes I serve a quick seafood casserole and baked potatoes. I wash, oil, and wrap the potatoes in foil and put them in a 400° oven for 50 minutes. Quick Baked Seafood 1 pt. Salad 1 tbsp. Minced dressing or chives or mayonnaise onion 3 tbsp. Cream 1 6% oz. Can or canned cleaned milk shrimp '% 4 oz. Can 2 6% oz. Cans sliced picrab, flaked miento 2 tsps. Lemon 1 tbsp. Sugar juice Combine ingredients, salt and pepper to taste, and pour into a casserole and bake in the oven in which the potatoes have been placed twenty minutes earlier. All you need is to get the contents hot and bubbly, about % hour. While the potatoes and seafood bake, | set the table, prepare a tossed salad, and arrange on a tray some of the fruits of the season for dessert. Serves 7-8. Another quick baked seafood is "Quick Baked Lobster." Quick Baked Lobster 4 cans lobster salt and pep- (about 26 oz. _ per to taste total) Ys c. Toasted Y% |b. Butter cracker 3 tbsp. Flour crumbs 1 pt. Cream, dash of half-andpaprika half, or 2 tbsp. Melted canned butter milk % c. Parmesan 1 beaten egg cheese, grated 2 tbsp. Lemon 6 slices juice cooked bacon Fry diced lobster in butter until hot. Stir flour into butter and add cream. Stir and cook until thickened. Add egg and cook only a few seconds more. Remove from heat and add lemon juice, salt and pepper. Pour into a casserole. Combine crumbs, melted butter, paprika, and cheese and sprinkle on top. Bake at 350° for % hour. Ten minutes before casserole is done lay bacon strips over the top. 679 PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE AUTHOR An Heirloom Quilt JoAnne Baker I call this an "Heirloom Quilt" because it has my husband's parents' life story on it. The center block is a map of where they were born, later moved, and now live. Just above is a picture of Samantha and Claud and their hobbies. Each block represents something in their lives such as a story about a watermelon or a schoolhouse. They canned many fruits and vegetables and raised horses and cattle. On the bottom are representations of each of their children and their professions. The front is made of one square 314," x 28%," and twenty squares 16%," x 14¥,". The back is two pieces 36" x 90" sewed together. I used 71/, yards for back and front edges, tore four pieces 5" wide, and the rest of this material makes four blocks for the front. Figures were appliqued on small blocks, put together, and then quilted. Left to right: Marilyn Draney, who made the items shown; Emma Bloxham, President Twentyfirst Ward Relief Society; Miriam M. Richins, Education Counselor. A "Bring and Brag" Table Miriam M. Richins The Twenty-first Ward Relief Society, Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, displays at each homemaking meeting the handicraft of its members on a "Bring and Brag" table. A sign on the wall above the table designates the area as a focal point of the meeting. Each month one member has the responsibility of exhibiting articles she has made. Others are encouraged to add to the display. One sister has been making children's clothing for the exhibit. This is also her money-making project for the ward building fund. Another sister has shown her crocheting and knitting patterns. The variety and high quality of the display have inspired a desire for better workmanship and more artistic creations. This sharing of ideas has proved interesting to the members and has promoted enthusiasm for the homemaking program. 681 TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Spring and Member, General: #: ': Board of Relief Society planting, weeding, cultivating, and watering Autumn Portrait of a Summer Garden "A garden is a lovesome thing," the poet Thomas E. Brown wrote many years ago, but DarleneC. Dedekind we should add, to be honest, not without "worksome" hours. The time spent in selecting, must be allocated to the demands of seed and flower and stem—the growing cycle and the resting season. With careful planning a garden can be a panorama of color from the time the first crocus pushes its way through the snow until a hard frost takes the last blossom of the brave chrysanthemum. Autumn in any land can be rewarding in its cycle of sun and shadow. It is a time of harvesting the beauty of summer-long hours, and it is also the season for planning the springtime garden. The coming of the growing season makes so many demands on the time of the garden maker that all the accomplishments of autumn will be an early harvest of beauty in the green and growing time. Fall Time Activities: 1. 2. 3. Clean up the entire garden. Remove all weeds before they go to seed. Spade under in a trench the fallen leaves and faded blossoms to enrich the soil during the rest time of winter. Mound over the rose roots with dead leaves and soil for protection against winter cold. Divide perennials. A good rule to follow is to divide in the fall any plant which blooms in the spring, such as irises, poppies, peonies, daisies, primroses, and spring blooming bulbs. Divide in the spring any plant which blooms in the fall, for instance, the chrysanthemum. Apply mulch around young trees and shrubs and perennials. Save the seed of your favorite annuals—zinnias, marigolds, and asters. Place the seeds of each flower in a separate envelope and write on the envelope the name and color of the flower. This autumn activity can save time and money— perhaps provide an unusual gift for a friend. An experimental gardener may explore a lovely, flowerbordered path of interesting surprises by planting seeds in the fall, keeping in mind, of course, the requirements of the climate in your area. Flowers which scatter their own "volunteer" seeds, such as snapdragons and = sunflowers, could have an experimental planting made in late. Summer or autumn. Pansies planted in the late summer or early fall break into radiant bloom in springtime sunshine, and primroses can do some rapid growing in the three months of autumn. Cosmos are abundant "seeders," and once you have a cosmos "patch" there will be forever in your garden the fragile beauty of long stems, feather foliage, and the indescribable satin of cosmos blossoms. Some varieties of larkspur, and many petunias decide for themselves where they want to be, and many gardeners learn from such floral "accidents" which seeds may be planted in the fall in the areas of their own outdoor environment. Gardening is a_ hobby having multiple rewards— beauty, outdoor enjoyment, a forgetting of worldwide and personal problems in the variable kingdom of the flowers where nature makes the rules and the gardener learns compliance and discovery—learns the ways of autumn and the compensating seasons—spring and summer. Reflections Leila Grace Bassford TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR Poplars, Mount Timpanogos, Utah, in background. What beautiful pictures reflections make! Anyone can achieve a greater appreciation for form and color by observing their repeated signatures in nature and in art. The tiniest pool of rainwater may reflect trees and sky, just as the largest lake may. Even the raindrop may reflect a rainbow! The photographer is always charmed and beguiled by reflections. He delights in photographing a clear, unrippled lake, with the mountain that towers above it, the clouds drifting overhead, and the trees and flowers that fringe its borders, faithfully reproduced upon its smooth expanse. Even when a wandering breeze stitches neat shallow ruffles upon its surface, this does not conceal the color and sparkle in the reflection that he sees in the original, nor diminish his enthusiasm for making pictures Mount Moran and Jackson Lake, Wyoming. Pond in Millcreek Canyon, Utah of it. Around such places as a boat dock, or in a quiet section of a bay, with the gentle lapping of waves, it is a delight to photograph the reflections that are an integral part of the scene. The universe teems with natural wonders. Reflections are but a small fraction of them. Nevertheless, it can become enjoyable and exciting to watch for and detect these shimmering duplicate images, and the smaller and less obvious they are, the more exciting the game. And this simple pastime costs nothing, trains the eye, and enhances our delight in the infinitude of beauties nature has lavished upon our world. Red Rock Crossing, Oak Creek Canyon, Arizona Santa Fe Springs Second Ward (Spanish) Norwalk Stake, California Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society Left to right: Patricia Rebulcara and Luisa Espinosa, representing North America; Elviera Rebulcara and Juanita Villanueva, representing Mexico; Delia Guinaldo and Carmela Valentich, representing Argentina. The Spanish sisters enjoyed a dinner and a special drama written by Carmela Valentich. Six sisters demonstrated the sisterhood of Relief Society and the blessings that come from the same faith and the same teachings for the Relief Society women every where. Nagoya Branch, Japan Central Mission Relief Society Home Nursing Program Chieko Okazaki, Supervisor, Japan Central Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters in the home nursing program are receiving much important information and are taking part in demonstrations of nursing skills. The program, initiated in June in the Nagoya and Kobe Branches, is being extended to branches in the Osaka area. > r) « < "LITTLE WHITE GIRL" by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1843-1903—American) Painting in the National Gallery, London, Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates, Inc. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6, An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Commentary on page 690 687 "LA BONNE MERE" by Jean Honoré Fragonard (French 1732-1806) Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Bequest of Robert Treat Paine, Il For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7, Ideal Family Relationships Commentary on opposite page 688 "La Bonne Mere'"' By Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806—French) Courtesy, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston Bequest of Robert Treat Paine II For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7 Ideal Family Relationships Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: September 1971 Reproduction of Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Breinhoit Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University Because of the problems, sorrows, and pain in life, we look forward with hope to the millennium, a time of peace and joy. We work toward ideals of perfection perhaps not completely attainable in this life but ultimately our goal. Consequently we should govern our relationships with family and each other in such a way that we come as near to this goal as possible here and now. There are times, however, when the trials seem insurmountable and we are tempted to look for an escape. We dream. We indulge in flights of fancy which may lead to overindulgence. When this happens, progress toward our ideal is thwarted. During the time of the French Revolution there were realists who attempted to isolate and solve the problems. There were also those who sought escape in flights of fancy and overindulgence to avoid the terrible reality of the time. The aristocracy in their court life developed a blindness to reality, as was evidenced by the dalliance, gaiety, sentimentality, and sham which became the surface covering for the corruptness within. Art reflects the society from which it springs. Daumier, the social realist described in an earlier lesson, "Advice to a Young Artist," portrayed the social upheaval and the problems of the common man, whereas Jean Honoré Fragonard painted the veneer, the facade, of the upper classes. At thirty-seven Fragonard married and the influence of this event upon his life is reflected in the changed nature of his subjects. Rather than the frivolity of the courts, he turned more toward the interests of his home and family. "La Bonne Mére" ("The Good Mother") is an example of this change. Study it carefully—a great subject painted by a master with the brush. Although the decorative quality, the idyllic setting, the sweetness, the prettiness seem to supersede the grand theme of the title, it is a great painting because it makes an aesthetically satisfying, well-executed, and truthful statement about the times. Perhaps what we need most is a clarity of vision, or discernment to recognize that which is real and that which is of true worth. Ideal relationships, family or otherwise, are based on sound practical principles which, if practiced, move us toward our goal of perfection. 689 ee "Little White Girl"' By James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1843-1903—American) Painting in the National Gallery, London Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates, Inc. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6 An Affirmation of Spiritual Values Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: August 1971 Reproduction of Painting page 687 Commentary by Floyd E. Breinhoit Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University It has been said that the laborer works with his hands, the craftsman works with his hands and his head, and the artist works with his hands, his head, and his heart. Without the heart it is not art. Response. The greatness of Whistler's works is due to the feeling of rightness they evoke. His paintings are not intended to tell a story but are purely aesthetic—some would call them spiritual. We recall with pleasure its beauty. It might be interesting to compare this painting with Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud." Although the subject matter is not the same, the experience is related as suggested by the last stanza: For oft when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills And dances with the daffodils. (Out of the Best Books, 3:5.) eee 690 The Golden Mask Mary Clough Some of the ancient Egyptian kings ordered massive temples and monuments built, not only to insure their places in history, but also to impress the gods with whom they thought they would be associating after death. Thousands of slaves spent their lives laboring to make sure their kings would have a prominent place in the hereafter. King Tut-ankh-Amen's tomb was one of the more modest ones, consisting of only a few rooms. Perhaps his early death prevented him from erecting a pyramid, but his slaves carved and embossed beautiful art objects of gold and precious stones to adorn his last resting place. He even had a store of wheat as food for his journey into another life. The most fabulous of his preparations was a life-sized golden mask to preserve and enhance his image. When his life ended, King Tut's body and all his treasures were sealed away from earthly intruders. Centuries later, when the tomb was opened, nothing had been disturbed. The wheat was still in its containers, the treasures in their carefully arranged niches, and the golden mask still covered the face of the crumbling mummy which had once been a proud ruler. None of these things had guaranteed him immortality. Imagine his surprise to find he had to face his Maker empty handed and without the golden mask to conceal the lines of unconcern for his fellow men that may have been etched on his face during the years he was commanding his slaves to prepare a happy and prosperous place for him in the hereafter. None of us can take our gold and silver with us into eternity nor cover our faces with a mask to conceal the story of our lives from God; nor should we one day be surprised to find we cannot depend on someone else's work to gain our individual salvation. Each of us must build his own place in the hereafter. A Brooches—Lovely to Look At—Easy to Make (continued from p. 676) Here are the simple instructions: MATERIALS Obtain several eyeglass lenses from an eye doctor—in various shapes. Pictures: Cards or designs from firm wrapping paper can be used. For making pins for teenagers, wrapping paper may be used effectively. Glue (good quality). Contact paper (paper with an adhesive back). Basic pin (usually found at craft shops). Paint brush (fine). Gold paint (small bottle, similar to that used to paint model planes). INSTRUCTIONS Glue design on back of lens. Trim edge of paper. Cover with Contact paper. Trim edge very close. Paint the edge with gold paint. Glue back of pin to contact paper. (Follow directions on the glue bottle.) Let the glue harden one or two days before wearing pin. 691 Linda M. Campora @ It was a warm autumn morning, and there on a bench amid fallen leaves, I sat with my three sweet children. Birds sang happily from the branches above. It was so peaceful and serene, my fourand five-year-olds felt as though they should whisper. We put the baby on the grass, and for a few moments, special morning to remember another of our family, our first baby son who had died at four months of age. The children had seen pictures of their brother and had spoken about him occasionally, but this was the first time I had brought them with me to see his grave. I suppose I felt extra sentimental this particular day. It would have been his seventh birthday, and our new baby boy was just derly on the grave. Of course, they were full of questions. "What is the man digging the hole for? Will our new baby die, too? Will I be a grandpa when I die?" As many times as we had discussed the body and spirit in Family Home Evening, and on other occasions, here was a more choice moment for learning. There under the tree in that beautiful atmosphere, we talked about how the spirit leaves the body at death and goes on to live with Heavenly Father; I told them how exciting it will be to have a shining, glorious body which will never be weakened by sickness and which can never die again. We talked Jesus and Heavenly Father. They were so excited, and my son marveled at the power God has and how he could do this. We decided it didn't matter how, only that we know he can and he will. They were quiet again, and with tears forming in her brown eyes, must make them strong for the turbulent days to come. The greatest gift we, as Parents, can give, is a lifetime of training in the gospel of Jesus Christ. 692 Lula Holt Shepherd, First Ward, Kolob Stake, Springville, Utah, is well-known for the beauty she has brought into the homes of her many friends and family members. She has given over 100 quilts on various occasions. Numerous dish towels, pillowcases, hot pads, and other articles of handwork have pleased recipients. Sister Shepherd has shared her talent for quilting by serving as a member of the quilting committee. She now sends birthday cards to the Relief Society sisters in her ward. She has served as a visiting teacher for forty years. Sister Shepherd is the mother of seven children, twenty-three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. Each has a quilt and pair of pillowcases. She enjoys her work and enjoys sharing her talents with others. Isabelle R. Cardon, Benson Ward, East Cache Stake, Utah, has a favorite motto: 'Service is the rent we pay for the space we occupy."' She has tried to live by this motto since her girlhood. Her seven children, thirty-four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren have all benefitted from her many talents. Warm quilts have been especially appreciated by all. Lovely pillowcases and tablecloths adorn each home. She has served in many teaching positions in the auxiliaries of the Church, including cultural refinement class leader in Relief Society. In 1965 she was chosen as the Northern Utah Mother of the Year. —. 5s FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of 'Notes From the Field," inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Palm Springs Stake (California), Banning Ward Turns Back Clock To Celebrate Relief Society Birthday March 17, 1970 Banning Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: June Brower, First Counselor; Lorna Cox, President; Colleen Mirci, Second Counselor; Leda Farley, Secretary-Treasurer, representing the original officers. Myrtle Oborn, former President, Palm Springs Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The Banning Ward of our stake conducted a meeting in the manner, dress, and style that the first Relief Society meeting was conducted in 1842, using the original minutes as a guideline for a script written by Sandra Stolle. ''An old-fashioned dinner was served, and impromptu entertainment as well as planned poems, songs, and pantomimes were enjoyed by all." Pauline Jackson is the new President of Palm Springs Stake Relief Society. Ee ee Florida Mission, Suwannee District Honors Visiting Teachers May 9, 1970 Front row, left to right: Agnes Dickman, visiting teacher message leader, Florida Mission Relief Society; J. Murray Rawson, Mission President; Anna G. Rawson, Relief Society Supervisor; Quida Williams, First Counselor; Tottie R. Brown, President, Suwannee District Relief Society; Vela Hawkins, Second Counselor; Ruth Allen, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Rawson reports: "The visiting teachers of the Suwannee District of the Florida Mission were honored for their services at a lovely program and luncheon held at Live Oak, Florida. The theme for the convention was 'Our Visiting Teachers —Angels of Mercy.' 'Dolls representing visiting teachers engaged in many compassionate services were used as decorations. Many of the sisters had to travel many miles to attend this convention, just as they travel many miles to carry out their calling." 694 September 1970 ' on Spent by all." organist. R, Presented two efreshments Were U ashion Show Front row, |; Lennidean hr Joyce Whitten istensen, First a ack row lef ight: » homema king le rol d President: Ma fo) emaking leade » Mary Loy Cail Sixth d Ward. "va Frost, Iva Lou Stake (Illinois) Relief Society resents First Singing Mothers Concert April 24, 1970 Beryl A Isbet, Presj t, Chicago South 5s ake Relieg Ociety, reports: "Sixty "In addition to nine numbers Performed y the Chorus "We e jOyed | a a lar e Presidents the wall, and e 8uest ang he los, ume, r Jessie Evans yw Cutler reports: « Y Were po Cc he East Eigh rtrayeq Smith, am ember of the Ej ' Presence added Much to th nsie ang acco) heon was Served." Of the Church. Large bya Sister in th ep fa President ha l€S abo ut th Wives. The S Mpanied by Lula Alldredge Sang Bhteenth Ward Counselor, Ens f Cutler, Pres elding Smith; Loa mM irst Co Relief Soc rogram, specially as d done Persona] resea €se loyal wj rch and ign Stake Relief Inging M ers directeg b Organist Margy Randel, Performed their first dren's ¢ Orus, as "8 quartet and a voc! 5 ada Hall, Stake ¢ Orister, an 4ccompanieg by Stake cert. Wwe teenth Ward - —_ |. 2 a Pind WW)», ——! Oe Y ppv ~~ — Zinn September 1970 Montana-Wyoming Mission, Rapid City Branch (South Dakota) Presents '"'The Stranger Within Our Gates" May 16, 1970 Seated in front: Bernard Lamke. Seated, left to right: Julie Molen, cultural refinement class leader and director; Shirley Lamke; Darlene Hubbard; Bruce Molen, District Councilman. Standing, left to right: Sheryl Weyland, President, Rapid City Branch Relief Society; Sandra Weiss; Chris Farmer; Dixie Davis, chorister. Freda J. Leckie, President, Montana-Wyoming Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Members of the Rapid City Branch Relief Society presented the dramatization 'The Stranger Within Our. Gates' at the Black Hills District Relief Society Annual Visiting Teachers Convention. "Service to the sisters was stressed by District President Deanne P. Kelly who thanked the sisters for their devotion. A luncheon was served and each sister was presented with a potted plant.'' Boise Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "An Evening With Song" February 21, 1970 At far right of second row in dark dresses: Delores Lowder, stake organist; Joan Grover, stake chorister. Standing at right: Genevieve Cresswell, narrator. Lucile Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Our Singing Mothers numbered sixty-five, representing ten wards and one branch. We were assisted by several musicians in the stake. "The songs on the program told of the beauties of the earth. There were patriotic selections, a parade of flags, and a climax of spiritual songs. The narration featured several inspiring poems and included a tribute to Relief Society and Singing Mothers. "It was a delightful evening, thoroughly enjoyed by all in attendance." Ashley Stake (Utah) Vernal Sixth Ward Holds "'A Family Affair'? Bazaar, April 23, 1970 Front row, left to right: Louise Baxter; Birda Merkley; Shirley Duncan; Betty Stagg; Marilyn Oscarson; Shirley Millett; Glenna Adams; Venice Rooks; Mazie Christensen. Back row left to right: Elizabeth Jackson; Elva Allred, homemaking leader, Vernal Sixth Ward Relief Society; Ila Angus; Loretta Reynolds, First Counselor; Carolyn Ellis, President; Birdie Searle, Second Counselor; Joan Robbins, SecretaryTreasurer. Delores Merkley, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Vernal Sixth Ward of our stake held a very successful bazaar with the theme 'A Family Affair.' There were booths to entice every member of the family, and a turkey dinner was served."' 698 September 1970 Deseret Stake (Utah), Oasis Ward Honors Past Presidents at Relief Society Birthday Party March 24, 1970 Former presidents of the Oasis Ward Relief Society, front row, left to right: Hilda Gillen; Jensine Anderson; Betsy Skeem; Erma T. Styler; Ethel B. Stanworth. Back row, left to right: Celia Christensen; LaVeda H. Bishop; Glenda C. Roundy; Ethel M. Stanworth, who also served as president of the stake Relief Society; Beulah W. Rowley; Claire W. Petersen, current President. Dana W. Bishop, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Oasis Ward honored the past presidents and elderly sisters at a Relief Society birthday party, an annual event in this ward. "This is a very small ward, but it is always among the leaders of our stake in statistics and work accomplished. The sisters have a record of twenty-one consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching." Moroni Stake (Utah), Moroni East Ward Presents "'Fashions For Living,"' April 29, 1970 Front row, beginning seventh from left: Ivy Anderson, Counselor, Moroni East Ward Relief Society; Uarda Blackham, President; Joyce Nielsen, Counselor; beginning fourteenth from left; Valene Rasmussen, Counselor, Moroni Stake Relief Society; Bessie Cook, President; Edna Christensen, Counselor; Verdeen Jacobsen, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Cook reports: ''A delightful program planned around the lines of Eliza R. Snow, 'Relief Society is an Order fitted and designed to meet the wants and needs of body and mind,' was enjoyed by 110 members of the Moroni East Ward Relief Society. Fifty participants modeled lovely clothing. Over 225 articles of arts and crafts made by talented members of the ward were displayed. A play, 'My Sister's Keeper,' was presented. Singing Mothers performed and a luncheon was served. It was a lovely presentation." Santa Barbara Stake (California) Visiting Teachers Honored For Faithful Service, May 4, 1970 Left to right: Anna Dee Packer; Muriel Redd; Lillie Smith; Roberta Boden; Nancy Lesue; Marlene Weatherly. Donna P. Bates, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'We honored forty-six visiting teachers for one hundred percent visiting teaching and attendance at report meetings. "The highlight of the evening was a 'period' fashion show using authentic clothing from as far back as 1851. The theme for the narration written by Donna Pence was 'A Visit in Time.' "Lovely displays of antiques were attractive and popular. The refreshment table decorations featured dolls dressed in blue and gold period dresses made by Bessie Anderson, visiting teacher message leader. It was a most enjoyable evening attended by 275 visiting teachers." 700 SPIRITUAL LIVING Pearl of Great Price Lesson 3 The Premortality of Mankind Reading Assignment: Abraham, Chapter 3 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To gain a knowledge of premortal life and to examine the present-day value of this knowledge to a Latter-day Saint woman. INTRODUCTION A basic tenet of The Church of Jesus Christ is that all living things are created in spirit form before they have existence in this mortal life. This knowledge which is only lightly touched upon in the Bible is revealed anew that the fulness of truth given in earlier dispensations might come together in the dispensation of the fulness of times. (D&C 121:26-32.) The Patriarch Abraham learned by vision that he was one of those in the premortal world who was chosen before he was born on the earth to be a ruler. (Abr. 3:22-23.) Unto Moses the Lord revealed that all men were created in the spirit before they were naturally upon the earth. (Moses 3:5.) These teachings are 702 found in the Bible but only to a limited degree. (Jer. 1:5; Job 38:4, 7; Titus 1:1-2.) SPIRIT ENTITIES A description of the spirit of man is found in a modern revelation received by the Prophet Joseph Smith: "The spirit of man [is] in the likeness of his person." (D&C 77:2.) Another revealed experience confirming the truth that the body conforms to the premortal spirit is learned from the visit of the premortal Savior to the brother of Jared on the ancient American Continent. (Eth. 3:14-16; Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses [Los Angeles: Gartner Printing & Litho Co., Inc., 1956], 3:352. Hereafter referred to as JD.) A CHILD OF GOD Man, therefore, is a dual being consisting of a physical body and a spirit entity. The spirit of man is the literal child of God. (Acts 17:27-28; Num. 16:22; 27:16; Heb. 12:9.) The First Presidency composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund, set forth plainly this important truth in these words: The doctrine of the pre-existence,— revealed so plainly, particularly in the latter days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's origin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and bor of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an experience in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner.... The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, basing its belief on divine revelation, ancient and modern, proclaims man to be the direct and lineal offspring of Deity. ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, vol. 13 [November 1909], pp. 75-81.) Class Discussion One of the doctrines of the Church is that man is literally a child of God. Discuss the importance to you of this fundamental truth. JESUS CHRIST THE FIRSTBORN As we are the literal spirit offspring of Deity, so Jesus Christ is the literal son of God in the spirit and also in the flesh. Jesus, however, is the firstborn of all the spirit sons and daughters of God, declares a modern revelation: "And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the FirstLesson Department born." (D&C 93:21; Col. 1:15.) Latter-day Saints refer to the Savior as their elder brother because of his being the firstborn. (James EK. Talmage, The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1968], p. 472.) That fact is indicated in the following words from Elder Orson Pratt: Have you not read, in the New Testament, that Jesus Christ was the first-born of every creature? From this reading it would seem that he was the oldest of the whole human family, that is, so far as his birth in the spirit world is concerned. How long ago since that birth took place is not revealed; it might have been unnumbered millions of years for aught we know. But we do know that he was born and was the oldest of the family of spirits.... Does this refer to the birth of the body of flesh and bones? By no means, for there were hundreds of millions who were born upon our earth before the body of flesh and bones was bom whom we call Jesus. How is it, then, that he is our elder brother? We must go back to the previous birth, before the-foundation of this earth; we have to go back to past ages, to the period when he was begotten of the Father among the great family of spirits. (JD, 18:290.) The following word of caution was expressed by the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve Apostles on June 30, 1916, concerning the status of the Redeemer and our relationship to him as our Brother: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as_ the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind.... Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others by reason (1) of his seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of his unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glonfied, Father; (3) of his selection and foreordination as the one and only Re- 703 September 1970 deemer and Savior of the race; and (4) of his transcendent sinlessness. (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 472.) In order that none might be mistaken in his understanding of his relationship to us mortals, the First Presidency continued: Jesus Christ is not the Father of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth, for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons or daughters of Elohim. (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, pp. 472-73.) Class Discussion How does understanding this part of the lesson increase your reverence for Christ? THE SPIRITS OF MEN ARE ETERNAL The Lord revealed to Abraham that spirits are eternal, for they "have no beginning; they existed before, they shall have no end, they shall exist after, for they are gnolaum, or eternal." (Abr. 3:17-18.) It was the Prophet Joseph Smith who, by revelation, also received information concerning the eternity of spirits: I have another subject to dwell upon... Namely, the soul—the mind of man— the immortal spirit. Where did it come from? All learned men and doctors of divinity say that God created it in the beginning; but it is not so: the very idea lessens man in my estimation. I do not believe the doctrine; I know better. Hear it, all ye ends of the world; for God has told me so; and if you don't believe me, it will not make the truth without effect.... We say that God himself is a selfexistent being.... Who told you that man did not exist in like manner upon the same principles? Man does exist upon the same principles.... The mind or the intelligence which man possesses Is co-equal [co-eternal] with God himself.... 704 I am dwelling on the immortality of the spirit of man. Is it logical to say that the intelligence of spirits is immortal, and yet that it had a beginning? The intelligence of spirits had no beginning, neither will it have an end.... There never was a time when there were not spirits; for they are co-equal [co-eternal] with our Father -in heaven. (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956], pp. 352-53.) In like manner, Abraham testified of the existence of "the intelligences of spirits," as follows: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was.... (Abr. 3:22.) These references to "intelligences" in relationship to the premortality of man suggest the following scripture from a modern revelation: Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be.... For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy. (D&C 93:29, 33-34.) Because of these scriptures regarding "intelligences," some members of the Church have raised questions as to whether or not there have been various states of preexistence, including the state of intelligence. It appears that a question of this kind was asked of the First Presidency of the Church in 1912, and the following reply was given: The First Presidency have nothing to advance concerning pre-existing states put that which is contained in the revelations to the Church. The written standards of scripture show that all people who come to this earth and are born in mortality had a_pre-existent, spiritual personality as the sons or daughters of the Eternal Father. (See Pearl of Great Price, Chap. 3, verses 5-7.) Jesus Christ was the Firstborn. A spirit born of God is an immortal being. When the body dies the spirit does not die. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1968], p. 12.) President Joseph Fielding Smith wrote this observation concerning intelligence and spirit: Some of our writers have endeavored to explain what an intelligence is, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this matter beyond what the Lord has fragmentarily revealed. We know, however, that there is something called intelligence which always existed. It is the real eternal part of man, which was not created or made. This intelligence combined with the spirit constitutes a spiritual identity or individual. The spirit of man, then, is a combination of the intelligence and the spirit which is an entity begotten of God. (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Progress of Man [Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1936], p. 11.) VALUE OF THE DOCTRINE OF MAN'S ETERNITY Some "Christian" churches do not accept the doctrine that man lived a pre-earth life. Because of this fact, anti-Christian writers have reasoned that man had no voice nor choice in his creation; therefore, he cannot, in justice— an attribute of God—be held responsible for what he does in sinning. The conclusion reached by them is that the "Christian" God is unjust. The fact that premortality teaches that man lived for countless ages, in fact, forever before this life as an intelligence and spirit being, holds the answer to many questions of man's earthlife, including the argument of anti-Christian writers. Lesson Department PREMORTALITY AND EARTH LIFE Unto Abraham the Lord said that Abraham was one of those in the premortal life who was "good," and, therefore, he was selected as a "ruler"—''chosen before thou wast born." (Abr. 3:22-23.) This fact is an example of what we observe in this life— the differences among people as to intelligence, dispositions, and talents. Are these differences to be considered as having their origin in the earth-life? The answer is found in a number of discussions by Latter-day Saint authorities who have considered that the earth-life is but a continuation of the life before this one, and that there is a carryover from the former existence. Elder James E. Talmage said: Every spirit born in the flesh is an individual character, and brings to the body prepared for its tenancy a nature all its own. The tendencies, likes and dislikes, in short the whole disposition of the spirit may be intensified or changed by the course of mortal life, and the spirit may advance or retrograde while allied with its mortal tabernacle.... The spirit lived as an organized intelligence before it became the embodied child of human parents; and its preexistent individualism will be of effect in its period of earth life. Even though the manifestations of primeval personality be largely smothered under the tendencies due to bodily and prenatal influence, it is there, and makes its mark. (The Vitality of Mormonism [Boston: Gorham Press, 1948), p. 232.) In a modern revelation, it is said that every spirit was innocent in the beginning. (D&C 93:38.) This truth indicates that each person is given a start on the way to eternal perfection. The fact that there were differences among the sons and daughters of 705 September 1970 God in premortality does not suggest that all are not considered precious in his sight. It does mean, however, that he will and does give them opportunities for development in earth-life commensurate with their capacities. He looks upon the apparent superiority of some spirits over others, as given in the following remarks by Elder Parley P. Pratt: Although some eternal intelligences may be superior to others, and although some are more noble, and consequently are elected to fill certain useful and necessary offices for the good of others, yet the greater and the less may both be innocent, and both be justified, and be useful, each in their own capacity; if each magnify their own calling, and act in their own capacity, it is all right. (JD, 1:258.) These thoughts remind one of what the Lord said to Abraham concerning the differences among his premortal children. (Abr. 3:18-19.) It should be remembered that the reference to "intelligences" is to an identity we each have composed of our spirit and that part of our eternal nature presently referred to as "intelligence." It is not intended to convey the impression that status in his kingdom or in the Church is based on intellectual capacity, a phrase often equated with intelligence. Many other qualities and virtues, love, faith, humility, patience, kindness, self-effacement, etc. Are as significant in terms of our relationships with God and with others as is intellectual capacity. The term "superior" used in reference to those called to positions of leadership must be construed to mean that they are better qualified to lead, but not necessarily that they are "su- 706 perior" in terms of spirituality or moral qualities. Class Discussion Since all are given opportunities in this life and, since man's conduct in one 'life conditions him for the life that follows, what responsibility does this place upon each of us? FOREORDINATION The premortal sons and daughters of God were foreordained to responsible positions in earth-life because as we have been taught, there was a development of traits and also a testing in the former life. (Orson F. Whitney, Saturday Night Thoughts [Salt Lake City: Deseret News, 1921], pp. 127-29; Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection [Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1935], pp. 50-53.) Elder Orson F. Whitney wrote that the doctrine of rewards and punishments taught in the scriptures applied in the pre-appointment of people to positions of responsibility. (Gal. 6:7.) Examples of this principle of preappointment are (1) Jeremiah and Joseph Smith, as well as Abraham (Jer. 1:5; 2 Ne. 2:22-26); (2) many priesthood _ bearers (Al. 13:3); (3) the wise men who were raised up to write the Constitution of the United States (D&C 101:80). Elder Talmage expressed the belief that God's knowledge of his sons and daughters in the preearth life was very extensive. He could "see the end of their earthly career even from the first." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 191.) He also wrote: "Everyone of us was known by name and character to the and of hum an nature enables H to conclude with certainty as to the actions of an 1 children under given conditions; (Talmage, The Articles of F aith, h Smith was foreordained to one of the most important missions of this i, another will I plant in "his stead." (Italics added.) Class Discussion 1. Discuss briefly the foregoing scripture (D&C 35:18) as to man's free agency: g. Discuss the value of your knowledge of the doctrine of foreordination as it should influence the quality of your daily livingLesson Department men not only in religious events but also in other areas of the earth life. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said: as a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was Grand Council of heaven before this world was (DHC,:364.) As one thinks of the many 13:17-19), the destiny of America as a prom d land (1 Ne. 13:17- 19, 2 a9; 0:19; Eth. 13:1-10 ) SUMMARY Father where which we would prove our loyalty principles of the gosPe our existence aS well tential status as eternal beings. Born of Deity, we ma September 1970 heights of godhood by obedience to the laws of progression. ~, We may also recognize that from the other side of the veil we have brought gifts and talents to be developed, acted upon, and used for the betterment of ourselves, our associates, and to advance the kingdom of God. The truth is that our life here is purposeful; we are here not by chance but by design; consequently, we have a mission, foreordained, to become eternal mothers and eternal fathers, but only on condition that we accept our responsibilities in this life as God has revealed them. The children born to us here are precious sons and daughters of God, lent to us that they might be strengthened in true principles to receive the opportunity to return home, having fulfilled the purpose _ of their creation. As to the world at large, we may understand, in part, how God governs this world through sending spirits of varying grades of capability to earth in time and in place. We are able to understand wherein God is just because the differences we find among men in this world were, by and large, differences which existed in the premortal life. Man, as a free agent, may choose the path of degradation or exaltation, but God has: given him an opportunity to prove himself amid conditions which man anticipated, for he elected to come to this earth-life. (Joseph F. Smith, JD, 25:57.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 3—Peacemakers Northern Hemisphere: First Week, December '1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that peace is a goal of the daughters of God. "Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other." (Ps. 85:10.) The Swiss saints did not fight in World War II, but they well understood that part of the peace was binding up the wounds left from that great carnage. 708 The members of the Church in Austria lived far from the Seaports into which came the mercy ships from Church members in the United States. The railroads, airfields, and roads had been bombed almost to shambles by the allies. Little aid trickled in. Hunger and illness were everywhere. As the summer began, the saints in Switzerland sent railroad tickets on one of the few functioning railroad lines for the children of the members in Austria to come and spend the summer with them. Pale, malnourished, ragged, the children set out. When fall came, the members in Austria went again to the railroad station to get their children. As they saw them climb down from the train, the parents stood and wept. They had difficulty in recognizing their own children! Plump, rosy-cheeked, well-dressed, lugging heavy suitcases full of new clothes and 7 food, they were messengers from a forgotten world, but not a forgetting world. When God sent the Prince of Peace to earth, that birth was heralded by a multitude of heavenly hosts bringing our Heavenly Father's great wish, "peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:14.) As the earthly ministry of that same Son drew near its end, his gift, in turn, to his disciples was, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." (John 14:27.) cs Lesson Department One day on a mountain, probably overlooking the peaceful Sea of Galilee, the Christ's great Sermon included the promise, "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) How are we to bring peace? How can we teach our children to love their enemies, to do good to them? How shall we in our violence-torn world help them to have the courage to "bless them that curse you," (Matt. 5:44) or, as Jesus did when he was reviled, revile not again? (1 Pet. 2:23.) Do we teach them to pray for those who mistreat them? How can we and they learn to overcome evil with good? How can we bind up the wounds of violence? How can we strengthen those who are working—not just crying for peace? How can we develop our capacities to understand others? If we stand in their shoes and look at ourselves as they look at us, perhaps we can gain insight into our own conduct as well as theirs and learn how to help them. The daughters of God are peacemakers "for the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost." (Rom. 14:17.) LAMENT Oh, time—why won't you pass? And rush my children past this raucous stage? Ah, time—you went too fast! Please turn back one brief page. —Oneita B. Sumsion 709 HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 3—Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show that a woman's actions speak loudly in revealing the kind of person she is. INTRODUCTION Becoming a lovelier you involves more than being outwardly attractive. To have beauty from within is as important as having it without. It requires the exercise of selfcontrol and self-discipline. WHAT IS "REFINED CONDUCT"? To be refined is to be courteous at all times, to want to give happiness to others, to speak truthfully, and to be considerate of the feelings of others. A wise mother does not wear one face for company and another face for the family. She does not smile sweetly to a neighbor and then seconds later become rude to her family. What other qualities indicate refined conduct? SELF-CONTROL All of us are guilty of feeling anger on occasion. Blind, unnecessary anger can be a very destructive force in our lives. Many times we become angry unnecessarily because we react to petty annoyances and frustrations: a driver honks his horn at us; someone interrupts us and doesn't pay attention while we're 710 talking; someone doesn't keep a promise to us; the bus we wanted to catch was late; traffic had to get into a snarl when we were hurrying to a plane. If we react to these petty annoyances with anger, resentment, ugly language, self-pity, it is an indication that we are not in complete control of ourselves. Our own peace of mind, the respect of others, and love for each other are destroyed when we fail to control our anger. The Prophet Joseph Smith exemplified self-control. This is evident in the following incident. He was awakened in the middle of the night and dragged outside by about a dozen men who proceeded to tar and feather him. After the horrible ordeal, his wife and friends worked the rest of the night scraping and removing the tar and washing and cleansing his body. The next day was the Sabbath and the people assembled for meeting. In the congregation were some of the mobbers. Still bearing the scars and scratches of the night before, the Prophet preached to the congregation without exhibiting either fear or anger. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co. 1957], 1:261-64.) CONSIDERATION OF OTHERS Are we ever so anxious to be the first in line at a sale that we forget to be courteous? Do we respect others on the highway by observing laws of courtesy as well as _ obeying traffic laws? Do we refrain from unnecessary and lengthy telephone calls and from useless gossip? Do we forget that we can be offensive to others in the little things, such as being late for appointments, talking too long and loudly, and using coarse language? Brigham Young said: If every person who professes to be a Latter-day Saint, was actually a Saint, our home would be a paradise, there would be nothing heard, nothing felt, nothing realized, but praise to the name of our God, doing our duty, and keeping his commandments.... In our daily pursuits in life, of whatever nature and kind, Latter-day Saints, and especially those who hold important positions in the Kingdom of God, should maintain a uniform and even temper, both when at home and when abroad. They should not suffer reverses and unpleasant circumstances to sour their natures and render them fretful and unsocial at home, speaking words full of bitterness and biting acrimony to their wives and children, creating gloom and a Lesson Department sorrow in their habitations, making themselves feared rather than loved by their families. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966], pp. 203-4.) Mothers in Zion must recognize that the mental, moral, and spiritual pattern we establish in our homes will be imitated by our children. We are weaving the character of each child every day through the example we set. If we want our children to be happy, to mature into sound adulthood, and to love us, we must set the proper example before them. They are not just our children; they are individual human beings. They have a right to their opinions. When they speak, they should be listened to as we expect them to listen to us. We should refrain from unnecessary arguments, abusive language, and the tendency to belittle our children as individuals. Quiet, pleasant speech is always in good order. Parents at all times should respect the dignity of their children. CONCLUSION To be refined and courteous, to radiate faith and optimism always, to be warm and accepting, and to control our thoughts and actions will help to bring happiness to those we love and in turn make each one of us a lovelier person. MY PEN Emotion does have many faces, Though they be hid in varied places. Mine—too deep—flow silently Along my veins, Thence through my heart And out my pen—a vein apart. —Margaret B. Jorgensen 711 SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 3—Today's Child in Today's World Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman more fully understand the relationship between a growing child's attitudes (toward self, family, and church), and his ability to cope successfully with the moral hazards to which he will be exposed. INTRODUCTION It has been emphasized that there are opposing forces all around us and that we need knowledge, experience, and inspiration to distinguish consistently among their respective influences. A growing person's vulnerability to moral hazards is related most importantly to his self-concept and the degree to which he holds himself in high esteem. One's self-concept, in turn, is greatly influenced by the way he is seen and responded to by others. Stress should be placed upon the importance of parents finding a balance between the expression of concern for a child's behavior and the appropriate transfer of responsibility to the child for his own decisions and his actions. Through wise parental guidance and a loving relationship, the young person may be assisted in developing a mature perspective concerning the balance between authority and free agency. Such a balanced view will enable him to cope more successfully with the moral hazards to which he will be exposed. We shall focus first on the hazards which 712 young people face and then on some of the positive qualities necessary in building a moral person. THE HAZARDS An example of the hazards about which parents are currently concerned is the use of drugs. Sociologists tell us that some of the problems which have caused young people to turn to drugs are embedded in the very structure and current actions of modern society. This truly may be an important factor. We find within the Church some people who have a misunderstanding of the principles of authority and free agency and are unable to harmonize the two. Some children feel that the authority of parents and of Church leaders is used to take away their free agency. Parental authority, control, and discipline are a necessary framework for the child's social development. But sometimes this authority is not exercised with good judgment and love, and sometimes it is not relinquished at the rate it should be for the child's best welfare. During this time of relinquishing authority, the parent needs to maintain good and close communication with the child. This often can mean being available for talks at 1:30 in the morning or just when dinner needs to be started. It means listening to the child and respecting his point of view. This may mean admitting that the parent is not infallible, and that the parent will apologize when he has made a faulty decision or taken a wrong action. This means standing by the child when he has made a mistake and reassuring him that he still has the parents' love and confidence. If this'is not done, the child may feel that parental authority is repressive. When parents react in cold and punitive ways (out of their concern and frustration), the young person takes this behavior as further justification for rebellion. This problem can be illustrated by looking in on the Johnson family. Nancy is the second child in the Johnson family. The parents love the Church and try very hard to see that both of the children, John and _ Nancy, attend to all of their Church duties. If either child ever wanted to miss a meeting, the parents were very anxious and upset and applied pressure on the children to conform. John adapted easily by doing as the parents wished. Nancy, however, was not as easy to direct, and she frequently quarreled with her parents about going to church and about other requests made of her. Until she was fifteen, Nancy usually gave obedience to her parents' wishes, but then she became self-assertLesson Department ive and, on occasion, stubbornly refused to do her parents' bidding. Screaming arguments which took place on these occasions were so painful that a showdown was avoided whenever possible. In school John made the honor roll, while Nancy had only average grades with an occasional failure. The parents felt that Nancy's ability was equal to John's, so they urged her to do as well as her brother and often held him up as an example for her to follow. After age fifteen, Nancy showed less and less interest in church activities. She did not want to go to Mutual because she said the teachers were critical. In Sunday School she said that they only preached and never listened, and, besides, they took away her good Sunday School teacher. By age sixteen, Nancy was spending more and more time away from home. She had acquired a new set of friends. These friends were quiet and polite, but their standards of dress seemed to reflect dissenting tastes. They expressed themselves as objecting to the conformity and hypocrisy of the "straight" society. They seemed to have lost respect for the traditional and conforming ways of their parents. They were using drugs and said that marijauna had become a symbol of their protest. They felt that LSD represented a way of finding the meaning of life and the expansion of their mental powers. Feeling that school had become irrelevant to the major questions and problems of today, Nancy lost interest in pursuing education. 713 September 1970 By age seventeen, Nancy had moved into an apartment with her friends. Her personal hygiene and dress'. Deteriorated (by her parents' standards) and her standards of sexual morality had changed dramatically for the worse. Nancy's standards of personal behavior, the absence of any continued self-development, and apparent deterioration in her own productive performance present to us a sad, but all-too-common story among young people who turn to the regular use of drugs as a focal point for their lives. Questions for Discussion What happened to cause this change in Nancy's life? Perhaps we will never know.. A more important question might be, "Could anything along the way have altered Nancy's behavior toward a more comfortable incorporation of her parents' standards?" What counsel would you have given to Brother and Sister Johnson to help them develop more effective communication with Nancy? If you had been one of Nancy's teachers in Mutual or Sunday School when she was still fifteen, is there anything you might have done to help change the course of Nancy's maturing years? Should the parents have called this situation to the attention of the home teachers? What responsibility could Nancy's peer group in her ward have assumed in helping her? HELPING CHILDREN TO BECOME MORAL ADULTS In the hazardous path from childhood to adulthood, there is a critical transition which all must achieve—the development of a mature faith and the internalization of gospel ideals. Sociologists 714 would refer to the latter in a more inclusive manner as the internalization of values. On its simplest level, the question is, "Shall I be good because my parents and others won't like me if ''m bad, or shall I be good because I am personally convinced that good behavior is right?" One cannot make effectively this transition from being primarily "other-directed" to being "self-directed" without questioning what adults say about the nature and purpose of this life, as well as the reasonableness and righteousness of specific rules for living. For some, this questioning process is essentially a mental exercise, but for others it may include behavioral experimentation. While young people vary in the nature and extent of their questioning behavior, perhaps the most crucial variable is in the adult response to their questioning and experimentation. Questions for Discussion 1. Why do most parents find it difficult to relinquish controls? Why do some hold on so tightly that they overcontro]? A few of the ideas which might be discussed include fear that the child will fail, fear of parents in their parental role, parents' fear of child's questioning or rebellious behavior that may reactivate old conflicts within parents which may not have been resolved. 2. Why would Nancy's parents engage in screaming arguments with her? This might have been an indication of the intense degree to which they felt threatened with regard to the points mentioned above. It might also have revealed another kind of threat, viz. Loss of parental authority. When a little bit is taken away forcefully, the parent tends to feel that he is losing everything. This intense reaction might also be related to an adult's own discomfort with authority—and that held by others. Such cases suggest that the adult himself has not resolved the potential conflict between authority and free agency. 3. What does it do to children's feelings when we compare their performance with that of a brother or a sister? How does it make a wife feel when her husband compares her cooking and housekeeping, or care of children with his own mother's performance? 4. Why do some parents, on the other hand, release controls too rapidly? What may be the result of this? A child's vulnerability to the hazards of immoral behavior is associated with three major factors which exert a powerful influence on his social and moral functioning. These factors are (1) knowledge, (2) attitudes, and (3) exposure to the hazards. THE IMPORTANCE OF KNOWLEDGE It seems reasonable to assume that knowledge and its proper use will help the child put the hazards he faces in a_ better perspective. The growing child is exposed to a great many formal learning opportunities at school and in Church. Learning facts is an important first step, but children frequently need help in applying these facts to their own lives. Parents can help children to make the vital connections in ways that other teachers can seldom approximate. As parents, one of our most valuable opportunities for the transmission of vital knowledge and helping our children gain a balanced perspective in applying, knowledge to their own lives is the family home evening. This process of making knowlLesson Department edge become useful in behavioral terms is the linking of knowledge and values. Values which are unrelated to a sound knowledge base may be needlessly repressive and difficult for parents to defend, unless they are rooted in faith and are at least compatible with existing knowledge. On the other hand, knowledge which has not been linked with values may become associated with either useless, irresponsible, or damaging behavior. It appears that there is a very close relationship among knowledge, values, and perspective. Question for Discussion Can you think of examples where knowledge alone has not moved one to behavior which avoids hazards? It might be said that knowledge is associated with the processes of reason. Values may be rooted in experience and faith as well as in knowledge. Values give direction to the use of knowledge. Perspective grows out of knowledge, existing values, and, most importantly, faith in the revealed word of God. THE DEVELOPMENT OF WHOLESOME ATTITUDES Perhaps the most fundamental and far-reaching attitude has to do with attitudes toward oneself. Those who have been intimately acquainted with the problems of others know that feelings of worthlessness are associated with worthless behavior. By "worthless" behavior we mean that behavior that is non-productive and which may be destructive in a moral sense. The development of self-esteem is one of the most basic requisites to other aspects 715 September 1970 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany ail orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 _-__--.-75 Zone3.-----.60 Zone6 ~_--=-.85 Zone4 _.----.-65 Zone7 ~----.-95 Zone8.. - - -1.05 — oa DESERET [PEws PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 ee he CANDLES DIRECT FROM OUR FACTORY 12 COLORS — 12 SCENTS FOR STORAGE, BANQUETS, ETC. Send $4.00* for Prepaid 4-candle sample order. Includes one each 3" x 3", 3" x 6", and 3" x 8", plus famous twin-wick, 100 hour, canned storage or camping candle. Request price list. CANDLE KITCHEN, 2335 So. W. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 487-3297 *Add 18¢ Sales Tax in Utah. 716 of self-development, as well as being the first line of defense against "worthless' behavior. One's self-concept is built, in large measure, upon reactions of other people toward us. If they see us as essentially good and worthwhile, then we feel essentially good and worthwhile. Some parents tend to feel that their most important contributions to their children's development have to do with their health and correcting their inappropriate and naughty behavior. Actually, we know that the most important moments we spend with our children are those moments when we tell them of our love for them and freely demonstrate our affection. Children may also learn to know that we care about them through our approach to discipline. Part of the love message comes from the very fact that we care about their behavior. This caring will not be apparent to the child, however, if it takes the form of deprecating the child or attacking his personality. The parents' attention should be focused on the bad behavior, giving reasons why it is bad, and explaining what ' that behavior means 'to other people. It is sometimes necessary for parents to reprove their children sharply. What the Lord has told us about exercising the power of the priesthood also applies to the application of parental authority. (See D&C 121: 41-46.) The self-esteem of a child may be profoundly influenced by the way parents refer to him or describe him to others. Jimmy was taller than most boys his age and always felt embarrassed and depreciated when his father Cheneer. Besley MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _— Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos \ Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 *K ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department said to friends, "Come on in, I want you to meet "Tiny.'" To this day, Jimmy has a difficult time standing up straight. On the other hand, Jimmy felt a glow -: of pride when he overheard his dad say to others, "Jim certainly knows how to handle his money." Such remarks reinforced the good behavior as well as building Jim's self-esteem. Class Discussion Can adults show their disapproval of specific behavior without communicating disapproval of the child? Class members might share examples of their experiences with others that caused them to feel either good or bad about themselves. Another kind of attitude that is important to the building of a moral life is one's attitude concerning the future. If the attitude is predominantly one of gloom and pessimism, then one may feel that he has less reason to engage in constructive experiences and to build strong traits of character. When one listens to some of the arguments supporting the use and abuse of drugs, a common theme has to do with inequality and injustice and inhuman behavior. On the basis of such observations, some persons then refer to themselves and others as alienated from the mainstream of society. They feel that they no longer belong, and even set up their own patterns for living. These actions seem to bring about a growing spirit of revolution. This spirit of revolution takes many forms, running the gamut from a revolution in morals to political révolution. On close inspection, one can detect the absence of true faith in God, 717 September 1970 as well as loss of faith in the ability of the normal social processes to correct injustice and to call forth moral behavior in people. EXPOSURE TO HAZARDS Exposure to hazards is both predictable and unavoidable. The degree of exposure can, to some degree, be limited and controlled by parents in accordance with a child's age and his experience. Parents should keep in mind, however, that the most effective and, ultimately, the only controls on exposure will come from within the individual. At an early age, parental controls should therefore be pointed toward the transfer of responsibility for control to the growing child. In this connection it is important for the individual to realize that unlimited exposure to any negative influence is hazardous, regardless of one's good judgment and wholesome orientation. SUMMARY This lesson recognizes the importance of early and consistent training of a child so that the maturing child may gain a wholesome attitude toward himself, his associates, and the Church. Each child will face hazards during his maturing years. His ability to cope with these hazards depends, in a very large measure, on what he _ thinks others think of him. Every person in the child's life plays a part in the self-image the child develops. Adults should be aware of the need each child has for acceptance and success in some facet of his life. Parents, aunts, grandmothers, neighbors, teachers, and ward members can find ways in which to express love and interest in the child who is being left out of the mainstream of activities. Satan has the powerful tool of discouragement to help him destroy the self-image of the unaccepted child. Also, it is necessary for parents to transfer the responsibility of a child's actions to the child and internalize his values. Where love and attention have been given sincerely and freely, and where wise guidance has been used, the child usually can overcome the hazards and become a moral person. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. YOUR SUN IS YONDER Farewell, you robins... You larks... You bluebirds! Your sun is yonder, in far southern sky.... Our sun is here.... We will wait your returning— The magpies... The starlings... The sparrows.... And |. —Alda Larson Brown Song for a Lifetime Wilma Morely Despain mw My father could sing, even when he was tired; and after his mind and body did not give him much to sing about, he could still sing the songs of his youth and the Latter-day Saint hymns he learned early in life. He loved our hymns and counseled us children often, helping us_ to memorize them while our minds were alert, and while we could retain them for later use and enjoyment. I can still hear him singing while he followed the plow pulled by his prize teams of well-trained horses. He sang his way down the long rows of corn, whether pushing the water through the thirsty rows or dusting them for pirate insects and worms. I have heard him sing when I knew his heart was breaking, after the death of our beloved mother, as he mixed bread at night, as he arose to mix it down so he could bake it, before leaving for work the next morning. I marvel now, that he could sing while caring for six lonely, heartbroken children. After reaching the age of more than eighty years, he did not always know me when I came to see him, nor could he remember what he had eaten for lunch that day, but he could sing the words to nearly every hymn or song he heard played, and all who heard him were amazed. "This ts like a miracle LA / 7 a eee 4 w People with limited vision can enjoy a new life with this self-lighted ''seeing aid.'' Standard (3 diopter) model provides brilliantly lighted field of vision covering a full Reader's Digest-size page. Eleven models, including stronger lenses, available. Call or write Magni-Vision, to arrange a demonstration. I —»—_ MAGNI-VISION wa 685 ''G'' STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84103 TELEPHONE (801) 359-5378 fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 719 100 98 97 96 95 94 93 720 Mrs. Matilda Sandberg Andrus Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Clara Munk Anderson Manti, Utah Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Wilcox Hovey Cardston, Alberta, Canada Miss Jennie Thackeray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Brown Berrett North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Zina Nielson Cook Provo, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Ora Mae Kelso Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Euphemia McGreger M. Morgan Sandy, Utah Mrs. Mary Price Willey Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Lundy Fields Mozingo Goldsboro, North Carolina Mrs. Edith Olesen Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Bird Axelson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Emanuelsen Bergsjo Logan, Utah Mrs. Martha Ann Henline Glasscock Azusa, California Mrs. Helen Cecelia Sorensen Graham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Minnie Belle Young Perry Logan, Utah Miss Jane Price Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nettie Reeder Thatcher Logan, Utah 92 91 90 Mrs. Olena Hansen Carlson Manti, Utah Mrs. Nettie Elizabeth Thatcher Logan, Utah Mrs. Lettie R. Sessions Call Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Emma Buetehorn Hahl Edison, New Jersey Mrs. Emma Peay Jacobson Provo, Utah Mrs. Ada Frances Bryson Jardine Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Phoebe Davis Meyerhoffer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Viola Smith Petker Arroyo Grande, California Mrs. Martha Abigail Stevens Probst Rupert, Idaho Mrs. Lucy Selina Andrews Ryan Mt. Eden, Auckland, New Zealand Mrs. Mary Hettie White Scott Thompkinsville, Kentucky Mrs. Mary Emeline Barker Ward North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Camilla Rasmussen Bassett Afton, Wyoming Mrs. Ethel Agusta Strange Bradfield Logan, Utah Mrs. Huldah Amelia Larson Evans Logan, Utah Mrs. Chrissie Jensen Fox Castro Valley, California Mrs. Laura Fitzgerald Gardner West Jordan, Utah Mrs. Jane McNiel Goodsell Logan, Utah Mrs. Alice Eliza Shomaker Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Fannie Winifred Drury Mullin Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Luella Nielsen Peterson Tooele, Utah Mrs. Coral Schlotmann Rawhouser Marysville, Washington Mrs. Myra Irene Sanders Rogers Mesa, Arizona 7 NOW! Cultural Refinement Kit and Books KIT The kit contains 4 full color reprints of paintings by famous masters. These are excellent visual aids tyingin with the 1970-71 lessons. BOOKS Out of the Best Books... All five volumes in new paperback versions... Same size as the hardbound editions. The cultural refinement lessons for the 1970-71 year will be based on selections from all five volumes. These books, anthologies of the world's greatest literature, will provide hours of satisfying enjoyment. Save $1.25... Order all five paperbound volumes as a set, just $10.50. Individually, volume 1 is $2.75, volumes 2, 3, 4, and 5 are $2.25 each. Just $2.00 1 \ i Salt Lake — Cottonwood Mail Valley Fair Mail Orange, California ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 23 4 5 Total cost $....00000.0 This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 442% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: O check, CO money order, or 0 charged established account. Please send me items circled: 1 LE re Address... Ces State ZIP es Sept. 1970 R. S. Sweeten & up your day! A sweet treat recipe from: es CHOCOLATE PECAN PIE 2 squares unsweetened 3 eggs slightly beaten chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 3 tablespoons butter 1 cup coarsely chopped % cup granulated pecan meats U AND | SUGAR 1 unbaked 9" pie shell 1 cup light corn syrup ¥% cup whipping cream, whipped Melt chocolate and butter over hot water. Combine sugar and syrup in saucepan. Bring to boil over high heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil 2 minutes. Add chocolate mixture. Pour slowly over egg, stirring constantly. Add vanilla and nuts, pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake 375°, 45 to 50 minutes, or until filling is puffed completely across top. Cool and top with whipped cream and pecan halves. Yield: 1 9" pie. U and! Sugar Company Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. The Reiief SOocicty Magazine OCTOBER 1970 Very Dear Sisters Everywhere: May | tell you, please, of my deep gratitude for the honor and privilege of illustrating your beautiful stories these past years? | shall treasure always the happiness and inspiration you have given me so generously. Thank you, thank you, for your many kindnesses. What fine, wonderful people you are! I'll think of you often—and miss you all! Mary Scopes, Salt Lake City, Utah We of the Tempe Stake wish to express our thanks and appreciation to all of you for the Relief Society Magazine. We love and sustain our Prophet Joseph Fielding Smith and know the adult magazine will bring great blessings as the Relief Society Magazine has in the past. Barbara Ellingson, Tempe Stake Relief Society President, Tempe, Arizona Church Magazine Conversion Rules The following are rules the Church Magazine Office is using to apply The Era, Instructor, and Relief Society credits toward the Adult Magazine. The subscriber's name and address as it appears on The Era file will be used for the Adult Magazine. The Era file is being used as the base for the Adult file. The months remaining on an Instructor subscription and a Relief Society Magazine subscription will be added to The Era subscription. The number of Adult Magazines a subscriber receives will be determined by the number of Eras being received. If a person is not receiving an Era, the number of Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Instructors being received. If a person is not receiving The Era or Instructor, the number of Adult Magazines he receives will be determined by the number of Relief Society Magazines being received. In the case of institutional subscribers such as seminaries, institutes, and ward libraries, the number of Adult Magazines they will receive will be determined by the largest number they are receiving of either The Era or The Instructor. Samples of typical situations encountered in the combining of Era and Relief Society subscriptions are printed on the following pages. The rule being followed in each case is stipulated. While it is realized on occasion these may not be the actions subscribers desire, rules have to be adopted that would seem to apply in most cases. Where a particular example fits your situation and the action taken isn't what is desired, write and tell the Church Magazine Office at 79 South State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, and they will attempt to follow your wishes. 1. If the complete name and address are exactly the same on the Relief Society Magazine and Era list, the remaining months of the Relief Society Magazine beyond December will be added to The Era. SAMPLE Era Subscription List Relief Society Magazine Subscription List 84302HUME-216E017 ~ OCT71} MRS. OLIVE A HUME OLIVE A HUME 216 E 3RDS 216 E 3RDS BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 § JAN72 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BRIG C-B C 17 (Continued on p. 744) 722 Editor Marianne Cc. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 722 Church Magazine Conversion Rules Bea Professiona| Homemaker, My Daughter Lillian y. Bradshaw 732 Reliet Society Song Contest Fiction 781 Spiritual Living—The Creation Visiting Teacher Message— Appreciation of Excellence Poetry Marilyn M. Oswald: 757 Late Word, Dorothy J. Roberts; 758 Hope, Grace E. Cutler: 788 Life Song for Stephen, Beulah Huish Sadleir. For UNSoOlicited Manuscripts, 723 79 ultura! Refinement—Sisterhoog ina Worldwide Church Be a PROFESSIONAL ) Fomemaker, @ Taking you back to school the other night, sweet daughter nearly twenty, we talked of school and working and future plans of marriage. You said, "But, Mom, I like to work. I like the excitement of it." I heard the echo of my own voice just that many years ago as I said to your father, "But honey, I want the challenge working outside the house would give me. I would feel like I'm doing something. I want to be someone, not just lost in diapers and dishes and scrubbing floors." And then I had bitterly added, "Anyone can do that!" I felt again a warm breeze blow a wisp of hair across my face as your father left for work that morning. Diaper and another diaper and another diaper blew in the Hawaiian breeze and tears streamed down my cheek. Thumb _ tacked—that's just how I felt—thumb tacked to my home! Everytime I wanted to go out I had to weigh the cost of baby sitting, if I could find a baby sitter, against the food budget or think of little hands tugging at my skirts and crying to go home while I shopped just for the necessities. 724 Resentment, acrid and hurting, choked all the beauty of my island home from my heart and mind and I longed to be free to go to work again. I had known the important feeling of being a head dietitian at one of the hospitals before I was married. I knew the feel of money of my own jingling in my pockets—to be free like my husband, talking with new vital people everyday. Just the luxury of talking real talk would seem like heaven and having luncheons which didn't have to be accounted for out of the family food budget! Like the diapers whipping vigorously, the harder my mind wrestled and twisted and thrashed as thoughts breezed through, the more I felt helplessly pinned. It was the treadmill of everyday blending into the last and so it seemed it would be forever! Emotionally spent and hurting all over with "outside-itis," out of the clear blue—too audibly to deny—came the thought quiet and pleading, "Have you forgotten? Have you forgotten so soon?" Somersaulting one upon the other came thoughts of the prayers I once asked to find just the night man for me, then the prayer for a temple marriage, My Cb and then prayers that followed later that a healthy child, then another and another be born.... Then sobbing in humility for all I had forgotten, I determined from that moment—if I could not go out to find the business world—I would make our home my business and bring all I had learned into my home. I would find the excitement there. And if I couldn't find it I would create it. The same thought would go into running our home efficiently as if I were still in the business world. I realized for the first time that my home held all the possibilities of achievement I could hope to find outside in any field. And with that thought I actually became transfused with new life and began making the change from housewife to professional homemaker. Looking at my kitchen I saw it through different eyes. I couldn't believe the disorder in terms of what would have been done at the hospital. Pots and pans were unbelievably far from the center of preparation. With a sense of being alive again I thought in terms of casseroles being prepared, the making of bread, cakes being baked. Pots jJauUGghter Lillian Y. Bradshaw and pans were rearranged and shifted to a different cupboard, closer to the flour and sugar supplies. The mixer was placed on a counter. Minutes were added to my day—five minutes to be exact in baking a cake. Watching the clock, I began to calculate how many minutes it took to prepare certain dishes. Saving time became a game. In most cases I was amazed to find that what seemed to take hours, in reality took only minutes. Menumaking had been important to keep costs down at the hospital, menu-making at home became important. A shopping list completed the task. I used to love to work in disorder, though at the time I didn't know it was disorder. I can well remember my sewing room when I was first married and had the luxury of an extra bedroom as my sewing room. Patterns, needles, threads, scissors, material lay out all over just as I left them. Sometimes while making a dress it would stay that way for days. And I thought I was saving time. Then your father one day commented how office desks were always cleared before the office closed and he thought I would enjoy sewing more if I put every- 725 October 1970 thing away neatly too! Though he never knew it that made me angry. How could he know what would save time or be better in our home! He had a secretary. How could he know about cut knees, and jelly fingers, and arguments stopping any sewing just as you got started? There I was making excuses again! From then on sewing scraps were gathered neatly and everything put in its own place. The material pieces to be worked on first were put apart from those to be worked on later, and the place on the pattern directions carefully underlined so that upon returning I would know immediately where to begin. Through your father's eyes, mine were opened to things as they were, and then to think professionally how they could be. Seeking to be professional in any work needing to be done in the home I little by little acquired proper tools for myself. Now minutes really began to total up. Before, I had felt time being taken from me! My children, my home, everything was taking my time away from me. With time created, I now could give time. Just as you save money by pennies to make dollars to be able to do special things, just so you save minutes to make hours to create time to do special things. A housewife becomes a professional the moment she begins to create time by being organized. She does not expect to find time, for time is never found lying around waiting to be picked up. Minutes are saved by being organized. 726 Let me give you a few ideas of how to save time and then you, too, will know by doing someday in your own home. I told myself if I were leaving my home to go to work somewhere, looking attractive would be necessary. And so I arose with ¢ or before your father in the morning, put on my makeup, and combed my hair. This was the first thing in looking the part of a professional homemaker. Dressing and making the bed were accomplished before entering the kitchen to prepare breakfast. I have taught you children to do the same. Already you have the first step to being efficiently organized. Breakfast prepared and eaten as a family, beds all made and the house put in order before you left for school has been the second step. Shortly thereafter I do some preliminary preparation for dinner that evening. With the home basically in order, you will then find that the rest of the day can be organized as you desire. Your husband is off to a_ stringently regulated day, but you will be free to choose what you will do. If it's Relief Society—you're ready to go. If it's a new baby to care for—he may be quite determined in his demands—it is your choice to care for him! Community work, taking a class in adult education, preparing a lesson, you're ready! If an emergency comes up, youre available to change plans quickly. Time is not wrapping you around its big finger, you are the master of your own time. SU8gestion but With two li Ppy People, | f, Work. It wasn Seemed to quite know want, but I What it Was er really 800d look told me I alre But there had to be more than Just eing Professional] and Organized, | had Seen others Who had accomplished that in Was the reason for Setting mar. Ried, Wasn't lt? A Woman becomes ten Minutes to decide What to do. E husband brought home and J Would make it do Well! Tions, Ten minutes to Play with the Clay, Storytime, Snack time, 727 October 1970 recess out on the play equipment. Slowly—by trial and error—I found what the span of interest was and kept just short of the maximum so as always to have you want more. If I were a teacher in school I would have the next day's work all outlined, and so in my home—professional that I was trying to become—I prepared for "school" activity the next day also. It really took only about ten minutes to decide what to do. With the Children's Friend as it is today I would tear out the sheets of activity and a story and put a child's name at the top just as a teacher would do. This kept it important in the child's mind to complete the assignment. Knowing fairly well what the baby's schedule would be—playtime (recess) was gauged to coincide with feeding and bathing so as to leave me free to give full attention to him. Even while the "school" was in operation it left me free to fold diapers, bake, sew. It is true there were many interruptions of "Mommy, can you help me?" or "Mommy, so and so hit me," or "So and so has my crayon and won't give it back," but feeling the security of knowing what they were going to do, peace began to permeate the atmosphere. It gave me opportunity and time to teach rules for living and they learned them with their own brothers and sisters first. That which your father taught at family home evening I would reinforce into real situations. You learned to share and forgive with each other first. 728 How much easier for you to carry out with your friends thereafter. I used a small bell to signal a change of activity and so when things needed rearranging it could be done quickly and easily. As an example a_ schedule might go like this. 9:00 School starts—Prayer and pledge of allegiance to flag. Play with clay—Make a boat, an animal and one of something you like. Color a_picture—(About now baby needs care while they color.) Recess—Play time out on equipment. (Bathe and feed baby.): Snack time — (Prepared ahead of time the children could serve themselves if baby was still fussy.) Story time — (This time I loved most of all — I could teach so much with a good' story. Sometimes they were short stories followed with a story that was continued from one day to the next.) Draw picture to tell about story. Recess Dot to dot or cutting out paper dolls, T. V. Program, or whatever fitted the child's age. Use of T. V. Programs now, such as Sesame Street, would be marvelous if turned on and off at given times. 9:05 9:20 9:30 10:00 10:15 10:30 10:40 11:00 Each day a learning experience with real meaning was given, such as learning to write your name, or finding a bug and studying it—how many legs it had, taking care of pets. The possibilities are unlimited and you, my daughter, will find your Own master ra becoming alive. Th ll be ne of your of work. Though at first jit does tra effort. Actually it into a Pattern that Which must is a lot be done anyway, leav 8 a free. OM to the Mind at allows for e hipping cre ith the Now, far, don't NnderesgtjMate the Value of w t J about to tell you The next part of the day will be most important © you as her, wife, and as an Individua] fter having lunch Y 11:30 eg h day, then each of you ha Even When yoy Inform €, as did all your rothers d sisters whe they reached hre old, that t tired, we had an under. Standing that it Was 0 needed the Tres be quiet either slee 1 ing. Bea Professional Homemaker fore Supper was d Joying you children Ww. October 1970 lS most Perfect of al] Work in the World. Eing important in your own Is the only important fee]- ing that doesn't fade as a Mirage. Only at home before —Margaret B. Shomaker 730 as it all Worth it? Take a k in the mirror, J am a WHY POET, RY? Is it not enough Into another's ey —Margaret 8. Jorgensen Relief Society S © |B. Contest General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the third contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest The contest is known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1970-71) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1971. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1971. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize: $100 Second prize: $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty percent to the composer and forty percent to the author. If the services of an arranger are used, the composer may wish to give credit to her by listing the name. The division of any money award with the arranger will be left to the option of the composer. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss. 3. Thecomposition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 732 Relief Society Song Contest 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the ''work'' certifying: a. Thecomposer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The composition is the contestant's Original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a bibliography of 150 words or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society reserves the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty percent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten percent of the marked selling price. If an author or arranger or both collaborate with a composer a division of the royalties should be made agreeable to them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural-flow with a comfortable placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size preferred is octavo or 9' by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in Clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo Publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Judges Manuscripts will be reviewed by a competent team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competant directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. Aoe 733 pieces and told us to get out and play in our own place. But we didn't have any gulch full of sand. And another thing, once when we were playing in his corn patch, he chased us out and told us to stay off his property. That was the day we named him Rooster Brewster. Jimmy called it to him when we got through the fence onto our own property. So we teased old Horace to get even. Once we tied a tin can to his tail when he was asleep under our crabapple tree. We painted a picture of a rooster on it and some words that said, '""Rooster Brewster." Horace went clattering home yelpin' fit to kill. The next time Dad went home teaching he came back with a sober face. He set me and Jimmy down on the couch, and he sat between us and put an arm around each of us. Then he told us all about being kind to people and everything, and made us feel ashamed. And mother said she thought we ought to try again to invite him over to Sunday dinner. But of course' he wouldn't come. He never would. "But, Dad," I said, "He's mean to us." "Yeah," Jimmy chimed in. "He broke our sand town all to pieces and chased us out of his corn patch." "But if he doesn't want you in his gulch, you shouldn't be there. And it certainly isn't good to play in the corn field," Dad said. "Besides," Mother went on, "Mr. Brewster doesn't have any children, and he isn't used to having them monkeying around." "Well, he ought to get married so he'd have some kids," Jimmy Elberta Goes Visiting said. "Then he wouldn't be so ornery."; So after that I told Jimmy we'd better just tease Horace a little bit. Then it wouldn't matter much. And Jimmy said we better not call him Rooster any more except when we were alone. The day Elberta came was the day after Mother broke her arm. Dad had called the employment office to send somebody to help because Mother couldn't take care of the baby and do the work. Jimmy and I were up in the crabapple tree. And we were mad at old Horace because he didn't fall in the hole instead of Mother. "Let's sit here and throw crabapples when he comes along," Jimmy said. We knew he'd be sure to come. He always did no matter what we did to him. "It won't do any real damage to him," I said. "He's already got one eye ruined, and we'll be careful not to hit the other one." So we waited in the tree for Horace to come around the corner of the barn up the lane. That's the way he always came. Pretty soon there was a rustle like Horace's old feet and something showed. "Let him have it!" I called, and we started peppering apples. And then we saw it was Elberta. She dropped the suitcase she was carrying and put her arms up to shield the apple shower. We didn't know who she was then, but we knew for sure it wasn't Horace. She settled her hands on her hips and looked up into the tree where we sat like two ninnies. Her face was round and plump like an apple pie, with brown hair 735 October 1970 curling around her face. "Now, Suppose you get down out of that tree and Say what you mean throwing apples at me when I've done nothing to you. That's of the 'We thought you was a dog!" Jimmy blurted out in self-defense. Er mouth flew open, and her arms went down by her sides. "A dog? Well, that's a new one." And then she added like she was Stating a problem in arithmetic or something, "I always knew I was no raving beauty, but J wasn't aware I resembled a dog." Horace," J hurried to explain, "Bachelor Brewster's old lame dog. We thought it was him coming around the barn." "Well," she Said, thinking it over and picking up her suitcase, "there's nothing so bad but what some good comes of it. I guess I Saved Horace a 800d pelting." And she Started to the house, hen she turned and looked us Over with kind of little goodnatured crinkles around her eyes, "I suppose you belong here?" she asked. We nodded our heads without Saying anything. "Well, I came to take care of things for awhile," she Said. "J understand your mother has a broken arm." I was afraid Jimmy would blurt out something about the dog trap, so I nudged him to keep still. Apples at her. "Just please don't throw anything more unless J ark so you know I'm a dog." 736 And then she went on up to the house. Heaven sent, and it was the first time she'd had a rest since I was born. Dad Said maybe it was a 800d thing she broke her arm, hen we caught Elberta looking into the trap hole one day. Ad had made us fill it up, but old Horace had been digging in it because it was loose, and he had nearly cleaned it out. And we kept hoping there would be some sticks fall over the top, and he would still fall in head first. "What's this?" Elberta asked. "It's dangerous under this bush where you can't see it." So Jimmy up and told her all] about the dog-trap hole and Mr, Brewster and everything because we were such good friends. "If this is the Brewster family finished, "Lorenzo Brewster's grandfather and my grandfather pushed handcarts across the Plains together. He has no business pushing the Church out of his life." "But Dad keeps trying to get him to come to Church," J Said. To squirm. "Seems to me you boys ought to be working with your father instead of against him. On't you know that love is a better weapon than hate?" So Elberta asked Mother if it was all right if she made a pie for r. Brewster. Of course Mother smiled happily and said anything She could do to help out with him was all right with her. Al.4 Dad who had stopped a minute to play with Janie having crackers and milk in her high chair, said he thought Elberta had a good idea. The first thing we knew Jimmy and I were going down the lane with a big smiling apple pie to give to Lorenzo. And we were supposed to tell him we were sorry for all the times we had teased Horace and beg his forgiveness for calling him names like Rooster. "It wouldn't be so bad," I said, — "if we hadn't made the picture of the rooster on the can we tied on Horace. I don't think he'll forgive that." When we got nearly to his house, Jimmy stopped. "What if he grabs the pie and tells us to get out?" "Yeah," I said. "It sure would make me mad if he took the pie and didn't forgive us." "Let's hide the pie," Jimmy said, "until we see if he'll forgive us first." So we set the pie behind a rabbit bush. I told Jimmy he'd better do the knocking because he was the littlest, and Lorenzo wouldn't be so apt to pick on him. "But I'm the one that called him Rooster first," Jimmy said. So I had to knock. Mr. Brewster opened the door and looked at us. "What you been up to this time?" he demanded. "Go on home!" And he shut the door in our faces. "Let's go eat the pie," Jimmy said. But when we got to the rabbit bush, Horace was just slurping up the last luscious morsel. That did it! Elberta Goes Visiting "Rooster Brewster!" Jimmy yelled back at the house, and I picked up a big clod and lammed it at Horace. It hit him square in the jaws just as the door opened and Lorenzo came out. We didn't wait to hear what he had to say. We ran for home. Hot and panting, we. Burst into the house. "He wouldn't let us 'pologize!" Jimmy screamed. "He slammed the door at us!" Mother caught Jimmy and put her good arm around him. "Just a minute. Don't get so excited." Elberta looked us over. "Didn't the pie even get to him?" she asked. "Horace gobbled up the pie!" Jimmy yelled. Her face sort of worked. "Well," she said dryly, "I hope he enjoyed it. ''ve never made pie for a dog before." She thought a minute, and then her face brightened. "But if at first you don't succeed, try, try again!" So in a day or two she cooked up a big batch of beautiful cream puffs and announced that she was going to do a little visiting herself. "Lorenzo Brewster's forgotten his grandfather pushed a handcart across the plains for the Church's sake. I'm going to remind him about the strength and stamina of his forebears," she said. "He's acting like a silly nincompoop just because a better man took his girlfriend. Doesn't he know that all's fair in love and war?" She was stuffing cream puffs into a basket as if she meant business. She stopped a minute, eyeing me up and down because I was standing there with my mouth watering. She handed me a cream puff. "Where's Jimmy?" 737 October 1970 she asked, and started picking up another one. "He's already got one," I said, motioning to the crabapple tree through the open door. She put it back with a brief glance toward the tree where Jimmy sat perched on a limb enjoying his stolen goodie. "Seems to me," Elberta muttered, "a slick worker like Jimmy should have been able to bribe Mr. Brewster with a pie." She started down the lane with her basket, walking with firm steps as if she was going to make an important speech at a convention. Dad smiled and stroked his chin. "I'd give a nickel to watch what goes on," he said, "but I guess we'll find out soon enough." But we never did find out for sure. It was two hours before Elberta came tripping down the lane like the world was made of honeysuckles and apple pie. We were all waiting in the living room. She just flitted in as though she was sweet sixteen, only she was old as Mother, I guess, and smiled at each of us. Dad cleared his throat and said kind of casually, "Everything go all right?" Elberta looked a little surprised. "Why, of course," she said. "Why shouldn't it?" And then she added, "Lorenzo Brewster is a right nice man. He just needs somebody to take a personal interest in him." - Dad and mother were exchanging pleased looks. Dad winked at Jimmy all ready to say something. "All that's been wrong with me, I just don't know how to make cream puffs,". He said. "Oh, go on with you!" Elberta 738 said. "Don't you know the way to a man's heart is through his stomach?" "But I...." Mother began. But Elberta stopped her. "You didn't let him taste a sample of what was in store for him if he came to dinner." She paused and smiled to herself. 'Lorenzo surely does relish cream puffs." And then she added, "He's coming to dinner Saturday. I thought you wouldn't mind since you've been trying for so long." Mother went over and put her good arm around Elberta and told her how glad she was. And Dad said, "Elberta, I wish you were permanent in the ward so you could show me how to make friends with Lorenzo." "Maybe I'll just move into the ward," Elberta laughed. Everybody seemed happy. Dad picked up Janie and threw her into the air and caught her and made her laugh. Elberta gave me and Jimmy each another cream puff from the plateful she had saved for dinner. We went out and sat in the tree and tried to think what it would be like to have Mr. Brewster eating dinner at our house. "We will have to quit teasing old Horace for sure, won't we?" Jimmy asked. "T guess so," I said. "We had better go fill that dog-trap hole up good and pile rocks on it so Horace won't fall in or dig it out again." So Lorenzo came over, and everybody was nice and polite. He held Mother's and Elberta's chairs when we went to sit down to the table, and patted Janie's curls so she smiled at him and showed her dimples. He was sitting next to Jimmy and asked if Jimmy would like to catch a few balls after dinner. I couldn't believe it, but after dinner while Elberta was washing the dishes with Mother helping as well as she could with one arm, Dad and Lorenzo and Jimmy and I went out in the back and played work-ups. Lorenzo could really bat the ball. He knocked it clean over the back fence and had to lift Jimmy over it to get the ball. Dad told us that Lorenzo used to be thestar pitcher in high school. Lorenzo grinned at Dad and said, "I'd nearly forgotten that, George, it's been so long ago." The next thing we knew Dad had invited him to go to sacrament meeting with us tomorrow. Lorenzo said, well, he guessed it was time he began to live up to the example of his handcart pushing ancestors, and he had wanted to for a long time, but he just hated to break the ice. When he went to go home, he told me and Jimmy there was some fresh wet sand in the gulch, and if we wanted to, we could come and play in it. Elberta Goes Visiting "Golly, goody, Mr. Brewster!" Jimmy said with big eyes. And I patted old Horace on the head and gave him a jelly tart. He slurped it down and wagged his stumpy tail. After that Lorenzo went to Church all the time, and we visited back and forth. Jimmy and I built a big long town in the sand gulch, and Lorenzo came and looked it over and said it was real nice. Old Horace slept under the currant bushes and the crabapple tree, and we didn't pay any attention to him. It looked like Lorenzo and Elberta were getting awful friendly. So Jimmy and I hid in the crabapple tree and watched them sitting in the patio swing holding hands. The first thing you know, they were going to get married. Mother's arm _ was ready to have the cast off, so we wouldn't need Elberta any longer. Mother said it was worth having a broken arm in order to get Elberta to help Dad with Mr. Brewster. Jimmy whispered to me that it looked like Elberta was helping herself as much as she was helping Dad. Oe HAPPY EVER AFTER We were spring and youth and laughter, hand seeking hand and arms entwined. Looking toward that ever-after realm of each young lover's mind. Now, in our winter, but with smiles still young, we who have lived and loved have learned, as our song of life was daily sung, that happy ever after must be earned. —Zara Sabin 739 Notice to Magazine Subscribers In discontinuing the Relief Society Magazine as of December 1970, there are two choices open to Magazine subscribers whose subscriptions extend beyond the December issue. Subscribers may have their subscriptions transferred to the new adult (only) magazine, issue for issue, or they may have their credit balance refunded. In refunding, twenty-five cents will be paid for individual copies, $1.25 will be paid for six months, and $2.50 will be refunded for a year's subscription. If we do not hear from you by October 1, 1970, we will automatically transfer your subscription issue for issue to the new adult magazine. Should you have already been given a three months' credit on the Era subscription, and a three months' credit on an Instructor subscription, and you had six months' credit coming on the Relief Society Magazine you would then receive a year's subscription to the new magazine. If you desire to have the credit balance on your subscription refunded, kindly paste a copy of your address label from the last issue of your Relief Society Magazine to this form and send it to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, before October 1. & REFUND COUPON 740 Since | do not desire to apply my Relief Society subscription credit to the adult magazine after December 1970, please refund the remaining Name Address City Please attach here mailing label from your last magazine. Credit balance to me. (Send coupon to Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.) Ward Stake State Zip ss ae B 5 >. ' ZL Mrs. Richard M. Nixon and daughter Tricia, who accompanied the President on his brief visit to Salt Lake City in July, managed to slip away from his programmed activities long enough to visit Temple Square and hear Doctor Alexander Schreiner give a private organ concert for them. Tricia herself then played the famed instrument with its approximately twelve thousand pipes. She expressed herself as ''thrilled'' with the organ and with her opportunity to try it out. Princess Ann of Great Britain accompanied her brother, Prince Charles, heir to the British throne, on a visit to Washington in July. In the company of the President's daughters, Tricia Nixon, and Julie Nixon Eisenhower and her husband David, they saw much of Washington and its environs. A great ball for young people was held on the lighted grounds of the White House, with President and Mrs. Nixon enjoying it from a balcony. The royal pair invited Tricia, Julie, and David to visit them in London. Colonel Elizabeth P. Hoisington, Chief of the Women's Army Corps, and Colonel Anna Mae Hays, Chief of the United States Army nurses, were made generals last June. Congress authorized the promotion of women to generals in 1967, but these are the first women to receive that rank. President Nixon nominated them for promotion and General William C. Westmoreland, Army Chief of Staff, created them generals. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon American actress Susan Oliver, from Caiifornia, and aviatrix Margaret Mead from Dallas, Texas, won the 1970 cross-country Powder Puff Derby by four seconds. They flew from Los Angeles, California, in Miss Oliver's Comanche plane to Bristol, Pennsylvania, in thirteen hours and thirteen minutes. Margaret Hickey has been appointed by President Nixon to a White House committee for co-ordinating relief work. She received important appointments from four other Presidents: Franklin D. Roosevelt (as head of his civilian woman-power program during World War lI), Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy. Margaret Ann Lucas, twenty-three; Dr. Sylvia Earle, thirty-four; Dr. Renate True, thirty-three; Alina Margarite Szman, twentyfour; and Ann Hartline, twenty-three, are scientists who spent two weeks in July living under water and swimming out from their habitat to study life on the bottom of the sea off the Virgin Islands. Performing admirably, the aquamaids made valuable contributions in the fields of oceanic biology and botany and marine ecology. Virginia Tanner, Utah's instructor of dancing, has been internationally acclaimed for her beautiful programs presented with creative children. She will now direct a pilot children's dance program sponsored by the National Endowments of the Arts. It will be conducted in four-week seminars in five United States school districts: in Pennsylvania, Alabama, Ohio, Oregon, and California. June Arey is director of dance in the National Endowments of the Arts. 741 ® Once a year the Ster come together; a gr 8athering at th Cadquarters of t. Urch. The Relief s lety A | Genera} n erence the Magne Ich brings them is Se in this Eathering Purpos Ich kes their att dance vital t the work of € women of the Chur, h The Lord loves hj ghters. € blesses the Share of Work and Entrusts th M with th se r PONSibilities ts Itable € natur wome €xpects the to giv lovin ervice t, his dren i f sery he gave enh On earth e ex Pects the to lo d P his comm dm, to st dy the Scri ures, to EaIN knowle » to acquire Culture, and Stand fir Or € right in ¢ Se time mu at is eyj| 'S prevalent Man Of thes thi are OMplisheq through Relief Society the Organization he cause Created fo the € siste thering together Come: acc Panied Y Prayer the Prayers of thos the Conferenc Sess; th yers repar. F families for their Safety ang joy; their Personal Prayers that they May be as vessels uNto the Lord, instruments in his hands. They come to be iNspired and Counseleq by Members Of the First i Ti They Come as followers Of the leaders appointed to guide them. Y ith h Mble Spirits, teachable Minds desiring to be taught, to learn. CY come to be enlightened, to be Enriched, to have their Vision 742 They come to hear, Willing to 8ive heeq to Counsel]. Hey come with open hearts and souls to be instructed SO that they May take back to the Sisters Over whom they Preside the fulness Of the Relief Society Program They come in full €xpectation of Seeing new 4nd better Methods of doing their Work and having these explained and demonstrate. They come because the Conference Prepares them More beautifully to fulfil their "SPonsibilities and to be more effective in their CallIngs. It is realized that not all who Want to Come fing it Possible, cir. Cumstances and distances intervene, but their interest is there. The Messages of the Conference and the written Materia] sent to them are helpful. © Genera} Board Presses PPreciation O the wo derfu| Sisters ho come to Onfere, fo Spirit th Y¥ bring, thej €agerness learn, thei since 8ratitude Nd their Ppiness j; elr callin © expre Ur thanks to t families f kin ej attendance POssible hering togeth S Sisters to further th rk of the Urch is pI SING in the Sight of t Lo Leone G yton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Orlene J. Pou sen Aleine M Youn elva B Ashton Alice ¢. Ith arjorie M Reey, Ibert [ Christensen a J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis a J. Jones Winnief, - Manwaring Lila B, Walch Zelma R. West Helen G Lach ary R. Y, Lenore Cc. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R Pettit Fanny s lenitz arjorie C Pingree Reba O. Aldous Johna de leor Elizabet Winters arlene C Dedeking Luella w. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond lice | Wilki son lythe kK Watson Norma B. Ashton Nez T. Waldron Iren Uehner flen arnes Maurine M. H Anna Jean Skidmore Hazel s (7) Kathryn Ss. Gilbert my Y, Valentine lelen awn H Sharp Verda F Burton Marian R lover Arlene 5 Kirton 743 October 1970 Ra EE A is CONVERSION RULES CONTINUED (from page 722) 2. If the last name and address (house number and/or box number) are the same, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84302JPPS1163RR17 MAR71 | MRS. JANE R JEPPSON RALPH JEPPSON | 163 NORTH lST 163 NORTH lST BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 NOV74 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | B EL N-Ha 3. In rural areas, where house or box numbers are not used, if the names including the initials are exactly the same, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84302VLCRN259RJ15 NOV71 | MARY VALCAREE MARY VALCAREE RT 2 RT 2 BOX 59 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | B EL S-Pe 4. If the names are exactly the same but one has a box number and the other has no box number, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84314BNGHDA148F 10 OCT71 | MRS JANE BINGHAM JANE BINGHAM BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB72 BOX 14 Brig C-B C 13 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 5. If the names are exactly the same but one has a box number and a route number and the other has a route number only, these will be combined. SAMPLE 84302GVVS2338RN15 APR71 | NANCY GIBBS NANCY GIBBS RT 2 RT 2 BOX 338 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 MAR71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | B EL N-BR 6. If the names are exactly the same and both have the same route number and one has a box number or house number, these will be combined. In rural areas, subscriptions will not be combined unless the names are exactly the same. (Exception: Mrs. Has been added to one name, such as Fred Jones and Mrs. Fred Jones.) SAMPLE. 84302ERCKA102BE14 OCT70 | MRS EMMA ERICKSON EMMA ERICKSON BOX 102 BOX 102 11I5E7THS BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 OCT73 BEL-BCl 744 Era Subscription List __ Relief Society Magazine Subscription List If there are two Era subscriptions with the same address and one Relief Society Magazine subscription with the same address but different first names, the remaining months on the Relief Society Magazine will be divided between the two Era subscriptions. SAMPLE 84302GRAY-348N811 OCT71 | MRS JANET GRAY BRYAN GRAY 348 N 5TH E ST 348 N 5TH E BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JUL71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BELS-BC 16 84302GRAY-348NP18 OCT70 PAM GRAY 348 N 5TH E BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 8. If there are two Relief Society Magazine subscriptions and one Era subscription with the same last name, same address but different first names, the two Relief Society Magazine subscriptions will be combined and added to The Era subscription. SAMPLE 84302CEFL-294LR12 OCT71 | MRS MARILYN R CEFALO RON CEFALO 294 LINDA WAY 294 LINDA WAY BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 MAR71 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84302 | BEL-BC 11 MRS LOUISE MILLER CEFALO 294 LINDA WAY BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 JUNE 71 Can-C 7 If there are two Relief Society Magazine subscriptions with the same name and one has only a town address and the other has a box number, and an Era subscription with the same last name and box number, the two with the box number will be combined and the one with only a town address will be added to the adult magazine file. SAMPLE 84310KMMYON848H19 NOV70 | MRS JANE KAMMEYER DON KAMMEYER BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB71 BOX 84 Brig CBC 3 BRIGHAM CITY UT 84305 MRS JANE KAMMEYER BOX 84 BRIGHAM CITY UTAH 84302 FEB71 745 Era Subscription List Relief Society Magazine Subscription List Snow Cream Lena Mae Hansen @ "I declare! It looks just like a waterfall. Not a very pretty one, but a waterfall all the same." I knew Mama was talking about the tears that were streaming down my cheeks and bouncing off my chin, and that she was trying to tease a smile out of me, but I couldn't smile; I just couldn't. "Whatever is the cause of this sudden water gush?" Mama asked softly. I looked out the window where I had been watching, off and on, all day. "It's the weather," I sobbed. "Oh, Mama, it's the weather." I threw both my arms around her waist, and buried my sobs in the softness of her flowered dress. "T declare," Mama said again as she stroked my hair consolingly. "I knew the weather could cause waterfalls, but I didn't expect it to be the cause of this one." She pushed me gently away and looked intently at me. I knew she was surprised at my answer but it was true. I picked up a fold of her skirt and wiped my eyes vigorously on 746 — it. "It's only two days until Christmas," I sniffed in explanation, "and there still isn't a single flake of snow. There isn't even a sign of it," and I started to choke up again. "Now, honey," Mama sat me on a chair, "suppose you start at the beginning and tell me all about it." It was my turn to look surprised. It hadn't occurred to me that there was something Mama didn't know about even if she hadn't been told, she seemed that wise. So I explained about the snow cream, and what it meant to me. To me it was an important part of Christmas. Every year, after the holiday dinner, Mama had taken our big yellow bowl outside, and dipped it full of clean snow. Coming back in, she would pour a little cream, sugar, and vanilla in it, and stir it © lightly. I would watch her with sheer admiration while she scooped the little glass dishes full of the delicate white goodness, for to me the snow cream was the most delicious dessert in the whole world. I would put it in my mouth by tiny spoon- fuls and let jt completely melt Mama Said that it had Snowed before It slipped down My throat Once or twice where we were Channels an Int Stomach 80lng, but hat it very un remembered the ¢ Id SWeet Usual, and d P my Ind, aVory taste and h I had hen and here, that this Christ Wished, ch tj e€, tha aS would have ¢ an un Stomach yw, uld be go big I ould usual tj eat and €at and never be full, "Mama," I saig, "do you think € only had snow cream at It is sil] for me to wa some C ristmas €Ty special thing ¢ t more than J Want Occasions, because ama said 4 doll?" 7 d Sugar and cream were hard to "Not at all," M NSWereq come b "What is import nt to one Isn't remembered t evening to another, [f this j Mportant Papa came home 4nd told us he to You, then jt isn't Silly, had been Made Manager of the The next day Was chilly and new plant in the South, and we Clear, but being Christmas eve Were 80ing to Move, It was full of excitement, and "Be very carefy] of the yel- 7 forgot, temporarily, my anxiety e When she Packed the China. "We We had electricity in our new Want ¢ ave Te for home, and Purchased ristmas our home." — WO strings of little ]j hts to put Mama miled, «7° afraid on the ree. Th Ont room there won' be an Ore snow smelled Piney 800d, and we Cream," she Said. "] Cesn't sat in front he Cozy fire. Snow Te we 80lng. It Place listening to Mama tell the Trains." Story of Jesus Irth. E tree "No snow?" | could hardly bulbs were the only light In the believe my: room, and th 8lowed Warm] will be Other things to take talked © place of it » d the Subject a" €cause we are so Was closed, aS far as She was happy that Jesus Was born," Concerned, that is. Mama Was Saying, "we Celebrate "It just Trains," | mumbled to his birthday each December 25th, Myself arted to Pack m €sus came to earth because h rain Man, or Yiding ag Sled down learn to accept the fact that We 4 rainy hil]?" 1 We were tray | Even thoug She was tellin: ama," I said final] "won't the Story to all of y » I felt that It ever snow ere we're 80ing?" Mama tr to tel] me "Not likely," answered Something extra, but I didn't October 1970 know exactly what. Had come. As I stood looking bare ground, a feeling of disappointment touched my heart and caused me to hurt all over inside. IT must learn that I can't have everything [ want, I scolded myself silently to keep from crying. Then, turning around, I ran to the tree, picked up the beautiful grownup doll, and held her tightly to me hoping that no one had seen the big tear that fell in her almost rea] hair. Suddenly, through the blur in my eyes, I wooden bucket half hidden under a tree branch. Mama came Over and put her arm around my waist. "This is an ice cream freezer," she said, and She told us how it worked. Ile Mama made the ice cream custard, the rest of us helped Papa crack the block of ice he had purchased from the ice man. Saw the round - We took turns turning the crank connected to the top of the freezer. Round and round and round went the tall slim can sitting between the ice and the wooden bucket. At first the handle was easy to turn, then slowly it became harder and, it wouldn't turn at all. Off the lid. Everyone crowded around and looked down in. "Oh, Mama," I breathed, not daring to hope, "is it as good as snow cream?" "Taste it and see." Mama's eyes twinkled. He white mixture was creamy and smooth, and [| held a delicious spoonful in my mouth for a long moment before I swallowed. "It's even better," J hugged her again and again. Then, reaching up, I pulled her gently down so that her ear was very close to my mouth. "Put my share in the yellow bowl," | whispered softly. Ama smiled, and in her smile I saw that what was important to me was important to her. And as she handed me the bowl, I smiled back. This was the best hristmas ever. AR HOUSECLEANING TIME "ll sweep out all the tangled webs of apathy | find, Then dust out all the crevices of worry in my mind, Remove the curt ains of despair that blotted out the view, And polish windows of my soul to feel God's light shine through. —Wanda B. Blaisdell 748 r BY WILLARD LUCE P MEETING OF SEASONS Two seasons met on mountain heights in refreshing rivalry; Indian summer's loveliness, Swirling snow—sought supremacy. Autumn chose to linger awhile, Loath to relinquish a bright reign; Winter edged in persistently, Claiming the role as King again. In attainment they bless the earth; Nature adheres to staid reasons, Conditions the elements for Faith in the cycle of seasons. —Annie C. Esplin Cooking With Peanut Butter Julia Read Clark PEANUT BUTTER PIE Serve 8 Serve 100 eggs 2 2 doz. Corn syrup lc. 3 qt. Sugar lec. 3 qt. Peanut butter Wc. 6c. Vanilla 1 tsp. 2 tbsp. Unbaked 8-inch pie crust 1 12 or 13 Beat eggs. Mix eggs, corn syrup, sugar, peanut butter, and vanilla together. Pour into unbaked pie crust. Bake at 350° (moderate oven) 45 to 60 minutes, until top is brown and crisp. This tastes like an old-fashioned molasses pie. PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES Yield 4 to 5 Dozen Yield 200 lc. Fat 4c. 1 c. Peanut butter 4c. 2 c. Sugar, one white and one brown 4c. 2 eggs 8 2'2 c. Flour 3 qts. 1% tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Y tsp. Soda 2 tsp. Mix fat and peanut butter. Add both kinds of sugar, beat well. Beat in eggs. Mix flour, salt, and soda. Stir into peanut butter mixture. Make dough into small balls. Put on baking pan. Flatten with a fork. Bake at 375° (moderate oven) 10 to 15 minutes. PEANUT BUTTER FINGERS This candy is nutritious and delicious. It keeps well, travels well, and freezes well. Yield 75 Yield 450 1% Ib. Butter, melted 5% lbs. 1% c. Peanut butter 5%" c. 1 qt. Rolled oats or rolled wheat 1 gal. 1 tbsp. Vanilla YC. 2% Ibs. Powdered sugar 11 Ibs. 1 Ib. Raisins 4 lbs. 3 c. Coconut 3 qts. 1% c. Chopped peanuts (optional) 1% qts. Mix. Shape into finger size portions. Drop into chocolate glaze. CHOCOLATE GLAZE Yield 75 Yield 450 2% c. Chocolate chips llc. (semi-sweet) 1% sticks paraffin 10 sticks Melt together and turn balls in chocolate with fork. Turn balls in fingers and dip in chocolate with fork and drain on waxed paper. 750 Cooking With Peanut Butter BAKED CHICKEN WITH CRISPY PEANUT BUTTER COATING Serve 10 Serve 100 frying chicken (cut up) 4 Ibs. 4O Ibs. Flour lec. 4% c. Eges 1 14 peanut butter Cc. 3% c. Salt 1 tsp. 5 tbsp. Pepper Y% tsp. 2 tsp. Milk lc. 4% c. Dry bread crumbs le. 10% c. Melted butter or oil Yc, 3% c.. Dip chicken pieces in flour. Mix together eggs, peanut butter, salt, and pepper. Gradually add milk and stir well to blend. Dip chicken in peanut butter mixture and then in crumbs. Place chicken pieces on greased baking pans. Don't overlap. Drizzle oil over chicken pieces. Bake 375° for 45 minutes or until tender. This chicken is attractive and juicy, with a delicate nut flavor. PEANUT BUTTER FRENCH TOAST % c. Peanut butter Ya c. Milk 8 slices bread _ Y% tsp. Salt 2 eggs margarine or butter Spread peanut butter on 4 slices of bread; put other slices of bread on top to make 4 sandwiches. Mix eggs, milk, and salt. Dip sandwiches in egg mixture. Brown sandwiches in a little fat over low heat on both sides. Serves 4. PEANUT BUTTER BROWNIES - Yield 25 Yield 100 Y% c. Shortening le. % c. Cocoa 3c. Y% c. Butter 2 c. (1 Ib.) % c. Peanut butter 2c. 1% c. Sugar 642 qt. 4 eggs 6 eggs 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. 1 c. Flour 4c. Flour ¥% tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Y2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Melt shortening over low heat, add cocoa and mix until smooth. Let cool. Cream butter and peanut butter, add sugar gradually, and continue creaming until mixture is well blended. Add eggs and vanilla and mix. Add cocoa mixture. Mix to blend. Pour into greased baking pans to a depth of % inch. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. Cover with chocolate chips and let meit and spread for icing. Frosting Yield 25 Yield 100 '% c. Softened butter 2c. + 2 tbsp. Y c. Evaporated milk 2c. + 2 tbsp. Y c. Cocoa 2c. + 2 tbsp. 3 c. Confectioner's sugar 12 ¢. Ya tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Combine softened butter with evaporated milk. Add cocoa and beat vigorously. Add powdered sugar and stir until ingredients are well blended, then beat very hard. Add vanilla and salt. Spread on brownies. 751 Small Quilts AIT) Edythe K. Watson. Member, General Board of Relief Society Relief Society sisters are thrifty. Give them some scraps of gay colorful fabrics and they will surprise you. So it was with the Relief Society sisters of the Ogden Seventy-third Ward, Weber Heights Stake, when a thoughtful sister donated her accumulation of lovely, fine quality material scraps from her sewing days. Sister Karma Dixon, President of the Seventy-third Ward, gives credit to Sister Alexia. Smith and her assistant, Sister Lettie Revill, for the basic idea and design of this clever small quilt. LINING MATERIAL The quilt measures 45 by 60 inches. A very thin material, such as a used sheet, is used as a backing for the scraps or "crazy blocks." MAKING THE BLOCKS Any size fabric scrap may be used for a "crazy block," with the exception of very large pieces. Unusual shapes add interest to the overall pattern of the quilt. Sister Dixon recommends choosing pieces within the same color range or those of complementary colors for the individual quilts. Let the size 752 PHOTOGRAPH BY J M. HESLOP and shape of the blocks create the quilt design. Each piece is applied to the thin backing and pinned in place with every visible raw edge turned under, excepting the selvage. COMPLETING THE QUILTS When the backing is covered by the blocks in a pattern to your liking, sew by machine around each block with a medium zigzag stitch using the same colored thread for all blocks. Flannel is recommended for the back of the quilt. A print or figured pattern is most practical. A light batting is used as center padding. Sister Smith used three one-pound bats for four quilts. A one-pound bat will do nicely if you are making just one. Small Quilts That Qualify The quilt was marked easily by using a board four inches wide and long enough to mark the length desired in one continuous stroke. Medium-sized stitches, rather than fine ones, were used in quilting. The finishing was done by turning the two raw edges on each side of the quilt into the center and hemming by hand with a blind stitch. Where large pieces of material were available, blocks 7Y, inches square were made and matched with a complementary color for the quilt top. This however, was more time consuming and not nearly so interesting or unusual. Why not use the same process to make sleeping bags for children? SMALL BELL Here is the bell you gave me once to ring when | had need to bring my child from play; to tinkle on the lilac haze when spring moved down the street upon the lengthening day; At silver dusk, when children's laughter rang more gentle than the bell-tone on the air, or all the songs of birds that gaily sang, filling the world with wonder everywhere. The copper gong is gone from out the bell, as are the birds that sang in summer trees, the amber glow on fields where milkweeds fell in brilliant autumn, grieving on the breeze. Gone, too, the paths we walked, green, undefiled as the sweet notes of the bell. And oh, the child. —Christie Lund Coles 753 Lillian Livingston Woolley I held his small hand in mine as we walked through the woods, just the two of us. It was going on toward evening and the cooling air carried a lovely, woodsy fragrance. The sun had almost given up its striving to send shafts of light through the upthrust branches of the tall pines. Except for an occasional bird call, it was quiet, a kind of intense quiet that caused us to cease our chatter and to walk softly. Suddenly his hand tightened in mine. I looked down to see his eyes, wide with excitement and a little fear. His other hand pointed as he came to an abrupt stop. My eyes followed the line of direction indicated and came to rest upon a clump of thick underbrush.: And then I saw it, a small, furry head with large, velvety eyes and large pointed ears laid flat, was showing just above the grasses. Through the bushes we could see a little of the light brown body covered with small white spots. The tiny fawn remained motionless with only his eyes showing a sparkle of interest, curiosity, or perhaps it was fear; we could not tell. I smiled down reassuringly as we stood as motionless as the baby deer. There was a faint, rustling sound nearby. I saw the eyes of the tiny animal shift and felt the slight motion of the small body next to me as we all glanced to identify the sound. Very near on a small rise of ground, stood what I knew was the mother deer. Then several things happened almost at once. The doe made a stamping sound with her front hoofs and the baby's ears rose immediately to attention and, with an abrupt spring, the fawn was at his mother's side. They stood together looking at us, the mother's concern for the safety of her young evident in the trembling of her taut body and the watchfulness of her eyes. For a space of time we stood there, she with her son, I with mine. Then, with a rustle and a crackling of branches, they were gone. We didn't speak, my small son and I. We simply smiled as we continued our walk through the woods. HEART'S HAVEN Pale golden, under shades of night, The summer day is fading And ebony, beneath the light, Are cinder hills parading. The wind, across the miles of sage The foxtails' plumes is waving. The tangy perfume of the sage Sweeps on, wide spaces braving. Far to the east, the village lights Beckon our hearts to haven And all the deep peace of the plains Within our souls is graven. Nona H. Brown 754 fifty years working on genealogy. She has traced ten lines 8enerations. Roy First Ward, Lake View Stake, Ro In addition to » One as far back as seven her 8enealogy work, she her own bread, which Pays regular visits to the temple, bakes She shares with others, Sews, and embroiders lovely sets of Pillowcases. Her family of eleven Children, fifty-four and nine acd Des N an inspiratio Lettie Stoker, Y, Utah, has Spent more than YL. S—Part I Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society LOIS'S RICE WITH MUSHROOM ALMOND SAUCE 2 c. Cooked rice (keep hot) 1 c. Chicken stock or 2 chicken bouillon cubes 2 tbsp. Chopped onion dissolved in 1 cup hot water 2 tbsp. Butter Y% c. Sliced mushrooms 2 tbsp. Flour 2 tbsp. Butter Y2 tsp. Salt ¥% c. Sliced, toasted almonds dash pepper Sauté onion in butter. Add flour, salt, and pepper and cook until brown. Add stock. Stir constantly. Cook until thickened. Sauté mushrooms in butter and add to sauce. Add almonds. Serve hot sauce over hot rice. NORMA'S SPINACH CASSEROLE 1 10-0z. Pkg. Frozen spinach, ¥%c. Milk cooked and drained. 2 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 c. Cooked rice ¥% tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 c. Shredded sharp cheese 1 tsp. Salt 2 slightly beaten eggs % tsp. Rosemary, crushed 1 tbsp. Butter Mix all ingredients together and bake at 350 degrees for 20 to 25 minutes. Do not brown. All ingredients except milk and eggs may be prepared in advance and refrigerated until time to bake. ETHEL'S MACARONI MOUSSE 1 c. Elbow macaroni lc. Dry bread crumbs 1 green pepper 1 c. Grated nippy cheese.1 small can pimiento 1 c. Hot milk 1 large onion % c. Butter or substitute 3 eggs separated Cook macaroni until tender, drain, and grind with medium blade along with green pepper, pimento, and onion. Combine with crumbs and cheese. Add hot milk, melted butter, and slightly beaten egg yolks. Beat egg whites stiff and fold into macaroni mixture. Bake in large greased dripper pan or 3-quart casserole at 350° for 45 minutes. Cut in squares and serve with mushroom sauce. Serves 8 to 10. Sauce: 4 tbsp. Butter or substitute 2 cans cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Flour 1 4-0z. Can button mushrooms, drained % c. Milk 1 tsp. Lemon juice Melt butter and blend in flour. Remove from heat and stir in milk until smooth. Return to heat and cook, stirring constantly until thick and smooth. In separate bowl stir mushroom soup thoroughly with wooden spoon and add to white sauce. Blend, Add mushrooms and heat thoroughly. 756 Meatless Casseroles—Part II BETSY'S CHEESE FONDUE lc. Milk 2 tbsp. Melted butter 1 c. Soft bread crumbs Y tsp. Salt 1% c. Grated cheese dash of pepper 3 eggs Scald milk and combine with soft bread crumbs. Add next four ingredients. Stir in beaten egg yolks. Beat whites and fold in carefully. Pour into greased casserole pan and bake in pan of hot water for 30 to 45 minutes in 325° oven. Serves 6. Delicious when served with sauce. Sauce: % c. Grated raw carrots 1 tsp. Grated onion 3 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Chicken or meat stock 4 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Evaporated milk dash pepper Brown carrots and onions slowly in butter for 10 minutes, stirring frequently. Add flour and stir until smooth. Add stock and bring to boil. Add milk, chopped pimiento, and olives. BARBARA'S ENCHILADAS 1 can tortillas (15-18) 2 c. Grated cheddar cheese 2 small cans chopped ripe olives lc. Chopped raw onion Sauce: 2 small cans tomato sauce 1 tsp. Cumin or chili powder, to taste In a small pan pour about one inch of oil and heat to about 350°. Place tortillas one at a time in the hot oil just until soft. Do not let them get crisp. Place in the center of a tortilla about a tablespoon of cheese and about a teaspoonful each of olives and onions. Roll tortilla tightly and place in a 13 x 9 x 2" pan with the open side down. Continue until all the tortillas have been used. Prepare the sauce in a small saucepan and warm. Pour over the enchiladas and top with any remaining olives, onions, and grated cheese. Bake at 350° for about 30 minutes or until the sauce and cheese are bubbling and slightly browned. Serves 5-6. OCTOBER 21st Eyes blue, tears of pain, hair none, years come, autumn day, years wane. Golden sun. Loved and fed Crisp air, then wed. Leaves falling, It's nice to ''be."' mother sewing, Thanks, Mom daughter growing. For having me. Laughing joy, —Marilyn M. Oswald LATE WORD When the garnet and the gold of October Leave that final gray word of all dead fire, Sinking to ember in a red leaf caught in the stubble... —~ When all twigs blurr in a mist of mauve, —s | have seen birds leave earth for the glory of the sky; Where clouds gather the memory of all seasons And swirl it into a rainbow turbulence over death, A vast hosanna of hues, a concert of color in the sky. —Dorthy J. Roberts 757 Sot COMmmon Verda F. Welch I have seen the tamarisk bush in a field, unimpressive and unneeded, uprooted because it grew in the way of the plow. I have seen it cut into stove lengths to give quick heat to cook a meal and bake loaves of fragrant bread. In the summer I have seen it show its gratitude for deep draughts of water by bursting forth into a mass of beautiful, feathery pinkness. Even between blossomings, its dainty branches may be used as a filler for bouquets, its soft gray-green harmonizing with any color decor. It could be called a poor man's fern. On a crisp morning, especially after a fog-enshrouded night, I have seen the tamarisk adorned in king winter's richest mantle of silver and crystal, its boughs needled to catch and hold the frost, slender and supple to arch gracefully with the treasured weight. This beauty is mine outside my window. A Cora Hill Arnold "Mama, please lie by me a little while." He was three and ready for his afternoon nap. I decided the housework could wait a few minutes more. He snuggled up to me at first and then rolled a little away to get more comfortable. I reached over and took his soft, little hand in mine, and as I thought of how much I loved him, I held it more tightly. He immediately tugged to ge his hand loose. The tighter I held it, the harder he pulled. So I opened my hanc and he snatched his away. I left mine open close to him and soon I felt him carefully place his in mine again. This time I closed my hand very gently, so he could remove his any time he so desired. But he left it there until by his quiet breathing I knew he had fallen asleep. This day I have learned a lesson, I said to myself. I must not hold too tightly as my children grow towards adulthood. If I do, they will always be trying to get away and I will lose them. But if I hold just enough so they know I love them and am always there to listen when they need to talk, if I just let them know I trust them when they do leave—then it may be they will always return. HOPE Snow, deep snow everywhere, But high on a limb, a robin's there. —Grayce E. Cutler 758 SYNOPSIS: Lila and Norman go for a walk and Norman indicates deep feeling for Lila, but refrains from speaking of his love because of respect for Aunt Lucinda. Elizabeth is afraid that Lila may be hurt because of Scott's attentions to Elizabeth. The funeral is one of grace and dignity with f iends: coming many miles to pay tribute. Norman boards his plane just as an approaching tornado threatens the town of Skylark. Gw The black funnel-shaped cloud roared toward them as they ran to the parking lot. Johnny had parked his car near the entrance so they were among the first to swing out onto the highway. "We'll be lucky if we beat it home!" Johnny muttered. "That old cellar will feel mighty cosy." "Lila, take your key out of your purse. Every second counts," Steven advised. S/ The Secret of Blueberry | OL é Chapter 4 Cars crowded so close to each other Lila was almost more afraid of an accident than she was of the grinding roar behind them as the wooden bridge across the river was torn from its foundation. She covered her ears with her hands, but the noise grew wilder as railroad cars were sucked up from their tracks. Their own car swayed as the dark funnel sped toward them like a relentless beast. Closer. Closer. It was gaining momentum. "Take the lower road," Steven called from the back seat. His voice was calm, his manner at once professional with an outward demeanor of fortitude. I'm just a scared sissy, Lila 759 October 1970 thought. I'm so scared I can't breathe. Johnny turned off the highway onto the lower road but they were still in the path of the black funnel. They had barely whisked by the tall grain elevator when it smashed to the ground with a thunderous wail that echoed throughout the valley. "There goes the clubhouse," Elizabeth said, as another crash followed. "Don't take your eyes from the road, Johnny," Steven advised him. "We're still in its path. Our house is in the path this time." Lila looked at the speedometer. One hundred miles an hour. But the tornado was catching up to them! "Faster, Johnny," Steven said through clenched teeth. "We'll have to go all out to beat it!" Johnny let the car out to its full speed. The landscape was a blur. Lila closed her eyes. One bump in this old road, she thought, and we'll all go up like splinters in the wind. But Johnny's car was new and powerful and he drove it like a master. At last, and not one moment too soon, he swung onto Clover Street, slowed the car and they tumbled out into the house and down the cellar stairs. There wasn't time to catch their breath before the tornado struck. The old frame house trembled and cracked under its terrific force; even the ceiling of the cellar creaked and moaned. Johnny said: "If that ceiling doesn't hold, we're done for!" "T think it will hold," Steven assured him as the _ tornado swooped over them leaving a wild black wave of destruction 760 in its path. "Our house!" Lila sobbed. "Our house is gone. Blown away!" She was so terrified she reached out to Elizabeth, who held her tenderly. "We're safe down here," she said. "Aunt Lucinda said this old cellar was one of the best in Skylark." "Yes," Steven agreed. "It's deep enough to hold." "But look at the ceiling!" Johnny yelled. "It's sagging!" Lila straightened up. "Get the lumber beams," she told them. "They're far back on the cement ledge. They will brace the ceiling. Aunt Lucinda had them made—a long time ago." Steven and Johnny hauled them out and put them in place. "That did it," Johnny said. "It won't tumble in for a while anyway." "There isn't anything left up there to tumble in," Elizabeth said with a wry smile. "The McIntyre home has literally gone with the wind." "We're just waifs," Lila moaned. "No home. No Aunt Lucinda." Johnny said fiercely, "I'm glad she isn't here to see everything she owned and treasured blown to bits." Lila's head came up with a little jerk. "The letter," she said, over a little sob. "The letter she left for us—where has it gone? We don't know what she wanted us to do." Elizabeth lifted her shoulders the way Aunt Lucinda had done when there was a difficult job to be done. "She would want us to act bravely," she said. "We're not the only people in this neighborhood whose house was hit. We should thank Heavenly Father right this minute that we're alive and not hurt. We're able to go out there and help others who didn't reach their cellars or didn't have one to go to. A tornado is the craziest, most perverse thing in the world. It will skip some things and rip others wide apart and leave nothing but rubble in its path. This time, after all these years, we are part of the rubble." Her voice tightened: "But we still have each other—and a cellar." "You're right, Sis," Steven said in his quiet way. "We still have each other. Let's have family prayers." They placed the wooden chairs around the old table and knelt together as they had always done before they went to bed. Steven asked Heavenly Father for strength and wisdom in helping others and thanked him for their present blessings. 'Dear Lord," he added, "I know I am asking for a little miracle, but help us find the letter our dear Aunt Lucinda left for us so that we can fulfill any request she made." Even as they prayed the howl and roar of the tornado faded into the distance. "It's gone where the bad winds go," Johnny said. "Boy! That was the wildest one I ever listened to. And the only time I have ever really been in one." A grin tipped his mouth. "My red beauty brought us through. What speed! What a car!" Steven's mouth was a grim line. He put his hands on Johnny's shoulders. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "Little Brother, that was an emergency. We had to go that fast to beat the tornado. But don't try it again. I mean it. Believe me I have seen the results of speeding. I don't want that to happen to you. Don't do it again, Johnny." There was a tone in Steven's voice that Johnny didn't argue with. He turned his head and smiled at Lila. "Anything to eat down here?" he asked. "A fried doorknob would taste good to me." "Aunt Lucinda was always prepared," Lila answered. "I'll find something while the three of you go outside. I'm worried about the Wilkins'. They don't have a cellar." "You'll be okay here, Lila." Steven told her. "T want to see upstairs," she insisted. "Then Ill come back while you go out to look." Steven was the first one to venture up the stairway. The others followed, one at a time because the steps trembled and creaked with each pound of weight put on them. Lila cried out when she saw the jumbled mass of lumber and plaster; only the old upright piano stood in its usual place like a forgotten sentinel. The roof was gone, the walls were tumbled and everything else was blown away. The marble mantel where she had put the letter behind the clock was under the debris of plaster and wood and bricks from the fireplace. "Maybe the letter is under this pile of stuff," Lila said. So they lifted each piece of lumber and sifted the rubble with their 761 October 1970 fingers, searching each pile but finding nothing. "Go easy," Steven cautioned them. "There are weak spots in the floor. I can feel it shake when I walk on it. We don't want to break through. We have to use that cellar until we find out what happened to the town." "It hit the North River Clubhouse," Johnny reminded them. "That's not far from Main Street. Maybe the bank went, too." Lila noticed Elizabeth wet her lips. No doubt she was wondering what had happened to Scott. He had been on the road home from the funeral, but he had not gone to the airport, so he would have been ahead of the tornado. "Norman was the lucky one," Johnny said. "He got up there out of it." Steven frowned. "I hope so," he said. "There would be a crackup if the tornado caught a wing." Lila's heart beat up into her throat. Norman could be hurt somewhere and they wouldn't even hear about it. Telephone wires were down, electricity was off. Radio and television were dead. "We mustn't think his plane is down, Steven. Don't say that!" Her voice was brittle. "Facts are facets, Lila You have to learn to face reality. We hope he didn't crash, but we won't know for awhile." Lila tugged at Steven's arm. "But I can't bear it, Steven. What will this world be for me without Norman? He has always been here when I needed him. Now he might be alone and hurt— even dying. Find him for me, Steven." 762 She stood pale and trembling before them. They looked at her in amazement, but they did not speak. "I have to know what's happened to Norman," she repeated. "Find out for me, Johnny. Someone uptown will know if his plane crashed. Oh, Elizabeth—" Her hands went out toward her sister. "Why didn't I know what he means to me? Why! Why didn't I know?" E lizabeth put her arms around her and let her cry against her shoulder. "I don't know the answer, Baby," she crooned. "Sometimes we look for happiness in faraway places when it's right in our own backyard. But the tornado was quite low. I watched it from the car window. It seemed to skim the ground. So let's hope his plane got above it. It would have been destroyed if they hadn't taken off. In the meantime we have to remember something Aunt Lucinda told us a long time ago. No matter what happens you have to go on. So be a good girl. Go back downstairs and fix us something to eat. We'll be back after we search the neighborhood." At that moment Johnny called from the front yard. "My car! My car is gone!" They hurried out to him. There was no trace of Johnny's new car. "Sucked up in the funnel," Steven said. "I hope you have insurance, Johnny." "Of course I do. But I want that car. It was the best car I ever had. I'll find it piece by piece and have it put together." ""Oh, Johnny," Lila called out. "Look over there where the Wilkins' lived. Their whole house is gone! Where are those dear people? They didn't have a cellar. Their house was only a shell!" They ran across the yard to the Wilkins' place. The sunflowers were whipped to the ground, and lay like naked stalks. "T saw Casey on his bicycle after the funeral,' Johnny said. "Little Pearl and Mrs. Wilkins got in the Bryson's car," Elizabeth added. "Let's hope they took the upper road—maybe stayed with friends." "They got home," Steven said. He had gone ahead and was stooping over the silent forms of Little Pearl clasped in her mother's arms. A heavy beam had struck them, killing them both. "The car that brought them home must have got away," Elizabeth whispered. "Casey—" Lila breathed. "Where is Casey? He hasn't anyone but a distant relative— Australia, I think. What can we do?" "We can take him in," Steven said. "We can be his family." "Oh, let's do that," Lila said. "He will need courage." "Look—over there!" Johnny pointed toward the McIntyre front yard. "That old oak tree is our symbol of courage. Its leaves are gone, its branches are twisted and broken, but its roots are still down deep and solid." Steven nodded. "It's ready to send up whatever it needs to make branches and leaves grow again." A gleam of memory sparked Lila's heart. "Casey told me only a day ago that the oak tree made The Secret of Blueberry Hill him think of Aunt Lucinda and what she stood for. Something to cling to." Steven's eyes gentled as he looked down the highway. "I think that is a boy on a bicycle," he observed as his eyes narrowed. He took off his coat and put it gently over Mrs. Wilkins and Little Pearl. Johnny did the same thing. "Now we'll go together to meet the boy," he said. "He will need our love and our help." Lila was alone in the cellar. She sat on the edge of the old brass bed wondering where to find enough food for five people. Casey belonged to them now. With one accord they had reached out their arms of love to a stricken boy and soothed him until the shock lessened. Now he had gone uptown on his bicycle to inform the mortuary of the tragedy of his mother and Little Pearl. Johnny had gone with him riding the handle bars of Casey's 763 October 1970 bicycle. Lila had to smile remembering how ridiculous he looked. "We'll take turns pedaling," he told Casey. "Let's just hope this bike can take the load." "It's a good bike," Casey said firmly. "Miss Lucinda gave it to me. She bought the best." Lila watched them ride away, then she turned back to what was left of the McIntyre house. Elizabeth was standing by the old upright piano talking to Steven. "That tornado was_ plain crazy," she told him. "It whirled away Johnny's new Dardenella and left this old piano without a scratch. You tell me why, Dr. McIntyre?" "No comment," Steven answered dryly. '"Now, let's search the nearby houses. Someone might need help." Lila had gone back to the cellar alone. It was late afternoon and the faint light coming through the windows would be gone before long. She must find candles and matches. They had an old lantern somewhere down here. She began the search. Everything was covered in a heavy dust either shaken down from the ceiling or blown in through cracks. The matches were in cans on the cupboard shelf, candles were in a larger can, and in the tall space underneath the cupboard she found the lantern full of oil. Aunt Lucinda had thought of everything. As Lila dusted the table and -hung the lighted lantern on a post nearby she thought about Johnny's words before he rode away. "I'll find out about Nor- 764 man's plane," he had promised. "Maybe telephone wires aren't down on the upper road. Keep hoping, Lila Bob. No time to mope." Lila lifted her chin. Johnny was right, this was no time to mope. There was work to do. She found a can of ham, cans of pineapple and peaches and a big cellophane sack of potatoes ready for frying. A crock of sweet pickles was beside the cupboard and inside on the upper shelves there were boxes of crackers, canned milk, and a large can of sweet potatoes. How did sweet potatoes taste when they were cold, she wondered as she fumbled through the cupboard drawer looking for a can opener. Then on the lower shelf far back she saw some canned heat. It was old and probably dried up by now, she thought. Aunt Lucinda had said only a few weeks ago that everything down here needed to be replaced. Lila winced as she remembered what an effort it had been for Aunt Lucinda to come down _ the cellar steps on account of her knee. She should have taken over the task and she had really meant to do so, but like everyone else she had put other duties first, she thought reproachfully. But, anyway, she decided, she would do the best she could with what she had. There were plenty of dishes and stainless steel cutlery stored in a barrel near the window; towels and cloths of all sizes were neatly folded. Lila draped a large white cloth over the table and placed the stainless at each place and put the white china plates at Steven's place. He would serve what they had to eat from the head of the table. He liked to do that when he was home. She cut the ham into slices and carefully rinsed out the old iron skillet with the emergency water. Then she opened three cans of canned heat and struck a match. A grateful sigh parted her lips when a blue flame sparked up from two cans. The third was dried out so_ she opened another can. The ham was fried, the potatoes heated, pickles and fruit and crackers spread with cheese heaped on platters, when she heard steps on the stairway. They hadn't been gone very long and Lila hoped that meant they hadn't found anyone in distress. But no one offered to explain. "Smells good down here!" Steven beamed at her. "Lila Bob, you are a miracle worker. Look at this banquet. Fit for a king, I'd say!" "Everything is ready but the milk gravy," she said as she added some of the emergency water to the canned milk. "How much water do we have?" he asked. "Could we spare a drop to wash our hands in?" ' "There's plenty." She handed him a bottle. "No doubt folks who weren't hit will bring supplies soon. You know how we did when we were the lucky ones." "We are the lucky ones," Elizabeth corrected her. She covered her eyes with her hands. "Were there—many—hurt?" Lila questioned. "They were gone!" Steven answered. "Simply gone. Why The Secret of Blueberry Hill did they permit people out here to build houses without safety cellars? They were frame boxes carried away. Everything gone that was on top of the ground." "Everything but our old piano," Elizabeth reminded them. "T'll always keep that piano as a momento. It has some sort of magic endurance power." "Aunt Lucinda gave it to you when you took your music lessons," Lila said, as she made the milk gravy from the ham juice. An automobile horn honked out in front. In a moment Casey and Johnny came down the stairway. Scott Harrington followed them. "Come in. Come in." Steven went to meet him. Lila hurriedly set another place and Johnny pulled up an extra chair. Then he reached over to pick up a cracker, but Lila slapped his hand. "No, Johnny MclIntyre! You wait for the blessing," she - scolded him. "This food is manna from heaven." "It is!" Steven agreed as they took their seats and bowed their heads. Lila noticed that Casey scarcely tasted his food. His eyes were stricken with grief and his young body sagged wearily. He is so young, she thought, to have lived through so many heartaches. He must have food, he hasn't eaten all day. "Casey—" she smiled across the table at him. "I wish you would try my gravy. I remember how you like bread and gravy. We haven't any bread but crackers are good." Scott got to his feet. "We do have bread," he said. "Out in " 765 October 1970 the car. Bread, cake, eggs, butter, everything I could think of. I need you to help me, Casey." Casey unwound his long legs and stood up. "Sure, Mr. Harrington," he said and followed Scott up the stairs. After they were gone Elizabeth looked around the table at her brothers and sister. Her eyes had little sparks in them. "He does have a heart," she said. "People here in this town think he's a sort of Shylock because he's a banker who has to say no at times. But he is kind. He knew that Casey has to make an effort. He made him respond.". "That's not all, Elizabeth," Steven said in his wise way. "We should all make Casey think that we need him. He's been the man of the house since his father was. Killed. And now...." Steven shrugged. Lila said, quickly: "Scott can give him a job at the bank—errand boy or something where he is needed." "We must all need him," Elizabeth said. "We must make him help us." "That's so right, Elizabeth," Steven agreed. "I've been thinking," he went on. "Do you realize that if we hadn't had this old cellar we would have been carried out there in Johnny's car and scattered around. That's a why I want to build a hospital }{// with an emergency cellar where people could come if they needed vo." "We'll need a pile for that rupted. "But I'll put up what I've saved and pledge' whatever you say, Steven." \ Xd. "Till ask Scott for a loan— 766 Pb sort of thing,' Johnny inter~, right today," Elizabeth offered. Lila drew in her breath for courage before she spoke. "Elizabeth—Scott doesn't own the bank or its money. He is the president, but every loan has to go before the board of directors and there must be security before they will grant a loan of such a large amount. We'll have to make it a civic project—a pledge from every citizen. We'll have to ask the Woman's Guild and the North River Club—" "Blown to bits," Johnny interrupted again. "There's nothing left there but a ghost house like ours." "But the wealthy men who built it still have their money," Elizabeth argued. "We're going to build a hospital here if I have to canvas the town in my bare feet." "Who's going where in her bare feet?" Scott asked from the doorway as he and Casey came in loaded with bags and parcels of all sizes. "Put them on the bed," Johnny said. "That's the only place. Say, Lila, can we heat up that gravy again?" "Sure we can," Lila said. Y IK whi N94 | "Casey, will you open another can of heat? I'll add some of that butter. Thank you, Scott. You thought of everything." He stood there tall and dignified with his arms full of groceries. "Your Aunt Lucinda taught me what to bring in an emergency," he said. There was a tone in his voice that made them all listen. "I was only twelve years old when the tornado struck our house on Center Street. We had a cellar with a few supplies— about enough for one meal. Then your Aunt Lucinda came in with supplies. Everything we needed. She did that for everybody who was caught in the path that day. Each of us thinks it will keep on missing us. Then bam! We're right in the middle of that awful roar and whirling. I know what it's like." His voice softened. "I lost my mother in that one." The cellar was quiet as a church. Casey's back was toward them as he put the parcels on the bed. Lila had lighted the last of the canned heat. She watched the flame flicker then turn steady and blue. "It's going to burn okay, Miss Lila," she heard Casey say beside her. "Are you ready for the butter?" "Yes, Casey, will you bring it to me?" Lila was sure that never in her life would she forget Scott Harrington eating bread and milk gravy with Casey and Johnny. And she would remember, too, the glow in Elizabeth's eyes when she cut each of them a piece of cake. At last Scott left them with a The Secret of Blueberry Hill promise that he would come back to tell them as soon as the trailers he had sent for arrived in Skylark. "Maybe by tomorrow. Every place in town is crammed full of people with no homes to go to. We'll get as many trailers as possible and put them in the park. I'll see you are taken care of. Good night, now." They heard his footsteps across the ceiling. A little spray of plaster sprinkled down on them with each step. "Those trailers had_ better come by tomorrow," Steven commented. "Lila, you and Elizabeth can share the old bed. Johnny and I saw two cots and Johnny's old sleeping bag back there on the ledge. Casey can use the sleeping bag." After Lila was in bed Johnny came to her side of the bed and sat down beside her. His eyes had told her earlier there was no news of Norman. "Norman?" she questioned. "Oh, Johnny, isn't there one word?" "Not a word," he repeated. "That plane just went off into space. But nobody in town knows anything for sure. Some folks have been found blocks away still alive and not badly hurt. I think Norman will come back to us. He's one of those people, Lila Bob, who can come down a mountain on his head." "I know..." she whispered. "He has to come back, Johnny. So I can tell him—I care." "Go to sleep now," Johnny said. "But don't forget tosay your prayers.." This time, Lila thought, Johnny wasn't teasing her. 767 October 1970 Lila stared up into the darkness. Ever since she could remember Norman had been in the background of her life. She had taken him for granted, she thought brokenly; she squeezed her eyes shut and felt the wet tears on her cheeks. If his plane had crashed he might be out there alone in need of help. He might be dying. Dear Heavenly Father, she prayed, give me a chance to let him know how much I want to take care of him. Her eyes closed wearily and she drifted off to sleep. The sound of someone moaning awakened her. She sat up, instantly alert. Elizabeth had heard the sound, too. "Steven!" she called out. "Johnny! Casey!" Lila lit the candle she had put on the table beside the bed. - 7 = ee eee boueec He aes "Johnny's gone!" Steven started toward the _ stairway. Casey followed, then Elizabeth and Lila with the candle. Johnny was on the floor near the mantel. He must have been searching through the rubble for the letter when the chimney bricks toppled over him. He was unconscious. "Look—his hand!" Elizabeth was frightened. "Steven, that old beam he fell on had a nail in it. An old rusty nail. It's gone through his right hand!" "Get me some water and a clean cloth," Steven ordered. "Casey, get dressed. Ride your bike to Scott Harrington's apartment. He'll be able to contact the druggist. We must sterilize this at once. His hand is swelling. Elizabeth—hold him. Put both arms around him while I pull this nail out. He's still unconscious but it might wake him up. Lila, put the candle here on the floor while you get the water." By the time Lila returned with the water and cloths Steven was examining the nail in the dim candle light. "Not much blood," he commented. "The wound should bleed to cleanse itself. Has Casey left yet?" "He's on his way," Lila answered. "It's so dark out there. No street lights. No moonlight." "He's a good boy," Steven said. "He'll find his way. Aunt Lucinda gave him that bike. I'll bet it has a battery light on it." He bathed Johnny's swollen hand. It looked dark and ugly. "That's his drawing hand," Elizabeth said in a low voice. "Nothing must happen to that hand—here let me draw out the blood—it's poison." Lila turned away. She felt sick all over. "Tl get the bed ready," she said A few minutes later Steven and Elizabeth carried Johnny down the narrow stairway, feet first. They put him on the bed. His hand was bandaged but Steven watched it carefully. Johnny's eyes flickered open. Closed, then opened again. It was dawn outside. The sun was a pink mist against the cellar windows. Lila blew out the candle. "We haven't many left," she explained. "T hope we get out of here today," Steven said, grimly. "I don't trust that ceiling:" Johnny groaned and moved his arm. "Stay quiet, Johnny," Steven said close to his ear. The Secret of Blueberry Hill "What—happened?" Johnny asked. "The chimney tumbled on you. A rusty nail went through your hand." "Rusty!" Johnny "Ts it bad, Steven?" "Your sister took care of that. I think it's all right." repeated. OJ ohnny looked at each of them, then his eyes came back to Elizabeth. He grinned at her. "Remind me to kiss you when I can get ups Elizabeth gave him a kiss and a tight little hug. "I should give you a big kick for prowling around up there in the middle of the night," she scolded. "Now listen," he protested. "We need that letter. It was Aunt Lucinda's last word to us. We've got to find it." "It's like looking for the proverbial needle in a_ haystack," Steven muttered. "Maybe Orson Ketchum knows what she wrote. We'll contact him as soon as possible." "T don't think he knows," Lila said. "He told me not to lose it, to put it in a safe place." "You did!" Elizabeth agreed. "No one is to blame because a tornado struck the house." She got to her feet, pacing back and forth. "Steven and I should be out there searching— someone might need us...." "We've been needed here," Steven cut in. "We'll go later, after Lila gets our breakfast." Elizabeth helped her. Everything had to be served cold. Lila had used the last of the canned heat for the milk gravy the night before. 769 October 1970 "What's wrong with cheese for breakfast?" Elizabeth laughed. "And the milk is still sweet." "And strawberries!" Lila exclaimed, lifting two boxes from one of the sacks Scott had brought in. "He didn't mention strawberries last night." "He was looking at our sister,' Johnny teased. "Don't be silly, Johnny," Elizabeth scoffed. But Lila noticed that her eyes were very bright. "T hey ate their breakfast, each occupied with his own thoughts. Johnny went to sleep again and Steven bathed his swollen hand several times. Lila noticed the swelling was subsiding but there were still angry red marks around the wound. "This whole thing is a lesson in patience," Steven said, walking toward the window. "We are accustomed to telephones, giving orders, pushing buttons. Getting what we need on the spot!" Elizabeth shrugged. "Think of the pioneers. This gives us a faint idea of what other people have gone through to survive. We take all our comfort and luxury for granted.": "I wish they would bring that medicine," Steven demanded. "Then I would feel better." Elizabeth unwound the bandage and looked carefully at Johnny's hand. "No worse," she told them. "There comes a car," Steven called. "Wait a minute. It's not Scott's. Hey, Lila Bob! Here's your tall lanky Norman. He has his arm in a sling and he looks all scooped out, but he's on both feet!" 770 Lila ran to the stairs. "It is Norman," she breathed. He was standing beside the car, surveying the ruins of the old house. His face was drawn and pale and his eyes were haggard. But he was able to stride toward them with that familiar swing in his walk. Norman had come back to her! She went up the stairs, walking on air. He was already halfway across the floor. "Norman—oh, Norman," she breathed his name and held his free hand in both of her own. "You're hurt," she murmured. "Only a broken arm," he told her. "And a few bruises. We were lucky. We got out of the way of the tornado at take-off but the pilot lost his way up there. We landed ina wheat field in the middle of the night. When we got back to town and heard where the tornado had struck, I was half crazy. You might have been blown away forever!" "T know." Her voice was a caress. "Norman, I prayed you would come back.... You mean the world to me. I know that now." A little muscle jerked in his jaw and his strong mouth curved into a wondrous smile. "Say that again!" he whispered, holding her hands against his breast. "Tell me I mean something special to you. Tell me again." "Oh, you do, Norman, you do!" she whispered back. "There never has been anyone else, Lila Bob. I'd walk on nails to get to you." "Don't you dare!" she said fiercely. "Speaking of nails—"' her voice grew serious—"Johnny had an accident." Quickly she explained about the rusty nail and that they were waiting for medicine. "Tll go for it,' he offered. "Johnny's hand means his life work. I'll say hello downstairs first." Scott arrived while Norman was greeting the others. He had brought a package of medical supplies. "T'm late—but I had to go to the mortuary with Casey. The Relief Society sisters are with him." His eyes went to Steven and Elizabeth taking care of Johnny's hand. "As soon as you can leave Johnny with Lila and Norman I'll take you to some people who are in desperate need of your attention. Old Dr. Hartford is almost worn out." The Secret of Blueberry Hill Elizabeth lifted her head and looked directly at Scott. Her eyes challenged him. "We need a hospital in this town, Scott," she said in a firm, steady voice. "We need a good one with a safety cellar full of medical supplies ready for emergencies. It will cost money. Steven and I will give what we have saved to start the project. What can your bank do to help us?" His steel gray eyes met the challenge in her own. They are a match for each other, Lila thought. No other woman that she knew of had ever demanded anything of Scott Harrington. "I am only the president of the bank," he told her. His voice tightened. "But I promise you I will do everything I can to help. I'll even give of my own money. You have my word, Elizabeth." "That's all I ask," she said as her eyes went back to Johnny. "You have my word, too," Johnny teased her. "And the thirty bucks I've saved." "He's all right now," Steven said. "We can leave him here with Norman and Lila. Keep the bandage wet with this solution." "The trailers will be here today," Scott told Lila. "Electricians are on the job. So we'll be back for you when they get here. Tonight you'll all sleep and eat in style." "In two-by-four style," Johnny smiled. "Get us a couple of trailers, Scott. There are six of us now Norman is back." Scott turned at the stairway. His hair was still neatly combed, his clothes were immaculately clean, but there was a smudge of dark soot across his. Cheek. 77 October 1970 Elizabeth lifted her hand and wiped it off with a clean cloth. "Make it seven," he said and his mouth quirked. "Id like to be asked to dinner." Lila walked up the cellar stairs and watched them drive away in Scott's car. She turned back to Norman and Johnny with a little tremble in her voice. "Steven and Elizabeth are so wonderful. They never say they are too tired—they never complain—no job is too hard for them. I wish I could be in their places." "You've got a couple of wounded guys right here," Johnny told her. "Norm and I only have two good hands between us. And listen, little sister," he sat up, "while we're passing out bouquets don't forget a few flowers for Scott. That man really came through when the chips were down. He took care of Casey at the mortuary, he's been at our beck and call and other people's, too. Who brought the milk and the strawberries and the cheese?" "And the medicine," Norman added. '"He's been up all night." "T thought he was a stuffed shirt," Johnny said. "How wrong I was." "Me, too," Norman agreed contritely. "It goes to show that we don't really know people until we see them in a crisis." His eyes went over Lila tenderly. "Look at your little sister, Johnny. Taking care of everybody down here in the grime and rubble. Fixing meals, washing dishes in cold water, worrying about us." Johnny reached over and poked his fingers through Lila's hair. "Oh, this little Goldie Locks," he winked at Norman. "She looks 772 like a dainty pink rosebud but she's a workhorse when the going gets tough. I rather like the kid." "A pink rosebud," Norman repeated, looking at Lila. Their eyes held a moment. A little sigh parted Lila's lips. Those two were wonderful guys. They had a language all their own. Johnny lay back on the pillow. Then he suddenly bolted upright and pointed toward the ceiling. "Look! Up there! Don't tell me I'm dreaming. Isn't that white paper sticking out of the plaster the tip of an envelope. It's the letter! Where is the ladder, Lila?" Norman and Lila stared up at the ceiling. They saw the white tip of paper. It might be the letter. Norman said in his quiet way. "Cool down, Johnny. We might pull the ceiling loose if we tug at it. Let's take it easy." "T'll get the ladder myself," Johnny called out stubbornly as he swung his legs over the side of the bed. "Wow! I'm dizzy!" "Let's wait for Steven," Lila said. "Norman has only one hand to use. He can't hold up a ceiling it it starts to crumble. Now listen, Johnny. Try to figure it out. That letter is near the back wall where the piano is." She looked at Johnny and Norman with shiny little glints in her blue eyes. "I'll bet it was blown under the piano and something snagged it and held it there. Everything else was ripped out into space but the old piano wouldn't budge. Bless that old thing. Wait until Elizabeth hears this." (to be concluded) Relief Society Activities Since The i Relief Society Magazi iety Presidents an i ZINe will discontinue Publication with the December 19 Mission Relief Upervis, are adviseg to make NO further 5 From the Fiel asa Sufficient Mber of No Magazine, i + Stake Uubmissions of "N and for the remaj 'aining issues Of the u rd m td Were dre Ouses. A © book IStory Of Relies Soci ty was Presenteg Ow. A Short history Of her life was Presenteg and a Original Song lizabeth Stewart, ke Organist, Was SUNg to her. Ily and Our Stake Presidency, hig Council, and bishopric 500 enjoyed th Wonderf, ea! Anned a October 1970 Sherma Jensen, as themed 'My Cup O and well-organized, Brazil South Missi Annual Conference, ' Brazilian m was pre "with much care, a progra peakers. Informed Ss nce." Swiss Mission, "Spring in Left to right: Faye Brady, tary; Jean Anderson, First Counselo - Dean Fen Supervisor, Melba Christensen, inviting the m. The theme fo and Tur Relief Society program. Consisted of Turkish foods, as decorations." 774 Relief Society, © program spon i ¢ Your Life. 'de of a woman on Relief Soc South Miss With Blessings: an Adan Turkey," April 19, 1970 rce,; Shauna J Sharron Guthrie; Ninth Ward Presents i| 11, 1970 eports: sored by Re d five accompanists. Relief Society iety Holds February 13-14, 1970 irection of the Doli Daea sented wi Mission P a Branch (Turke is lief Society. The ion Relief Society, th detailed instr resident Thomas 's life. It was More than 350 president in the reports:; was enjoyed by on Relief Society d Secretary missi | Boyer, an uctions, orientations, F. Jensen presid y) Presents ohnson, SecreSociety; Barbara Bethany, S a Wi iad as Az: crt U October 1970 Tulsa Stake (Oklahoma) Relief Society Presents "Wonderful World of Women," May 16, 1970 Depicting the "Era of the Future," left to right: Maria McClure; Dawn Maria Hassell; Dianna Hassell; Linda Westcott; Sondra Hine. Virginia L. Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Each ward | in our stake, and each branch, assumed the responsibility for preparing a number on the program representing the era of each of the nine sisters who have served as General President of Relief Society, and one ward prepared for the era of the future. "The program was written by Pat Hunt and Hannah Fanning, and narrated by Sister Fanning. It was a most wonderful and enjoyable program and informed the sisters about the work of Relief Society. Refreshments were served and homemaking displays were enjoyed by everyone." | | — Sacramento Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present ''Kaleidoscope of Song," April 24, 1970 Standing in front row at extreme right of picture: Onita Davis, accompanist and Caroline J. Ewing, director of Sacramento Stake Singing Mothers. Annabelle G. Nosler, President, Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Over 300 enjoyed our 'Kaleidoscope of Song' presented by our Singing Mothers. Following the concert, refreshments of homemade cookies and fruit punch were served. We are most appreciative of the efforts of the sisters in our stake." ————— Sharon East Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present "Singing Through the Years," March 31, 1970 Left to right: Florence Rogers, chorister, Sharon East Stake Relief Society; Virginia Larson, organist; Mary Olson, First Counselor; Sarah Grow, President; Norma Gardner, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Grow reports: "'In commemoration of the birthday of Relief Society, the Singing Mothers presented an hour of beautiful choral and instrumental music. The script for the occasion was written by Arta Ballif. "Following the program, refreshments were served from four banquet tables decorated in Relief Society colors. In the center of the room was a round table draped in blue satin upon which was placed a gold five-tier birthday cake made by Sister Cherrie Lyon. The Relief Society symbol was placed atop the cake. All seventeen wards participated." 776 October 1970 Albuquerque Stake (New Mexico) Relief Society Presents '"'Come Unto Me," May 22, 1970 First, tenth, and eleventh in front row from left: Maxine T. Seymour, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society; Georgia M. Jones, Homemaking Counselor; Marilyn D. Ellison, pianist. First and second in second row: R. Glen Humphries, narrator; Marilyn S. Humphries, chorister. Tenth in third row: Gylynn B. Hudiburg, Education Counselor. Seated at organ: Floyle P. Merrill, organist. | Sister Seymour reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake presented 'Come Unto Me,' by Alberta H. Christensen. An enjoyable evening was spent by all who attended. Refreshments were served by stake board members.": i Cleveland Stake (Ohio) Pays Honor To Visiting Teachers, May 16, 1970 Front row, left to right: Gertrude Guynip; Pearl Huston; Velma Enkeman. Back row, left to right: Katherine Edwards; Doris Conley; Vivian Silliman; lrene Adams; Charlotte Beeler. Helen E. Noble, President, Cleveland Stake Relief Society, reports: "We honored our visiting teachers with a special luncheon and program which ninety-five sisters attended. Inspirational talks were given, and the Singing Mothers provided lovely music. "One sister from each ward was specially honored for outstanding service. Each | was presented with a folder of a color poloroid photograph of herself receiving the award. These sisters will treasure them always." a Franco-Belgian Mission, Brussels-Liége District Presents ''Fancy-Fair," April 11, 1970 Sheila Ann Brown, Supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The theme for the annual 'Fancy-Fair' held in the Brussels-Liége District was 'If All the People in the World Wished to Extend Their Hands in Friendship.' The six participating branches chose to represent Belgium, the United States, the Far East, Holland, Hungary, and Italy. "The entire evening was planned harmoniously around these countries with people dressed in colorful costumes, programs, foods, decorations, songs, and dances from the various countries. For one evening, at least, the guests knew the charm and delight of a world as it would be if all the people would extend their hands in friendship. "The picture is of the participants from the Verviers Branch who chose to represent Hungary and were taught songs and dances by a Hungarian couple." 778 October 1970 Rigby Stake (Idaho) Presents Visiti onvention, i ng Teacher April 18, 1970 Ored for lon j "Ten Sisters Were ho They were representeg by a Condition an fifty years seryj S with those ce as Visiting teachers. Ister Mame Smith who Contrasteq Present-day €xperienceg asa newly 9PPointed Visiting teacher.» 780 are ——————" eee _~ / atta — me ———— — * * *) KR eading Assignment: Moses, Cnapters 2 and 3: Abraham, Chapters 34.5 Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting January 197] Southern HemisphereFirst Meeting June 197] OBJECTive. To Point out to the Latter-day Saint Wwoma () n the rderliness of God's Creations and the need to have Order in her Own Sphere of activity, Phe Story of the creation of Specific information on this subthe earth, vegetation, animals, ject, we ean rely upon Our faith and man Tevealed jin the Scripand knowledge that the following tures js briefly told. Yet Out of modern Seripture is ty ue: Means have been Used to bring Thus when the Savior comes SUCCessfy] answers. Although this and ushers jin his millennja] €sson is about the Creation, there reign, al] things will be Tevealed, Will not be an attempt to answer €ven how the earth and things OW the €arth was Made nor Upon the €arth were Created. So how Man and Other living things ifa Latter-day Saint is Concerned 781 October 1970 with various theories concerning creation, he should remember that what is postulated by science today is not necessarily true, else why would the Lord say he is going to reveal the truth during the great millennium, yet future? Apparently, information about the specifics of creation was given to the saints in a former dispensation—at the time the brother of Jared was enlightened by the premortal Jesus Christ. (Eth. 3:20-28.) Moroni, writing at the end of the Nephite dispensation, said that things would be withheld from the people in the latter days until they repent of their iniquity. (Eth. 4:5-7.) The sealed portion of the Book of Mormon plates containing this information will not be revealed "until the own due time of the Lord." (2 Ne. 27:7-11.) Class Discussion Though one may want to know the scientific theories of creation for academic purposes, what position would a Latterday Saint take toward them? MAN STANDS IN AWE One need only look into the heavens on a clear night and see the multitudinous heavenly orbs to stand in awe at the wonder of all these creations. It is then that man may receive a sense of his own littleness. The Latterday Saint is reminded of the Lord's words to his servant Joseph Smith in a modern revelation: And again, verily I say unto you, he hath given a law unto all things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets. 782 And they, give light to each other in their times and in their seasons, in their minutes, in their hours, in their days, in their weeks, in their months, in their years—all these are one year with God, but not with man. The earth rolls upon her wings, and the sun giveth his light by day, and the moon giveth her light by night, and the stars also give their light, as they roll upon their wings in their glory, in the midst of the power of God. Unto what shall I liken these kingdoms, that ye may understand? Behold, all these are kingdoms, and any man who hath seen any or the least of these hath seen God moving in his majesty and power. (D&C 88:42-47.) The vastness of the seen and the unseen heavenly bodies is a matter of constant wonderment. One astronomer suggests that on a clear night one may probably, without benefit of a telescope, see only about 3,000 stars.... To imagine the total number of stars in the sky we must think of a huge library of at least half a million books, each like this. All the letters of type on all the pages of all the books of this library will be about equal in number to the stars in the sky. If we read at the - rate of a page every minute for eight hours a day, it will take us 700 years to read through this library. In the same way, if we count the stars at the rate of 1500 a minute—25 a second—it will take us 700 years to count them all. Our earth is a tiny appendage to one, and a rather inconspicuous one, of this vast multitude of stars. It is less—very much less—than the dot of an "i" in our library of half a million volumes; it ought rather to be compared to a microscopic speck of dust imprisoned between two pages. (Sir James Jeans, The Stars in Their Courses [New York: Macmillan Co.; Cambridge: University Press, 1931], p. 107. Reprinted by permission. ) Astronomers inform us that by great telescopes man is able to fathom only partially the tremendous formations of stars, dust, and gas, called nebulae, or galaxies, each being more or less similar to our own galaxy, which is one of the largest. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in calling attention to the fact that our galaxy, shaped like a wheel, is over 100,000 light years in diameter and is revolving about a group of stars that seem to be in the hub, reminded his hearers of the following verses from the Book of Abraham: And I saw the stars, that they were very great and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of God; and there were many great ones which were near unto it; And the Lord said unto me: These are the governing ones; and the name of the great one is Kolob, because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord thy God: I have set this one to govern all those which belong to the same order as that upon which thou standest. (Abr. 3:2-3.) (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Who Was This Jesus?" Speeches of the Year 1951- 1959, pp. 4-5.) The Lord said to Moses that he had created "worlds without number":... There are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man, but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them. (Moses 1:35.) In the great vision received by Abraham through the Urim and Thummim, hesaw God's creations "which were many; and they multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof." (Abr. 3:12.) JESUS CHRIST AS CREATOR One of the ways in which Jesus is the "Father" is by his being the Creator of worlds. (James E. Talmage, "The Father and The Son: A Doctrinal ExposiLesson Department tion by The First Presidency and the Twelve," Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1924], pp. 465-67.) To the Prophet Joseph Smith he said that he was the one who created the heavens and the earth. (D&C 14:9; 76:24.) He testified to the Nephites that he was the Creator of all things. (3 Ne. 9:15.) Unto Moses it was revealed that the Father "by the word of [his] power... Which is [his] Only Begotten Son," Jesus Christ (Moses 1:32), created worlds, and thus our Savior was the executive through whom the will of the Father was put into effect. These creative powers belong to the Gods, who, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, constituted a council which planned and created the world and its inhabitants, information which was also revealed to Abraham. (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1938], p. 349 [hereafter referred to as Teachings]; Abr. 5:1-3.) Included in this council were Adam and probably many others—as President Joseph Fielding Smith says, perhaps Enoch, Noah, and others of the prophets. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, comp. Bruce R. McConkie [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1954], vol. 1, pp. 74-75 [hereafter referred to as Smith, Doctrines of Salvation ].) Class Discussion Inasmuch as Jesus Christ was the Creator of worlds before he was bom -on the earth, what understanding should a Latter-day Saint have regarding the miracles Christ performed during his mortal ministry? 783 October 1970 THE MEANING OF CREATE Abraham recorded that God said to those who were with him: "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth...." (Abr. 3:24.) The materials out of which the earth was made already existed, for they are eternal. (Teachings, p. 181.) In the words of Elder John A. Widtsoe: Further, Latter-day Saints believe that the Lord formed or organized the earth from existing universal materials. That it is impossible to create something from nothing is a spiritual as well as a scientific axiom. It is an _ established doctrine of the Church that the ultimate elements which constitute the universe are eternal, indestructible, everlasting. Whether these ultimate realities be, in the language of present-day science, molecules, atoms, electrons, or pure energy is of little concem. Whatever is the ultimate reality is eternal. Matter as we know it, and which forms the earth, is made from eternal elements. In that sense the formation of the earth was an organization rather than a creation (D&C 93:33; Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:38). (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1943], p. 140.) The Prophet Joseph Smith protested vigorously against those who, in his day, believed that the earth was created out of nothing, by using the Hebrew language of the Book of Genesis to teach that the word create means to organize. He taught that element was eternal and might be organized but not created. (Teachings, pp. 350-52; D&C 93: 33.) Class Discussion What value do you see in the concept that the earth was organized out of 784 already existing materials, which are eternal? STAGES OF CREATIVE ACTS The scriptures reveal that several stages of creative acts were involved in the formation of the earth and life as we now have them. First, the spirit creation; second, the planning by the Council of the Gods in preparation for the next creative act; third, the physical creation of living things, including the earth, and the temporal condition brought about by the fall of Adam and Eve. SPIRIT CREATION Basic to Latter-day Saint belief is the fact of premortality as studied last month. Briefly, God created animals, vegetation, and man before they were placed upon the earth. In the words of the First Presidency: "... Man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents... All men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh." (The First Presidency of The Church, "The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, vol. 138 [November 1909}, p. 80.) Concerning the earth and all living things, they also said: By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co-eternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally— "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." {D&C 77:2.] He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and intelligence Neverth ess, the Whole anima] Creation be and Perpetuated in the €reafter, ach class in its "distinct Order or Sphere," and wi enjoy "ete al felicity.» t fact has NM made Plain jin this Pensation (Doctrine and Covenants, 77:3), (Lbid Pp. 81.) Ina discussion of the Creation, the Book Moses and raham refer to this Spirit Creation. ( Gen. 5; Moses 3:4-5; Abr.:18-22 ) THE PLANNING OF THe PHYSicaL N of Creation., Salvation Out o Uniting of the spirit Make g it was w; created its fos Temaineth Sphere jn Which I, God, ¢ And out of the sound J, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fow] of the i, | and they Were also living Souls,. || (Moses 3:7, 9, 19.) SS away, Y Or morta]. The Lord refers to the earth as having years of tem pora] existence the fal] of Adam. (D&C 785 October 1970 AFTER THEIR KIND The Lord tablisheq In the beginning h ach plant and animal sho Id p create after its Own kind. To OSes Abraham the rd set forth this aw at least + enty times in the account o the creation, epreSentative of this fact is th ollowin kind, Cattle ang Creeping things, and beasts of th i and it wa ° focus Pertinent bscure In the bibliOrderlinesg or dom fro Confusion descrj bes the Operations of God's ork for In proViding h With an ear h enyj onMent. T Courses of the Stars are fixed, and the Ove in their times and S€asons yY law Instjtuted by their Creat modern The Lord Says that his house is a house of order and not One require continual attention to changing habits out of harmony with those laws, and the acquiring of worthwhile practices that bring greater efficiency and wholesome living. The Nephite prophet Benjamin taught that if parents upheld the laws of God, they would teach their children the ways of truth and soberness, to love one another, and to serve one another. (Mosiah 4:15.) The key to success in living the laws of God is to place one's life in order and then to implant this same quality in the lives of those who are entrusted into one's care. These words from President Lesson Department John Taylor make the application this lesson teaches: -». We talk of becoming like God. What does he do? He governs this and other worlds, regulates all the systems and gives them their motions and revolutions; he preserves them in their various orbits, and governs them by unerring, unchangeable laws, as they traverse the immensity of space.... He takes care of and provides for, not only the hundreds of millions of the human family, but the myriads of beasts, fowls and fishes.... We would be like him!... We are far behind, but we have time for improvement; and I think we shall have to make some important changes for the better in our proceedings, before we become like our Father who dwells in the heavens. (JD, 10:260.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) ' Message 4—Appreciation of Excellence Northern Hemisphere: First week, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To kindle anew our pursuit and appreciation of excellence. God created a universe of surpassing beauty. Man is heir to its exquisite sounds, its goldstreaked sunsets, and refreshing dawns, to the awe of thunderstorms and hurricanes at sea, to the scent of flowers, of newmown hay, and of wet earth after rain, to the touch of cool water, the petal of a flower, and grass damp with dew. Each day, regardless of season or latitude, has its special beauty. This may be of the mind or the senses. "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork." (Ps. 19:1.) The scriptures tell of the thought and careful workmanship that were lavished on the earth at its creation. Does God expect less effort on our part in what we do? With the words, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect," (Matt. 5:48) the Christ set the goal for us all. God, our Father, is to be our 787 October 1970 example, the one we seek to emulate. To us mortals, limited, bound to earth in spite of moon voyages, subject to physical, -mental, emotional, and _ spiritual ills, perfection seems an impossible dream. The Lord in our time teaches us the way, "for he will give unto the faithful line upon line, precept upon precept." (D&C 98:12.) The gradual process of learning to live perfectly, however, should not divert us from the goal expected of all saints. We are to seek only the best—the best in books, the great in music, the praiseworthy in art, and the best way of life, one of compassion, love, tolerance, empathy, and loving service to both friends and enemies. Part of the way to perfection is the seeking of excellence. Paul understood this when he said, "the God of peace shall be with you" (Phil. 4:9) if you seek and do "whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things." (Phil. 4:8.) Our world often settles for the mediocre or worse. Why? Is it because excellence is difficult to attain, or that we anticipate possible failure, or that we are overwhelmed with our ignorance and our lack of knowledge, understanding, and ability? Years ago in a small town a group of great musicians gathered together to give free concerts. This they did out of their love of great music and the town. Here was surely something that was of good report and praiseworthy. _Every week no more than three hundred and fifty out of the community of thirty-five thousand turned out. How are we helping our children and ourselves to avoid the unfortunate choice that most of that community made? How are we helping them to recognize excellence and seek it from their childhood on? How do we help them to choose only the best movies, music, books, and that which is honest, just, pure, lovely, virtuous, and worthy of praise? Paul's advice and the Lord's, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48), should give us fresh courage and strength to seek only excellence. A LIFE SONG FOR STEPHEN Sea-song, sun-song— On your copper hair, Years are pushing at your heels With boyhood dreams to spare. 788 Wind force, cloud force, Waves against your oar; Hold to the compass in your hand For safe return to shore. —Beulah Huish Sadleir HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 4—Exercise, Posture, and Grooming Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, June 1971 \ OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that proper exercise, posture, and grooming improve appearance, health, and self-confidence. INTRODUCTION Women have great potential power and unrealized possibilities if they maintain their vitality and energy. One great hindrance to reaching our full potential in life is poor health. We should make an effort 'to eliminate illness and fatigue when it is possible. For maximum physical fitness, the importance of exercise, deep breathing, correct eating, and relaxation cannot be overemphasized. GOOD POSTURE Exercise is important because it tones the muscles and encourages good posture and deep breathing. Good posture and also erect carriage add distinction to our appearance. It is desirable to have good posture because it gives an appearance of confidence and it builds good health by allowing the inner organs to function properly. Discussion Questions 1. What are some poor posture habits? 2. How can we improve our posture? 3. Name some causes of poor posture. PROPER EXERCISE AND EATING Daily exercise and balanced eating are two "musts" if we are to obtain maximum bodily health. If you have checked with your doctor and have no serious health problem, then you are free to embark on a regular exercise program to improve both health and posture. As we grow older we sometimes resort to becoming melancholy and moody. Wetry to escape by succumbing to watching television, when walking in the fresh air can be far more beneficial. Gardening is a wonderful exercise for the body as well as uplifting to the soul. Working with the soil in fresh air and in the sunshine contributes greatly to relieving tension and to developing peace of mind. Walking, gardening, and swimming are some of the best exercises for women of all ages, if started in moderation and gradually increased. These exercises help tone muscles and thereby give better control to the body. A strong body promotes courage and self-confidence. It enables us to sit and arise from a chair with more grace and ease. Exer- 789 October 1970 cises will help us to be more agile and better able to take care of ourselves. IMPORTANCE OF GOOD GROOMING Your appearance reveals at a glance the general state of your health and mind. If you are neatly groomed, it indicates you care about yourself. It also indicates that you care about others by showing them the courtesy of looking your best for them. Clean and attractively arranged hair is a beauty asset. Observance of the rules of good dental hygiene will enhance your appearance. It is important to keep your skin clean and conditioned, using creams to counteract dryness when necessary. We can protect our hands with gloves when we're doing heavy work. We should give attention to our feet so that we wear properly fitting hose and shoes. No woman can look beautiful and relaxed when her feet hurt. If it is painful to walk, it affects her posture, her disposition, her facial expression, and makes it difficult for her to be pleasant and congenial with her family. CONCLUSION The human body is the handwork of God, marvelous and sacred. If we treat it with care, it will serve us well. As mothers, let us emphasize to our young people that a body that is clean and strong, agile, and well groomed, is a source of joy. Keeping our bodies vigorous and healthy helps us maintain enthusiasm for life, and as long as we have enthusiasm we have youth. A woman looks years younger when she smiles, when she walks with head held high, shoulders back, and a brisk gait which indicates maximum body health. Regular exercise clears the mind, relieves nervous tension, and tones the muscles, thereby creating a happier and lovelier you. SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 4—Women Are People Too Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be able to identify, understand, and satisfy her own basic needs in order to enrich her life, her family, and society. INTRODUCTION The challenges, responsibilities, and problems associated with being a woman, friend, wife, 790 mother, citizen, Church member, and sometimes a job holder, seem almost overwhelming at times. To many women they do become overwhelming. As a Physician, Successful jn Suppressing them, the author has seen this inability they May find expression In such to dea] With the complexities of illnesseg aS We have already menlife expressed by women in Many tioned. If she Cannot Suppress different Ways: Stomach ulcers, clveg Poy UUally man feos Peres obesity, chronic headaches, menSelves jn behavior Which jg stil] tal depression, loss of Self-re. Unacceptable and Upsetting to Spect, immora] behavior. Her. She May have Problems With In looking for the Causes of her friends, May nag at her hus. Ustrations, it is 4pparent that and hil nN, dea] arsh] Isturbed fee]j d Tustrawith her ¢ Udren, 6 Y do all lons can usual] traced to Sorts Ns which ake hey Some basic need of the indivi ual fee] Builty and lose Tespect for Which is not being Satisfied. Herse] f nce sh Ses respect ach wo » NO matter Where for herself, Nn truly be is rich Or poor, beautify) or plain, to herself 48 well as to al] of r. Educated or uneducated, has basic WHAT ARE WOMAN's NEEDS? 0 -., 'avery Practica] Way we can They are legitimate needs of ie few of the needs a Which one mus be ashamed, tion to he Py and to ey are related to one's identity make her a pr Oductive individual a Portance ag n Individua] 1, oman €eds to Love If these needs are Tecognized and Be Loy d. And o learns nderstand From birth to old age one and dea] With them satisfactorily Needs to love ~ be loved. Y can sTeatly Increase one's Throughout life, health and Sensitivity and Capabilities. Jog happiness will depend, toa large phe tries to deny oy Supress extent, on the ability to love and RESULTS oF UNFULFILLED NEEDS For example, when 4 young any disturbing feelings can couple js first Married and there result When a need is not Satisare only two, it is not difficult to fied. A woman May fee] Such find Satisfaction Of this need for things aS anger, resentment, delove, but a Common Situation Pression, hopelessness, unhappioccurs when 4 Couple is older and October 1970 and Church responsibilities Which take him Physically emotionally away fro alone, away from the fami] oO that there jis © Opportunit of €eping the | es of ommunica- 10n open and they can better understand d support each her. After a Couple js Married, the Need for a Physica] expression of and compatible a With one's husband as happiness of a Marriage, jt Is therefore very necessary for husband in dealing with woman who has tried her need for affection widow or unmarried woman can fulfil] to receive love and to give love.. suffer. By being alert, inquisitive, 8TOW and pro €SS as an Individual. No Matter how ed down With TeSPonsibilities he ma feel, she can always find a Way to Spend a few life. Sh children are grown to that When She can still have a full, m ful life. It r ness, loyalty, considera Willingness to work hard to supPort her and the family. [f the lines of com | More Social, Church, or Civic activities tha When they are behearts realize 1 of their children Ing neglectfy] and suffer fee or guilt. If g Woman is about her involvement outside of the home, She wi Discussion Question How can young mothers with Severa] 793 Octobe, 1970 d very little Money returns from a S for Self-developmeny n? Emp littereg; house he els desolate and unAwe S need to feel ec loved, Children left in his Situa Nomical] secur, Very rea] tion ofte want to leave the hom an important © tovher She 0 spend ti € with other children must realiz how er, that ult; O are likewise Unsuper vised. Mate security ig a Personal fee]in 4.4 Woman Has a Need for and rests with bein tune with Religious Expression, God's Purposes, Money and what A woman is truly blessed if It will do not make a COMET eine and her husband have been Secure, In T; j othy we read, "For Married in the temple and are one he love Money js the root of in activity and lef in the all eyj] Which hile s Mec Vveted C urch. Her, are man Ways in after, th have ery d from the Which the C aith, an Pierced the through th ta, active Partially active, or only active body but not in ust at Spirit, then the fe has a Most Imes work ome for ifficult Problem byt one which €conomic Security, Or such must be dealt th ifs e is t reasons divorce, illness, or elp create a h PPy home Huseath. Th ugh it ifficult, a and wife Should € ever Working m ther administer effort to ¢ mmunicate their sepa satisfactorily to the needs of her Tate Views to one another. If there amily. She n only do is, FF love and Consideration between Swewer, Gf Hes amily means hem, the Most often the Wife More to her than her Work. If she will be a le to Satisfy her need must Work, and eXercises Wisdom for activity in the urch jn and judgment; decisions reasonable fas ion out caus She can take g, d care of her ing Marita] discord. Amily and be une with the t will o n, however, be more ord's pur Pos difficult for her fe) understand her When children are young it is USDand's View than for him t best for he Mother to be home Understand hers. Sh Should not With the » because It is during attribut her hu ba l Is tim at basic ¢ alts of per. SOnality St reflect true COnViction it a W much he loves h r that her chilWife, he Will not feign a belief he dren are Cared for by SOmeon does not feel, Neither Should she Who can 81ve them thig individua] feel guilt about h usband' attention a d love. When a child Inactivit Religion 794 sonal thing and must be dealt with in this way. If a wife has a fine husband who is a good father, it is surprising what love, patience, tolerance, faith, and prayers can do. The best way to solve the problems which come from differences in religious beliefs is to try to prevent them from occurring by marrying someone who shares the same beliefs. But if a woman has married someone who does not believe as she, or someone who has changed in his views and she does find herself with problems, let her remember that divorce can be devastating to every member of the family, and that very seldom can divorce be Lesson Department justified solely on the basis of a difference in religious beliefs. Discussion Question List ways in which the Latter-day Saint Church organizations can provide opportunities for a woman to satisfy her needs. SUMMARY A woman must come to know her own needs, and must learn how to understand them and how to deal with them if she is to be an emotionally well-balanced, happy woman. If she will do this, not only will she grow and progress as an individual, but she will be able to create a happy and healthy atmosphere for all those with whom she associates. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 3—Sisterhood in a Worldwide Church Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, January 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To develop an appreciation for the various cultures of the women in the Church through showing how people throughout the world share a concern for the good and the beautiful. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 3. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. Salt Lake City, Utah Ruth B. Lehenbauer Pioneer Music Press 975 S. W. Tempie St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Composers My Cup of Joy 1008 SSA Hymns, No. 74 795 Title The Gospel Gives Unbounded Strength Belle S. Spafford- (to women in these last days) 1053 In a World Where Sorrow Publisher J. Christian Co. Alexander Schreiner 1283 E. S. Temple St. Smith-Excell October 1970 One purpose of this lesson is to emphasize that the Church is a worldwide church and the Relief Society a worldwide organization. Not only is the Church universal with our Savior and the prophet who is his living spokesman at the head, but as members of the human race all of us are universal in our responses and feelings. We are members of the human race first, and only secondly do we belong to any particular nationality, country, or racial group. That this is true is especially evident in our responses to the creative arts. Tastes and materials with which artists work may differ somewhat from country to country and age to age, but there are fundamental emotions and fundamental truths in human experience that are shared by all the people of the world. When the five volumes of Out of the Best Books were being prepared, no particular effort was made to include selections drawn from all lands and languages. Nevertheless, in the natural process of putting things together —because literature and art are universal—quite a number of selections were included which represent various lands and languages. Most of the selections were by authors in America or the British Isles, but a sufficient number were by writers of other lands to give an international flavor to the volumes. And so in this particular lesson we focus upon the contributions of people throughout the world and upon the ideals common to the human race which they have championed through their literature and art, especially as these relate to 796 women's lives and their roles as wives and mothers. A listing of the selections in the five volumes shows a representation drawn from various lands and languages beyond the United States and the other English-speaking countries of the world: From the Bible Proverbs, chapter 3: vol. 2, p. 305 Proverbs, chapter 6: vol. 3, p. 67 Proverbs, chapter 31: vol. 2, pp. 265-66 Psalms 8 and 23: vol. 4, p. 71 Ecclesiastes, chapter 3: vol. 5, pp. 228 The Book of Job: vol. 3, pp. 105-6 The Story of Jephthah's Daughter: vol. 5, pp. 204-7 The Gospel of St. John, chapter 8: vol. 2, pp. 296 Parable of the Lost Sheep: vol. 3, p. 201 Parable of the Prodigal Son: vol. 3, pp. 200-203 From Greek Literature "The Death of Socrates" from Plato's Phaedo and Crito: vol. 4, pp. 45-49 and 163-64 Excerpts from Plato's Symposium and Republic: vol. 5, pp. 46-52 From Roman Literature Marcus Aurelius, Excerpts from Meditations: vol. 3, pp. 133-38 From Persian Literature Omar Khayyam, Excerpts from The Rubaiyat (translated by Edward Fitzgerald): vol. 1, p. 450 From French Literature Guy de Maupassant, "The Necklace": vol. 1, pp. 113-23 (short story) Colette, "The Sick Child': vol. 1, pp. 420-39 (short story) Alphonse Daudet, "The Death of the Dauphin": vol. 1, pp. 445-47 (short story) Honoré de Balzac, 'Christ in Flanders": vol. 4, pp. 94-102 (short story) Speech by Emile Zola: vol. 4, pp. 241-44 From German Literature Stefan Zweig, "The Invisible Collection": vol. 1, pp. 329-42 (short story) Speech by Martin Luther: vol. 4, pp. 226- 29 From italian Literature Luigi Pirandello "War": vol. 1, pp. 380- 85 (short story) Joseph Mazzini, "Faith and the Future": vol. 3, pp. 248-51 (written in English): From Russian Literature Leo N. Tolstoi, "Three Arshins of Land": vol. 1, pp. 132-43 (short story) Anton Chekhov, "The Lament": vol. 1, pp. 365-71 (short story) Maxim Gorky, "Boless": vol. 1, pp. 386- 93 (short story). Leo N. Tolstoi, "Where Love Is, There God Is Also": vol. 2, pp. 270-82 (short story) Anton Chekhov, "The Bet": vol. 2, pp. 351-59 (short story) Anton Chekhov, "The Darling": vol. 3, pp. 204-18 (short story) From Chinese Literature Poems of Wang Wei: vol. 3, pp. 129-32 Li Po, "The River Merchant's Wife" (translated by Ezra Pound): vol. 4, pp. 116-18 Lin Yutang, "The Importance of Loafing": vol. 5, pp. 220-25 (written in English) From Danish Literature Car] Ewald, Excerpts from My Little Boy: vol. 2, pp. 8-23 From Swedish Literature Selma Lagerléf, "A Christmas Guest": vol. 3, pp. 294-301 (short story) From Spanish Literature George Santayana, Sonnet III: vol. 3, pp. 254-55 (written in English) From Czechoslovakian Literature Peter Balgha, "People and Ants": vol. 4, pp. 22-27 (short story) Lesson Department From Lebanese-American Literature Kahlil Gibran, "Giving" from The Prophet: vol. 3, pp. 290-93 From India-Indian Literature Speeches by Gandhi and Nehru, vol. 4, pp. 245-48 A reading of any of the selections listed above is impressive for one thing in particular, that whatever the language, whatever the land, whatever the century, creative artists are concerned with the good and the beautiful in a way that finds response universally throughout all the human race. The same basic problems are shared by all the people of the world, as are the same ideals and aspirations. Some matters are peculiar to certain areas of the world, but most of the things that really matter—at least the things that permanently matter—are common to all people of the earth. For this lesson the following selections will be especially meaningful to review: Proverbs, chapter 31: vol. 2, pp. 265-66 "The Necklace" by Guy de Maupassant: vol. 1, pp. 113-23 "The Sick Child" by Colette: vol. 1, pp. 420-39 "The Invisible Collection" by Stefan Zweig: vol. 1, pp. 329-42 "Boless" by Maxim Gorky: vol. 1, pp. 386-93 "Where Love Is, There God Is Also" by Leo N. Tolstoi: vol. 2, pp. 270-82 "The Darling" by Anton Chekhov: vol. 3, pp. 204-18 "The River Merchant's Wife" by Li Po (translated by Ezra Pound): vol. 4, pp. 116-18 My Little Boy by Carl Ewald: vol. 2, pp. 8-23 "A Christmas Guest" by Selma Lagerlof: vol. 3, pp. 294-301 "Giving" from The Prophet by Kahlil Gibran: vol. 3, pp. 290-93 797 October 1970 The class leader should choose those selections that she feels will be most meaningful and valuable to her particular group, perhaps utilizing works that were passed over when lessons were taught during the past several years. Extensive commentaries on all the selections are already printed in the five volumes which should be fully adequate to stimulate rich class discussion, but some additional comments here will also be helpful. All of these eleven selections relate in some meaningful way to the woman's special role as wife. Mother, and friend. Each will illuminate certain special qualities that a woman should either try to develop in her personality and character, or try to overcome if they are negative qualities. For example, chapter 31 of Proverbs focuses upon the qualities of refinement and devotion that make a truly virtuous woman. "The Necklace" emphasizes the dangers of materialism and vanity, especially in leading to the erosion of marriage. "The Sick Child" gives insight into a woman's unique role in relation to a child who is dangerously ill. "The Invisible Collection" reveals some special problems in family relationships -when love and honesty seem to be in conflict. "Boless" shows the despair of loneliness and the hunger for love and companionship felt by every woman. "Where Love Is, There God Is Also" narrates the ideals that Christ emphasized in his Sermon on the Mount. "The Darling" explores the danger of love becoming, under certain circumstances, too selfish and too possessive. "The River Merchant's 798 ~_ Y rosly IDES LY MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers"' 'Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music _—— Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Chenezer Instruments PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 *K ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours - 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Wife" love] nese poem Moral idea of typical] Russian reminding ys of th qualities of Iterature fr ast 8€nerations Ove tha n man share €aders y amiliar with Russian trayal of the ro f Parent their great her; ta here jg a relation to hild. « ristdeep Compassion for the sufferin as Guest" focuses n € So much OF people a d Concern for to her immediate family a upon The S1x Stories by Chekhoy, er °PPortunities to extend the Tolstoi, and Gorky will Suggest Influence of love beyond the deep religious idealism trafamily. And finally, Kahlil Gibditiona] in the Russian People jn s "Giving" is 4 beautify] StateSpite of the tragedy of their his- 1 tory, Ourselves In love if we are to fo]. The attention Of class leaders low the example of the Say;, and al] Relief Society Sisters Versa] Nature of the creative arts. Eexamine the following: "Le Bénédicité " Jean Baptiste Simeon hardin: Vol. 3, Pp. 284-85 (French) Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte," Georges Seurat: Vol. 5, pp. 210-1] (French) 799 99 Mrs. Hannah Melinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Miss Florence Pearl Young LaCrescenta, California Mrs. Minnie Margetts Ross Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Mary Jane Thackeray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Fannie Hester Byrd Wiseman Bellmont, Hlinois Mrs. Ella Butler Bingham Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mae Francelle Henrie Herring Orem, Utah 96 95 94 93 Mrs, Mary Elizabeth Story Berry Ogden, Utah Mrs. Jane Bridget Fowler Ear] Murray, Utah Mrs. Sarah Hill Fayette, Utah Mrs. Martha Merideth Fresno, California Mrs. Jennie Ackerman Sudweeks Pringville, Utah 92 Mrs. Caroline Alexander San Mateo, California 90 Wootton Blied Cardston, Alberta, Canad Mrs. Mary Caroline Nokes Bendixsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Laura Alice Thuesen Blake Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susan Mae King Lyman Carrel Sacramento, California 'Y Abigail Ward Chalk aho Mrs. Laura Eva Fitzgeratg Gardner West Jordan, Utah Mrs, Ruth Clarissa Ellis Hardy Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Katie Hunt Pleasanton, California Mrs. Carrie Nderson Jensen i is ina Clark Madsen Springville, Utah Mrs, Annie Elizabeth Christensen Nielsen roni, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Bassett Northway East Liverpool, Ohio Mrs. Ann Reb Payson, Utah Mrs. Adah Smart Willis Grantsville, Utah Mrs, Helen Margaret Clark Young Logan, Utah €cca Allan Twede NOW! Cultural Refinement Kit and Books; KIT Just $2.00 The kit contains 4 full color reprints of paintings by famous masters. These are excellent visual aids tyingin with the 1970-71 lessons. BOOKS Out of the Best Books... All five volumes in new paperback versions _.. Same size as the hardbound editions. The cultural refinement lessons for the 1970-71 year will be based on selections from all five volumes. These books, anthologies of the world's greatest literature, will provide hours of satisfying enjoyment. Save $1.25... Order all five paperbound volumes as a set, just $10.50. Individually, volume 1 is $2.75, volumes 2, 3, 4, and 5 are $2.25 each. Ra: Salt Lake — Cottonwood Mall Valley Fair Mall Orange, California ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 23 4 °5 Total cost $...............:0 ee This must include 25c handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 4%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: CO check, O money order, or O charged established account. Please send me items circled: 1 AIT EM esceceeeeeeerreceteiere. «Sees... Atm: SS PY SUHUE NN oo. Ee reer te es vege Pee eee ie Oct. 1970 R. S. a Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah ~~ Every Year Electricity Does More for You! In 1913, when Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated President and we began providing electric service, there were 8 types of electric appliances for the home. By 1953, the number of household electric work savers had climbed to 56. Now there are over 200. Today in your home you're brushing your teeth, shining your shoes, opening your cans of food and doing other chores electrically — jobs you probably never thought of giving to Reddy Kilowatt ten years ago. Yes, were proud of Reddy Kilowatt's growing helpfulness to... At So reasonable a cost! Electric Fondue Thermostatically controlled heat probe, Teflon lined for non-stick serving. Switch to More Electric— Your Biggest Bargain UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. jor our Latter-day Saint gospel | Chi \d! Concepts taught In 2 1 e fun animated story form. Three books designed especially to assist you in teaching important gospel subjects to your children. One is entitled PRAYER, children enjoy and understand. Order your set today —$2-90 for each book. 2 USE CONVENIENT ORDER ay ~ FORM ON REVERSE SIDE \ Ry — Available also through your local 2 C LDS b —— SS \ Bookstore and book dealer 1 inquiries invited. = LS Cc BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PRESS Publication Sales, 205 UPB, Provo, Utah 84601 T ook dealer. CHILD GOES FORTH A must for parents of young children To the preschool child, the world is a great adventure in which, when properly guided, marvelous discoveries are made every day. A Child Goes Forth will help you to make your child's early experience a meaningful part of his life. Written by Barbara J. Taylor, coordinator for the BYU Child Development Laboratory, the book is designed as a step-by-step educational activity guide. Parents of preschool children will find it to be an invaluable reference and source book in directing a child's physical, mental, and emotional development. Order your copy of this informative volume today. 46° nn, "= BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PRESS Brigham Young University Press Publication Sales, 205 UPB Provo, Utah 84601 Please send me the following books Miisas2...-<hPRAYER $2.50 ___.... BAPTISM $2.50 ee TITHING $2.50 aA CHILD GOES FORTH $4.60 Add 25c for the first book and 10c for each additional book ordered to cover postage. I ORDER FORM I I 1 I Enclosed is my check or money order for the amount of ooo. Eeaeneee aft IAG. Ra. WEE 2 APR D. Vi OoSei SM WS la Wa 84 TEA ana A afTA TE AA SP FOUN wan Van " 4; INDWELLER There is something in me That answers your touch upon The door, an extension of myself Hurrying to hold you, searching Caverns and cliffs of your being To be sure all is well With you. If it finds despair, Oh, swift it broods, comforts, Promises planets. If it finds gaiety, Then rings like a copper pendulum Across the sky to frolic with birds, Or laugh you down to fishes in the Secret coral. There is something in me that runs Across town at the smallest alarm To stand beside you, That prays great prayers for you, Without time for kneeling. If this, then, be so, And you know it to be so, Laugh at distance and time, Laugh at separation and deaths, Laugh at the destroyer himself.... For this extension of ourselves Can never perish. —Margery S. Stewart The Cover: J Aspen Trees Reflected in Water Transparency by Don Busath Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: § Reflections at Xochimilco, Mexico Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: § Mary Scopes The Relief Society Magazine Volume 57 November 1970 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 803 ''We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" Belle S. Spafford 808 ''No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light'' Marianne C. Sharp 811 '''Living Water'' Louise W. Madsen 814 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 820 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1970 Mayola R. Miltenberger Fiction 924 The Secret of Blueberry Hill—Chapter 5 (Conclusion) Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 822 810 829 880 Editorial—Sharing With Others Marianne C. Sharp Notice to Subscribers Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 810 828 A Morning Walk Enid F. Woolley Friendship Memories Dora D. Flack Lesson Department 837 843 850 852 853 855 857 863 869 874 Spiritual Living—Lesson 5—The Eternal Nature of the Gospel Spiritual Living—Lesson 6—Satan and Mankind Visiting Teacher Messages—Message 5—Respect for and Understanding of Authority Visiting Teacher Messages—Message 6—The Meaning of Worship Homemaking—Discussion 5—Proper Nutrition Homemaking—Discussion 6—Improving Your Mind Social Relations—Lesson 5—Morality Makes Sense Social Relations—Lesson 6—Hazards of Drugs Cultural Refinement—Lesson 4—''And to Every Man Is Given a Gift"' Cultural Refinement—Lesson 5—Principles With a Promise—Faith and Optimism Poetry 801 807 807 828 Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible Indweller Margery S. Stewart The Turning Year Dorothy J. Roberts Christmas in Nauvoo 1843 Sadie Ollerton Clark Deep White Linnie F. Robinson for unsolicited manuscripts. 802 'We Lived After the Manner of Happiness"' President Belle S. Spafford [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970] @ Recorded in the Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi, are words of Nephi wherein he spoke of his people who were living in the land of Nephi, saying "... We lived after the manner of happiness." (2 Nephi 5:27.) None would deny that living in such a manner is highly desirable. As we contemplate conditions in this day, we might add that it is even enviable. We are living in a period of time characterized by crisis after crisis. New ideas, new philosophies, new issues assail us on every hand, causing grave concern and anxiety. We are harassed by an endless stream of reports of unrest, social upheavals, and tragic happenings. In addition, personal problems and worries come to torment us until, at times, we almost wonder if the world today is devoid of happiness. We thoughtfully consider the words of Nephi, asking, '""What is the man- 4 ner of happiness? Can it be achieved in_ today's' world? Should we strive to seek after it?" The achievement of a happy life is a universal goal of mankind and properly so. The Book of Mormon tells us, "... Men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25.) The Prophet Joseph Smith pointed out that we cannot escape trial, for earthlife is a probationary period wherein we prove ourselves by the mastery of trials. He taught that the law of heaven does not promise that the believer in every age should be exempt from the afflictions and troubles arising from different sources and in consequence of the acts of wicked men on earth. Nonetheless, the Prophet declared that happiness is the object and design of existence. The Declaration of Independence of the United States declares that all men are en- 803 November 1970 dowed with certain inalienable rights, among them is the pursuit of happiness. Men pursue happiness in many different ways and according to their differing concepts of what brings happiness. To some, the source of happiness is the acquisition of material wealth; to others, it is power and dominion. Yet again it may be personal popularity and acclaim or personal pleasure; or, it may be overcoming the difficult, discovering the new, or conquering the unknown. To many of the Father's children, it is the peace that comes through obedience to his teachings. To most people, however, happiness at times seems somewhat abstract; certainly something that is transitory. Today it may be present in rich abundance, while tomorrow it may seem to have completely departed. We must learn, therefore, what constitutes true happiness —the kind that brings a certain form of inner delight, peace, and contentment, which is even more enduring than life itself. What, then, should be the pattern of our lives if we are to live after the manner of happiness? Let us consider how the people of Nephi lived when he declared they "lived after the manner of happiness." Nephi and his followers had suffered all manner of persecution at the hands of the Lamanites, even to the point that they sought to take the life of Nephi. The Lord warned him. To separate from those people and flee with all who would go with him into the wilderness. The great exodus 804 into the wilderness took place, accompanied by many _hardships. At length, the group established itself at a place they called Nephi after their leader, and they designated themselves the people of Nephi. They appealed to Nephi to be their king, but he was desirous that they should have no king, but should be a free people. He became their chosen leader and teacher. Then Nephi states that they observed to keep the judgments and the statutes and the commandments of the Lord in all things. They raised flocks and herds of all kinds. They sowed seeds and harvested. They built buildings and worked in all manner of wood and of iron, and copper and of brass and of steel, gold, silver, and of precious ores which were in great abundance. They constructed a temple after the manner of the Temple of Solomon wherein they might worship the Lord their God. Then Nephi continues: "I... Did cause my people to be industrious, and to labor with their hands... And the Lord was with us and we began to prosper exceedingly, and multiply in the land." (2 Nephi 5:17, 13) This, then, might be called Nephi's code for living after the manner of happiness: Freedom to choose who should be their ruler, industry, willingness to work, the development of talents and skills, love of God and obedience to his commandments. And the blessings of growth, prosperity, and happiness follow. This has been true with any ~ nation or people who followed the eternal principles upon which true happiness rests. One of the favorite expressions of President George Albert Smith was: "The pathway of righteousness is the highway of happiness." It is not enough that we shall live after the manner of happiness for the benefit of the collective body only. The individual, too, must seek after his own personal happiness, knowing that this, too, is obtained through following the same basic patterns of living. Sometimes our personal problems bear us down and heavily tax us. Because they are hard to bear, they loom large and make deep impressions which remain with us, crowding out feelings of happiness, while the joys of life are so pleasant as to pass by swiftly. They seem to be so fleeting as almost to have been nonexistent. The memory of one's trials and the seeming fleeting nature of one's hours of happiness often lead to the feeling that there is precious little happiness in life for the individual. Yet, if it were possible to weigh both in the scales of life, I believe almost everyone would find life affords us far more true pleasure than pain. Otherwise, why does almost everyone cling so fast to life? I recall an aging sister whom I used to visit several years ago. She was physically infirm, her financial income had. Been quite sufficient for her needs—then suddenly it became limited. Then her busy family, while kind to her, spent less time with her than she thought they should, and she felt neglected. Each time I called on her, I heard the same question: "Why do I live on? "We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" I'm growing so old and feeble; I'm so unhappy. I wish I could die!" One day, feeling particularly sympathetic toward her plight, my husband and I took her for a ride into the canyon to see the beautiful fall mountain foliage. When we were well into the canyon, we came upon some road repair work. My husband had to back the car a short distance and turn in a very narrow space. Some distance below us at the back of the car was a noisy rushing creek. "Oh!" the sister screamed, "be careful! You'll back us off the road and into the creek! We'll all be killed!" Calmly I replied, "Sister Smith, I thought you wanted to die. You've told me this many times." To this, she promptly replied, "Not today!" After we were safely on the road, she laughed and said, "You know, I'm really not as miserable as I like to make people think I am. Life has been good to me, and even now I'm quite happy." True happiness is within the reach of every one of us. Perhaps what we need is a better understanding of what are the factors that contribute to it, and how we may grasp these and make them a part of our lives: One wise philosopher has said, "Happiness consists in being, not having. It is not dependent upon wealth or even upon health. It does not rely on fame or so-called worldly success, but rather upon the conformity of our lives to those things which set at rest our minds and at peace our hearts." Latter-day Saints know that its fountainhead is love of God and obedience to his laws, and 805 November 1970 feeling. I am always impressed With this When J read in Genesis the Story of the Creation of the Sad, indeed, Would be the life who did not Thus, as individuals, we purthrough SOcia] usefulness, These things do not Spring up and flourish voluntarily, They are fostered Sister Morris put in over thirty years of Christian Work in Relief Society. Her receive the. Well done, thou 800d and faithful Servant; enter into the joy of the Lord." Happy, happy, happy has been her earthlife, will be her eternal life. S, inner Strength and Courage, peace L We girls all know that -, a ee ne daughters and granden of ¢ arity, of Courage, of Patience, of understanding inToday, there is much talk in Sight; men and women Who take Our nation about a volunteer the high Path and who reach up army to fight THE TURNING YEAR IN spite Of all the year turns And autumn's form appears at horizon Wearing both fruit and the withered leaf.. The ledger reads, ''at home—alj day." Y Saiety ang dancing, Music ringing, And, at the Close, the Carolers' Seranade Seemed 4 cohort of heavenly angels Singing. —Sadie Ollerton Clark 807 °No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970] = As we study the history of the Church we find at different periods of time that different tasks were given to the saints to accomplish. But whatever the work to be done the words of the prophets in that day apply equally to the tasks facing us in this day. On April 6, 1863, sermons delivered by President Daniel H. Wells and President John Taylor urged the building of two edifices—the Temple at the east of us and the Tabernacle in which we are now meeting. They were asking for fifty teams to haul rock for the Temple. With all that labor, we know that it still took them thirty more years to complete the Temple. We enjoy the use of these hallowed buildings and acknowledge the prophetic words of President Taylor who said 'The adverse circumstances in which this work was done will not be thought of." 808 Slagtes a Ulhageie PREETI | aggsay (JD 10:150.) We do give little thought to the sacrifices of those early saints. Today temples are being erected in the world and an average of a meetinghouse a day is being built. It might be said that through obedience and sacrifice the saints today erect needed buildings, following the examples of our forefathers. Today there are three areas in a woman's living which seem to me to be threatened, and about which we need to find the answers from the lips of the prophets. We need to evaluate current sophistries in the light of eternal truths. Recently a woman said to me "Oh, I do what must be done every day in my home but at the end of the day I think, what have I accomplished today? Nothing!" In answer to a woman who feels this way, President Daniel H. Wells said: nearest." woman is Selfish to by Morta] nN holy Wedlock and sir, a President Lee, "For behold, this Is MY work and my 8lory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses:39,) are responsible for the training of their own children. Thus We See the forces of Satan Ves Prophets, blesseq beyond Measure 809 November 1970 to live in these momentous days. Satan seeks to muddy the concepts of nght and wrong, to deceive the unwary. No one, as President Heber C. Kimball said, can endure on the. Borrowed light of another. Each one's testimust light her own path and direct her own actions. It is a time to remember "obedience is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams." One hundred seven years ago the Temple and the Tabernacle needed to be built. Today what needs to be done? Who can see how each directive of the Brethren fits into the events of these the last days? We cannot, but as Relief Society members, we can listen and obey the words of the prophets and live so that the Holy Spirit will guide us to our exaltation. & Enid F. Woolley Lonnavale, Heron, Tasmania, Australia Your tiny feet were in such a hurry it was almost inevitable that you should stumble and fall. I lifted you up and, with loving care, administered the bathing and medication which your grazed knees required—not forgetting the comforting hug and kiss so important to the mending of hurt knees and tingling pride. In a moment or two you were off again; your pace no less swift because of the recent mishap. I knew you would fall again; but I cannot keep you safely held in my arms because of this knowledge. Rather, you must be free to run, yes, free to fall, or you will never gain the ability to go swiftly and safely on your way. I would not keep you from hurts, my little one, for in the march of life the one who arrives is he who knows how, having fallen, to scramble undaunted to his feet again; it is he who is ready to go on with the march. You must fall to stand again, wiser, stronger, and readier, and I must let you fall, must let you struggle unaided to regain your stance. This I will do; but pray the dear Lord that I may be there to help you if you cannot rise alone. Surely these things are part of a mother's sacred trust. *% In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in November or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue. 810 "LIVING WATER" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Addresg delivereg at the Genera] Session of Relief Society Annual Genera] Conference, September 30, 1970] ON a journ Y from Judea to Galilee in which eds Christ Sychar, "near 8Tound that Jacob son Joseph." Jacob's there & Wearied With his Journey, sat thus on the Well: and it was about the Sixth woman of? No dealings With the Samaritans. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of Go it is that Saith Said unto her, esus answered and Whosoever drinketh of this water shal] hirst again: Christ taught her: But the hour Cometh, and when true Worshippers essias cometh, which is called Christ: When he is come, he wil] oe 81] November 1970 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. (John 4:23, 25-26.) When she heard this wonderful declaration the woman ran back to the city of Sychar and told the people what Jesus had said to her. Many people went out to see him and invited him to stay with them. He stayed for two days and many believed his teachings. When he left to continue his journey to Galilee, the people said to the woman who first met Jesus: Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world. (John 4:42.) From the very beginning of his ministry, Jesus taught of himself that he was the Christ. He again made that affirmation to the woman at Jacob's well. To each of us who thirsts there is the promise that the "living water" Christ gives "shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." This well is constant, endless, never dry. One has but to drink, to sip, to taste, to be aware that the well within us, the living water of the word of God, if kept pure and uncontaminated, will keep us alive in the faith and lead us to eternal salvation. Because of the well within us others may be refreshed from its "living water." From each of us can emanate a spirit of goodness, of sisterliness. In Relief Society we share our knowledge of the gospel, we teach one another its truths and all] virtuous and lovely things. The words of our testimonies, the actions of our lives, the loving service we give communicate the power of our desire to do those things which are 812 pleasing in the sight of the Lord. They bear witness that we have drunk from the well of living water. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matt. 5:6), we read in the Bible. "And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost" (3 Nephi 12:6), the Book of Mormon further expounds. To be filled with the Holy Ghost is to have the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ which knowledge is necessary to gain eternal life. But how shall we come into possession of that knowledge? I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. (John 14:16-17.) This Comforter is the promise which I give unto you of eternal life, even the glory of the celestia] kingdom. (D. & C. 88:4.) The Comforter teaches the truth.. These are the days spoken of by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith which "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men" (D. & C. 89:4) are difficult days in which to live. We have been warned and forewarned. Jesus said, "Take heed that no man deceive you." (P. Of G. P. - Joseph Smith 1:5.) Yet we have been promised that "whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived." (P. Of G. P. - Joseph Smith 1:37.) Surely this is a most gratifying promise! To be certain that all the wiles of Satan as he works with "conspiring men" cannot deceive those who treasure the word of God is reassuring. Our constant search for spiritual knowledge, our firm testimonies will stand us in good stead. When evil puts on the guise of right, we will not be deceived; when reason seems to point to false conclusions, we will not be deceived; when many in the world lean to the philosophies of men, we will not be deceived. "He that re- "Living Water'' maineth steadfast... The same shall be saved." (P. Of G. P. - Joseph Smith 1:11.) With the gift of living water, the well of knowledge within us, with our thirsting after righteousness and being filled with the Holy Ghost, the strength of pure faith shall guide us to live as the Lord would have us live in this world so that we merit the highest blessings of the eternal world. May this be so I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. & > _, _ -_ senna Uk ier 'a=. = - - =. = ati i) " sesecuvneenevoes COOPER LEONE CORO CE ROR AA-A BAMA haey's' I Aa REE MARGADG BEAD ADDR 6 as pee ee ee ies pn anieaa" INTRODUCTION A regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society Conference is a brief report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the compiled annual statistical and narrative reports, together with a few current official instructions and recommendations. As you know, Relief Society reports presently cover a fiscal year, September 1 to August 31. Reports are not due in the General Board office until September 20. This does not allow for a compilation of the figures in rx) SE Mn Cie Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford =, — _ z= a. A i AAAAAARA ee eee eeas - 9-8.) og ~ 1 aha i isivveveveveesidsvwasaedacck I ites time for presentation at this meeting. In reporting some activities, therefore, we have estimated growth and accomplishments for the current year in line with increases during the previous fiscal year. Precise fi gures will be made available to you when the reports for 1969-70 are audited and figures are compiled. There is abundant evidence that Relief Society is growing in numbers and in its power for good, and that the programs of the Society hold the interest and meet the needs of women. We note 813 November ] 970 with gratitude the power of the Society in influencing aright the attitudes and conduct of its members. This is particularly pleasing as it relates to the younger members, many of whom are enrolled in campus Relief Societies. ORGANIZATIONAL GROWTH There are presently 523 stake Relief Society organizations, 92 Mission organizations, 38] mission district organizations, 6,793 ward and branch Societies (4,777 in Stakes; 2.016 in missions). During the past year, stakes have been organized in far-away Japan and in South Africa, stakes being created in Australia, New Zealand, moved from Church headquarters showing evidence of the growth and expansion of the Church. MEMBERSHIP Assuming the growth in membership this past (338,213) including women of many nationalities and wide agerange. The program is proving equally attractive to young and older women. We are delighted with the accomplishments of the campus Relief Societies. This is a day when Philosophies Strange to Latter-day Saints are springing up with regard to woman, her rights, her relationships to her mate, her function as a childbearer and rearer and a homemaker, and her place in public life. There is 4 growing opinion among people 814 as antiquated, such as Marriage and moral codes that are considered outmoded, such as those that relate with regard to woman's role in life, and that militantly demand an acceptance of her as being totally on a par with man, ignoring the natural differences between man and woman which enter so markedly into the quality and of woman's labors and into her primary role Lord. Relief against the penetration into the The teachings of Relief Society have never been more urgently day to help our sisters wisely to order their lives, to shape aright their thinking and attitudes and influence their conduct, and to enable them Properly to meet the Tesponsibilities placed upon them by the Lord. Relief Society leaders owe it to Latter-day Saint women to be tireless in helping them to know and appreciate the values of Relief Society and the benefits of actively participating in its work. MEMBERSHIP DUES While new rulings of the Church have dispensed with the payment of membership dues, we call your attention to the regulation contained in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions that admittance to membership is by vote of the members present. Reports reaching the General Board indicate that this important regulation is sometimes neglected. This should not happen. Even though membership dues have been eliminated, membership cards will continue to be issued annually to all enrolled sisters in recognition of and as evidence of membership. PROGRAM CHANGES; FUNDING Two major changes have taken place in Relief Society programs in recent months at the direction of The First Presidency. One is the change in the funding program from self-financing to financing through a Church budget system. This applies to all units of Relief Society, including the General Board. It relieves the Society of independently conducting fund-raising programs, including the holding of bazaars. With reference to bazaars, a letter dated July 17, 1970 from The First Presidency, addressed to All Stake Presidents, Bishops, Mission Presidents, District Presidents, Branch Presidents, and Auxiliary Heads of General Boards, states:... The Relief Society is hereafter to Report and Official instructions be supported from the budget, as have been other auxiliaries in the past, which will relieve the Relief Society of the burden of fund-raising projects such as bazaars. Should plans for this year be already under way and money expended for materials, it might be well to consider continuing the project for this year only, but in the future the new policy stated above should be followed. The new funding program became effective with the beginning of the current fiscal year, September 1, 1970. Relief Society presidents were directed to turn over to their respective presiding priesthood authority all cash on hand as of that date. The plan contemplates that a careful estimate of budgetary needs for the forthcoming year will be considered with the respective priesthood authorities and that these will be met through the ward or stake budget in a way that will not curtail approved programs and activities of the Society. The methods whereby money from the budget is made available to Relief Society by the local priesthood and the system of accounting to the priesthood for disbursements will be determined by the brethren. It is anticipated that Relief Societies will enter in their respective record books the income received from the budget and also the amount of disbursements and the purposes for which these were made. The compiled figures on income and disbursements no doubt will be included in the annual reports. Definite instructions will be mailed to you later regarding this. We suggest that in estimating budgetary needs, Relief Society presidents keep in mind such essentials as record. Books, visit- 815 November 1970 ing teacher report books, essential supplies, lesson textbooks for organization use and lesson aid materials; materials and equipment, including sewing machines where needed for the homemaking program, as well as a modest allowance for luncheon items on homemaking day; essential nursery equipment and_ supplies, bearing in mind that some of these can be made by the sisters during the homemaking meeting; music, the Anniversary Day program and spring and fall socials, which are so conducive to the happiness of the Society. (Social activities have always been an integral part of the program of Relief Society. May I remind you that they should always reflect the dignity and high social standards of the Society? We especially refer to fashion shows.) NURSERIES In some instances, nurseries have entailed considerable costs. Insofar as reasonable and possible, we suggest that unpaid help be used in the nursery program. Where this is not reasonable nor feasible, the matter should receive careful consideration by the presidency and an appropriate recommendation should be made to the local priesthood authority for his consideration, approval, and financial support. It would seem that under no circumstances would anyone other than the sister in charge of the nursery be on a paid basis. The nursery program has definite bearing on the enrollment and attendance of young mothers, for whom Relief Society teachings are so essential. We 816 remind you that the program is most satisfactorily carried out where one woman is continuously in charge, with as much help being given her as the number of children demands. Plans should include care of infants who have their own carriages, bassinets, or other types of carriers which do not require the infant to be held in arms throughout the period of the Relief Society meeting. HOMEMAKING PROGRAM The new ruling with regard to bazaars has given rise to many questions related to the Homemaking Program. Sisters, we feel this program, while altered by change, is excitingly promising. The focus will be changed from volume of production of items, an important consideration in what is produced, to a focus on activities that will have direct bearing on their value to the individual members and _ their individual homes. In the Presidencies Department of this Conference, suggestions and recommendations of the General Board will be given which we feel confident will inspire and challenge you and which should bring new vitality to the Homemaking Program. HOMEMAKING PACKET The General Board has collected a packet of booklets and leaflets on a wide variety of subjects to aid homemaking leaders in planning homemaking meetings. The booklets contain factual, authentic information on many facets of homemaking. The packet may be obtained by One packet can be allowed for to new wa and Programs €ach sta » MIssion, oy Mission Made with Willingn d faith district In the IMSpiration th 8uides Our leaders. QUILTING The Ge €ral Board £iVin We are of the Pinion _that of the essentig] Services rendered ion a0 OPlection to eet VY the agazine through its lowing regulations: As yoy know, lessons for use 1. Custom quilting with earnings through May 1971, will appear turned over to the bishop or branch in the Relief Society Magazines ietys bane' eae Relief Soc Issued uring the balance of the Quilting fo, Individual members 1970 y, €ssons thereafter of the Oclety where the indiy;- will be d in Manual for ual provides + © Materials ang With the €sson helps Continued © sist ingly donate the Full etail h regard to the é Quiltin® oe fant or Plain quits Manuals, such as contents, Costs, as a f teachin his art Pe th b obtained and skill to Rete Sec members Will be Mailed to you 4S soon as With Relief Society buying the this information ls Teady. Con. Fat cosh neti being dpa ference addresses heretofore of at Cost by decision of the PresjPublished in the agazine will be Includeq With the Other Conference Materia] distribute in mimeographed form following MAGAZINE DISCONTINUED the Cor, ference. Another ajor change jn our as been dee d advisable Program is the 'Scontinuance to Scontinue th m and of The R f Societ Magazine 5s t story Contests, at least for Y action of The First Presidency © time bej Should they be elective wi t ecember reopened, You will be Otified Issue The Si contest, course © realize, Sisters, that the will be Continued, Iscontin ance of th agazine The Gen ral Bo acknow] after fif, Y-six durin hich edges With gratef, ] PPreciation It has Served th Societ Well and he faithfy] and ca ble Services e Ource of Splration © Sisters y hrough th 8rowth and €xPansion of the Ward or branch "Organizations November 1970 Where these sisters can be used advantageously in other offices, we urge that this be done. RECORD BOOK CHANGES; HANDBOOK OF INSTRUCTIONS The termination of the Relief Society Magazine and the change in the method of financing Relief Society automatically require changes in the information to be called for in the record books as well as in the annual reports for 1970-71. Time and decisions yet to be made have not allowed for new record book fillers to be printed as yet. Kindly use the current fillers, omitting information affected by the changes. Changes also affect regulations in the Handbook of Instructions which is already undergoing revision. EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM Time this morning does not allow for even a brief review of all of the courses of study for the 1970-71 year. We suggest a careful reading of the Previews published in the June 1970 issue of the Magazine. Sisters, please preserve this issue for reference. It is felt that mention should be made of the new spiritual living course "The Pearl of Great Price" planned as a three-year course. Through the study of The Pearl of Great Price, Relief Society women will have an opportunity to learn new truths, receive verification of truths known in other scriptures, and gain an increased testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. One can read the entire Pearl of Great Price in less than two hours. It was recom- 818 mended in the preview that every member of Relief Society read the book from cover to cover before the first lesson was presented. Those sisters who did not do this should still be encouraged to do so. The Cultural Refinement Course offers a special kit containing copies of four art masterpieces available through the Deseret Book Company outlets in Utah and California. (Price $2.00.) SECOND SESSION RELIEF SOCIETIES Second session Relief Societies have the full endorsement of the General Board. Instructions for conducting them, issued by the presiding Church Authorities, remain as originally issued and are published in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Some stake Relief Society presidents express concern that in some wards the new MIA Mutual Interest Program is regarded as obviating the need for second session Relief Societies scheduled for evenings. We are assured by our Advisors that there need be no conflict; that one program does not duplicate nor substitute for the other in purpose or activities. NEW STAKE BOARD MEMBER FOR LAMANITE AND/OR FOREIGN LANGUAGE GROUPS Since the all-Lamanite and foreign language societies are growing in number and leadership strength, and are eagerly seeking more help directed toward their special needs, the General Board recommends that in English-speaking stakes where either or both groups are located, that the stake Relief Society president consult with the stake president with a view to having a sister called to the stake board for this special and needed service. The sister called to this office would work with either group as needed. Where there are both types of organizations in a stake or mission, she would serve both. The qualifications of the sister for this special calling would need to be carefully considered. STATISTICAL FIGURES Statistical figures give evidence of advances in almost every facet of Relief Society work. (The following figures are estimates for the 1969-70 year based on actual increases of the previous year): Visiting Teaching: approximately 5% million visits (5,412,401)—an increase of 175,000 made by more than 150,000 (150,195) visiting teachers. Eight-hour days bedside nursing care of the sick: 47,592 or an increase of 5,574 days. Visits to the sick and homebound: 379,182 visits. There was a decrease of over 7,000 visits in this important service. Presidents, please take note of this and urge ward presidents not to neglect the homebound. Other compassionate services: 806,608 hours, or an increase of 33,536 hours. Church Welfare Visits to Families under the direction of bishops: 71,802 visits, or a decrease of 12,000. However, 73,931 other contacts authorized by bishops were made by Relief Society presidents to families needing special attention. There were over 50,000 Relief Society members who assisted on welfare projects during the 1969-70 fiscal year. Report and Official Instructions MUSIC Music, which has_ brought joy and development to Relief Society members, as well as a spirit of worship to our meetings, continues to improve. Singing Mothers choruses are proving to be missionary instruments. The 3,519 choruses report a combined membership of 49,689 singers. The Singing Mothers rehearsals should not be scheduled during the hours of the regular Relief Society meetings. It is often a convenience to the singers, however, to hold them prior to or following the meeting. REGIONAL CONFERENCES The General Board appreciates your support of and participation in priesthood directed Relief Society sessions of the Regional Conference. It is requested that minutes be taken of these meetings. CONCLUSION Sisters, this is an exciting and -challenging period of time to be identified with this great worldwide sisterhood, bound together in love and priesthood guided and directed. The protective watchcare of the Lord under whose direction Relief Society was founded has been over us continuously for over 128 years. This and the inspired guidance of the presiding Priesthood Authorities have led us to our present position of worldwide influence and strength. It will ever be so if we are obedient to priesthood direction and humbly and prayerfully seek the help of an all-wise Heavenly Father. 819 THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL ee eee Mayola R. Miltenberger, @ The 1970 Relief Society Annual General Conference held September 30 and October 1 in Salt Lake City, now belongs to history, but will long be remembered as one of particular significance. Relief Society sisters from Johannesburg to Helsinki, and from Tokyo to London, from Sydney to Pago Pago, as well as from towns and cities nearer by, gathered to hear words of inspiration and admonition, to learn together, and to rejoice together during the conference. The prophet, President Joseph Fielding Smith, former advisor to Relief Society, addressed the sisters, gave them counsel and his blessing. His devoted companion, Sister Jessie Evans Smith, was also present and offered the invocation in the General Session. Sister Joan Freda Lee, wife of President Harold B. Lee of the First Presidency, offered the benediction in the same session. Highlighting the Conference were addresses by several General Authorities of the Church. Elder Marion D. Romney, an advisor to Relief Society, reviewed changes which have occurred in 820 recent decades in patterns of family life. He urged the sisters to "build the home, strengthen the family by teaching the gospel in the home." He appealed to mothers to assume more parental responsibility and to Latter-day Saint women to recognize the divine nature of the institution of the family. A stirring address was delivered by Elder LeGrand Richards on the Lamanite program; Elder Thomas S. Monson, advisor to Relief Society, spoke with sincerity and conviction, decrying the evil influences rampant today against woman's fulfilling her divine destiny. Elder Boyd K. Packer gave vital instruction as to how women might support and further the Family Home Evening. President Belle S. Spafford's Report and Official Instructions to the Society membership was of special importance as it dealt with matters of far-reaching consequence relating to changes in policy for Relief Society. Members of the Relief Society presidency addressed the large Conference sessions and gave encouragement and suggestions to the sisters for achieving happiness General-Secretary Treasurer in life. They emphasized obedience to the principles of the gospel so that the Holy Spirit might be a constant companion and guide. Months of preparation preceded the long trip to Salt Lake City of approximately 150 Singing Mothers from Chicago Stake, who rendered music for the Officers Meeting as well as for the Presidencies Department. A combined chorus of approximately 400 Singing Mothers, under the baton of Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board, sang for the General Session of Relief Society Conference and also for the Friday morning session of the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church. Both choral groups were accompanied by distinguished Tabernacle organists, Dr. Alexander Schreiner, Dr. Robert Cundick, and Elder Roy M. Darley. On Thursday morning, October Ist, the Conference visitors were directed into eight different departmental meetings held simultaneously throughout the City, where the detailed "how to" part of the Conference was given. Newvitality was given to homemaking with the presentation during the Conference of a program focused upon activities GENERAL CONFERENCE 1970 which have value for individual members and use within their own homes. This year's homemaking display abosrbed the interest of all who viewed the wide range of ideas presented by means of demonstration and_ exhibit. Among practical suggestions were those dealing with new sewing techniques, knitting, different uses of quilting, macramé, and picture framing. The new Relief Society educational programs for the coming year were presented, with women learning everything from how to communicate better with family members, to how to read and sing together as family members. The world sisterhood, into which the women of the Church have been unified, was apparent. Even though not all comprehended the meaning of the polite bows and the "Ohyo gozaimous" of the Japanese sisters, or the "Como esta usted" of those from Mexico—yet their gestures were translated into a feeling of understanding and love, which permeated the 1970 Conference. Ae 821 EDITORIAL / Sharing With Others gw Sharing is of major concern to a Latter-day Saint. Joy in owning a treasure, whether it be one of spiritual import or material value, gives the most pleasure as it is shared with others. So it was in the days of the Savior when he would instruct the healed person to go and tell no one, but invariably he could not keep the good news to himself but ran and told others to rejoice with him. Sharing the joys which come from Relief Society membership and attendance gives the greatest satisfaction to a member. She longs to share her experiences with her friends, her mother, her grandmother. She is ''bursting'' to tell how her eyes have been opened to a truth of the gospel and how she can apply it in her own life, or to tell of a new way to accomplish a household task with less effort. Sharing the blessings of Relief Society calls upon a woman often to give service. She may travel quite a distance to pick up a sister with very small children, or an older sister who cannot walk so far, that they may share the joy of Relief Society. There are found in every organization those who share themselves in this way. Visiting teachers share themselves to a marked degree as they make their visits twelve times a year to share sisterhood with those they meet in Relief Society and likewise those who do not attend. Magazine representatives have also shared with all sisters in the organization as they have placed the Relief Society Magazines in the Latter-day Saint homes. Now this sharing is drawing to a close and such service will no longer be required, but what blessings have been earned by Magazine representatives over the years! This sharing exemplifies renderVolume 57. November 1970 Number 11 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 822 pre last days." As Relief Society Obeys the Priesthood directives, the work of Relief Society will be magnified among men and its members made to rejoice. —M. C. S. Leone G, Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Orlene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B, Curtis Ada J. Jones Winnietred S. Manwaring Lila B. Waich Zeima R. West Helen G, Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Reba O. Aldous Johna de st. Jeor Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene Cc. Dedekind Luella w. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Irene w. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S, Love Kathryn s. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Helen w. Jeppson Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer Arlene S. Kirton 823 4 it The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 5 (Conclusion) a Lila pushed Johnny back on the bed. Her voice was gentle. "Try to relax, Johnny. Norman should rest, too. He's been up all night." She spread an old quilt over them. "Please, Johnny. Remember how Aunt Lucinda said that sometimes patience was the answer to the problem." "Okay, okay." Johnny said reluctantly. He looked sideways at Norman lying beside him. "She's making sissies out of us," he scoffed. "Eighteen karat sissies!" "T like it,' Norman grinned. "Say, fellow," Johnny's eyebrows puzzled together, "how did you get back to Skylark after your plane landed?" "Walked to Kansas City to the hospital there. No planes were coming this way, so after 824 ty hh ' the doctor set my arm, I rented a car and headed for Skylark." "Boy!" Johnny whistled. "Lila, | you don't deserve a guy nutty enough to drive all those miles with one hand." Lila smiled at them both. "Quiet, Johnny," she coaxed. "Sleep awhile." She sat down in the old rocker looking up at the white tip of paper in the sagging ceiling. At last she could tell by Norman's and Johnny's rhythmic breathing that they were asleep. She tiptoed up the stairway. She wanted to find out if the piano was above the place where the letter was poking through. Now, looking at it, she was sure it was over the very spot. The piano had been against the wall —when a wall was there—she thought ruefully. Piece by piece, she moved some bricks from in front of it. If she could peek under the piano she might see the other part of the letter. She got down, bending her head to the floor, but the effort was in vain. There was nothing to see but more plaster and leaves swept in by the tornado. Elizabeth was right, she thought as she got to her feet, no calamity had the perversity of a tornado. It would skip some structures and leave others a pile of rubble. Johnny's car had been sucked up, houses had disappeared, but the old piano had been spared. Her eyes blinked. There at her feet were the remains of Aunt Lucinda's Dresden clock. The china was broken, some of it crumbled when she touched it. The hands of the clock had stopped at three-thirty. She took the pieces downstairs and put them in the paper sack Scott had brought the strawberries in. She would try to glue them together someday. The afternoon sun was bright against the windows. Lila took a clean cloth and wiped off some of the grimy dirt so she could see the highway clearly. She was eager for Steven and Elizabeth to return. She was as impatient as Johnny, she thought, smiling to herself. Her heart quickened as she watched the highway. A boy on a bicycle was riding toward Clover Street. Lila knew it was Casey coming back alone to a home that was no longer there. Her heart reached out to him. Casey had been born in the little house next door fourteen years ago. There hadn't been time for Mrs. Wilkins to drive fifty miles to a hospital. Lila had watched Casey grow up. He was one of their own! As she stood there at the window watching him, he lifted The Secret of Blueberry Hill his bicycle above the clutter on the front lawn, carried it to the old oak tree and leaned it against its trunk. Then he bent his head against a broken limb and Lila knew he was weeping. Her first thought was to run out to him. He had just come from the funeral. He would feel empty and forsaken. No doubt he had been manly and brave, but now, Lila realized, he needed to cry. He thought he was alone, that no one could see him, so, at last, he let the tears flow freely. She remembered that old oak tree was a symbol of strength to Casey as it was to all of them. It was something to cling to in the devastation that surrounded them; it typified a hope that they, too, could survive and bloom again. Lila went back and sat down beside the bed. She would let Casey have this moment alone. Boys didn't want anyone to see them cry, and Casey was a very manly boy. We've all had to grow up in the last few days, she thought pensively. Almost an hour passed before a horn honked in front. Voices called out. A moment later footsteps shook the ceiling and it sagged dangerously. Plaster sifted down in several places. Elizabeth was first to come down the stairway. Steven followed. Then Casey. His face was pinched and his eyes were swollen, but his shoulders were straight. Scott put his arm around him. Johnny sat up rubbing his eyes. Norman swung his long legs over the side of the bed and stood up. Steven went directly to Johnny 825 November 1970 and unwound the bandage on his hand. Then he and Elizabeth inspected it closely. They said something to each other that Lila couldn't hear but it must have meant that his hand had improved because they smiled and slapped Johnny on _ the back. Elizabeth sat down on the chair Scott pulled up for her. Then he took over in his authoritative way. "The trailers have arrived," he said. "They are in the parks, so we can leave here now—the quicker, the better. I've been concerned about this ceiling. A minute ago it nearly caved in. We should have been more careful and comeacross one at a time." "Look—" Johnny interrupted. "Up there. See that paper tip? It could be Aunt Lucinda's letter. We'd better get out, quick, as Scott says, but we'll get that letter first!" "It might be under the piano," Lila told them. "I think it ls. I found pieces of the Dresden clock under the plaster near the piano." Johnny pointed his finger at her accusingly. "That little spy! She kept Norm and me prisoners down here and went up there snooping!" Steven said, "Calm down, Johnny." He looked around the cellar. "There isn't anything worth taking with us. We'll cross that floor up there one at a time. Johnny first, then Norm because they need to protect a hand and an arm, then Lila and Elizabeth...." "But the letter," Lila insisted. "Please, Steven." 826 "We'll try, Lila Bob," he answered kindly. "But our safety comes first. I want that letter as much as anyone. Scott and Casey and I will lift the piano when you are all outside." "I can hft it alone, Steven," Casey offered. Steven patted his shoulder. "We'll help," he laughed. "Now let's move that crossbeam over there under the place where the piano is." "Tt might help," Scott agreed. "Let's start moving out of here." When it was her turn to go, Lila carried the paper bag with the old clock up the stairway and across the trembly floor. Norman and Johnny were waiting for her. Then Elizabeth came safely across. They watched fearfully as Casey, Scott, and Steven came up one at a time and stood ready to lift the old piano until one of them could search under it. It was decided that because Casey was limber and young, he would take an old rake from the basement and look through the rubble. Lila covered her eyes. Norman put his good arm around her and held her. Dear Heavenly Father, she prayed, don't let anyone get hurt. Minutes passed. It seemed like a century to Lila. Then Norman said, "Open your eyes, Lila Bob. Casey found the letter. The old piano is back on the floor again, holding its own. Here they are safe and sound." "T love that old piano!" Elizabeth said. "I'll keep it forever." "Casey," Scott said. "Bring your bike. We'll put it in the trunk. There's plenty of room in my car for all of us." Dr. "I have to take that rented car back uptown," Norman explained. "Let's all get in Scott's car first while we read the letter," Lila suggested. "Right here where we lived with Aunt Lucinda." They crowded in close together. Steven turned the letter over in his hands. "Casey did a good job pulling this out. Only one rip. I can fit that together," he said. Lila bit her lip to hold it steady. Steven began in his quiet voice. My dearest children: It has been my constant prayer, from the moment you came to live with me, that I could rear you in the true McIntyre way. I wanted you to grow up to be responsible, capable, self-supporting men and women, a credit to yourselves, your family, your Church, and your country. Keep this in mind as you read this letter so you will understand why I did what I felt was the right thing under the circumstances. One morning years ago, shortly after you all came to live with me, I went up to Blueberry Hill to pick berries for jam and jelly. I went early before any of you were awake. Imagine my surprise when I found the top of the hill a sticky mass of black oil. I stooped and touched it, hardly able to believe my eyes. Oil was oozing out of the ground all around me. Oil everywhere! I was almost overcome with the significance of this condition. If this meant what I thought it meant, I was a potentially rich woman, indeed. Now I know what most women would have done in my position with four little children to rear, a moderate salary, and a small insurance from your parents. But I am not like "most women." I am Lucinda McIntyre with my own set of rules and ideas and I have learned through long, hard experience as a teacher and principal of a school, that children must work and struggle for success. I was afraid that if you children knew there was an oil dome on my property you would think you could take life easy and let me pay your way. You knew The Secret of Blueberry Hill I loved each one of you beyond anything in this life; you might take advantage of my love and become wastrels. I stood there on Blueberry Hill that morning and promised the Heavenly Father and myself that I would keep it a secret until you had made successful men and women of yourselves. At Christmastime when you all come home I intend to tell you the secret. Elizabeth and Steven can have money for their hospital; Johnny can start an art school for beginners, Lila can have an antique shop if she wants one. My prayer for her is that she will quit daydreaming and grow up. She should look around her for the real man who has always been there when she needed him. My added request is that you see that Casey Wilkins has an education in one of the worthwhile professions, so he will be able to care for his mother and little Pearl.... Steven's voice faltered. Lila saw Casey swallow hard. Then Steven went on: I trust your wisdom in using this legacy wisely. If Heavenly Father decides that my work here is finished, then I leave this letter for you all, my dearest children. With my heart's love and devotion and an earnest prayer that you will rear children of your own in the right way, I am forever, Your Aunt Lucinda There was a long, breathless silence. Lila looked through her tears at the faces of each one. Elizabeth wept openly. Steven's dark eyes deepened with feeling. Johnny wiped his eyes with the back of his fingers as a little boy would do. Norman's hand tightened around hers. Casey was looking at the oak tree. His eyes glistened with the promise of youth as though he was already thinking of what Aunt Lucinda expected of him. Scott Harrington's voice was husky. "What a splendid woman 827 November 1970 she was," he said reverently. "One in a million." Steven said, "She knew each one of us better than we knew ourselves." "If I'd had money," Johnny said, "I wouldn't be worth a hoot. Today, I can hold my head up with the good cartoonists because of her wisdom." "Her real legacy to you all," Scott went on, "is not the oil on Blueberry Hill. It's the way she taught you to live and work and help each other." "You are right, Scott," Elizabeth murmured. "That is the legacy we must pass on to future generations. I would like to call our hospital the 'Lucinda McIntyre Memorial Hospital' " "A perfect name," Steven agreed. "It will be a sort of shrine for everyone who knew her," Casey said. Lila noticed the love and respect in his young voice. She lifted her eyes to Blueberry Hill as she walked to Norman's car with him. This was the way Aunt Lucinda would want it to be, she thought, as they drove along the highway together. & DEEP WHITE Oh, swift the passing of the golding hours. And summer lies beneath a deep, deep white; Only the trees stand motionless and bare Naught else remains but what is out of sight. The magpies and the blue jays come for food; With cedar waxwings in great clouds of grey, And on each tiny twig their soft breast brood. They find the apples that escape men's eyes, All frozen now to feed each hungry bird; They wake the landscape with their grace of flight, And with flashing colors my heart is stirred. & Friendship Memories Dora D. Flack —Linnie F. Robinson One of my dear friends revels in choice memories as she works in her yard, for it is filled with plants from the gardens of her friends. Instead of thinking of the drudgery of weeding and cultivating, she remembers pleasant hours and the love of the friends who gave the plants. I have a year-round memory garden in my kitchen—in a recipe box. As I contemplate making goodies for my family, I thumb through my recipe file, and my friends crowd back to visit. At the top of each card is written the name of the friend from whom the recipe was obtained. The friends are scattered far but are still a part of my life. Silently I thank them for the goodness in food and spinit which they have left in my home and heart over the years. 828 Yet, here upon this northern mountain steep, - Utah State University Stake Relief Society Presents "May Shoo," May 16, 1970 829 November 1970 Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Honors Visiting Teachers 1970 Seated in front, former presidents of the Archer Ward Relief Society, left to right: Opal Clemants; Rachel Sutton; Erma Magleby; LaVerne Hacking; Evelyn Grover; Edna Mae Wilcox, present President. Sister Magleby, now President of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Under the direction of Cleo J. Johnson, former president, Rexburg Stake Relief Society, the visiting teachers from our stake were honored with a special program with the theme 'Go Beyond the Door.' "Special tribute was paid to the Archer Ward visiting teachers who are pictured. These sisters have attained an outstanding record of one hundred percent visiting teaching over the past twenty-five years. We are very proud of them and the other visiting teachers in our stake who work so hard." Long Island Stake (New York) Presents Springtime Bazaar, May 2, 1970 Ann G. Ames, President, Long Island Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our springtime bazaar was under the direction of Gabriella Tuerpe, our Homemaking Counselor, assisted by Edith Abbott, Education Counselor. It represented the efforts of the six wards in the stake. "A lovely French market place was the distribution point for lovely handmade articles. A French luncheon was sold at a sidewalk cafe where the visitors were served by MIA girls in peasant costumes. "The bazaar was a financial success and an inspiration in cooperation increasing the feeling of stake unity and love among the sisters in the stake." Yakima Stake (Washington) Presents Fashion Show and Luncheon, May 23, 1970 Left to right: Elaine McPhie, homemaking leader, Yakima Stake Relief Society; Beverly Zitting, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Bohne, Second Counselor; Marie Tecumseh, Counselor, Wapato Lamanite Branch Relief Society; Joan Gibb, First Counselor, Stake Relief Society; Evelyn Conrad, President. Sister Conrad reports: ''A fashion show and luncheon with the theme 'Old to New' was enjoyed by the sisters of our stake. The table decorations were antique treasures filled with fresh lilacs and other spring flowers. "Old trunks, refinished furniture, made-over toys, and many other articles were displayed. The fashion show featured the sisters from the wards modeling beautiful clothing they had made from used materials. 'There were over 200 sisters in attendance who were inspired with the lessons on thrift and resourcefulness they learned from one another. "The sisters from the Wapato Lamanite Branch displayed cradle boards and many beautiful items of handwork.'' 830 November 1970 Billings Stake (Montana), Billings Ward Holds Bazaar, March 20, 1970 Left to right: Jennie L. Baird; Elaine B. Holden. Margorie A. Dixon, President, Billings Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Billings ————— Pago Pago Stake (American Samoa) Holds First Singing Mothers Concert, May 22, 1970 Vaimaila Fa'amausili, President, Pago Pago Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme for the first Singing Mothers concert ever held in our Stake was 'A Night of Song'. Eight wards and branches were represented by 147 Singing Mothers who raised their voices in Song and praise to our Heavenly Father under the direction of Stake chorister Toai Leulua'i and organist Fuiono Sji'uf anua. They sang in a beautiful setting of native flowers and greenery. "The program was planned and coordinated by the stake board Members with Stake President Patrick L. Peters Presiding. We were very pleased with how well this inspiring evening turned out." ee Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert, Sing at Fireside and Commencement Services, May 3, 29, 1970 Dawn H. Cowan, President, Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our Singing Mothers presented a concert to 150 Persons in the afternoon, 832 ae aw ey ere et gdh November 1970 Texas East Stake Relief Society Presents ''A Stranger Within Our Gates,"' and Holds Literary Contest May, 1970 Left to right: Ruth Moss, cultural refinement class leader, Texas East Stake Relief Society; Nellie Delese, first place poem winner; Lavoice Evans, President, Texarkana Ward Relief Society; Carolyn Zaugg, cultural refinement class leader. Lola A. Wade, President, Texas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our May workshop was very successful, featuring paintings, music, handwork, fashion, and food demonstrations. A presentation of the play 'A Stranger Within our Gates,' thrilled everyone. "An exciting part of the program was the reading of the poetry entered in the stake poetry contest. We were grateful for the participation in the contest and the enthusiasm the sisters have for Relief Society.'' Columbia River North Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present ''Come Unto Me,"' May 16, 1970 Front row in dark dress: Alvaretta Wirth, chorister; to her right: Maridon Nielsen, violin accompanist. Seated at the piano: Janice Gilman. Gentleman who narrated: Roy H. King. Elizabeth S. Barton, President, Columbia River North Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty-two Singing Mothers performed to an audience of more than 300 persons in the first event held in our new stake house. They presented the very inspiring 'Come Unto Me.' "Our soloists were Dorothea Moultrie, Mary Kilgore, and Peggy Martin. A trio was formed by Louise Davis, Marilyn Allen, and Charlotte Pestinger. "We were most pleased with this lovely presentation. Refreshments were served and a Relief Society Arts Display from the wards and branches was enjoyed by our guests."' SSS SA ee Panguitch Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Perform For Visiting Teachers and Stake Conference April 25, May 31, 1970 Front row, at left: Verda Tebbs, director; to the right of sister in dark dress: La Ree Huntsman, accompanist. Marjorie R. Crofts, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers from our stake performed at our annual visiting teachers convention. Theme for the program was 'Come Unto Me.' As the sisters sang, appropriate pictures of the Savior and scenes of beauty were projected on a screen. It was a lovely program. The sisters also performed for our stake quarterly conference. They have enjoyed singing together and enriching the lives of others." 834 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California), Berkeley Ward Unveils Sculptured Plaque at the Relief Society Birthday Celebration March 17, 1970 Sculptress Elaine Brockbank Evans pictured with plaque she sculptured for the Berkeley Ward Relief Society depicting the organization meeting. Charlottie B. Smith, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Over 250 ward members and guests viewed a lovely plaque sculptured by Elaine Brockbank Evans and presented to the Berkeley Ward Relief Society. The bronze plaque was designed to fit into a large niche above the mantel in the Relief Society room. "The plaque depicts the organization of Relief Society with the eighteen women, the Prophet Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards. Sister Evans did considerable research and obtained photographs of many of the people pictured. "At the presentation she gave an inspirational address regarding her research and enjoyment of the project. She is a well-known artist, having sculptured many things for the Church, including the Adam and Eve statue which was first unveiled at the Mormon Pavilion of the New York World's Fair." 836 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING: The Pearl of Great Price Lesson 5 The Eternal Nature of the Gospel Reading Assignment: Moses, chapters 6, 7, 8 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE To highlight the justice of God in providing the plan of salvation to Adam and his posterity and to emphasize the security this gives every Latter-day Saint woman. INTRODUCTION In a world which has, by and large, rejected a literal understanding of early biblical characters, the miracles of Jesus, and the revelations from God to his prophets, it is reassuring to Latter-day Saints that they can believe in all of these things because of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The existence of God as a personal Being, the divine sonship of Jesus Christ, the existence of miracles, the gifts of the Holy Ghost, and the knowledge of revelation today are a part of a Latter-day Saint's life. The criticism of the Bible which arose in the nineteeth century began a movement to destroy faith in these fundamental beliefs, though some of them had long since departed from the minds of many "Christians." Adding this movement to destroy faith to the fact that God's priesthood and gospel teachings were lost to man through a great apostasy, it is understandable why the Lord would, in the last dispensation, provide the means for a renewed faith in his work and in his ancient prophets. The modern books of scripture— Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price—provide this basis for faith and understanding. GOSPEL PLAN The fullness of the gospel of 837 November 1970 the Origin of man and the 80Spel, we must look to t eginnin before this earth created, and even before that, Or both Man and the EoSpel are eternal REVELATION A Significant difference between Latter-day Saints and Some other People is edge that God is a Persona] Being and that We ] | ed because of your faith in the Principle of Continuous I; recognize Certain re] 810us_ perj ds from am to ¢ Present known a dispensa tion, May Comp., "Outline of the Dispensationg of the Gospel, " The Seventy's Course Second year [Salt Publishing Meridian of time or Christian 3 and the dispensa tion of the Prophets, Past an THE GOSPEL oF JESUS CHRIST Trist conThe 89Spel of Jesus Ch l nd ordiSists of the Principles nances which for man to Ghost, (3 Ne, 27:13-29. 9-15; 76:40-42, 51-52.) Lesson Department The Prophet Joseph Smith e: The Other Principles end. A SOSpe]l dispensation exists aving Principles and ONLY ONE GOSPEL All the teachings of the Patriarchs and Prophets Gospel]. There js Of man is the same in every age of the 64.) Question for Discussion Why do you think the Lord instituted Only one 80spe]? BIBLICAL TEACHINGS November 1970 foresaw the day when it would go through many hands, resulting in "many plain and precious things [being] taken away." (1 Ne. 13:26-28.) Nephi also saw that with this partial word of God going forth among men, "an exceeding great many do stumble, yea, insomuch that Satan hath great power over them." (1 Ne. 13:29.) As a consequence, many truths essential for man's understanding are lost from the Bible and, therefore, the creeds of men do not include the fullness of gospel truth. As indicated in another lesson, the name of Jesus Christ does not appear in the Old Testament. (Lesson 2.) The ordinance of baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are also absent. Other fundamental teachings are either not given or are given in an indefinite manner, Yet New Testament prophets refer to the gospel of Jesus Christ as existing in the days of Abraham and Moses. (1 Cor. 10: 1-4: Heb. 3:14-19; 4:1-2.) About Abraham, Paul wrote: And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. (Gal. 3:8; see also verses 16, 17, 19, 24-26.) THE ADAMIC DISPENSATION Adam was an historical person, one who lived and_ breathed, learned the laws of God, and sought to live them. The First Presidency, in 1909, wrote the following: Adam, our great progenitor, "the first man," was, like Christ, a pre-existent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, 840 and so became a "living soul." (Improvement Era, November 1909, 13:80.) Moses' vision of the creation of man, recorded in the Pearl] of Great Price, informs us_ that Adam was the first man to become a living soul upon this earth. (Moses 3:5-7.) In like manner a revelation to Joseph Smith states that Abel received the priesthood from his father - Adam "who was the first man." (D&C 84:16.) What did Adam know concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ? Before his transgression and after he became mortal, Adam knew God, his Eternal Father. (Moses 6:51.) He knew that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son of God (Moses 6:57), and that he would atone for the sins of man. (Moses 6:54.) Adam learned that his sins could be remitted by faith in Christ, by repentance, baptism by immersion, and the baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost. (Moses 6:58-66.) Although the book of Genesis does not give the reason for sacrifice, Adam was taught the law of sacrifice that he might keep in remembrance the atonement to be made by Christ in the meridian dispensation. (Moses 5:4-8; Gen. 4:1-7.) From the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that Adam received the Holy Priesthood that he might preach the gospel and administer the ordinances thereof. As a high priest and patriarch, he called his posterity together at Adam-ondi-Ahman and predicted what would befall them unto the latest generation. (D&C 107:40-56.) Eventually the faithful living since the time of Adam will be sealed family to family under the sealing powers of the priesthood restored by Elijah. (JD 9: 269; D&C 110:13-16.) According to Abraham, the sacred higher ordinances of the gospel were known to Adam, Seth, Noah, Abraham, and others in that early age. (Facsimile No. 2 from the Book of Abraham, Figs. 3, 7, 8.) THE DISPENSATION OF ENOCH The Bible records ten verses about Enoch, seven in the Old Testament and three in the New Testament. Only two verses in the Old Testament give information about Enoch, while the others are genealogical. (Gen. 5:18-19, 21-24.) Enoch prophesied of Christ's second coming, and he was translated because of his faith. (Jude 14; Heb. 11:5.) In the Pearl of Great Price we learn that the development of great wickedness among men brought a commission to Enoch to cry repentance unto the people and to reveal the calamities which would befall them if they did not repent. (Moses 6:26-30.) Important in that dispensation was the great vision Enoch saw of the future extending down through the flood, even unto Christ and into the last dispensation when the second coming of Christ would occur. (Moses 7:23-67.) Enoch, a contemporary of Adam, walked with God. (Moses 6:39.) He knew of the fall of Adam, of the first principles and ordinances of the gospel—including the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Moses 6: 40-68.) Great was the power of Enoch to perform miracles, but also he was mighty in teaching his people the gospel. (Moses 7: 13, 16.) The law of consecration Lesson Department revealed in our dispensation was practiced by his people, and because of their righteousness they were taken up into heaven and will return in a day of righteousness to meet the people of the New Jerusalem on the American continent. (Moses 7:18-21, 62-64.) DISPENSATION OF NOAH The vision given to Enoch revealed that the inhabitants of the earth would be destroyed by water and that his great-grandson, Noah, would repeople the earth. (Moses 7:42-45; 8:1-11.) Latter-day Saints believe that the great flood which covered the earth in the days of Noah was literal. The destruction of the inhabitants of the earth, with the exception of eight individuals, was due to extreme wickedness. (1 Pet. 3:18-20.) In that day when "every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually," Noah and his sons gave heed to the Lord's commandments. (Moses 8:13, 22.) Although there had been no break in the line of righteous men since Adam, the increasing wickedness of men and the need to warn them of the judgment which awaited them, made necessary a dispensation of the gospel to Noah. (D&C 84:6-17; Moses 8: 19-27.) Noah taught the people of his generation the gospel of Jesus Christ—faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, and receiving the Holy Ghost—by the authority of the Holy Priesthood. (Moses 8:19, 23-24.) The greatness of Noah in the eyes of God was mentioned by the Prophet Joseph Smith who said that Noah was next to Adam 841 November 1970 in authority in the priesthood, and that the Lord "continued to him the keys, the covenants, the power and the glory, with which He blessed Adam at the beginning." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 171.) The time of Noah, when the wicked were destroyed by water, was mentioned by the Savior as typical of the last days when the wicked inhabitants of the earth would be destroyed by fire. (Joseph Smith 1 38-45.) Thus, the earth, a living organism, was baptized in the days of Noah, and it will be baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941], p. 393.) DISPENSATION OF ABRAHAM A subsequent lesson will treat the subject of Abraham and his seed; therefore, only a few matters relative to Abraham's dispensation will be given here. From the Book of Abraham we learn that Abraham received the priesthood, the same authority conferred upon Adam. (Abr. 1:2-4.) Because of his faithfulness to the Lord's commandments, Abraham was promised that his posterity would consist of many nations. Also, through his seed, the priesthood should be received and the gospel taught among the nations. (Abr. 2:8-11.) Great was the understanding of this patriarch for he received revelation regarding the creation of the earth and man, of the premortality of all men, of the doctrine of foreordination, and of the purpose of life. (Abr. 3:19-28.) Paul declared that Abraham 842 taught the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Gal. 3:8.) Although the Book of Abraham is not a complete record of Abraham's activities, it is clear that not only did he have the priesthood, but also the gospel. (Abr. 2:6, 10.) DISPENSATION OF MOSES From the Book of Moses we have learned that this great lawgiver in Israel knew of the creation of the earth, of all living things, including man. (Moses 2; 3.) He also knew of the doctrines of premortality and the Godhead. He recorded the account of the fall of Adam and Eve, of the gospel of Jesus Christ given to Adam and his posterity, and of the priesthood which administered these truths. According to a modern revelation Moses taught the children of Israel, whom he led out of Egyptian bondage, how men might see God. They would not become sanctified, however, so the higher priesthood was taken from the earth, and the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood continued after Moses's death. (D&C 84:18-27.) Question for Discussion How does your study of the dispensations of the gospel confirm the belief that the gospel of Jesus Christ was on the earth before the time of Jesus' mortal ministry? IMPLEMENTATION Several important truths have emerged from our discussion which should promote in the Latter-day Saint woman greater faith in God and in his concern for his children. While the world lacks information regarding God's plan for all of his children, we, by the light 0 revelation are that fallen » livin nder able to s th Way of Salvation the Penalty 5 Piritua] death Tom the beginnin © the eng. (banish €nt from Presence The Spel of J us Ist, as of God), aS given €ans of z us 0. Aside largely as non-existent, Preached, from, the beginning being Myth, or legend. Also, the moqdeclare by holy nels sent forth from n Standing of the JUStice of God. Forth, that it should be in the World,. E M S, Latter-day Saints know that and lone ae and thus it wa God Created man In his own image, for he has revealed himself By the in Person and through ancient Jesus Christ who came in the Tecords and Modern revelation Meridian of time, Men are Saved received jn Our 8€neration. They through Obedience to the 80spel, know that God igs Just, and that Whether they lived before his € governs reations by unatonem t or after (Moses 6:57 CNangeab] aw h Taylor 61; 25-28.) Is the de. E€dtation tonement [Salt Sign of God th I] Ispensations ake Deseret News ¢ Will be ded to ther fro the 1882), Pp. 162. > DEC 88 34-40 last to the first th Ough the SealIn this truth, Latter-da Saints ing PoWers of the Priesthood and ave a urity Tings the Practice alvation ordiNorthern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 197] Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, August 197] OBJECTIVE To help the Latter. Day Saint Woman UNderst, the reality o Satan and to encourage her to USe reveal d knowleg t Unteract h pti INTRODUCTION The Prophet Moses Was told unto Moses, that the Words of that When Men would lose faith the Lord might again be found in his Writings, the Lord Would 7 mOong the children Of men. (Moses raise UP one who Would be like 1:41.); 843 November 1970 As one compares the Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price with the writings of Moses in the Bible, it is apparent that this prophecy is literally fulfilled in the revealing of the Book of Moses to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Unto Joseph, son of Jacob, it was known, but not preserved in the Bible, that there would be a seer raised up in the last days, whose name would be Joseph. This Joseph's father would also be named Joseph, that is, Joseph Smith, Sr., father of Joseph, the choice seer of the latter days. (2 Ne. 3:6-9, 17.) This prophecy came from the brass plates carried by Lehi from the old world. The Book of Mormon also attests to the truth that Moses received the words of the Lord, for the brass plates contained "the five books of Moses [Genesis through Deuteronomy], which gave an account of the creation of the world, and also of Adam and Eve, who were our first parents." (1 Ne. 5:11.) One of the important contributions of the Pearl of Great Price to our knowledge of the world in which we live is the reality of Satan. Latter-day Saints may look upon the few references to Satan or the devil in the Old Testament as a deliberate attempt to nullify the concept of Satan as a personage of spirit opposed to God. Nephi was informed through revelation that many plain and precious things would be taken from the Bible which would cause people to stumble in unbelief. In fact, the angel told him that because of these deletions from the Bible "Satan hath great power over them." (1 Ne. 13:24-29.) 844 The first time the name Satan is mentioned in the Bible is in the First Book of the Chronicles (21:1), and his name appears in only thirteen verses in the Old Testament, ten of which are in the Book of Job. The devil, or devils, are mentioned only four times in the Old Testament. The book of Genesis records that it was the serpent who tempted Adam and Eve. (Gen. 3:1-2.) Some critics of the Bible have concluded that because of the few references to Satan in the Old Testament, the Jewish people acquired the idea of Satan at a later date, probably from the Babylonians. This view of the Bible indicates a belief in the evolution of religious ideas rather than viewing them as being revealed from God. THE BOOK OF MOSES AND SATAN In the eight chapters of the Book of Moses, the name Satan appears twenty-eight times. Satan is referred to as the devil. (Moses 4:4.) It is evident that in the beginning a knowledge of the devil as an individual was had, according to the revelations. (2 Ne. 2:17; D&C 29:36-37; 76: 25-29.) Examples of scriptures in the Book of Moses which refer to Satan, but are lost from the Bible are: (1) the temptation of Moses (Moses 1:12-22); (2) the temptation of Adam and Eve (Moses 4:5-12; cf. Gen. 3:6; (3) the origin of Satan (Moses 4:1-4); (4) the temptation of thesons and daughters of Adam and Eve (Moses 5: 13); (5) Cain and Satan (Moses 5:17-23; cf. Gen. 4:2-7); and (6) other references to Satan's power that are not found in the Bible. (Moses 5:28-31, 38, 49, 52, 55; 6:15, 29, 49; 7:24, 26, 38, 57.) Class Discussion Take one of the incidents involving Satan from the book of Moses and show wherein it is of value to you. Latter-day Saints know Satan to be an individual spirit-being. President George Q. Cannon, a counselor in the First Presidency in this dispensation, wrote: Satan exercised his agency and became the devil. He loved evil and chose it. We have no doubt that in the beginning, before he became totally abandoned, he was taught the right way, he was plead with, entreated and prayed for. The revelations teach us that he was an angel of God, that he was, in fact, a son of God. He had the same opportunity of choosing the good that Jesus had; but he was disobedient and rebellious. He fought against the Father and became a fallen angel, even a devil. He could do this, because he was a free agent. [Abr. 3:27-28; D&C 29:36-38; 76:25-28] (George Q. Cannon, Gospel Truth, comp. Jerreld L. Newquist {Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1957], pp. 137-38.) How Satan became an enemy of God is made known in the Book of Moses. Satan's actions in the premortal council when the plan of salvation was presented and adopted by the followers of God, and his rebellion, are there revealed. (Moses 4:1-4.) Elder James E. Talmage, an apostle of this dispensation, wrote the following about Satan: We have had occasion to refer frequently to the author of evil among men. This is Satan [Job 1:6-22; 2:1-7; Zech. 3:1-2], the adversary or opponent of the Lord, the chief of evil spirits, called also the Devil [Matt. 4:5, 8, 11; 1 Peter 5:8], Beelzebub [Matt. 12:24], or the Prince of Devils, Perdition [D&C 76:26], and Belial [2 Cor. 6:15]. The Lesson Department figurative appelations dragon and serpent are applied to Satan when reference is made to his fall [Rev. 12:9; 20:2]. We learn from the revealed word [D&C 76: 25-27; Isa. 14:12] that Satan was once an angel of light, then known as Lucifer, a Son of the Morning; but his selfish ambition led him to aspire to the glory and power of the Father, to secure which he made the pernicious proposition to redeem the human family by compulsion; and, failing in this purpose, he headed an open rebellion against the Father and the Son, drawing a third of the hosts of heaven into his impious league. [D&C 29:36-37; Moses 4:3-7; Abr. 3:27-28; Jesus the Christ, pp. 8-9; Rev. 12:4.] (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1968], p. 62.) SATAN'S WORK A summary of Satan's work is given to Moses by the Lord, as follows: And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice. (Moses 4:4.) Evil, that which is morally bad or wrong and wicked, comes from the devil, whereas good, virtue, and truth, come from God. (Al. 5:40-42; Eth. 4:12; Moro. 10:18; 2 Ne. 2:18.) Satan is aided in his deceitful practices by legions of evil spirits, in fact, one-third of the premortal hosts of men. Without attempting to give all of the activities of these evil beings, perhaps the following will help one to recognize the extent and universality of the wickedness of which they are capable. In addition to being the father of lies and an enemy of all righteousness, he tempts men not to pray (2 Ne. 32:8), to lie (D&C 10:25-26), to contend 845 November 1970 Oro. 9:3), + ea and kil] the Prophets (Eth 8:25), Ne. 80es forth deceiving the nations, "to d fro in the earth Seeking to estroy the Souls of men." ( C 52:14; 10:27.) B blinding €Nn's eyes and hardenIng their arts, he eads them Carefully ¢ t they ay lose their Souls, (] Ne. 12:17 hat are Some of the Vices hich accomQuestion for Discussion How may pride, Power-seeking. Tiches, Or other Vain things of Souls of Men? €Y do not Promote the Welfare of others Hatred of good urges eM to seek the y happinesg of thers nd thus the torment lS Complete. Eseret News Press,; C 121-4 ) We example, that the tempt little children, 47.) The Lord has Said that the devi] tempts men t € agents unto themselves thus THE DEVIL'S POWER OVER CAIN Following the transgression, Adam and Eve taught — their children righteousness, but Satan came amongst their children, Saying: I am also a son of God; and he commanded them, Saying: Believe it not; from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish. (Moses 5:12-13.) 5:16-17.) "And Cain loved Satan more than God." cepted. The promise was given to Cain that Prophetically, Cain is the abomination of lies, Which was had from God." (Moses 5:95, oseph Fielding Smith, The @y to Perfection [6th ed.; Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1946], p. 98.) Secret com binations and works of darkness continued from this time. Lamech's sin was the Slayhe spread of the works of darkhearken unto his voice. (Moses These secret combinations continued because Satan had great hold on the hearts Lesson Department Own brother, in administering because of secret works, seeking for Power." (Moses 6:15.) Two great Civilizations upon the ancient American continent were also destroyed because of the power of the devi] and the wickedness of men. And to lie, and to commit all manner of wickedness and whoredoms, (Eth. 8:15-16.) the American Continent, and also the destruction of the Ne. Phites.(Eth.8:21-23.) Satan woul seek through secret combination ce to Overthrow the freedom of all of those conditions are: denial ] contention among churches; teaching that sins wil] be forgiven by God, so lie a little, and cheat; the teachings Belief in the existence of the devil has waned over the years until verbally and by actions a great many have fulfilled Nephi's knowledge of our times—"there is I am-no devil, for 847 November 1970 there is none." (2 Ne. 28:22.) And thus, the devil, a real, living spirit-being, "grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance," awaiting the judgment of God. (2 Ne. 28:22-23.) Nephi knew that some who live in Zion would exclaim: "All is well!" There would also be those who would follow the teachings of men and reject the revelations of God. (2 Ne. 28:25-30.) Of all of these, the following is given: Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh his arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost. (2 Ne. 28:31.) AIDS TO PREVENT DECEPTION The devil and his spirit followers are attempting to lead men away from the truth, even to the denial of Satan's existence. It is not necessary for the devil literally to take possession of a mortal being's body, as he has done on numerous occasions; in most instances the means of deception are more subtle. He "leadeth them away carefully down to hell." (2 Ne. 28:21.) "And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security.... Others he flattereth away... He whispereth in their ears...." (2 Ne. 28:21-22.) Satan's methods are clever and deceitful, even to planting a few false ideas about fundamental truths amidst all the truth one might believe, for the false notions could prevent a person from becoming a true disciple of the Lord. (Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses, 13:73 [hereafter referred to as JD].) What means 848 has the Lord placed in his gospel to prevent his saints from being deceived? Among the many truths the Lord has revealed in this dispensation, the following are appropriate to this lesson. First, acquire a testimony that Joseph Smith is a prophet, to whom the Lord revealed eternal truth, the truth that saves in this life and in the eternities to come. (See Spiritual Living lessons in the Relief Society Magazine, October - December 1969, January 1970.) Second, know that the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to the Prophets Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and Moses in the beginning and is eternal. If we are to be strengthened against the deceptions of Satan, we must recognize that he is a real personage. Third, acquire knowledge of gospel teachings that they may be a guide in discerning truth from error. Joseph Smith said: "As far as we degenerate from God, we descend to the devil and lose knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot be saved...." (Joseph Smith, History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957], 4:588 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC\}.) Fourth, follow the prophets and apostles and the standard works of the Church, to dissolve conflicts between the ideas of men on what to believe or how to live. (D&C 52:9, 36.) In an epistle of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in 1839, the following is given: Be careful that you teach not for the word of God the commandments of men, nor the doctrines of men, nor the ordinances of men, inasmuch as you are God's messengers. Study the word of God, and preach it and not your opinions, for no man's opinion is worth astraw. Advance no principle but what you can prove, for one scriptural proof is worth ten thousand opinions. (DHC 3:395-396.) Fifth, hold fast to the words of the First Presidency and the apostles, prophets, seers, and revelators. (D&C 124:45-46.) Seek present knowledge to combat the evils of the day by knowing what counsel the brethren give today. The principle of continuous revelation is with this Church to guide and direct the destinies of this people. Sixth, live so that the Holy Ghost may be a guide and a direction in your life. One must seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost to avoid deception. (D&C 46:7-10.) Close observance of the commandments maintains the companionship of the Spirit. (D&C 1:31-33.) Class Discussion Evaluate the foregoing six points as aids in preventing the deception of Satan. SUMMARY The Book of Moses in the Pear] of Great Price substantiates the truth that Satan was on the earth in the beginning and that he is the being who has sought to destroy the gospel of Jesus Christ and its influence among men. By the deletion of the foregoing fact from the early books of the Bible, Satan has caused people to stumble and to reject the principle of revelation from God in that early Lesson Department period. From the Book of Moses, however, we learn that Satan ls areal spirit-person and the creator of evils that have continued to place men in his power. Regardless of the theories of men relative to Satan's nonexistence, the world today demonstrates that his power is real. The counterfeit is always present when the truth is revealed. With the loss of revelation from God, men have sought revelation from mystic sources, from spiritualists, and other forms of communicating with the other side of the veil. President Brigham Young said it was revealed to him "that in proportion to the spread of the Gospel among the nations of the earth, so would the power of Satan rise." (JD 13:280.) How, then, may the saint judge between the false and the true idea? Mormon has given this standard: But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him. (Moro. 7:17.) President Joseph Fielding Smith gave the following key to truth: If members of the Church would place more confidence in the word of the Lord and less confidence in the theories of men, they would be better off. I will give you a key for your guidance. Any doctrine, whether it comes in the name of religion, science, philosophy, or whatever it may be, that is in conflict with the revelations of the Lord that have been accepted by the Church as coming from the Lord, will fail. It may appear to be very plausible; it may be put before you in such a way that you cannot answer it, it may 849 November 1970 appear to be established by evidence that cannot be controverted, but all you need do is to bide your time. Time will level all things. (The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1930, 21: 155.) President HeberC. Kimball gave the following sage advice: If we permit the devil to have power over us, and we are seduced by him, and we crouch down under his power, then he will have dominion over us. Upon the same principle, we let sin have power over us, but it has no power over us unless we subject ourselves to it. (JD 1:204.) The gospel of Jesus Christ projects the happiness that may be ours in this life and the joys of eternity, if we reject Satan and choose that righteousness which will lead us to eternal life. Finally, the counsel of Lehi to his sons is most pertinent: And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit. (2 Ne. 2:28.) oa VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 5. Respect for and Understanding of Authority Northern Hemisphere: First Week, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To realize that to accept, understand, and respect authority is a mark of maturity. "Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." (Matt. 17:5.) How many of us are pleased with him? How many of us hear him? At Jesus' baptism in_ the winding Jordan River and at his transfiguration on the _ high mountain, our Father in heaven attested to the authority of 850 his Son. By him we are to be led; to him we are to look for guidance and counsel. Do we? Does the world? Are we not looking at a rejection of him and his authority by many on the earth? We live in a strange time of violence, riots, disregard and disrespect for authority. Many young people brought up in a climate of freedom, but without the necessary accompanying sense of responsibility, live irresponsible lives, threatening, at times, freedoms that have been painfully won. Many of us find it difficult to accept authority just because authority exists. The little child who in anger kicks his mother or father is expressing an idea toward and about authority that many of our generation exhibit in more sophisticated or more violent ways. If the Lord's work is to be done, there must be goals, planning, and order. There must be those who are entrusted with and carry out these responsibilities. Of them is expected the highest caliber of leadership. From those who have not been given the supervision of these tasks, there is expected the utmost understanding, obedience, and cooperative effort. Those who hold authority need constantly to reread the advice given in the scriptures as to how authority is to be exercised, for, by their use of authority, they help or hinder others. Authority is to be used with persuasion, not dictation or demand, with long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned. Would children or adults reject authority if this was their image of it—kindness and pure knowledge so that one understood with a good spirit? Sometimes man, being what he is needs reproof, but then afterward he who has administered it is to show forth an increase of love to the reproved. How Lesson Department difficult is this to do? How might one do this? If authority fairly, justly, mercifully, lovingly, and_ righteously is exercised, does this not encourage respect for it and cooperation with it? The Lord demands much of one who holds authority, be he a parent or some other governing person. Because the authority toward our youth may have been less than it should have been, and because of mistaken and immature ideas of what freedom really is, many of us may have partly hostile ideas about, and response to, authority. Part of our growth toward maturity is to shed our misconceptions of what authority is and does. We must come to understand not only with our minds, but accept with our hearts the need for order, obedience, and the understanding of a workable relationship —__—with authority In the Church we know that God is the most mature person in the universe. He has set up an organization complete with his authority. He asks us to work cooperatively within it, to foster his plans, and to accept his authority as manifested righteously in his chosen servants. He knows that if we desire to do his will, pray, study, and work with singleness of heart for his cause, that we will understand his purposes and accept his methods for accomplishing them. We demonstrate our maturity by working for, not against him. Sk 851 November 1970 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By Message 6—The Meaning of Worship Northern Hemisphere: First week, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, August 1971 OBJECTIVE: To refresh our understanding of the meaning of worship. In one of the European missions a district conference was being held in a small, crowded chapel. A fine Lamanite opera singer was in attendance. The mission president asked him to sing one of the hymns as a solo. A member was asked to help him find an accompanist and arrange for a brief rehearsal. As the rehearsal ended, the member noticed that the opera singer was pale and trembling. "I'm surprised," she said, "to see you so upset. I have heard you sing before large crowds and prominent people, and you always have exhibited poise and self-confidence." "Ah," replied the opera star, "that was different. I have little anxiety when I sing before men, but I am overwhelmed when I sing before God." Few people who heard that glorious tenor voice fill the small chapel with praise to our Lord will ever forget that moment of worship. Worship is giving reverence and divine honors to God. Man has found many ways to do this. Some claim they worship best in the forest, in the garden, before a great painting, at a concert, or reading a good book. For centuries the devout Jew twice a day has prayed, "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord." (Deut. 6:4.) 852 In Jesus' day it was apparently the custom for the Jews to go to the temple to pray. We read in Luke 18:10-14: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as_ this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Here the Savior taught us not to attract the attention of others as we worship nor to proclaim our self-righteousness. We should pray in a humble, repentant manner, asking for mercy and help. To worship is to give homage to God, not to exalt oneself. Elsewhere the Savior taught that prayer is to be in secret: "But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." (Matt. 6:6.) In Matthew, chapter five, the Savior taught that not only are we to forgive everyone his trespasses, we are not to worship if he has ought against us until we have gone to him and been reconciled. Again the Lord has given us the responsibility to be our brother's keeper, to be conLesson Department cerned with him even as we worship our God. In our day we have been enjoined also to "go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." (D&C 59:9.) It is not enough to worship alone; in addition, we are to worship together. We are to worship, then, both in secret and in the Lord's house of prayer. HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 5—Proper Nutrition Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE To impress upon each woman the fact that proper nutrition not only affects her health but also her appearance. INTRODUCTION People always have known they must eat to live—children to grow normally and adults to keep strong. But food can do more than satisfy physiological hunger and carry psychological and social values. Modern science shows that all of us, regardless of purse, can add years to our life and life to our years if we apply knowledge about nutrition to our selection and use of food. (Hazel K. Stiebeling, Food, The Yearbook of Agriculture, 1959, USDA; as cited in Nutrition for Family Counseling] Chicago: National Daily Council, 1962].) All women desire the beauty that comes from good health. To be in good health means to be well-nourished as well as to have good habits of exercise, rest, work, and play. Balanced meals are the basis for providing the materials with which to make and maintain good bone, muscle, blood, and other tissues. Your body is made from the food you eat. THE BASIC FOOD GROUPS Balanced meals are composed of foods selected from the socalled "basic four" food groups. What is meant by the "basic four' food groups? (Leader will write on the board and draw the answers from the class.) Dairy Foods Milk, cheese, ice cream, other milkmade foods.; 853 November 1970 Meat Group Meats, fish, poultry, eggs or cheese —with dry beans, peas, and nuts, as alternates. Fruits and Vegetables Includes dark green or yellow vegetables, citrus, and other fruit. Breads and Cereals Enriched or whole grain bread and cereals (added milk improves nutritional value). (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling [Chicago: National Dairy Council, 1962], p. 9.) The nutritional statements made in this booklet have been reviewed by the Council on Foods and Nutrition of the American Medical Association and found consistent with current authoritative medical opinion. (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling (Chicago: National Dairy Council, 1962], p. 1.) The four basic food groups should be interpreted as just what the name (basic) implies—a foundation upon which to build good meals. Each food group makes special contributions to our bodies. Foods from all four groups work together to supply energy and nutrients necessary for health and growth. Many nutrients contribute to the attractive appearance of our hair, skin, eyes, and other parts of the body. FOOD FOR ADULT WOMEN In general, men are likely to have better eating habits than women. Mothers are prone to neglect their own meals, partially because of their attention to the food needs of their families, or because they are figure-conscious and do not understand how to control weight properly. Discussion Questions 1. How do a mother's eating habits 854 affect her energy and attitude? 2. Do a mother's food habits affect her children's attitude toward eating? Older people who become less active need fewer calories than before; however, it is doubly important that their meals be complete and balanced and not lacking in essential proteins, vitamins, and minerals. Studies have shown that calcium, vitamin A, and vitamin C are often low in the diets of adults. This means that attention should be given by them to eating the recommended amounts of milk, fruits, and vegetables. OVERWEIGHT Excessive weight is physiologically undesirable, and in some cases can cause _ psychological problems and even changes in personality. (Give an example.) It also usually makes it more difficult for a woman to dress attractively and to express her best personality. Women should use wisdom in the quantity of food they eat. A physician normally will not advise a "crash" diet for weight loss. People who go on crash diets usually regain the lost weight afterward because the diet has not produced a permanent change in habitual eating patterns. The fundamental cause of excessive weight is consuming more food than the body requires. A successful weight reduction diet includes foods which contain adequate amounts of essential nutrients but a limited number of calories. The intelligent way to control weight is to improve basic eating habits and become accustomed to eating less, not forgetting balanced nutritional needs. Foods are not of themselves fattening; overweight comes from eating in excess of the body's requirements. FOOD FADS Unfortunately, as the public's interest in nutrition has grown, food faddism and quackery have grown, too.... There are two inherent dangers in food faddism: 1) health may suffer because the unknowing consumer, expecting the purchased preparation to protect or improve health, omits essential foods and delays seeking medical advice; 2) the pocketbook may take a serious "beating," using money which should go for food, clothing, and other family needs. (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling (Chicago: National Dairy Council 1962], p. 27.) CONCLUSION It is simple to obtain balanced meals if we follow a few principles of common sense. First, eat a variety of foods at each meal. Second, don't eat more than you can expend as energy. Third, use wholeLesson Department some foods. Make an effort to stay away from rich, sweet desserts. Mothers in our Church are blessed with a divinely inspired Word of Wisdom which serves as a guide and a constant help in protecting the health of their families. It contains a marvelous promise for those who obey its admonition, that all who follow it shall receive: -.. Health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint.... (D&C 89:18- 20.) Using wisdom and moderation in the food we eat can be challenging and rewarding. We not only receive the rewards of selfmastery and better health, but Our appearance is enhanced, and we become a lovelier person in the eyes of our loved ones. HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 6—Improving Your Mind Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE To stress that a mother can continually learning and reading. INTRODUCTION We live in an ever-changing world, and our challenge as mothers is to keep ourselves mentally alert and to put first things first. It requires good planning be more interesting and helpful to her family by and the desire to rise above the pressure of our daily tasks so we can partake and participate in the exciting changes occurring around us. 855 November 1970 ARE WE MEETING THE CHALLENGE TO IMPROVE OUR MINDS? To continue to grow and progress is an eternal principle. Our experience in the cultural refinement lessons is an opportunity to read good literature with understanding and appreciation and to find it rewarding and uplifting. To understand and be able to interpret good art and listen to good music can do much to improve our minds and to enrich our lives. Mothers who appreciate the cultural arts instinctively instill a love for these arts in | their children. Since reading is one of the keys to learning, it is a good practice, at times, to evaluate the type of reading we do. WHAT ARE OUR READING HABITS? Do we enjoy reading good novels, history, and poetry? Are we interested in the scriptures and great masterpeices of literature? Do we visit our libraries? The Prophet Joseph Smith was directed to urge his followers to study and learn and become acquainted with all good books. (D&C 88:118; 90:15.) SEEKING GUIDANCE When we seek direction on matters of health, government, child guidance, community development, and money management, do we make the effort to go to the sources of authority for this information? One of the sections in the dedicatory prayer at the completion of the Kirtland Temple pertains to this: 856... Grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house, may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as Thou hast said.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948] 2:421.) KEEPING INFORMED In what areas does a mother need to keep herself informed? Is it important to keep ourselves informed on the great progress being made in the field of medicine? Why? Should we make an effort to study and keep up with new legis- — lation? Why? What are some activities of the government that affect our homes? Do we attend public lectures on current subjects? Do we listen and study and attempt to absorb some of the marvelous achievements being made in the space age? Joseph Smith admonished the people to teach one another: Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad.... (D&C 88:79.) KEEPING ALERT WITH OUR HUSBANDS Are we interested in our husband's work? Do we make the effort to learn about his work? Do we discuss with him his problems? Do we work together with our husbands on projects? Projects can be a rewarding learning experience. Do we make it a habit to read the scriptures together? Do we make an effort to memorize scripture? Do we spend our spare time with our husbands and families in recreation? Do we devote some of our time to personal education? CONCLUSION In our busy everyday lives the press of our individual responsibilities often causes us to seek physical rest as our only diversion. It may be well to bear in mind that the prophets are exhorting us to seek constant mental and spiritual activities. We are also told to use our talents, to make the most of them or they will be taken from us. But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but they hide the talent which I have given Lesson Department unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them. And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have.... Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known. (D&C 60:2-3, 13.) Thus, we should dedicate some moments of each day to enlarging our understanding, to developing our talents, to studying and learning. A beautiful example for her family and a joy to her husband is a woman who continues to "grow in grace and in the knowledge of truth." (D&C 50:40.) SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 5—Morality Makes Sense Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand and put into practice ways of developing moral strength in children. INTRODUCTION If a person examines his goals and objectives in life and the best method for obtaining them, morality is the only way that really makes sense. Life's goals usually include an education, marriage, children, a happy home, living in tune with God's purposes, and self-perfection. The only way to obtain these goals is by being ethical, virtuous, righteous, and by doing what is good and right, or, in other words, by being moral. If morality is necessary for the attainment of these desirable goals, why then is the problem of immorality increasing? What are the forces operating in the world today which make immorality appear attractive? Satan's in- 857 November 1970 fluence on our perception of right and wrong, and the many influences in today's society that tend to distort perception and create situations that are tempting have already been discussed in a previous lesson. Too much money, too little money, too much free time, too little work, too many activities for parents and children outside of the home, keen competition in the business and professional world, early dating, early irresponsible cardriving, immodesty in dress, and going steady are some of the influences that can be found in present-day society. Discussion Question What are some of the other demoralizing influences found in society today? Though these forces may seem to be worse today than they have ever been before, a talk with a mother or a grandmother soon reveals that every generation has had its own set of demoralizing influences. It would seem that, in the final analysis, the morality of a generation is determined by the strength of the individuals of whom it is composed. The real key to morality lies in building the moral strength of each individual. Wives, mothers, and teachers have the great responsibility to help build the moral strength and self-discipline of all those whose lives they touch. This lesson will, therefore, devote attention to two very important factors in an_ individual's life that influence the growth and development of moral strength. These factors are (1) his basic needs, and (2) his self-esteem. 858 THE RELATIONSHIP OF BASIC NEEDS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND MORALITY Whether an individual is able to live morally and ethically after having been taught what is right and wrong depends, to a great extent, on whether his basic needs are being fulfilled and whether he has self-esteem. To an individual who has an unfulfilled need for love and security, immorality may appear attractive because he thinks it offers the promise of satisfaction of that need. To the person who has not yet been able to acquire a secure feeling about his own worth as an individual, immorality may look attractive because it offers him an opportunity to experiment and, perhaps, establish his own identity. On the other hand, the person who has high self-esteem, who has selfconfidence and a high regard for himself, usually can tolerate an unfulfilled need temporarily or suppress it in a healthy fashion until he can find a moral way in which to satisfy it. It is not difficult to see why the "hippie philosophy" has appeal for some. To the child who has_ been starved for parental love and concern, immorality may appear to offer love and concern. To the child who has been raised in a very rigid atmosphere with too much parental control, it seems to offer the opportunity for freedom of thought and action and a chance for discovery of "self." He will see in it only what he wants to see and will not be able to see its many self-defeating aspects. It is, therefore, extremely important to understand children's needs and how to help them develop a feeling of selfworth. A CHILD'S BASIC NEEDS Discussion Question What are some of a child's basic needs? A child is unable to satisfy his own needs to feel loved, to feel secure, and to feel worthwhile to himself and others. He must depend on adults to help him satisfy them. He must depend on adults completely at first, and, as he grows, he still needs adult concern and guidance in helping him learn acceptable ways of satisfying his needs. In each stage of a child's development certain needs and certain forms of behavior predominate. Information about the growth and development of children is available to every parent on the radio and on television, in the newspapers, in the library, and in special books which have been written on this subject. Parents can greatly profit from these materials by using wisdom and discrimination in applying and assimilating those ideas which are in harmony with the gospel and its principles. THE INFANT A baby is completely dependent on his parents. His first adjustment to life is probably the most agonizing one of all. Imagine the desperation of a baby who is hungry, cold, or lonely and is not immediately comforted. An infant must be cared for by someone who can hold, cherish, and protect him as well as feed him and keep him dry. He has emotional needs that Lesson Department are as important, perhaps more important, than his biological needs. This is one of the reasons being cared for by a mother is more desirable than being put in a nursery school. THE PRESCHOOL CHILD The preschool period, when a child is learning to control some of his bodily functions, learning to relate to others, and learning to postpone his need satisfaction, is a frustrating one for both child and parent. The child has many anxieties at this time that may be expressed in various forms of behavior — destructiveness, aggression toward other children, temper tantrums, eye blinking, stuttering, and whining, for example. The source of these anxieties is often related to basic needs. Much can be done by a parent to help a child satisfy his needs so that these anxieties do not develop. For example, a child should never be threatened with abandonment. If he dawdles it is better to lead him by the hand than to threaten that you will leave him. If circumstances in life force separation from a child for an operation, vacation, or social obligation, the separation should be preceded by preparation. A mother should never steal quietly out of the home, leaving a relative or a sitter to explain her absence. Children take the stress of separation much more easily if they have been prepared for the experience beforehand. Once an undesirable form of behavior appears, it should be viewed as a device to relieve tension rather than a 'vice which 859 November 1970 must be cured. A parent's calmness, relaxation, acceptance, and love will usually result in its disappearance. On the other hand, if the child's attention is drawn to his misbehavior by constant nagging, it will usually be accentuated. It is helpful to know what forms of behavior one would ordinarily see in a child in the preschool period. If a parent is well informed, he will be more calm, accepting, and loving to his child. Being able to distinguish the normal from the abnormal gives the parent some practical help in dealing with his children. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AGE During the elementary school period a child usually reacts to frustrated needs either by acting out his anxieties or by withdrawing into himself. He may become a behavior problem at school or church. He may be too competitive, may lie, may steal, may not take responsibility, or may withdraw and refuse to join any group that would require him to form a meaningful relationship with others. What the child needs at this time is a parent who will express love and concern for him. He needs parents who will stop nagging him about his bad behavior and listen to what he has to say about his feelings. He needs parents who are willing to listen to his bad thoughts as well as his good ones without overreacting. Very often a child can get rid of bad feelings merely by expressing them to someone. If a child knows inwardly that he is really free to express his feelings to his parents without 860 danger of losing their love and approval, he will seek audience with them when he is anxious about his bad thoughts and feelings. If the parent helps him explore these feelings in a calm, rational manner, the parent has an opportunity to guide the child. If a child is not made to feel unloved when he says what he thinks, there is a better chance that he will confine himself to saying what he thinks, rather than acting it out. THE ADOLESCENT When a child becomes an adolescent, he has to deal with the emotional changes which accompany sexual maturation and with the new role of independence he is expected to assume. This transitional stage between childhood and _ adulthood is a most difficult period for both parent and child. The child still needs much love and acceptance, but it is sometimes very hard for the parents to supply it during these years. Characteristic of this period are wide mood swings between childishness and maturity. It is not uncommon to see a fifteen-year-old have a temper tantrum over something very insignificant one minute, and then sit down the next and carry on a very mature and intelligent discussion with an adult on some complicated aspect of life. A parent's tolerance level must be expanded. He must be prepared to cope with frequent and drastic changes in mood, be able to listen to things he doesn't want to hear, be able to tolerate complaining, lack of appreciation, and the faddish dress. If a parent can be tolerant during this period, the lines of communication may be kept open between parent and child. This is very important if the parent expects to be able to influence the child's behavior. If a child brings up some shocking subject for discussion, the parents and the teachers must learn not to overreact with horror, dismay, or with a heavy-handed, moralistic attitude, because such reactions will usually arouse antagonism in the child. It is better to react in this way: "Listen, let's explore this thing together, let's find out what is good and what is bad about it, what is false and what is true. I need to know as much as you do." Parents and teachers should haveinformation about the things in the adolescent's life that will inevitably be discussed, such as sex, drugs, and dating. If adults know more about these subjects than do the children, if the adult's judgment is good, and they are not just expressing an emotional opinion, they will be able to gain the respect of the youth. Also by being informed, adults' judgment is good, and answers to questions that seemingly are unanswerable. Discussion is often the best method for finding answers. Though he may object, the adolescent has need for some parental limitation of his freedom. Limitation may help reinforce a child's decision that he does not yet have the inner strength to maintain by himself. He does not, however, need the same degree of parental authority he needed during childhood. The adolescent literally must grow up Lesson Department during the teen years and can do so only if given responsibility in increasing doses. If the home is filled with pleasantness, kindness, cooperation, and industry, the child is likely to find the world a friendly place and to find his way in it. But if the home is fraught with conflict, punishment, and inconsistency, he is likely to look upon the world as a distrustful and hostile place and to fight against it rather than cooperate with it. Class Discussion Make a list of things that interest adolescents in your country and see how well informed the sisters are on these subjects. THE DEVELOPMENT OF SELF-ESTEEM It is interesting to learn that sometimes preceding his middle childhood a child arrives at a general feeling of his worth. If the child views himself as capable, significant, and worthy, he is said to be high in self-esteem. If the child regards himself as being unworthy or bad or incompetent, he is said to be low in self-esteem. This image he has of himself usually remains stable and enduring over a period of years, and, once established, it will be one of the most important contributing factors to his behavior, good or bad, from then on. An individual who is high in self-esteem trusts his own judgment, has courage to act on his convictions, is influenced less by social groups and social pressures, takes responsibility, is able to tolerate his own mistakes and 861 November 1970 not let them ruin his life. He finds that living a moral life is much more sensible than living an immoral one. Discussion Question How can we as parents and teachers build the self-esteem of children? A child whois raised with limits finds it easy to judge for himself whether he has succeeded in attaining a goal, or whether he has failed, and if he has failed, by how much, and what he must do to achieve success. He can learn to appraise and anticipate the consequences of his own actions. A child raised under these circumstances does not then need to rely on his social group or other people to help him make decisions. He is better prepared to "stand on his own two feet" and will have the confidence to do so because he trusts his own judgment. Parents who have definite, righteous values, who have a clear idea of what they regard as acceptable behavior, and who are able to present and enforce these beliefs with conviction are more likely to rear children who value themselves highly. A parent who can do this usually does not find it necessary to deal with his children harshly, and such a parent is usually viewed with greater affection and respect by the children. It has been found that a child is more likely to go along with parents' desires if the parents build the child's self-esteem by indicating approval of him as much as possible rather than showing disapproval. The way a 862 parent reacts to a child's actions either confirms or denies a child's evaluation of himself. For this reason, it is important in the first few years of life for parents to find ways of guiding their children into situations in which they will be successful, and ways of helping them avoid experiences that will cause them to feel shame or self-doubt. Class Discussion The Church gives the child many opportunities to develop his self-esteem. How can a mother make sure these experiences have a positive, rather than a negative effect on self-esteem? List some things that are commonly said to children that could give a child a bad opinion of himself. In what ways could a parent help a child think more highly of himself? Other interesting facts about self-esteem have come to light as a result of studies performed by various sociologists. A study on self-esteem conducted with 500 high school students has clarified many of the social conditions that relate to self-esteem. It was found that social class is only weakly related to self-esteem. Adolescents who have a close relationship with their fathers are much higher in self-esteem than those who have a more distant and impersonal relationship with him. The children of Jews were found to have much higher self-esteem than those of Protestants and Catholics. This seemed to be largely a result of the great amount of attention Jewish children receive from their parents. Other studies indicate that selfesteem is not related to height and physical attractiveness, and it is only rather weakly related tosocial status and academic performance. It was also found that the families of children with high self-esteem have well-defined limits of behavior and clear statements of rights and privileges. These same families also show a greater tolerance for individual expression and less drastic forms of punishment. Results of this same study also showed that parents of children with high self-esteem are significantly less permissive than are the parents of children with less self-esteem. Since this finding is counter to what many people in our modern society believe, this particular finding was studied in depth. The conclusion reached was that firm parents who are establishing rules -and enforcing them are providing definitions for their children and indicating how to interpret the world so as to maximize success and minimize anxiety. Lesson Department SUMMARY To help children develop moral strength in the home, parents must teach them in the ways of the Lord. Parents and teachers must reinforce these teachings by encouraging regular, meaningful attendance and activity at Church. For moral teachings to be accepted and translated into moral behavior, children need an abundant supply of love, recognition, acceptance, security, support, and limitations. Interest must be shown in every aspect of children's lives. Adults should look for the best in children, praise them, and show respect for them. Parents should build a relationship with them that will form a protective barrier between the children and the demoralizing forces in society; then morality rather than immorality will make the most sense. SOCIAL RELATIONS. Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 6—Hazards of Drugs Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, August 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be informed about drugs so she can be better equipped to protect her family. INTRODUCTION Satan has always found ways to exert his influence on the minds and souls of men, and he is not without creative genius in establishing new and varied ways of influencing them. One of his prominent and effective tools currently in vogue is drug abuse. Drugs have been used for centuries, but it is only in relatively recent years that drugs have been seriously abused by so many people. Medical science has dis- 863 November 1970 covered and refined many drugs which can be used to aid in the healing arts, but Satan, in his genius for twisting good things to his own use, has seized at this production of man to make it useful for his nefarious purposes. Many forms of drugs have lent themselves readily to Satan's use. In the search for excitement, new experiences, and ways of forgetting the realities of day-to-day living, some people in recent years have turned heavily to the use of drugs. Drugs which can make one sleep, pep him up, calm him down, and give him new and strange feelings about himself and the world are coming into more and more usage by more and more people. DRUG ABUSE Persons who know most about the drug problem give us information that is alarming. The director of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics in the United States, John E. Ingersoll, indicates a justified concern about the extent and intensity of drug abuse in the United States. He states that drug abuse "has exploded into a problem of frightening proportions. Our information, intelligence, statistics and arrest data show that drug abuse in this country is mounting at a startling rate." He gives examples revealing the extent of the problem in New York City where over 900 people (224 of whom were teen-agers— 24 under the age of 15) died from drug abuse in 1969. (U. S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.) A study done in the state of Utah by the Governor's ad- 864 visory committee on drug abuse disclosed that in 1969 17.05 percent of high school students indicated they had used marijuana, 11.60 percent had used amphetamines, and 8.78 percent had tried LSD. ("The Problem of Drug Abuse, Extracts from the Advisory Committee Report on Drug Abuse—Summations and Recommendations," Nov. 1969, p. 7.) John E. Ingersoll states that, "In virtually every major metropolitan area of the country, drug use and abuse has increased by leaps and bounds." (U. S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.) The extent of drug abuse requires that the Latter-day Saint woman have information and understanding about drugs and their effects in order to put her in a position to prevent drug abuse in the Latter-day Saint home. A first step in preparing oneself to combat drug usage is to have some knowledge of the characteristics of the most common drugs abused. The Food and Drug Administration in Washington, D. C., defines the term drugs as "substances used to diagnose, treat, or prevent illness; or substances (other than food) which modify body function," ("How Safe Are Our Drugs?" FDA's life Portection Series, p. 5.) According to the same source of information, drugs can be obtained from natural sources such as plants and animals (for example, hormones, antibiotics, narcotics, digitalis, etc.) or from artificial sources (antihistamines, aspirin, barbiturates, nasal drops, etc.) The person who abuses drugs is particularly interested in drugs which modify bodily function in a way that gives him new mental or physical sensations. It is obvious that any substance which is strong enough to change the functioning of the body systems is potentially dangerous to health and well-being and requires careful prescribing by a competent physician. Drug abusers make themselves vulnerable to all the hazards of drug use with few, if any, of the safeguards. The sensation derived from drug abuse is given high priority over health, safety, and even life when the drug abuser gets "hooked" or habituated. The American Social Health Association provides a reliable description of drugs most commonly used by drug abusers. The drugs can be designated as being in two categories: (1) illicit or prohibited drugs, the manufacture and distribution of which are prohibited except for approved research purposes; and (2) drugs legitimately used in the practice of Medicine. The manufacture and distribution of the latter group of drugs is confined to ethical drug channels, and standards of drug usage are controlled by the Food and Drug Administration. Most countries have patterns of such control. Among the illicit drugs, the most common are hallucinogens, heroin, and Marijuana, and among the second group of drugs are amphetamines, barbiturates, cocaine, codeine, methaphetemine, and morphine. Discussion Question What is the status of drug abuse and control in your community? Lesson Department IDENTIFICATION OF DRUGS For detection of drug abuse, as well as the need for general familiarity with drugs for educational purposes, it is useful for the Latter-day Saint mother to know some basic facts about each of the listed drugs. Each of the drugs has its nicknames, which will be identified in addition to other peculiar aspects such as how used and effects upon the user. The American Social Health Association provides the following information about specific drugs: LSD, nicknamed "acid," is usually taken in tablet, capsule, ampul (hypodermic) form or in Saturated sugar cubes. It produces hallucinations, exhilarations, or depressions and may lead to serious mental changes with possible suicidal] or homicidal tendencies. Its use can be detected since abusers undergo marked personality changes and speak of "'seeing" smells or "hearing" colors. Behavior is very irrational. This drug can have very serious consequences for the user. Heroin, called "snow," "stuff," "H," and "junk," is a morphine derivative with a high possibility of addiction. It can be administered by any one of several methods but is usually taken by intravenous in jection. The person who has taken heroin has constricted pupils and is calm and inattentive. Use of heroin only Once or twice produces real possibility of addiction, and when a person becomes addicted to this drug, possibility of cure is very remote. The person taking 865 November 1970 heroin must continually increase the dosage to obtain the same effect. Withdrawal symptoms from this drug are severe. Mariyuana, nicknamed "pot," "sticks," ""reefers,'"'weed," "grass," "joints," "muggles," "mooters," "Indian hay," "locoweed," "mu," "giggle-smoke," "griffo," "mohasky," and "Mary Jane," is derived from a plant commonly called Indian hemp. This drug is usually smoked in pipes or cigarettes. Hashish is a more concentrated form of the same plant which is often made into candy,. Sniffed in powder form, and mixed with honey for drinking or with butter to spread on bread. Use of marijuana gives the user a feeling of great perceptiveness and pleasure. There is possible erratic behavior, loss of memory, and distortion of time and spatial perceptions. Users may feel exhilarated or relaxed and have an exaggerated sense of ability, lack of restraint, plus distortions of time and space, which may result in his acting in ways dangerous to himself and others. Although there is no conclusive evidence that marnijuana_ users characteristically move to more serious drug abuse, the pattern of many hardcore drug abusers has been to start with marijuana. Amphetamines, known also as "bennies," "copilots," "footballs," "hearts," and "pep pills," are stimulants used legally by physicians to help curb appetite or relieve minor depression. The drug is usually taken orally as a tablet or capsule, and the effects are abnormal cheerfulness and unusual increase in activity, jumpiness, and irritability. The drug can cause dangerous changes 866 in vital body functions like blood pressure and heart rhythm. The teen-ager may take the drug to increase "nerve" and under drug influence may behave dangerously. Barbiturates, often called "red birds," "yellow jackets," "blue heavens," or "goofballs," are sedatives usually taken orally in tablet or capsule form, although abusers may resort to intravenous injection. The user may be relaxed, good natured, and sociable but may also become sluggish and quarrelsome. There is often a general appearance of drunkenness but without the odor of alcohol. The most hazardous aspect of barbiturates is sedation to the point of respiratory failure. With some sedation from a mild dosage of the drug, the individual may lose his attentiveness to the point that he unintentionally repeats the dosage to the peril of his life. This drug is particularly hazardous when taken with alcohol and is addictive with both physical and psychic dependency. Cocaine, called "the leaf," "snow," or "speedballs" when mixed with heroin, is another drug used by drug abusers primarily for the possible exhilarating effect. Repetitive doses lead to excessive excitation, convulsive movements, and muscular twitching. The abuser can be identified by dilated pupils, hyperactivity, and a tendency to feel people are against him. There is very strong psychic dependence on the drug. Methamphetamine, called "speed" or "crystal" by drug abusers, is a strong stimulant taken orally as a tablet or in an elixir e drug is very qd €rous be. The e ects dangers of drugs Cause of its Potentia] anger to Can be Slgnifica deterrents, but Others and Possible death to the it IS doubtfy] en full abuser understanding of th rmfu] Morphine known also ag "yy effects of drugs will eliminate or "dreamer," 4nd another Opium their use In addition to being e€rivatj > COdeine icknamed Uninform d or ignorant of what "schoolb »" are dditiona] drugs e fact One ¢ Identif: used by Persons Seeking new and additional] forces Which Influence exciting €xperiences, These drugs the tendency for one to become are senerally Sedative, and the Involved in drug abuse. In addiwithdrawal Symptoms are charac. 1. Pee, group Pressure. Friends eristic of al) phine and 0 some and associates have a significant "gree of all —. Erivatives, impact, specially on teen-agers. Oo... Nother kind f drug a uSe is € peer oup is xperiment SUE sniffin » aN activity Most] INg with y lous drugs, the pres indulged j teen-agers, Air Sure is great to have ea h member piane glue and Solvents Such as of the 8Toup become Involved enzine, ca Sei achlorid The averag adolescent js high] and ethy al > © Common vulnerable Peer pressure be cal d © can occur ° such Vital b dy Tgans as the liver a use of d 8S Is ™Mmon and Kidneys or the braj requent activity by both adult REASONS FOR DRUG ABUSE Discussion Question Produce unhappiness, Persona] rustratj » €COnomic depression, Why does a Person use drugs? Low job °PPortunities, etc., are One Would ordinarily assume apt to €ncourage drug USage as that knowledge of the Negative a means of "scape from daily Ome of drug stark realities of Misery, USage Would discourage or elj- 3. New experiences and exper}. Minate the Possibility of abuse of mentation, A major 'characteristic 867 November 1970 of human beings is to search for new and different experiences, and drug abuse is certainly a way some persons secure new and varied experiences. Some people turn to drugs when they are bored with life or when they have not experienced the healthy and appropriate ways of "mind expanding" or being "turned on" by activities of education, recreation, or exciting experiences of ordinary living events such as observing and enjoying the beauties of nature or a good art museum. Sheer curiosity is a part of this dimension of why some persons resort to artificial methods of stimulation or influence on the body's normal functioning. 4. Meeting personality deficiencies, The individual who is inclined to doubt his abilities or capacity to relate healthily to other people may hope that an artificial stimulant or depressant may temporarily eliminate or relieve feelings of his self-consciousness in associating with people. The capacity of a potent drug to permit one to live in a dream or artificial world of sensations may be considered a solution to the social and personal pressures of an individual. 5. Emotional or mental disturbance. One's emotional or mental stability may be so precarious that he is not capable of rendering good judgments about what should be done about day-to-day living experiences. Most people behave in response to expected outcomes of success, growth, advancement, and happiness, but the emotionally confused person is apt to seek easement of pressure or avoidance of responsibility by any available means. Drug 868 abuse can become an extension of a person's already confused thinking and feeling patterns. 6. Disturbed family relationships. Many young people move to drug abuse at the point where family relationship becomes unbearable. Personal happiness is closely associated with good family relationships, and any disruption in this area can make one feel despair and discouragement that may result in a search for artificial means of happiness. Anger reactions and other bad feelings between parent and child can easily influence a child to seek ways of rebelling against the parent. Drug abusers are often in rebellion against the parent or authority in general. CONCLUSION No reason or explanation for a person's becoming involved in drug use can justify the act, but such may serve as a guideline for where the problem can be most expeditiously attacked. This is particularly true in the home where a child has contemplated use of drugs or is actually using them. The parent can review the possible reasons for such occurrence and then attack the problem in a way most apt to produce favorable results. _ Discussion Question If there is a child in your family using drugs, what should be done? When there are indications that a family member is contemplating drug use or is using drugs, as evidenced by personal reactions described under the discussion of the different drugs, the parent can immediately discuss the possibilities with the child and initiate efforts to resolve the problem. Medical treatment should be sought immediately. The exact procedure should be focused on the basis of what factors are most significantly contributing to the problem. Children need education about drugs which can be provided personally by the parent, school, family physician, or other _ reliable persons. Should it appear that other factors are influencing the pattern toward drug usage, these should be discussed with the Church leaders who can assist in evolving a suitable plan for action or prevention. Professional Lesson Department help by medical personnel, social workers, nurses, or psychologists may be necessary to alleviate the problem. Any reluctance to face the fact that the problem exists, or any embarrassment about seeking help, should be placed secondary to the need for effective Management of the problem. Drugs can be handy tools for Satan's use and all our good judgment, knowledge, and sound action are needed to minimize the chances of Satan's impact on ourselves and our families. The Latter-day Saint woman can be better equipped to protect her family from this problem by understanding and living the gospel of Jesus Christ. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—"'And to Every Man Is Given a Gift'' (D&C 46:11) Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, June 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage creativity among the. Women of the Church by examining some of the creative achievements of gifted Church members. ART "Temple Site' by Dale T. Fletcher, American, collection of the artist. Reproduction of painting, The Relief Society Magazine June 1970, page 447. COMMENTARY Each one comes to his own particular gift in his own way. Sometimes through early recognition and subsequent training one may develop a particular gift to a point of excellence. Dale Fletcher was one who discovered 869 November 1970 his own gift at an early age, and consequently its cultivation became a natural part of his training. Just as many families customarily enjoy activities with their children, so did _ the Fletchers. They went painting and sketching into the meadows, barnyards, and countryside. The children, armed with pencils, crayons, and paper, were motivated by their parents to look closely and record their impressions. By so doing they saw more, and seeing more, they developed a _ profound gratitude for the simplest forms of God's creation. The painting "Temple Site" was a direct result of a desire by Dale Fletcher to paint something for the first Festival of Mormon Art at Brigham Young University in 1968. When Mr. Fletcher learned that the Provo Temple was to be built across the street from his home, it became a sacred spot to him. Relative to his experience he said:... I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw, and failed—light descending from heaven cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement and eternal marriage, achieving godhood, with all the winged beings hymning in the wild wheat. Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sun- 870 shine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To see, not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake, is truly a great gift. INTRODUCTION President Brigham Young, in many of his speeches, pointed out that two of the greatest attributes of God are his power to love and his power to create. Especially did he draw attention to the endless variety in the works created by the hand of God: Endless variety is stamped upon the works of God's hands. There are no two productions of nature, whether animal, vegetable or mineral, that are exactly alike, and all are crowned with a degree of polish and perfection that cannot be obtained by ignorant man in his most exquisite mechanical productions. Man's machinery makes things alike; God's machinery gives to things which appear alike a pleasing difference. Fields and mountains, trees and flowers, and all that fly, swim or move upon the ground are lessons for study in the great school our heavenly Father has instituted for the benefit of his children. Let us explore this great field of information that is open before us in good books and in the great laboratory of nature.... (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 9:369-70 [hereafter referred to as JD].) God, in his exalted sphere, is the greatest Creator, creating things that are endlessly variable —flowers, trees, mountains, snowflakes, animals, people. But people, too, in their humbler sphere, can also be creative, should be creative—in teaching, leadership, thinking, homemaking, human relationships, cultural arts, and other phases of human endeavor. Earthly machines do make things that are exactly the same. Imaginative minds and talented hands create things that are never the same. Each work of art is unique, as is each solution to a problem, or each response to another personality. There is a need for machines to produce automobiles, refrigerators, shoes, boxes, wheels, and beads that are exactly alike. There is also a need for people to create things that are stimulatingly individual. As the late President John F. Kennedy once said at Amherst College, the growth and health of a people are dependent in part upon their creative activity: When power leads man towards arrogance, poetry reminds him of his limitations. When power narrows the area of man's concern, poetry cleanses. For art establishes the basic human truths which must serve as the touchstones of our judgment.... I see little of more importance to the future of our country and our civilization than full recognition of the place of the artist. If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him. (Out of the Best Books, vol. 4, p. 70.) As members of the Church we should create in good taste, creating works that are harmonious to the principles and ideals of the gospel, and we certainly should do all that we can to encourage creativity. Perhaps it is true, as a wise man once said, that the two greatest sources of happiness for men and women, indeed the only true sources of lasting happiness, are creativity and service. If we can include both in our lives we will have a double fount of happiness. As a Church it is obvious that we have not yet fully reached maturity in the creative arts. PerLesson Department haps our greatest achievement has been in the performing arts, especially music. The Tabernacle Choir is surely one of the great musical organizations of the world, and we have hundreds of other excellent choirs and choral groups throughout the Church. In musical composition, painting, literature, and the other arts we have achieved on a more limited basis. Yet the materials for great art are imbedded in the history of our people and in the philosophy of the gospel. In the future great things that are hardly even dreamed of now will undoubtedly be achieved in the arts by members of the Church. Nevertheless, in a limited way, we have already made some significant accomplishments for only one hundred and fifty years of history. To name all of the gifted creative writers, musicians, and painters that are at work within the Church would make a lesson too long to print here. Perhaps the most useful thing we can do is draw attention to the selections by members of the Church that have been included in the volumes of Out of the Best Books. These are as follows: Eileen Gibbons Kump, Milk," vol. 2, pp. 297-302 Albert R. Lyman, from Voice of the Intangible, vol. 2, pp. 340-46 Brian K. Kelly, "A Run of Gray," vol. 3, pp. 90-99 Edward L. Hart, "To Utah," vol. 3, pp. 151-55 Clinton F. Larson, from The Mantle of the Prophet, vol. 3, pp. 156-60 Harrison R. Merrill, excerpt from poem, vol. 3, p. 242 Bernice Burton Holmes, "Rain Song," vol. 4, p. 9 "Bread and Carol Lynn Pearson, six poems, vol. 4, pp. 17 and 82-83 871 November 1970 S. Dilworth Young, "The March of Zion's Camp," vol. 4, pp. 213-19 Eliza R. Snow, several poems, vol. 4, pp. 257-68 Bruce B. Clark, "The Faces of Anger," vol. 5, pp. 60-61 "Bread and Milk" is a sensitive story about the beauty and wonder of approaching motherhood. The excerpt from the novel Voice of the Intangible dramatizes some meaningful insights into parent-child relationships and also suggests the need for listening to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. "A Run of Gray" is a story by a gifted young author who reveals the awakening and maturing values of a boy growing up on a farm. "To Utah" is an excellent, richly artistic poem about the colonization of Utah and the kind of people who did the colonizing. The excerpt from The Mantle of the Prophet powerfully dramatizes the courage rooted in deep faith that Brigham Young had in following the vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith. "Rain Song" is a delicate description of a storm with meaningful psychological overtones. The six little poems by Carol Lynn Pearson are the remarkable work of one of the gifted young poets in the Church today. "The March of Zion's Camp," by Elder S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, is a dramatic portrayal in poetry of the challenges met by faith that characterized those early young pioneers in that most remarkable of American army marches. Eliza R. Snow's poetry, illustrating her versatility as the most accomplished of our early women poets in the Church, ranges from poems of 872 faith and serenity, through poems exposing the evils of hypocrisy and gossiping, to a poem suggesting the unique role of being a woman. Any or all of these selections and their discussions printed in Out of the Best Books may be reviewed with value as the heart of this month's lesson. In addition we draw attention to two paintings in volume 3 by gifted Latter-day Saint painters "To Them of the Last Wagon" by Lynn Fausett (pp. 144-46) and "Life from Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt (pp. 240-42). We especially invite a reexamination of "Life from Death," a beautifully symbolic painting showing the eternal relationship between life and death. The more one studies this extraordinary painting, the more one realizes the depth of both feeling and meaning encompassed in it. We also suggest a rereading of "Ordeal by Handcart" by Wallace Stegner (vol. 4, pp. 60-65). Although Wallace Stegner is not a member of our Church, this is a powerful and dramatic portrayal of a courageous episode in the history of the Church. Beyond the materials in Out of the Best Books, Relief Society sisters may with profit read some of the many stories and poems that have been published through the years in the Relief Society Magazine, which has from its beginning printed creative work by members of the Church. Some of the stories and poems published in the Magazine are of a quality deserving a permanent audience. In fact, an excellent project for someone would be to extract from the many issues of the Magazine the best of the stories and poems and compile these into a volume or two. For example, we reprint here the first-prize winner in the 1961 Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest, "The Other Mother" by Miranda Snow Walton, first published in the January 1962 issue, p. 14. As we read this poem and feel the anguish of the unnamed mother of Judas Iscariot, we share the universality of her mixture of love and grief. The poem is subdued yet powerful, speaking clearly to all who have read the tragedy of Judas' betrayal, and especially to all mothers who will intuitively understand the depth of mother love portrayed here. No book of Holy Writ records her name; She lived and died unknown, although her son Became a sign for infamy and shame— Judas Iscariot, the evil one. She must have dreamed of him, as mothers do, The months she cherished him before his birth, And watched with pride and gladness as he grew To manhood's stature, great upon the earth. When she beheld him on that blessed day Follow the Holy Man of Galilee, How could she see the cross along his way, A premonition of the pain to be? But when his sin of avarice was paid Its wage of death, what anguish did she know! Surely her soul walked with him, hurt, afraid, Along the tortured trail they both must go. Fain would she have suffered in his stead, Taken his retribution as her own, But in a potter's field her son lay dead By his own hand. She drained her cup alone. She reaches down the corridor of years, Lesson Department She mourns with grieving mothers of all lands; Wherever hearts are broken, bathed with tears For children's sins, her tragic shadow stands. VALUES IN CREATIVITY All who have created artistically know that the joys and values derived therefrom are rewarding. There are, however, frustrations in creativity, even failure sometimes, but there is also a wonder, a joy of accomplishment in the process of creating something from within oneself that can be achieved in few other ways. This is true even though the object created may not be of any great significance to the world. It is of significance to the one who has created it, and that gives it incalculable value. The creative process sharpens the sensitivities, refines one's responses, and enriches human understanding. When one gives artistic form to miscellany, whether in colors, sounds, visual patterns, or words, the process not only creates beauty in the object but also enriches the one who creates. Class Discussion Name values you may have experienced in creative activity. Within every human _ being there are latent gifts of creativity which only need awakening to be enjoyed and make life more beautiful than it could have been otherwise. Every woman has at least one talent that she can develop, enjoy, and share for the enjoyment of others. SSS ES 873 November 1970 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—Principles With a Promise—Faith and Optimism Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage a woman to exercise faith and optimism as illustrated in the writings of Robert Browning. MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 5. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists as to the preparation and presentation of them. 323-4009 Lo, Thou Art Near 1009 SSA | Am a Child of God (Sing with Me, p. B-76.) | Know That My Redeemer Lives (Hymns, no. 361.) INTRODUCTION TO LESSON One of the great poets of the world and one whose poetry embraces ideals and philosophy harmonious with our Church ideals and doctrines is Robert Browning (1812-1889). Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books, enough selections from Browning's poetry are included to make this an excellent and stimulating lesson, especially as it relates to women, by showing how their lives may be enriched and made more meaningful. RESPONSES TO WORKS OF BROWNING The following comments are 874 Ranghild L. Safsten— Mary D. Safsten Naomi W. Randall— Mildred T. Pettit Medley—Edwards Publisher The John Church Co., Subsidiary of Theodore Presser Co., Bryn Mawr, Pa. Pioneer Music Press 975 S. W. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints but a few of the many made by a group of mature literature students (members of the Church) after studying Robert Browning: Of all the poets that I've ever studied, I find Browning the most invigorating because of his optimistic views on religion and God. The more I study Browning and read his works, the better I like him. His poems are challenging, thought provoking, and stimulating. I was caught up in his vigor and robustness, his love for life. I was impressed by his strong faith and his willingness to so vigorously support his religious views. It was refreshing to find a really good poet who showed such a strong faith in God. His optimism in hope for life after death especially appeals to me, as does Title Eternal Life Composers Dugan—Stickles his philosophy that you should aim your goals very high, even if you don't quite reach them. I enjoyed Browning tremendously. I loved his vigorous, positive belief in a personal, loving God. In our age of doubt and pessimism it is refreshing to study a poet who could verbalize his personal optimism. Browning's defiance of the trend of the 19th Century to deny God and credit existence to naturalistic forces is impressive. Without turning to sentimentality, he expresses his positive attitudes and directly meets pertinent issues in his society. Browning spoke vividly and enduringly with power and unwavering conviction of things not old or modern, but eternal. For him there was no dichotomy between doing good and being good. His deep faith in God and eternal life is the most powerful and uplifting message I have read in literature. Browning truly lived intensely and well, seeing in the true and living God a hope, a source of life, a strength, and an awesome divine potential for man. Man's strength comes from an inner greatness wrought by the living current of divine life within each man. Such a powerful message rings with glory and eloquence in all that Browning wrote. UNIVERSALITY OF ROBERT BROWNING Many of his ideas about God, the power of love, life here and hereafter, and the need for genuine sincerity and simplicity in religious worship are harmonious with Latter-day Saint doctrines and principles. Equally significant is Browning's scorn of hypocrisy, self-righteousness, meaningless ritualism, bigotry, materialism, contented mediocrity, and rationalization. All the world recognizes the greatness of Robert Browning's poetry, and Browning clubs in many lands are active in studying the complexities and _ brilliance Lesson Department of his writings. Almost any way that one approaches Browning, he is a great poet. He is a master of poetic craftsmanship; he is a subtle and probing explorer of personality and character; he is a champion of ideals, a stimulator of thought, and a prober into human weaknesses. He appeals to thoughtful readers throughout the world, and he has a special appeal to readers within the Church, as the responses of the students quoted suggest. Because of his greatness as a poet and because of the special substance of his poetry and philosophy, more selections by Browning were printed in Out of the Best Books than any other writer. Selections, including Mrs. Browning's, are as follows (volumes 1 to 4 only since nothing by Browning appears in volume 5): Introduction to Browning (vol. 1, pp. 71- 73) A Grammarian's Funeral" (vol. 1, pp. 73-79) "An Epistle... Of Karshish" (vol. 1, pp. 80-90) "Johannes Agricola in Meditation" (vol. I, pp. 234-37) "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" (vol. 1, pp. 234-37) "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" (vol. 1, pp. 238-42) "Prospice" (vol. 1, pp. 459-60) "Rabbi Ben Ezra" (vol. 1, pp. 461-68) "OQ Lyric Love" (vol. 2, pp. 60-61) "My Last Duchess" (vol. 2, pp. 190-95) "Andrea del Sarto" (vol. 3, pp. 80-89) "Song From Pippa Passes" (vol. 4, pp. 72-73) Excerpt From "Fra Lippo Lippi" (vol. 4, p. 165) "Sonnets From the Portuguese" by Mrs. Browning (vol. 2, pp. 46-60) We especially recommend for review "A Grammarian's Funeral," "An Epistle... Of Karshish," "Prospice," and "Rabbi Ben Ezra." These' and others 875 November 1970 of Browning's poems are wonderfully stimulating. EXCERPTS FROM "RABBI BEN EZRA" 1 Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand Who saith, "A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" 5 Rejoice we are allied To that which doth provide And not partake, effect and not receive! A spark disturbs our clod; Nearer we hold of God Who gives, than of his tribes that take, I must believe. 13 Therefore I summon age To grant youth's heritage, Life's struggle having so far reached its term. Thence shall I pass, approved A man, for aye removed From the developed brute—a god, though in the germ. 32 So, take and use Thy work; Amend what flaws may lurk, What strain o' the stuff, what warpings past the aim! My times be in Thy hand! Perfect the cup as planned! Let age approve of youth, and death complete the same! (Out of the Best Books, 1:461; - 463; 466.) Discussion Question Which of the ideas in Browning's writings especially appeal to you? COMMENTS FROM ROMANTICISM THROUGH MODERN EYES BY BRUCE B. CLARK A paragraph. On Browning, excerpted from a small book entitled Romanticism Through Modern Eyes is given as further enrichment material: 876... Browning is probably the greatest poet of English romanticism excepting possibly William Wordsworth [whose poems will be reviewed in next month's cultural refinement lesson].... His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and _ psychological soulstudies probe meaningfully into human personality and character;... Browning firmly believes that God is in Heaven controlling the universe and that, while much is wrong with the world, the potentiality of man in this life is great, and the confidence with which he can look forward to life beyond death is equally strong. Occasionally Browning speaks directly of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando" when he describes himself as— One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break, Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are batfled to fight better, Sleep to wake. (Provo: BYU Press, 1970], (Bruce B. Clark, Romanticism Through Modern Eyes, pp. 55-58.) "'PROSPICE"' We include here "Prospice," which means "look forward." This is Browning's most direct expression of belief in immortality. Two ideas form the poem. One is simply a courageous attitude toward the experience of death—he has faced all life's experiences with vigor, and he will not now shrink from this final experience. The other idea, more philosophical, is the climax that ends the poem as with great confidence Browning anticipates the time when he will reach through death to reunite with his beloved wife ("O thou soul of my soul'), who had recently died. **Prospice"' by Robert Browning Fear death?—to feel the fog in my throat, The mist in my face, When the snows begin, and the blasts denote I am nearing the place, The power of the night, the press of the storm, The post of the foe; Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form, Yet the strong man must go. For the journey is done and the summit attained, And the barriers fall, Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained, The reward of it all. I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more, The best and the last! I would hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forebore, And bade me creep past. No! Let me taste the whole of it, fare like my peers, The heroes of old, Bear the brunt, in a minute pay glad life's arrears Of pain, darkness, and cold. For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave, The black minute's at end, And the elements' rage, the fiend-voices "that rave, Shall dwindle, shall blend, Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain, Then a light, then thy breast, O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, And with God be the rest! (Out of the Best Books, 1:459.) In order to appreciate the intense emotion of this poem we need to be reminded of the courtship and marriage of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett, the most beautiful courtship and marriage in the history of English literature. When they met in 1845, Miss Barrett, six years older than Lesson Department Browning, was already a celebrated poetess. She was also a semi-invalid who during years of delicate health had hidden in the seclusion of her rooms. Browning, aged thirty-three was not yet acclaimed as a poet but already showed all the robustness and vigor that set him above ordinary men. He first learned of Miss Barrett through her poems, wrote her an admiring letter, met her, fell in love with her, as she with him, and after a whirlwind series of letters and visits, swept her on" her feet for a secret wedding in 1846 that resulted in fifteen years of marriage ending with her death in 1861. All of this forms the background for "Prospice," written in 1861 shortly after Mrs. Browning's death. Note how beautifully Browning's faith in life beyond death and in the reuniting of families eternally is harmonious with our Latter-day Saint faith. Note too the courage with which he looks on death as only one step in eternal progression. Discussion Questions Does a knowledge of the love story of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning help us to appreciate his poetry? If so, why? CONCLUSION As anyone who reads Browning will discover, he is not an easy poet. His poems are immensely rewarding, but also difficult and challenging. Let Browning speak to your minds and hearts as he has done to millions of other readers so that, you too can feel his greatness and inspiration. If you will discover him, your life will be enriched and_ uplifted. 877 November 1970 TOP BOOKS FOR $1.00 FOR JOINING BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB a -? «@eervurve. BOOK OF MORMON; lg te 4 i Wane § bicES] |! Treat | "BOOKS FOR Sk | iwmeat THE NEW a |. 1. Out of the Best Books (Relief Society Lessons) 5. Readings for the Young & the Young at Heart Vol.1 $2.75; Vols.2-5 $2.25 ea. (Set $10.50) By Laura M. Hawkes $2.95 (helpful in Gospel Doctrine Class-Sunday Sch.) 8. Saga of the Book of AbrahamTodd $4.95 4. Make a Treat With Wheat-Hazel Richards$1.95 9. Great Leadersofthe BofM-Cheesman $9.95 | would like to order one book priced at $4.95 or less for $1.00 as my (Add 25c per book for postage. In Utah add 4%% sales tax.).. BEEHIVE Pe a =. Drive AUG@SS.. «22. Eee eee eee e een cece eeee cesecenecanevecesanercassuceceensmenceneneraee Salt Lake City, Utah 84107 City 2. Eee eee State®.__.. Eee Zip. Happiness is total electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Cheng? D Bey MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'' "Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments 878 CHURCH YEAR" 2. Gospel Doctrine (Priesthood course) $4.95 6. Beginnings - Carol Pearson 3. Book of Mormon Digest-John Hawkes $3.95 7. Search - Carol Pearson "ech — 4 " $2.95 $2.95 incentive to join Beehive Bookclub. | may order other books at regular prices. | agree to return the "Order Form" each month or purchase the "Feature Book." For every $20 of non-discounted books {| will receive a FREE BOOK! New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable voiume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2.-.55 Zone5 -~__---.75 Zone3.-----.60 Zone6 __---.85 Zone4 -_ _-.- |65 Zone7 ____-.:95 Zone8_ ~~~ -1.05 fo > DESERET [Pews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US ~ ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 A modern gas range gives you... Smokeless broiling instant-on, instant-off an automatically safe oven a self-cleaning oven nl i See the glamorous new models at your gas appliance dealer's. \ MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Natural Gas Sewite Lid 879 102 Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head Farmington, New Mexico 99 Mrs. Florence Pearl Young Salt Lake City, Utah 98 Mrs. Agnes Anderson Thompson Layton, Utah 97 Mrs. Sarah Burr Coleman 95 94 880 Teasdale, Utah Mrs. Jessie B. Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Caroline Brown Tolson Hartsville, South Carlina Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Holland Wiley Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Mary Ann Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Eda M. Martin Anaheim, California Mrs. Bertha R. Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lois Hunt West Novato, California Mrs. Laura Ann Finlayson Coombs Santaquin, Utah Mrs. Nannie Tuck Hackworth St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Mary Alice Bennett Labrum Meadow, Utah Mrs. Addie Thorne Neilson Roy, Utah Mrs. Clara Kunz Miller Cedron, idaho Mrs. Mary Matilda Gill Poulter Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Maude Waddell Witt Ogden, Utah 93 92 91 90 Mrs. Nancy R. Shumake Richardson Festus, Missouri Mrs. Annabelle Coon Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Foddies Farrell Coalville, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Robins Herbert Salina, Utah Mrs. Nellie Louise Packer Powell St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Hubbard White Rexburg, Idaho \ Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Chard Clark Eden, Utah Mrs. Rose Grosjean Knutti Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ophalia Smith Mortensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane O'Brien Simmons Burley, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Pendrey West Cayucos, California Mrs. Ldona Payton Adams Monterey Park, California Mrs. Maude Mariott Bell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie Alice Wright Boyle Provo, Utah Mrs. Josie Ann Doss Gregory Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Mrs. Hallie Gardner Grigg Ontario, Oregon Mrs. Katie Clare Rodrick Hunt Pleasanton, California Mrs. Maude Ellen Ainsworth Ivie Klamath Falls, Oregon Mrs. Lavourn Hudson Stauffer Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rhoda Welling Taylor Springville, Utah Mrs. Mary Douglass Wirthlin Eureka, Utah FAMILY FOOD RESERVE e MEALS AS USUAL @ LONGEST STORAGE LIFE UNITED COMMODITIES INTERNATIONAL Formerly Sam-Andy, Inc. MINI-MOISTURE FOODS CANNISTE Re Polyethylene and Foil Lined Cannister P ACK @ Longstorage Life e@ Supplement Every Meal @ Save on Food Costs e@ Convenient Sizes *UNICO mini-moisture food has the same flavor as the fresh products the only difference is the moisture has been reduced. (Pee TEAL ERIE WOIe meyer eve) eee Sele segs eres wears Fare praia 5a er vera Trda cases wove wee iseds cpu weer Vawn: wow eee sess on cesse | e i. — * - = ~ a deel P, FIRST CLASS PAID Postage will be paid by UNITED COMMODITIES INTERNATIONAL Formerly Sam Andy, Inc. UNICO Box 2125 Beaumont, California 92223 BUSINESS REPLY MAIL No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States Permit 38 Beaumont, Calif. HOMEMAKING SPECIALTIES by THANKSGIVING UNITED COMMODITIES INTERNATIONAL formerly Sam Andy, Inc. With Thanksgiving and Christmas just around the corner we wanted to tell you apples, peaches, pears, pineapple and the SEASONINGS wildest fruit cocktail mix. This world and for all salads our brand new We have sour cream for your potatoes. For muffins, dessert topping and drink mixes berries, strawberries, oranges, pineapple and FRUITS others. Onions are just a few. Everything you need for those special meals ETC: on that. All these made simple with Unico Mini-Moisture Foods. MINI-MOISTURE FOOD COOKBOOK..$2.95 FOR FREE SAMPLES SEND THIS CARD TODAY | j= cee ees ree Se ee es ee ee ee ee ee ee ee es ee ee ee ee ee ee ee PLEASE SEND ME MORE INFORMATION AND FREE SAMPLES OF MINI-MOISTURE FOODS DOFREE DEMONSTRATION & INFORMATION LCIFOOD STORAGE CICANNISTER PACK DSPECIALTY FOODS (mushrooms, fruits, seasonings, etc.) OIFRUIT BUDS (blueberry, strawberry, pineapple, orange, etc.) DOREAL BACON CRUMBLES LIFRUIT SALAD DRESSING OTHER NAME PHONE ADDRESS CITY, STATE, ZIP eee CHRISTMAS BAKING CANNING PRESERVES DESSERTS SOUPS SALADS TOPPINGS about our delicious cranberries, apricots, Our fruit salad dressing is just out of real bacon crumbles and of course salad oil. Sweet cream for your pumpkin flakes. And our new fruit birds (B-B size pellets): blue Seasonings: mushrooms, bell peppers, When you think about it we have except the whole turkey and we are working fm = 4 eo Soul Fialderg > pasar v8 $5.95 23 books) Now here js his first and ce he became President in Janyats sv >: slCopies Also Include 25¢ for each book Ordered to Cover handling and Mailing Total > | iS must include 44% Sales tax fro h resig. Nts Orderin rom Salt ake, or 5% sa €s tax from California esidents o ering f Oran Paid by check, Money order, or UC] charge €stablisheg account. —— a—Zip Nov. R. S. Mag. 70 Second Class Pestage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Sweeter | up your day! "Ws CHERRIES JUBILEE SAUCE A sauce so glamorous, elegant, and tasty, served over ham. Your guests and family will rave! 1 No. 2 can red sour % cup cider vinegar '% cup flour cherries, water packed 12 whole cloves 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1% cups granulated 1 stick cinnamon Red food coloring U AND I SUGAR Drain cherries, reserve liquid. In pan, combine sugar, 2 cup cherry juice, vinegar, cloves, and cinnamon stick. Bring mixture to a boil, reduce heat, cook about 10 minutes. Meanwhile, mix flour with 4 tablespoons cherry liquid until smooth. Gradually strain spice mixture into flour and cook until thick. Add cherries, lemon juice, and a few drops of red food coloring and continue cooking until cherries are heated. To serve: pour over sliced ham which has been baked according to directions on wrapper. U and I Sugar Company = Foctories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. Relief Society A NIGHT FOR PRAISE This night is one for keeping faith with stars And with all steepled hopes that rise Skyward and far as lifting dream can rise. It is a time of gratitude for earth— The remnant wedge of wings that circles low Above the drift of leaves, surrendering to frost, The root that waits with patience under snow— A night to shelter tenderly the peace From secret altars where the sacrificial fires Of our repentance burn. Unleash the tethered love And name as blest the subtle verities of grief That temper winds and school the heart to wear The face of sorrow with triumphant grace. A night to glean the heirloom sheaves of time, Relive the parable, retrieve the singing harp. Without this manna for our hungering, Without the cross, compassion of his word, Earth would be lost to all eternal purpose. Speak grateful words that he of manger birth Would leave celestial glories for our sake— To meet accusing stone, the final blade. This Christmas night sing joy in reverent phrase— It is a night for kneeling—and for praise. —Alberta H. Christensen The Cover: J Virgin and Child With Joseph From a Painting by Andrea del Sarto Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: | 'The Root That Waits With Patience Under Snow" Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: § Dick Scopes IMustrations: | Mary Scopes 881 The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 57 December 1970 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 883 Mothers in Israel Joseph Fielding Smith 888 Birthday Greetings to Jessie Evans Smith Fiction 890 The Family Who Lost Christmas Margery Thompson Pierson 898 The Widow's Might Elaine S. McKay General Features 895 Editorial—Facing Forward Marianne C. Sharp 896 Notice to Subscribers $60 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 889 Reminiscing Doris B. Cox 889 Silent Music Judy Shell Busk 896 On Clear Vision Janell R. Arrington 897 Hobby Feature—Mary Redington and Vivian Glenn 913 Stained Glass Window in the Bonneville Ward Chapel 914 Christmas—A Season for Creative Beauty 916 Beauty and Warmth—Inside and Out 918 Trees of Reflection and Grace 920 Flowers, Fruits, and Greenery 922 Blending Colors for Christmas Cheer 923 Mary and Joseph and the Child 924 Relief Society Booth at the Open House, Utah State Fair 926 Homemaking Display at Relief Society Annual General Conference 927 Visiting Teaching in Alaska 928 Christmas Fun With Felt and Food Edythe K. Watson 930 A Little Bit of Life June B. Jensen Lesson Department 901 Spiritual Living—Lesson 7—The Atonement of Jesus Christ 907 Spiritual Living—Lesson 8—The Lord's Work and His Glory 932 Visiting Teacher Messages—Message 7—Responsibility 933 Visiting Teacher Messages—Message 8—Respect for Those Who Are Different 935 Homemaking—Discussion 7—''Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee" 937 Homemaking—Discussion 8—Making Your Family Proud of You 938 Social Relations—Lesson 7—Self-Control and Discipline 942 Social Ralations—Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy 947 Cultural Refinement—Lesson 6—An Affirmation of Spiritual Values 951 Cultural Refinement—Lesson 7—Ideal Family Relationships 957 Cultural Refinement Lesson 8—for Southern Hemisphere Poetry 881 A Night for Praise, Alberta H. Christensen; 887 Pointing Spires, Pearle M. Olsen; 893 If | Should Call Them Now, Peggy Tangren; 896 Just So... Dorothy J. Roberts; 900 The Ending Song, Evelyn H. Hughes; 930 For His Tomorrows, Wilma Morley Despain; 934 Splendor in the West, Catherine B. Bowles; 957 Discourse on Leaves, Grayce E. Cutler. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.©1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Magazine discontinues publication with this issue. 882 Mothers in Israel President Joseph Fielding Smith | Address Delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970] My dear Sisters: I am grateful for this opportunity to participate in your conference. You are members of the greatest women's organization in the world, an organization which is a vital part of the kingdom of God on earth and which is so designed and operated that it helps its faithful members to gain eternal life in our Father's kingdom. I bring you the love and the blessings of the First Presidency of the Church, and express their commendation and appreciation to Sister Belle S. Spafford, to her very able counselors, to the members of the General Board, and to all of you other Relief Society leaders. The Relief Society was established by the spirit of inspiration, has been guided by that spirit for 128 years, and has instilled into the hearts of countless of our good sisters those desires for righteousness which have been pleasing to the Lord. May I now say a few words to you about your high position and destiny as, "Mothers in Israel."' Some of you may have received patriarchal blessings in which you were told in substance: "As a mother in Israel shalt thou stand." In any event, this promise is the assured inheritance of all the faithful sisters of the Church, of all those who love and serve the Lord with all their power and who keep the commandments which he has given. To be a mother in Israel in the full gospel sense is the highest reward that can come into the life of a woman. This designation has a deep and significant mean- 883 December 1970 ing, one that is far more than marrying and bearing children in this life, great and important as that course is. In fact, in the full and true sense of the word, the blessing of being mothers in Israel shall come in due course to some who, through no fault of their own, are denied the opportunity to marry and to bear children in this life. For us to envision what is meant by being mothers in Israel, we must have in mind our own position as the spirit children of God the Eternal Father. We must remember that he is a personal being in whose image man is created, and that he has a body of flesh and bones which is as tangible as man's. We must remember that we were born as his spirit offspring in the premortal life and that we dwelt with him in the family unit before the foundations of this earth were laid. Ordinarily we speak freely of our Father in Heaven, but have little to say about our Mother in Heaven. There is, of course, no such thing as a father without a mother, or of children without parents, and we do have some official and authoritative statements about this doctrine, one of which was made by my father, President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, back in 1909. Speaking of pre-existence and the origin of man, the First Presidency in that day said plainly that "man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father," that man is the "offspring of celestial parentage," 884 and that "all men and women are in the similitude of the universal Father and Mother, and are literally the sons and daughters of Deity." Eliza R. Snow—who kept the minutes of some of the first Relief Society meetings held in the Church, and who served as general president from 1866 to 1887— recorded in her great hymn, "O My Father," this glorious truth of celestial parentage, including a Father and a Mother in Heaven. These are her words: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. Now, the plan of salvation and exaltation which we know as the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to us by the Eternal Father so that we might create for ourselves eternal family units which are patterned after his family. And in his family, while yet in pre-existence, many of the faithful and devoted spirit children were set apart and chosen to come to earth through the lineage of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. This means that the house of Israel was foreknown as a distinct group in the pre-mortal life, which is what enabled Moses to call attention to the day, "When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel." We are all aware that the Lord told Abraham he would be a father of many nations and that his seed would be like the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is upon the seashore in number, but what we must not overlook is that the same promises were made to Sarah. "And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be. And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people shall be of her." These blessings given to Abraham and Sarah were fulfilled in and through celestial marriage, marriage for time and eternity, marriage which causes the family unit to continue and _ enables eternal parents to have spirit children forever in the same way that God our Heavenly Father continues to increase and abound. The revelation on marriage tells us that when a man marries a wife in the new and everlasting covenant, and is then true and faithful to all of the terms of that covenant, the participating parties will be husband and wife forever. Then "... They shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." Having thus spoken of '"'a continuation of the seeds," this revelation then speaks of a "'conMothers!{n Israel tinuation of the lives," and of "eternal lives," both of which also mean having spirit children in the resurrection. In fact, the language used by the Prophet Joseph Smith in teaching this doctrine was that unless people complied with this law of marriage, "they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection," but that if they are so married and are faithful and true in all things, they "will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." I was called into the Council of the Twelve in 1910. Some six years later, in 1916, the First Presidency and the Twelve, as a united group, issued a profound doctrinal exposition — entitled, "The Father and the Son." In it we as a unit said: "So far as the stages of eternal progression and attainment have been made known through divine revelation, we are to understand that only resurrected and glorified beings can become parents of spirit offspring." And so it was through this law of eternal marriage that Abraham and Sarah gained the fulfillment of the promises made to them. "Abraham received promises concerning his seed, and of the fruit of his loins," the revelation says, "which were to continue so long as they were in the world; and as touching Abraham and his seed, out of the world they should continue; both in the world and out of the world should they continue as innumerable as the stars; or, if ye were to count the sand upon the seashore ye could not number them." Then, having reference to the 885 December 1970 faithful descendants of Abraham, to those of us who are of the house of Israel and who have joined the Church, the revelation continues: "This promise is yours also, because ye are of Abraham, and the promise was made unto Abraham; and by this law is the continuation of the works of my Father, wherein he glorifieth himself. Go ye, therefore, and do the works of Abraham; enter ye into my law and ye shall be saved." We are the seed of Abraham; we are the ones who have right to the blessings of the priesthood, and to the "blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal." If we are faithful and true, it shall be our privilege to go on forever in the patriarchal order, inheriting in due course all of the blessings of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Now I think we should remind ourselves that this life is the time to prepare to meet God, that we are here to be tried and tested to see if we shall qualify to gain the blessings of Abraham and Sarah. This mortal life is itself a schooling, probationary estate. But so also is our life in the family unit. The gospel is family centered; it must be lived in the family. It is here we receive our greatest and most important training as we seek to create for ourselves eternal family units patterned after the family of God our Father. We are in training in our mortal families to operate eternal families in a state of glorious exaltation, where "neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord." 886 Of necessity there are many practical things we must do to be mothers and fathers in Israel and so to live as to gain eternal life. ) We must choose to marry right; to have our union sealed in the temple; to enter into eternal marriage covenants. _ We must choose to have children if we can; to provide bodies, in the household of faith, for the hosts of unborn spirit children of our Father who are yet destined to come to this earth. We must bring up our children in light and in truth, setting for them an example of righteous living, and also teaching them the truths of the gospel. We must see that they are baptized and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost when eight years of age. We must shelter them from the sins and evils of the world as much as we can so they will not be led away from paths of truth and righteousness. We must prepare them to be living witnesses of the truth and divinity of this great latter-day work, and particularly in the case of our sons, see that they are worthy and qualified to go on missions to preach the gospel to our Father's other children. We must—and this above all— so guide and lead them that they will choose proper companions and marry in the house of the Lord and thus become inheritors of all the great blessings of which we have been talking. Now I testify that we are engaged in the Lord's work. This Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is the kingdom of God on earth. In it is found the plan of salvation, and through it we can inherit the blessings of Abraham and all the prophets. I testify also that Joseph Smith was the mighty Prophet of the restoration and that if we shall walk in the course revealed Mothers In Israel through him, we shall have peace in this life and gain eternal life in the world to come, which is my prayer for all of us. In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. POINTING SPIRES Symbols of a humble faith; tapered spires Point above the lacy trees in a way To hold my eyes, and warm my heart with fires Of hope that make me want to kneel and pray. | have seen them shine above a loose cloud Rolling in like fog rising from the sod Where people live and toil, speaking aloud Their gratitude while worshipping their God. Firm pointing fills an elemental need Impelling me to lift my voice in praise. Without these symbols others may mislead Me as | grope in darkness for the ways To find a special place with doors ajar Where newer light awaits. There spires are. —Pearle M. Olsen 887 Birthday Congratulations to Jessie Evans Smith The General Board of Relief Society and sisters throughout the world wish Sister Jessie Evans Smith a happy birthday on December 29. Sister Smith, wife of our beloved prophet, has long been admired and appreciated by Relief Society sisters. Leaving a successful career with the American Light Opera Company to return to her native Salt Lake City, Sister Smith did not stop singing. For many years she has been with the Tabernacle Choir, and during that time she sang for benefits, countless Church programs, and, almost daily, for funerals. Sister Smith has often accompanied President Smith on his assignments throughout the Church, and has been called upon to bear her testimony. Following this, she would sing, frequently in duet with President Smith. By way of a message to the sisters 888 of Relief Society, Sister Smith gives the following bit of advice: "If we follow the ways of the Lord our pathways will lead us to doing the right thing. The apostle Paul said to the Corinthians in Chapter 3, 'Ye are God's building; therefore, let every man take heed how he buildeth.' One of the greatest responsibilities that is ever entrusted to any human being is that of building his own personality. The chief business of our lives is to build a house that will bear the weight of eternal life. God has entrusted us to use only the finest materials. We should develop the ability to do the right thing instead of allowing ourselves endlessly to do as we please." May her birthday be one of joyful association with her loved ones, and the coming year be filled with blessings and contentment. ' beater. Ty of Sound. The knock pe instrumen individualized Ss unds—the ol a wood Ock, the Shrill of 4 whistle, th whir MY earlier life I j Part of the amazement I reserve f, annual w thought of t ing a der u ard Party! Mmary Classes out un embroider As a nager, Why 8€ pack of Our world 889 Sse Narrow Sacked t. With new © Variety in THE FAA LY WHO LOST CHRISTMAS Margery Thompson Pierson knew—her family had lost Christmas! When the thought finally sank busy mind ijt © must find some Way of getquickly, had h decorating Ward Party, and on..., if Sone wrong with the children the last little While. Th ommy, make Don get out of there right away. ] Program to have the big mirror now!" "I don't k had obtained the mirror and Placed the holly in her hair She had suddenly remembered Something, have to set a gift for M on said. The younger children were no better! Only yesterday afternoon they had come Screaming into the kitchen, "Mommy, Mommy, aurie has my truck!" "Oh, Mommy, he's sucha baby! Know what, b come to You, so there!" Danny had started crying and had sobbed, "Mommy, he will too, won't he?" Nine-year-old Don had entered the kitchen and said, "Oh, stop crying, half-pint. Of course Santa Claus will come. It wouldn't be Christmas without Santa Claus, 99 so go build with your blocks! "Mom, could you lend me five dollars? I've got to finish my Christmas shopping and after I get that football for myself, I won't have enough money for the rest of the gifts on my list." Mrs. Day sighed. "We are all so wrapped up in ourselves and things that we really have lost the true Christmas. We have such precious little time left to find it. But we must! We must!" Now, how shall I begin? I must find Christmas myself if I am to lead the others. She went into the bedroom and began reading— first the scriptures, Luke and Matthew, and then from other books. In her reading she found heaven brought down to earth for a moment each year, she thought to herself. Oh, my! How far away we have gone. We must find Christmas! And she muttered a silent prayer. "Dear Father, please help me to help my loved ones find Christmas again, its true joy and its true meaning." She called her husband at work and he managed to get home a little earlier than usual, and they had a long talk. That evening after the dessert dishes were cleared away Father called a family council and the family began to talk about the way things were going at their house—and how they had lost the whole meaning of Christmas. Mr. Day said, "You know in our house there is no room in the inn." Donasked, "What do you mean, Dad?" 891 We have come so far from things, too, at Christmas, It is Christmas 4nd love and 800d wil] Sometimes hard for little that we € 10 room j; Our but so of the p op! Earts for the Spirit of Christmas really found Tistmas—w fo) O enter, just as the innkeeper had come closer than NO room fo he soon to be born to the true SPlrit of C esus. Thi about that.' are little child Little Laurie began to cry ry." "Oh, I fee] so awful! [' SO sorry! Laurie Said, Christmas aven't felt at ll hap Y Or good really a baby' da anywa about hristma How can I find ad asked, « at do you lt?" Mean, Laurie?" Dad Said, "Let's See if we can au answered, "It is the hink of some things we can do birthday f b esus,"' € are Seeing Christmas I] On said, « Us, but we are not feeling Christto get. [ Was having a Mas. That's What we've lost, the Christmas Is_ that What you feeling of Christmas! " Meant?" Danny Said, "Yesterday Laurie "Yes, Don," answered Said Santa Wouldn't come. Will "and I'm Slad you've begun to he?" See where had begun to lose "I imagine SO, said Mo her, the real feeling of Christmas "but, D > do you know it "Well, what bout me?" Would stil] 5 Ch Mas even if Lois, "] think |' Nall right! Anta Us didn't come to Other asked. « lS, do yoy Treyou?" Member yoy, feeling about draw. "Tt Would?" Ing Margo's Name for a gift for "Yes, it Would. Santa Claus is Primary?" a Wonderful] Visitor who es "Well, Wanted to gi € a preslittle child Ppy—but Christent to one of My better friends," Mas uld sti] hristm "Think about th Or a min- ©U could stil] fee] Christmas In you were Margo, not being one of your heart." the TOUD—feeling that the "T could? How?" Others didn't Include you or d ¥ doing yourself what Santa Teally like you, how would you Claus does—giving to others— feel?" thinking of others—anq making "Well, I guess Net So good—pbuyt Others happy," It was Only a little Present!" "ty Would be hard, Mother." "No, it isn't, Lois! [¢ isn't just "T know, dear, but nO one is a little Present. It's your feeling. Saying yoy Shouldn't have Santa And it's all Wrong! Why do we It. All we're Saying is that 81Ve gifts at Christmas, anyway?" You should think about Other On said, "I know. Because the 892 Wise Men gave gifts to Jesus." "Well, partly," said Dad, "but We give gifts because Heavenly Father gave his Son as a gift to all of us because he loves us and We give gifts to others because we love them. If there is no love given with the gift then why give the gift at all?" Mother Said, "Anyway, why bake cookies or send cards or do anything just to do it? If no love is given with the gift then it is an empty gift." "Mom," Lois added, "if I am nicer to Margo and try to get to know her better and try to make her a part of the group, will | what you just try to overcome these feelings of The Family Who Lost Christmas the spirit of Christmas by being thoughtful and kind and ful] of love for others we might begin to see what Christmas is all about. When all men try to be their best we all begin to have a feeling of Oneness. When all men are beginning to think about doing good things together heaven can come our part to cause brought up a little closer to heaven. If each one of us would do his part to make earth more heavenly—to have peace in our hearts—and good will toward our fellow men, maybe this Christmas feeling could Spread from a family, to a neighborhood, and further still." Then she added, "You can only find Christmas and keep Christto find our lost Christmas better and by being better. Ap IF | SHOULD CALL THEM NOW The little ones, The timid Ones, The gentle ones, Bright of eye and wary, Darting, gathering Beneath root and Answering my call, The squirrels and ch From cone-tipped sp; hoarding rock, on limb, in hollow tree: hiya—hiya," ipmunks came ruce and pine, Leaping logs and stones To my reaching ha My feeding hands, My stroking hands. If | should cal Deep, deep 'in In chambered | them now they trance-like sleep tree, in burrowed earth, nds, could not come. They cannot banish winter from the woods, Nor hear the murm They wait the joyful I, too, am waiting—an ur in my loneli ness. 'hiya"' of the spring. D remembering. —Peggy Ta ngren 893 EDITORIAL / facing Forward m Changing times bring changing conditions. That is basic to Latterday Saints who believe in continuous revelation. Changing times have brought the end of the journey to the Relief Society Magazine. The times were different when it began in 1914—and that time was the end of the journey for the Woman's Exponent. These two women's periodicals have spanned the period from 1872 to 1970. And with 1970 begins a new era in Relief Society when Relief Society members join with the other adult members of the Church in supporting an adult Church magazine. At the end of a journey one may be pardoned for searching back through the pages and noting in passing symbols of different eras. In 1915 we read instructions on a ''Labor Saving Coal Bucket,' we learn ''Few housekeepers select flour by examination.... A few hints, however, will enable anyone to know what not to buy. Never buy flour that has a bluish tint and will not adhere to the hand when pressed in the palm." A detailed account of the Hotel Utah's kitchen is reported with pictures in 1915. It concludes ''No wonder that men with their supreme physical forces and masculine grasp of great problems are chosen to control and direct such gigantic enterprises." In an issue in 1916, the featured article was on ''Birth Control" — as timely a subject today as it was then. It presented the views of five members of the quorum of the Twelve, among them the views of David O. McKay and Joseph F. Smith, Jr. Relief Society officers were asked to read ''these stirring and splendid comments in the various meetings in our Society." Volume 57 December 1970 Number 12 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 894 The years around 1917 delineate the war efforts of the Relief Society and one could go on tracing year by year major and minor events, happenings, and the opinions of those living down the years. We read of new Church First Presidencies, of new Relief Society presidencies, new editors, new board members, the creative work of Latter-day Saint women as mirrored in prize-winning poems and stories, and homemaking helps that have continued application today. The Relief Society Magazine is a treasure house of inspiring material. Members and organizations are requested to preserve them for present and future reference. Great discourses of prophets of the Lord are contained therein. The lesson work since 1914 Is also detailed therein. We acknowledge the painstaking efforts of general presidents of Relief Society, and of the editors, associate editors, and assistant editors who have labored for their beloved Relief Society Magazine. Everyone has worked unselfishly for its success, which is attested by the subscription numbers of 301,000 as of August 1970, which would have been greatly increased by the end of the year had the Magazine continued. The efforts of Relief Society presidents, Magazine representatives, officers, and members over the past fifty-six years are acknowledged. These will stand as a memorial of devotion to the sisters of Relief Society. As we detail and recall nostalgic memories, we still, obedient to the priesthood and receiving direction from them, face forward in step with the new era of the 1970's with anticipation and a sense of dedication and support for the all-adult magazine. Moriturae te saluLeone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba. O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore Helen W. Jeppson Arlene S. Kirton 895 tamus. — MCS. Notice To Subscribers Purchase them in ] Z €cember Issues of the > AS Needed. The O er j © November Magazj Ue contains the agazine. Addre February and M €ssons f, Pril and May. T City, Utah 84111]. Ardas \' or: A i, > JUST so. Just SO, he Stacked the Whisper and the rustle Of the Parchment corn, Heaping hubbard, and banana and the Pumpkin at its Side. And SO, the blue Mountain Wore its Thin turban f sn And the Sky was A turmoil of departing glory All remain j repeating the eternals Of the ending year. Ow to other hands. Nal eir yield to 4nother hoe. —Dorothy J. Roberts 896 Provision ha include the October, November, and D Ss: Rel]j Made for Reliet Society Members who. | Ociety Businesg Office, 76 North Ma Sisters Vivian Glenn and Mary Redington are talented members of the Alameda Stake. Sister Glenn lives in the Thirteenth Ward and Sister Redington in the Seventeenth. Both sisters are loved and admired by those who know them. Sister Glenn enjoys making fascinating and entertaining articles for children and adults. She has made over 300 pixie dolls for friends, neighbors, and bazaars. Sister Glenn has one son and one grandson:'In Relief Society she has served for many years as a faithful visiting teacher. Sister Redington was converted to the Church six years ago. She enjoys making detailed and exquisite reproductions such as the temple in the picture. Her home and the homes of many friends are filled with decorative works of art she has created. Although she has no children of her own, the neighborhood children are devoted to her and she to them. She has taught in the auxiliaries and in Relief Society has served as a counselor in the presidency and is a visiting teacher. Both of these sisters scatter sunshine into the lives of all who are in contact with them, and they set an example for others to follow in their devotion to Relief Society and to the gospel. D 897 Widow's Might Elaine S. McKay w Bessie watched the wind hurl snow as it howled through Huntsville. It's a cold Christmas Eve, she thought... Colder than those of the Depression... Colder now that her husband was dead. Before the fire had flickered out, Bessie had heated the iron and made her way up the winding stairs of the stone home to iron the sheets before her eight children climbed into their beds. "Warmmm," purred the baby as she snuggled in her crib. Even Bessie's sixteen-year-old son chuckled and sighed as his feet found where the iron had been. The children were noisily unaware that the iron was heated by bits of slack coal from a supply that wouldn't last the winter. Nor had they ever noticed that the smiling woman who pressed the sheets wore patched dresses 898 and was somehow never hungry. The next morning Bessie would build the fire while the four boys went out to feed and milk old Sally, the only animal not sold to pay debts. The little girls would wait in the kitchen until chores were done. Then all would line up — smallest to tallest — and, at the sound of Bessie's first notes on the piano, would march and sing their way in to the tree.... "O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant...." They had cut the tree themselves and trimmed it with paper chains and popcorn. But there was nothing under it, and Bessie had little to put there. She had bought oranges and nuts. That was enough, she knew, to cause shouts of delight. But, as she sat looking out at the half-buried village, the old question returned, give my children for Christmas?" After a moment, their PoSsessions and find a gift —a hair ribbon, a book, some Said it. Even the Omeone had he Smiles vanished. Aby was Silent. Sharing things. _. Our testimonies of the IS great Stone house érandfather, our love for each other, h "The Widow's Might" for Christmas ti clothes "And I']] make apple Lesson 7 The Atonement Of Jesus Christ Reading Assignment: Moses, chapter 6 hern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 197] Nort Southern Hemisphere. Irst Meeting, September 197] OBJECTIVE. To Show the Latter-day Saint Woman that Only in and through Jesus Christ is Salvation available, and to inspire her to increase her faith in him. Their Atoner a Redeemer, the From the P arl of reat Prj litera] Son of God, and, therefore and the other book f scripture, "we believe t through th We ave learn d tha US Christ Atonement f Christ, all man Is the On] gotten Son of the kind ay b Saved y (Article Eterna] her, th €ator of of Faith 3 Worlds, ho was th hosen of tter day Saints also know World to become the Redeemer of the Old Testament Period are and Savior of pumtind. (Lesso,, historical] beings, contrary to some or many of he ¢ ergy and laity; C 29:3 > 84:] a hum Merely a great A Contribution of the Pear] of examp] &nteou ness. [n Great Pric too derstandin contrast t this belief Latter-q of the 80Spel of €sus Christ Is aints kno Jesu Christ to be that from th ginning the plan 901 December 1970 oses the fulness of that gospel was on the earth. (Lesson 5, Relief Society Magazine, November 1970, Pp. 837-43.) zine, September 1970, pp. 709. 708.) ADAM AND THE FALL of the truth, Latter-day Saints stand upon the secure foundation of revelation (Article of Faith 9), of the past and of that Which is to come. When created, Adam and Eve were not subject to death. They Moses 3:9; Lesson 4, Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, pp. 781-87.) 902 It is record the mind of his seeking tod Satan influence fruit of the tree of good and e or physical Mosiah 16: Hel 14:16-17; temporal death (2 4-11; Al. 12:26- gift of po 3; M Ses 5:10-11; D m 1:111.) Sterity. (2 of Salvatio THE NEED OF A REDEEMER In the premort. Vision was made What would happen if there were no Redeemer? The two penalties would have taken effect forever. Man would have remained in spiritual death, or perpetual banishment from the presence of God, and his body would have remained in the grave throughout all time. But what would this mean? Jacob, the Nephite prophet, has given the answer to this question:... If the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself.... (2 Ne. 9:8-9.) To permit this condition would have brought total victory to Satan and doomed all of God's children to endless torment. If God were to allow the defeat of his plan for man, he would violate the covenant he made with him premortally. (Titus 1:2.) Because we are descended from Adam and Eve, all who have lived or shall live upon the earth are subject to physical death. And when we sin, we fall spiritually; we become subject to spiritual death. In order for man to be released from the double penalty of physical death and _ banishment from the presence of God, which is spiritual death, reconciliation must be made to satisfy the demands of justice in the breaking of the law. Not only must the transgressions of Adam and Eve be atoned for but also the sins of their posterity. God's plan to provide an earth life for his children amid _ conditions Lesson Department where they might develop was accomplished by the fall of Adam and Eve; man's individual sins, however, are not required to satisfy the general purposes of God. When the atonement was made for man, he was freed of the transgression or sin committed by Adam and Eve. (Moses 6:54; 1 Cor. 15:21-22; Rom. 5:18.) However, men are accountable for their individual acts in opposition to the commandments of God. Man receives a spiritual death when he sins, but through the atonement of Christ, he may be redeemed from his spiritual fall. (D&C 29:41; Al. 12:16, 18, 31-32; Hel. 14:17-18.) Little children are born into the world innocent and are not subject to spiritual death until they sin after the age of accountability. (D&C 93:38; 29: 46-48; 74:7; Moro. 8:19.) Adam and Eve were helpless in redeeming themselves from the consequences of their transgression. So it is with man. Who amongst men can redeem the body from physical death or reunite himself with God by his own acts? None! Thus the need for a Redeemer, one who could break the bands of death and bring about the return of fallen man into God's presence. The Lord allowed Adam and Eve a probationary period in which they could repent. (Al. 42:4-5.) Adam rejoiced when he learned of the possibility of his redemption: And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will. And in that day Adam blessed God 903 December 1970 and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. (Moses 5:9-10.) Eve also was glad when she heard these things, and she said: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.) SALVATION THROUGH JESUS CHRIST ONLY When the law was broken in the Garden of Eden, the justice of God, or the law of justice, brought the penalty of the broken law. (Al. 42:14.) To appease the demands of the law of justice, the plan of mercy required that an atonement be made by God to compensate for the broken law. And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also. (Al. 42:15.) Alma informs us that the plan of redemption could not take place without a man's repentance; otherwise, mercy could not take effect and it would destroy the work of justice. If the work of justice were destroyed, God would cease to be God because he is perfect in both of these qualities. (Al. 42:13, 15.) Who, then, would redeem man from his fallen condition? Only God could appease the demands of justice and bring about the law of mercy that man might not 904 remain under the penalty of death of the body and also banishment from God's presence forever. (Al. 34:10-11, 14; 2 Ne. 9:7.) Who is God through whom this redemptive act is possible for the inhabitants of this earth? He who created it under the direction of the Father; he who gave the plan of salvation to Adam and to the prophets; he through whom the Eternal Father of our spirits has given revelation since the fall of Adam; he who voluntarily, before the foundations of the earth were laid, offered himself a ransom; he only is capable of such an act. Class Discussion How does the Lord Jesus Christ fulfill the foregoing requirements? Adam was given the following commandment regarding the one and only Being who could atone for man's sins: Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. (Moses 6:57.) In our own dispensation, the last one, the Savior Jesus Christ has stated that he is the one and only Redeemer. (D&C 19:15-19; 35:1-2; 38:4-5; 45:3-5.) WHY JESUS IS THE ATONER There are three reasons why Jesus Christ is the only Redeemer and Atoner. First, he is the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh. (Moses 6:57; Mary's Promised Only egotten" Jesus the Christ, P. 81.) From his Mortal] mother Jesus l © power to die, and r Mortal being. €cond, Jesus Christ Was the only Sinless being that ever lived. Et. 1:19. 0 C George Q. Cannon, Discourses, 22:239. Hird, by foreordination in the Council of heaven, he he Mission to Offer the atone. Ment. He was the God of the Old ning of Man's Mortal life On this '38; 4:34: D&C 19:2. A Summary of these facts Was Made by President John Taylor | Words: He, in the nearness of His relation Ship to the Fath T, Seems to °Ccupy a POsition that no Other perso OCCupies © IS spoken of as His wel] beloved ¢ a8 the On] 8otten of the Fathe does not this mean the only begotten after the flesh? [f¢ He was the first born and Obedient to the |, did He Not inherit the Position by right (which NO other m the Position of Savior and Which by right belonged to first born, An Od, or in the od, and Was God, and was WHAT THE ATONEMENT Is What is Words of Elder James is answer IS given: The Structure of the word In its Present form jigs SUBgestive of the true: —— December 1970 [Salt Lake City: The»Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1966], p. 75.) The atonement of Christ was accomplished by (1) his taking upon himself the sins of those who would repent, thus removing from them the necessity of suffering for those sins (D&C 19:15-19); (2) by Christ's giving his life in a manner which spilt his blood. This act of atonement was made in the Garden of Gethsemane when the Savior shed drops of blood. (Mosiah 3:7.) Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, reminds us_ that other men have endured death by crucifixion,: but no _ other person, or group of men, ever suffered what the Savior suffered in the Garden. (Conference Report, October 1953, p. 35.) The Redeemer made it possible for all men to receive the resurrection. (1 Cor. 15:21-22.) The questions, how does one accept the atonement for his individual salvation, and who are the beneficiaries of this act of mercy, are reserved for the next lesson. Class Discussion How should the knowledge of the atonement and Christ's indescribable suffering influence our daily behavior? SUMMARY Latter-day Saints are true followers of Jesus Christ. They are Christians in the fullest sense of the word because they believe in Christ for what he said he was to the prophets of the Old Testament, to the Jewish people during his mortal ministry, to the Nephite people on the American Continent, and, to the Prophet 906 Joseph Smith, in the revelations recorded in the other modern books of scripture. The Master proclaimed himself as the Son of God throughout his mortal ministry. (John 17: 4-5, 8, 24; Matt. 16:16-17.) As President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: I hope none of you will go from here... With the idea that I am saying that the consciousness -of his divinity was a gradual growth in him. It was not so, according to the record. That doctrine that it was a gradual growth is a doctrine of the "higher critics" who have worked through it to the proposition that the idea of his being a Son of God was invented by his Apostles after his death, and therefore these critics cast doubt upon Jesus himself. Jesus knew from the beginning, at any rate from the time he was twelve, that he was the Christ. ("Jesus the Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956, p. 5.) Latter-day Saints know that Jesus Christ is literally the Son of God, that he was sinless during his earthly life, and that he was the Creator of this earth and the pre-earth appointed Savior. All of these facts they take literally because the modern proof in the scriptures revealed anew attests to these facts. They know that only in and through Jesus Christ may salvation be received, for he is the only Being who could make an atonement for sin. They are grateful that they are beneficiaries of that offering divine. They know that if the atonement of Jesus Christ were not made, they would become devils in misery forever and ever. In the intense, indescribable suffering of the Son of God, Latter-day Saints have learned that if they could give everything they possess aS a gift for What Ch st has don through th Abyss of q kness with which ort em, it wo d be Only a token e had Surround nd in a Spasm of the worth of he a Nement of relief, g § the brj ture beyond ] f e Said, « finished! Her, into th Xpressed j anguage 9 ands I ¢9 d my spirit " Asa d, He resident John T ylor, they Teescend d below al] things, a dma e Him. Cognize the truth of e following: Self subject man in man' fallen cong;_: 10N; as a > *1€ grappled With all the he Suffering 0 the Son of God was circumstance cident to sufferings in not Simply the Suffering of Persona] death; for in assuming the POSition that He did in making an atonement for the Sins of Savior of the World; and Completed the work Pertaining to the t t, i 1 t ] SWeating great drops of blood, He was leq #hOnemen Which His Pa her had a to exclaim, "Father, if it be Possible, Jet. Ig " a with the SUperincumbent loa _in_ the blood to endure; as the Son of God He Wilderness " ca 1 triumphed Over all, and forevey ascended Powers of darkne ' at: d been let to the right hand of God, to further carry; € world 4nd to the human family ae a OBJECTive. To Point out to the Latter-day Saint woman that the Lord Offers her the ifts of immortality aNd eternal life if She lives to be Worthy of these ifts. INTRODUCTION The beautify] View of the earth Seen by the astronauts In 1969 from thousands of miles IN space Should impresg Man with the fact that he is living on aN island in a Mortality and eternal life of man." S€a of space. As he looks into the (Moses 1:39. See also Moses 6: O Lord Our Lord, how excellent js i thy name In all the earth! Who hast set thy glory above the heavens. The intent of God for en Consider ¢ y heavens, the Work of thy fingers, the moon and the PREMORTALiTy Stars, wh: thou hh Ordained; What is man, that thou art Mindful] Basic to Tstanding of visite and the Son of Man, that thou he Purpose of li ] h ctrin Vis} e 7 For tho hast m de him a little lower of Pp 'emortality Stud am an the angels; d has crowned hin, earlie lesson. (Lesson » Relief Thou Madest him to have dominion 1970, pp. 702-708.) Briefly, this Over the Works of thy hands; thou hast doctrine, revealed anew in our dis.:. T put all things under his feet;: rd our Lore how excellent isthy Pensation, teaches that men and | il, 3- O a Name in all the earth! (Ps, 8 » 3-6, 9.) women are the Spirit sons and cernin » there jg everand Powers as m N and women do Present ch lenge to £ dareason to aY. Those who ave been or | his exist e. Will be born on this earth elected | Man Seeks to find the answers to follow the Plan of Salvation to the lUestions: Who am I? Why Presented in the Premortal coyn. Am I here? What is the Meaning cil: those who rebelled against Ife' atan of life? At plan f, llowed § tan and are eeking ¢ g to destroy he Souls of | Class Discussion men (Lesson 6, Relie¢ Society D2 the purpose of life? Agazine, November 19 pp | ° you think the orld has lost the 8 90.) In th S eternal lan, Lat nowledge of the p "Pose of life? Tf ter-day Saj STecognize that they SO, wh are in this €arth life Y design 4nd not b Chance, th here js GOD's REVEALED PURPOSE of LIFE 4 definite Purpose fo this earth FOR life, and hat that Urpose jigs | All of the stan dard Works of Made known In God's revelations The Church Jesus Christ of 0 his Prophet | atter-da Ints Contribute to Class Discussion e reveale Purpose for Which | e€ eart » Man, and his environhat bea ng does the doctrine of Ment exist Pear] Oo Great premortality have Upon the Purpose of | Tice provid S the mo Concise _ lif Statement in Scripture: "For be. WHY AN EARTH LiFe? Old, this Work and y | Slory—to bring to Pass the im. The first fundamenta] fact is that the spirit entity, male or female, was to be added upon with a physical body made of earth elements. Why? A modern revelation states that "the spirit and the body are the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." (D&C 88:15-16.) A necessary part of man's progress and a purpose of his creation is that the soul might receive immortality, or the resurrection. (Moses 1:39.) This means that the physical body must be joined with the eternal spirit forever. Our Eternal Father is a resurrected Being of immortal flesh and bone. (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith {Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938], pp. 345-46; also D&C 190722.) WHAT IS ETERNAL LIFE? It is the work and glory of God to bring to pass man's resurrection and also his eternal life. Included in the doctrine of the resurrection is the fact of the everlasting, conscious existence of the spirit and body combined forever. The spirit of man is already eternal. (D&C 93:29; 131: 7-8.) What, then, is eternal life? It is God's life; that is, he who attains unto eternal life, the greatest gift God bestows upon his worthy children, may become as God is. (D&C 19:10-12; 14:7.) This glory is to receive all that the Father hath, to be made equal with Christ, for they have overcome all things. (D&C 132: 22-24; 84:38; 76:58-60.) What is the purpose for which men are on the earth? Briefly Lesson Department expressed, it is that the spirit being may be united with earth elements (body) to insure a resurrected immortal body. Furthermore, those who receive the highest degree of glory—exaltation of eternal life—receive the powers of godhood. Class Discussion Why is it necessary to have a body in order to progress? WHAT MAKES IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE POSSIBLE? There are some fundamental, revealed factors which make the resurrection and godhood possible. These are (1) the atonement of Jesus Christ, and (2) the appointed means by which men and women accept that atonement. In last month's lesson it was written that the atonement was made by Jesus Christ because he was literally the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father and through the Father he had power over death, even to bringing about his own resurrection. Furthermore, by reason of his inherited power and because he lived a sinless life, he was able to redeem man from his spiritual fall by bringing repentant man back into God's presence. This decision to be man's Redeemer and Savior was made in the premortal council. (Moses 4:1-4.) THE LAW OF SACRIFICE From the days of Adam the Lord revealed the need for man to offer sacrifice to him. After being shut out from the presence of the Lord, Adam and Eve were commanded that they should 909 December 1970 offer the firstlings of their flocks World from death Or an offe ring. Obedient to this Blood being the agent of Mortality, j¢ commandment they were later had to be eit med to Sat ™m t an and to death, whence jt cam asked an angel wh they © Beloved Son f G aS chose offered s ch Sacrifices, Adam Said a Wer over death One wh Could Ja dow; IS body b the Or such offer gS Was r vealed by Shedding of his bio d, and then tale his he angel Y up again by th Inherent Power Which Was in him. J US obtaineg his his thing is 4 Similitude of the Sacri blood from is her 'Y; he obtained fice of the ly Begotten of the Father iS power over death rom his Father Which is full 8race and t th. Therefore he could and d voluntarily erefore, thou halt Oo al] that thou Surrender Mself nemies Who est in the name of ¢ on, and thoy crucified hj by the edding of his shalt repent and call] upon Go in the ood. Wh he arose fro the tomb, he name of the Son fi vermor (Moses 5 7. Al] As President John Taylor Answers fg ID h Field Wrote, the atonement of Christ. E., a; City: Deseret Book Co., 1960], 3:102-103. ) fulfilled all of the Sacrifices Which Were offered from the beginning hg Sacrifice Of animals a and the Sacrament js Now ad. Sy. Mbolical = paulitude" of Ministered; remembrance of "sus 5 THice. (He 9:11-28; 19 © 8reat sacrifice made by Jesus ae 7, +om. 27; Ep Lm "Ist. (John T ylor, Me tation et. 1:18.21 ' and 4 onement [Salt Lake Cit "sus instructed th Nephites evens & Wal is, 1950] DP. 125.) after his Tesurrection that, with a bloo sacrificed z the 'Scontinuance of the aw of Without she M8 of blood Is n o8es, the rd required the remission " (He 9:22. See also Sacrifice of 4 brok fart and eb 9:19.99. Ev, 17:11.) resiContrite Spirit whic uld lead Oe oseph ielding Smith to an 4CCeptance f the Oneraising of the body, both limb and Since it was by the Creation of blood":;.3:; AL 11:43-45. That Mortality Came, it js by the Sacrifice D&c 129:].9 ) e of blood that the,, €mption from death ae Was ¢complished, and al] from Satan's 8rasp. 11:45; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 7:163 [hereafter referred to as JD.) The revelations speak of the resurrected body as being physically perfect. (Al. 11: 43-44; 40:23; Roy W. Doxey, The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1969], pp. 105-15.) By the resurrection men are redeemed from death and the grave through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (2 Ne. 9:13; Mosiah 16:7-8; Morm. 9:12-13; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 84.) Thus, a purpose of God for man is accomplished—his immortality. HOW MEN ACCEPT THE ATONEMENT OF JESUS CHRIST Adam was commanded to have faith in the Lord, repent of his sins, be baptized in water in the name of Jesus Christ, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which commandments he obeyed. (Moses 6:52, 64-66.) The Lord told Adam that "This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the meridian of time." (Moses 6:62.) Children who are under the age of eight, the year of accountability, are redeemed by the atonement of Jesus Christ without these saving principles and ordinances of the gospel. (Mosiah 3:16; Moro. 8:20; D&C 29:46-48; 74:7.) Those also who are as little children, the mentally retarded who are incapable of understanding, are also saved by the atonement without obedience to these principles and ordinances. (Moro. 8:22; D&C 29:50.) They who are eight years of age or over and who have understanding are comLesson Department manded to repent that they may be saved. (D&C 68:25-27; 29:49.) FAITH IN JESUS CHRIST Implanted into every heart is the seed of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ that may begin as passive belief, but when nurtured by obedience to commandments, prayer, and involvement in the workings of the Church, passive belief will grow into faith. A good discussion of the distinctions between belief, faith, and knowledge is found in the writings of Elder James E. Talmage. (The Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1966], pp. 96- 100; see also Al. 32:28-43.) Essentially, belief does not necessarily ~ spur one to action, but faith will do this. Knowledge is to know, whereas faith is to hope for things unseen, with the assurance of obtaining them. (Al. 32:18, 21.) To be saved in God's kingdom requires the power to resist sin after having made covenants with the Lord. Faith in Jesus Christ carries the power to resist sin. When tempted, a person of faith remembers his Savior and the love the Savior has demonstrated for him in offering himself as his Atoner. The person remembers what would have been if that atonement had not been made. (2 Ne. 9:6-9.) Man is always given power sufficient to follow the way of eternal life if he will resist temptation. (1 Cor. 10:13.) THE GIFT OF REPENTANCE The apostle Paul referred to two kinds of sorrow arising out of sin. The "sorrow of the world" is that remorse which turns one 911 December 1970 away from a sin in order to satisfy one's personal needs; as an example, a person might change his life to regain the respect of his family and friends or quit smoking for fear of contracting lung cancer. Though turning from the sin, there still remains the affront to God by breaking his commandments. This kind of sorrow, said Paul, "worketh death." (2 Cor. 7:10.) The sorrow for wrong committed that arises out of knowing that one has sinned against God is the "godly sorrow [that] worketh repentance to salvation... A (2 Cor. 7:10.) In this case the sinner seeks to rectify his past conduct by changing his life with God's help, and thus he is made "sorry after a godly manner." (2 Cor. 7:9.) God grants man the ability to repent when he exercises true faith in his Son Jesus Christ. Before baptism in water, man prepares himself to receive covenants in showing the Lord he wants to be one with him. After baptism, repentance becomes the principle of forgiveness whereby one may be kept on the way to perfection by the discontinuance of evil practices. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1956], pp. 100- 101; Spencer W. Kimball, The Miracle of Forgiveness [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1969], chapter 12.) WATER BAPTISM Jesus becomes our Atoner for salvation, provided we have faith in him, repent of our sins, and accept the ordinances of water and spirit baptism. (D&C 18:11- 12; 29:17.) 912 Water baptism is the symbol of the atonement when administered by immersion by one having the divine authority. It is the "blood of Christ" which saves, but baptism is the way one accepts it. Paul likened this baptism to the Savior's going down into the grave and rising up to a new life; so also, the repentant person goes down into the water in similitude of Christ's atonement and is raised to a new life, devoid of offense toward God and man, having left sin behind. (Rom. 6:3-6; Moses 6:58-59; Mark 1:4; Acts 2:38; 22:16; D&C 49:13- 14.) SPIRIT BAPTISM The laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost performed by an authorized servant of God also remits sins. Unless one receives both water and spirit baptism, there is no remission of sins and therefore no exaltation. (John 3:5; 2 Ne. 31:17; D&C 19:31.) A purpose of the atoning sacrifice of Christ is to bring man into spiritual union with God that he may regain his presence. Spiritual life is received through obedience to the principles and ordinances by which the atonement of Christ becomes effective for salvation. (D&C 29:43-45; Joseph F. Smith, JD, 23:169-71.) The gift of the Holy Ghost provides gifts to the recipient that he may not be deceived by the powers of men and Satan. Class Discussion Show the relationship between water and spirit baptisms and the atonement of Christ. (continued on page 931) A A a A A A CE Geese <a Game ane M. = _— ® 2 1 AW GIZT¢ | = a OC RELORRAD! (eI | 2 | a - YY aw —_— ~ —e OD CS ae Gere 6 =-= | | * J + SGP EP eeawea= es ae SS GC & au Gr cere a (== = = = DROS) Meee TO! (helena! ARIE! ZAR ONe ta) | GI Tones a Oh » a — —~= — - — ae hee He | OS = ea Christ in Gethsemane. Stained Glass Window in the Bonneville Ward Chapel, Salt Lake City, Utah Transparency by Lorenzo S. Young. 913 CHRISTMAS A Season of Creative Beauty Home of Paul and Irene Buehner Many lovely and varied decorations are found in the Buehner home during the _ festive Christmas season. The familiar faces of seventeen grandchildren encased in gold frames are featured on a white flocked tree decorated with crystal icicles and gold balls. Irene Buehner has created a_ beautiful Christmas table with a red velvet cloth, hurricane lamps, and holly. Transparencies by | M. Heslop Appropriately, above the piano hangs Christmas music, hand penned on parchment paper and framed in red and gold. The gold candles add dignity and grace "The stockings are hung with care," and on the mantel a candelabrum is flanked by miniature trees with tiny balls and lights. Jane Merrill and Jennifer Buehner enjoy the warm fire + = = 3 -: rd - - - abe Jia ha nf rf Se wea Te BEAUTY and WARMTH. — = Homerotsharoldeah caMia aga aos Inside and Out. Both sides of the door, inside and out, of the Boyer home in Salt Lake City, Utah, are decorated with red velvet ribbon, holly trees, and fruit. Marian Boyer uses the small mugs for serving Christmas treats, and tasty morsels abound during the season. The table, covered with a red velvet cloth, which is washable, features candlesticks and a cone tree made from miscellaneous decorations which are changed each year. Beads and ribbon adorn the chandelier. A touch of winter's loveliness is brought inside, minus the cold, with a white flocked tree with holly sprays and red satin balls in clusters, and gold lights. Transparencies by | M. Heslop Trees of Reflection and Grace Christmas Tree in the Foyer of the Relief Society Building A tall and stately pine tree graces the foyer of the Relief Society building each year. This (1969) flocked tree features red velvet poinsettias and ribbon bows, with miniature gold lights. 918 Home of Dr. Jack M. Jensen and Winona Jensen A Mexican motif tree brings back many memories for the family of Or. Jack M. Jensen, Salt Lake City, Utah. Numerous trips to Mexico have helped the family to develop a great love for the Mexican people. During their trips Winona Jensen has looked for decorative motifs which might be placed on a Christmas tree. From her knowledge of the favored colors and the traditions of the people, she has made other decorations in harmony with the land of Mexico. Transparencies by | M. Heslop A lovely but inexpensive way to create a striking window is suggested at the Orval Fox home in Salt Lake City, Utah. The design was first made on black construction paper and then cut out. Cellophane was cut in the shape of the designs and attached to the construction paper. The cellophane was cut in layers to give intensity and variety to the colors. The finished design was backed with white tissue paper which accentuated the variety of colors. Stained Glass Window and a Glowing Castle Santa's glowing castle was made from a toy brick glow. White cotton was arranged on the sideboard for protection and for representing snow. Green Designs by Reuben Fox mena ral@nd Luacine C. Fox kit, with a light placed inside to make the windows boughs and lights completed the scene. An urn, with unbelievably realistic plastic roses, set in front of a simply decorated tree, creates an unusually effective arrangement. The chairs are reproductions of famous French Provincial furniture. These chairs were carved in Italy, reupholstered by the Pias, and gold leafed by Maria Pia. X bid Vee. *e7 ~—de o> ey - See -~ me Flowers, Home of Le Roy and Marta Pia Transparencies by | M. Heslop Fruits, —— | and Greenery Above the mantel hangs a woven tapestry which Maria Pia learned to make in Brazil, silk flowers, a boxwood garland, and _ baby'sbreath add to the festive appearance of the mantel. An artificial tree decorated with red velvet ribbons and cherubs is placed along the stairway to give the children a last bit of Christmas cheer before ascending to the bedrooms. For a large family, a long table is needed. A green velvet runner, topped with a boxwood garland, white baby's-breath, fruits, and lights, and a center candelabrum, with green candles make an attractive centerpiece for the table. 4 vy. Young LeRoy Pia, now serving a mission in Brazil, drew the picture for the gingerbread house. His father made the frame from cardboard, and the family decorated it. The gingerbread must be glued to the frame while it is still hot, so that it is soft enough to work with. The house can then be decorated to suit the family. Blending Colors for Christmas Home of Walter R. And Ardell Ross Artificial fruit, pine cones, and leaves, sprayed gold, and attractively arranged, form the basis for Ardell Ross' Christmas table. The red candles are even more striking when the table is set with red dishes. A dark green, many-branched tree, with multi-colored lights, stands near the end of the table and sheds a soft light upon the An almost feathery effect is created by the use of pink lights on a white tree. Red poinsettias and golden doves contrast and blend with the pink and white. Around Christmas time it seems fitting that we use as decoration in our homes some reminder. Of that joyful occurrence we commemorate at the Christmas season. Anyone can buy beautiful decorations, but how much more meaning will something beautiful you made yourself have to you and your family! Materials needed: 1. Plaster of Paris heads, hands, and feet for Joseph, Mary, and Jesus (these were 3%" high for joseph, 3" for Mary and 2" for Jesus). They came with matching plaster hands and feet, except for the baby; for him you may use plastic hands. 2. Styrofoam cones, one 21" tall for Joseph, and one 10" tall for Mary (remember she is seated). 3. Cotton fabric and white water solvent glue or cotton pre-treated draping fabric available at craft stores. 4. Wire strong but bendable and a good quality glue. 5. Paint in desired colors, antiquing, and spray glaze. "The Holy Family" Johna de St Jeor Member General Board of Relief Society Transparency by JM. H eslo a, - a Plaster heads, hands, and feet come with holes in them. Insert wire pieces, glue, and allow to dry. Stick wires securely into cones forming shoulders, arms, and necks (with head on top) for both Joseph and Mary, but for Mary, shape wire and secure for sitting position. It may be necessary to pad or wrap with fabric shoulders and legs for a more life-like form. Pose the figures' arms and legs to the desired form. Using a picture of the nativity scene, cut the fabric to resemble the type of clothing used in those times. If you are using pre-treated fabric dip and drape; if regular cotton, dilute glue with water and dip fabric and drape on figure; allow to dry completely. Paint whole with several coats of gesso. Refer to picture, using it as a guide for pleasingly rich colors for the clothing. After paint is dry, apply antiquing, being sure to get it back into the folds of fabric. Wipe off the glaze and allow to dry. Spray with clear finish to acquire a shining, clear, china-like surface. More than one coat of spray may be necessary. Use the same technique for the Child. Organize the three figures in a loving family group. 923 Social Re fOTiONS Cultura) R [3 Transparencies by | M. Heslop Relief Society Booth at L. D. S. Open House Utah State Fair September 11-20, 1970 Under a General Board committee, with Edythe K. Watson as chairman, the Olympus Stake Relief Society Board, with the cooperation of Stake President LeGrand Curtis, prepared this beautifully arranged and informative display. The oil paintings by Clyde Smith (of Olympus Stake) represented the courses of study and services of Relief Society: visiting teaching, compassionate service, Singing Mothers, spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement. The artist painted the pictures especially for the display at the fair. They are 30 inches by 48 inches, and all the models are from Olympus Stake. Homemaking arts were illustrated and displayed on a long table covered with an attractive deep blue cloth. Seated on the rocker is lola J. Peterson, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, demonstrating the making of an afghan. Continuous demonstrations were given which awakened the interest of those who visited the fair and learned more about Relief Society from narrations presented by stake board members and ward Relief Society officers. 925 Homemaking Display at Relief Society Annual General Conference ' | Views of the Homemaking Display held in the Salt Palace, Salt Lake City, Utah, as a part of the 1970 Relief Society Annual General Conference. The center motif was a carousel, with different displays featured around the large hall. The carousel itself was prepared by Emigration Stake under the direction of President Hazel J. Young. Dorotha Smart supervised the construction of the carousel and was assisted in the displays by JaNeanne Webster. Featured around the carousel were items prepared by stakes throughout the Church. The displays included home and gift items, handicraft, foods, pastry and candy, as well as m items especially designed for children. The nursery display by Modesto Stake, California, under direction of Catherine Openshaw, President, featured activities found in the Nursery Manual. Of special interest were a play rug, a cupboard, and a toy box, as well as visual aid suggestions for each month of the year, as designated in the Manual. Dolls and doll clothes, posters, drawings, pictures, books, and scrapbooks presented additional ideas for happy and constructive nursery hours. A menagerie of stuffed animals, some of them naturalistic, and some imaginative, gave evidence of variety in entertainment for the very young. Bps Transparencies by ] M. Heslop This colorful and effective display of various uses for patchwork quilting was prepared by Washington (D. C.) Stake, under direction of President Nona Dyer. Jean Boyd, who designed and stitched the items shown in the picture, is seen seated in a chair (wearing red dress) demonstrating the fine art of patchwork quilting to a visitor interested in the exhibits. Sister Boyd has designed many other articles using this type of quilting and has made extensive demonstrations for the wards in the Washington area. The attractive evening coat is displayed on a model. The coat is beautifully lined and carefully stitched. A different and unique use of patchwork quilting is illustrated by the valance at the top of the picture. Also included are other effective and modernized uses forthe traditional art of quilting. Transparency by | M. Heslop Marilyn Clawson and _ Sallie Latimer, Fairbanks Ward, Alaska Stake, have walked many miles in bitter cold weather, to answer and fulfill the calling of visiting teachers. They are pictured here in front of the Cardon family home in February 1970. Photograph submitted by Lois Olson Patchwork Quilting Display ae Visiting Teaching in Alaska Christmas Fun With Felt and Food Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society Transparencies by | M. Heslop It has been aptly said that the beauty of a home is order, the blessing of a home is contentment, and the glory of a home is hospitality. The Christmas season, with alt its festivity and good humor, is a delightful time to open the doors of our homes and let the warmth of hospitality welcome friends, neighbors, and family. During the years | have made a variety of Christmas table covers for holiday entertaining, from simple cotton ones to an elaborate sequin-studded one. The cover which | use most frequently, however, with the greatest ease and enjoyment is a set of red felt place mats which includes small-sized mats for the accessories, as shown in the accompanying picture. To measure the felt size and shape | used a 15" round tray, a 9" salad plate, and a 4" cup. The centerpiece was made from artificial holly and greens with red "velvet" apples of varying sizes. | chose the velvet-tike fruit because its texture blended well with the felt mats. The napkin rings are an added touch. They, too, are easy to make. Cut strips of green felt with pinking shears, or scissors, Six inches long and = one inch wide. Lap the ends together and secure with a small felt bow. Add three tiny round beads for giving special interest. Simple red or green napkins complete the setting. The following is a favorite lunch holiday menu. It is a delight to prepare because the chicken can be cooked, and the cheese ball, salad, rolls, and dessert prepared a day ahead. 928 MENU MULLED CRANBERRY DRINK CHEESE BALL CRACKERS CHICKEN AND BROCCOLI CASSEROLE RASPBERRY SALAD REFRIGERATOR ROLLS JAM OR JELLY RELISH TRAY MINTED CHOCOLATE MOUSSE co The warm drink in the Santa mugs, may be brought to the living room to be served with the crackers and cheese before the luncheon. MULLED CRANBERRY DRINK 3 1-pint bottles cranberry juice % c. Orange juice 1 c. Sugar '% tsp. Nutmeg 2 c. Water Y% tsp. Cinnamon Yc. Lemon. Juice 12 whole cloves Combine cranberry juice, sugar, and water. Stir to dissolve the sugar. Heat to boiling point. Place spice in cheesecloth bag, tied tightly at top, and add to juice. Simmer one half hour. Remove spice bag. Just before serving add orange and lemon juice. Dot with butter. Serve hot. Makes 18 servings. CHEESE BALL 3 8-0z. Pkg. Cream cheese 2 c. Chopped pecans 1 5-0z. Pkg. Blue cheese 2 tbsp. Soft butter 1 1% oz. Wedge Roquefort cheese % to % tsp. Garlic powder 2 to 3 tbsp. Finely grated Y% tsp. Onion salt Cheddar cheese Y% tsp. Worcestershire sauce Soften cheeses and mix together with remaining ingredients. Roll in chopped pecans. Mold in a wax paper lined bowl and chill over night. This mixture may be divided in half and frozen if covered tightly in wax paper and foil. CHICKEN BROCCOLI CASSEROLE 3 c. Cooked chicken, cut into Y% to % c. Grated Cheddar cheese 1" or 142" pieces buttered bread crumbs 2 cans cream of chicken soup 2 pkg. Frozen broccoli spears 1 tbsp. Lemon juice (or equal amount fresh cooked) 1 c. Salad dressing Place chicken in buttered casserole. Combine soup, lemon juice, salad dressing, and spread evenly over chicken. Top with grated cheese and buttered bread crumbs. Bake 30 minutes at 350 degrees. Cook broccoli as directed on package. Serve chicken mixture over broccoli. (1 use about 2 spears to each serving.) Makes 8 large servings. RASPBERRY SALAD 1% c. Water 1 banana sliced 1 pkg. Raspberry jello 1 # 1 flat tin crushed pineapple 1 pkg. Frozen raspberries Y4 C. Pecans Dissolve jello in water. Add frozen berries. Separate with fork until thawed. Add remaining ingredients. Serves 8. 929 December 1970 HOT ROLLS—REFRIGERATOR Combine and let stand for one hour: Add: 1 cake yeast 2 tsp. Salt Ya c. Lukewarm water Ye c. Sugar 1 egg 142 c. Warm water 5-5% c. Flour Mix together. Dough will be soft. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Roll out on slightly floured board. Cut into rolls. Place on well-greased pan (I use melted butter). Let rise until double in bulk in warm place (about 1% to 2 hrs.) Bake at 425° for 12 to 15 minutes. Makes 3 dozen rolls. MINTED CHOCOLATE MOUSSE 1 c. Butter (softened) 4 eggs 3% squares chocolate 2 tsp. Vanilla melted and cooled 2 c. Chopped pecans Beating is the secret of this dessert. Beat butter and add Sugar gradually. Beat for 15 minutes. Add melted chocolate; beat 5 minutes more. Add unbeaten eggs Paper cups. FOR HIS TOMORROWS His own boat, a cardboard box. His playroom is a deep blue sea. He catches fish (his own small socks). My best broom is a tall palm tree. But now, "I'll help you, Mommy— I'll clean the house and dust it, see!'' | wouldn't have him know for worlds How much his help is hindering me. —Wilma Morley Despain A Little Bit of Life June B. Jensen The happy month was over; young parents had taken her away with them. My arms would be empty; no more fat little fingers pulling my nose, or kisses on the back of a little neck, and faltering first steps to admire; but goodbyes were said, and with no tears, I hurried to clean the rooms, put away the crib, think busy thoughts of dolater tasks I had saved. I was doing all right until I found a little sock.... 930 1 tsp. Sugar 1 c. Powdered Sugar Ya c. Butter (or other shortening) 1 tsp. Peppermint extract ENDURING TO THE END The reason for Man's existence Was revealed In the l "For behold, this is m my glory—to bring t immortality and eternal Man." (Moses 1:39.) That Purpose is to bring about the resurrection and Eventual 80dhood, op 4 fulness of joy, of those who Choose th € begins With t n's Premortality, of Ost plan, Prepared be. Capable o atisfy; he law of Justice by Pplication of the law of mere S the ly Begotten of the Eterna] Fathey In the flesh €sus Ch t, w ha Power 2 acceptance Of the and spirit Salvation jin God's Presence and for exaltation. Ly Keeping his mmandments, (D&C 18:10- q -19:15-19 He knows that his heart May be Purified Vy Immeasurab|e © received in nd through faith nN Jesus » and knowin 931 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES—Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 7—Responsibility Northern Hemisphere: First week, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, September 1971 OBJECTIVE: To remember that we are to be ''the light of the world." "Ye are the light of the world.. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and _ glorify your Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 5:14, 16.) Three Latter-day Saint girls invited a non-Mormon young lady to live with them. All worked in the same office. The nonMormon agreed not to smoke if the others would refrain from discussing Mormonism with her. However, the Improvement Era, the Relief Society Magazine, and the Instructor came regularly to the home and were left around on the tables, and occasionally a Book of Mormon appeared there. The three young Latterday Saints were devout, kind, considerate, and loving—good examples of their faith. Gradually the non-Mormon began to see that they had something she did not. Surreptitiously, she began to read the Church magazines and finally the Book of Mormon. She began to pray. Without the others being aware of it, she attended ward meetings. One day at dinner, she astounded her friends by asking them how she could be baptized. Today 932 she is the fine wife of a bishop, a Relief Society member, and a temple worker. She says that it was the example of the pure, radiant, and loving lives of her friends that helped her seek the gospel. In her fervent testimony she glorifies her Heavenly Father for his mercy and kindness to her, begun through the lives of others. She saw and believed. What blinds many others to the truth of the gospel? A recent survey in an area preponderantly Latterday Saint sheds some light on this query. Non-Mormons in the area believed that some Mormons were (a) self-righteous, giving the idea that they were the chosen of God, thus making their neighbors feel inferior and angry; (b) too busy to be friendly and care about their neighbors, wanting only to associate with each other and shunning others; and (c) not interested in understanding other peoples and other cultures. Are we guilty of hiding our light behind such things? Paul said to "walk as children of light." (Eph. 5:8.) At Antioch Paul and Barnabas preached, "For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the ends of the earth." (Acts 13:47.) How may we live to be this light of the Gentiles? There are many ways. We should be: 1. Humble in the gospel so that it attracts not repels others; 2. Loving friends and neighbors; 3. The most thoughtful, compassionate, kind, and considerate people on our Street; 4. Interested in our neighbors, trying to understand them and their world; Lesson Department 5. The first to seek reconciliation in case of a disagreement; 6. Careful to esteem everyone as worthwhile and to consider no one inferior; 7. Careful not to impose our values on others but to invite them, through our examples to seek what we have; 8. Earnest in teaching our children to be responsibly considerate of others; 9. Willing to listen when needed;. 10. Not guilty of carrying gossip to others; 11. Quick to offer help; 12. Sensitive always to the troubles and needs of others, helping without intrusion. If we do these things, others, seeing our good works, will glorify our Father which is in heaven. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By Message 8—Respect for Those Who Are Different Northern Hemisphere: First week, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First week, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To understand, respect, and love all the children of God. Who is not my brother? Who is not my sister? Who is not my neighbor? Whom should I avoid? How should I treat sinners? How should I treat foreigners or someone who is rich or someone who is poor? How should I deal with the unlearned and the learned? How should I act toward those whose values are different from mine or whose behavior is offensive? How can I show respect? How do I prove my love? How can I understand others?.. The Publicans of the New Testament were regarded as traitors and apostates... They were classed with sinners (Matt. Ix. 11, xl. 19), with harlots (Matt. Xxl. 31, 32), with the heathen (Matt. Xvlll. 17). (William Smith, Dictionary of the Bible [Boston: Houghton and Company, 1870] vol. 3, p. 2637.) In Jericho, shortly before his death, Jesus dined with Zacchaeus, chief among the publicans. This man received Jesus joyfully. "And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner." (Luke 19:7.) Certainly a woman who has had five husbands and is now living with a man who is not her husband, would not be considered a good companion by many. One can understand the feelings of Christ's disciples when they 933 December 1970 found him talking with such a woman (and she a despised Samaritan) and know why they "marvelled that he talked with the woman." (John 4:27.) Who would imagine that she would be an instrument of salvation? "And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman." (John 4:39.) To this lowly, sinning woman Jesus gave some of the most beautiful teachings of his ministry. What was Jesus saying to us? Was he not bidding us not to judge but to look within the heart? Was he not calling us out of the world to give up its values and adopt his way of loving? Jesus was monumentally kind to sinners. Many of them he knew would be redeemed if given a chance. Should we do less? A few years ago a group of women were having lunch together. A very attractive and talented woman walked by. When she was out of hearing, one of the women asked, "Did you know that she has been married four times-'and that it is widely held that some of her children are illegitimate?" The woman went on to elaborate. 2° ' S As she was still speaking, one of the group interrupted: "Isn't it wonderful that this woman has learned the great lesson of repentance? She blesses all our lives through her talent. Everyone is richer because of her. She is always gracious and willing. Let us all agree to say nothing of what we have heard today so that it will never be an obstacle to her or her family." Shamefacedly, the members of the group agreed. Does our neighbor work at a very menial job? Does she speak ungrammatically? Does she do things that offend us? Do we shun her as not our equal? The good news of Jesus Christ was that he welcomed the repentant sinner. He understood the hearts of men and women and recognized their goodness when it was present. He was unhampered in his love by awkward customs, despised jobs, lack of prestige, lack of wealth, or lack of power. As we emulate him, respecting and loving the foreigner, the stranger, the sinner, the despised, the one in need, surely our sisters of the world will re-. Spond to our beckoning love. "1 ie S oe VU —anJ 2 SPLENDOR IN THE WEST The radiant sun is setting Even as my years go by, And patterns of departing Repeat a promise on the sky. For as the hills await the dawn | see the covenant of light And wait renewal of the morning Beyond the darkness and the night. 934 —Catherine B. Bowles HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 7 '"'Thy Speech Betrayeth Thee"' Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, April 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, September 1971 OBJECTIVE: To alert women to the advantage of using proper grammar and of having a voice that is pleasing. INTRODUCTION One of the most important of all social skills is the ability to talk clearly and correctly. Nothing so quickly demonstrates our charm or lack of knowledge to others as our conversation and use of words. There are several basic qualities which go into the skill of conversing with others, such as the importance of having a pleasing voice and good diction, skill and ease in the use of words, a variety of interests in conversation, the ability to listen, and a genuine liking for people. THE IMPORTANCE OF A PLEASING VOICE Our whole personality comes to focus in our voice and speech. We should be aware of creating pleasant tones when we talk. Clear enunciation and correct pronunciation are important. Voices can be magnetic or irritating. Certainly an important quality of feminine charm is a soft, low-pitched voice. We should become conscious of talking from our diaphragm. We should pronounce words clearly and distinctly. A good voice is an unaffected voice, with a clear, natural tone. Shakespeare said, "Her voice was ever soft, gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman." (King Lear, act 5, sc. 3, 1. 274.) What are some techniques we can use to improve our voice? 1. We can practice speaking from the diaphragm. 2. We can use a tape recorder to hear ourselves speak. Listening to our own voice helps us to hear ourselves as others hear us and be aware of needed improvement. 3. We can practice speaking quietly and pitching our voice as low as it will go without strain. Reading aloud and practicing good enunciation is an excellent exercise for voice improvement. 4. We can listen to talented speakers and good radio announcers, noticing the advantages of word sounds that are smooth and unhurried. Discussion Questions 1. Are we conscious of our conversational voice? What does it indicate about us as a person? 2. Does our tone of voice reflect our self-control? How? 935 December 1970 ADVANTAGES OF USING PROPER GRAMMAR It is a well-known fact that habits of early speech are deeply ingrained. Incorrect grammar learned in the home when we're young often stays with us. Unfortunately, children often imitate the poor speech pattern of parents. Using poor grammar is offensive to some listeners and often detracts from the message being conveyed. Correct sentence structure reflects an individual's desire to communicate in accordance with the proper rules of grammar. In the English language, some common errors in grammar are: 1. The incorrect use of personal pronouns. We hear such mistakes as '"'between you and I" instead of "between you and me" or "A group of we neighbors" instead of "A group of us neighbors." 2. The incorrect use of verbs. We hear such mistakes as "he begun" instead of "he began" or "I'll lay down" instead of "I'll lie down". VOCABULARY It is a mark of consideration for others to be careful in the selection of words. Words are important conversational tools. It is interesting and challenging to be on the alert for new words and ways to use them. Our vocabulary grows from contact with good writers and good speakers. Words have been called "the tools of the mind." No one can think beyond his vocabulary. To be truthful we might say that our thoughts do not amount to much unless we can express them in words. CONVERSATION It is well to practice the correct pronunciation of difficult words in 936 order that communication be more complete. It is of little value to have a nice voice and correct pronunciation if we have nothing to say. Good conversation is a natural expression of good thinking. It is easy to have a speaking acquaintance with any subject in which we are really interested. A keen awareness of things happening about us can help to make us good conversationalists. If we keep our eyes and ears open, if we are sympathetic and have a sense of humor, we can become exciting conversationalists about many of the daily experiences we have. Listening is part of the art of good conversation and a mark of common courtesy. When someone is talking to us we should listen with our eyes, ears, and mind. Our expression should show that we are following what is being said. WORD OF WARNING "Thy speech betrayeth thee" and, therefore, we not only take care in our manner of speech but we also remember these four "don'ts": 1. Don't gossip. 2. Don't exaggerate. 3. Don't criticize others. 4. Don't interrupt. CONCLUSION Elder Richard L. Evans, in his weekly broadcasts from Temple Square, has brought to all the world an appreciation of "The Spoken Word." Speech is one of the choice gifts of God to man. A well modulated voice and the ability to use and pronounce words correctly are important aspects of "a lovelier you" and an influence for good in the home. HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 8 Making Your Family Proud of You Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out that a pleasing personality, proper attitudes, and good manners are of importance not only to 4 woman herself, but to her family. INTRODUCTION "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D& C 18:10.) Joseph Smith taught that the human personality, besides being immensely fascinating, is mysterious and elusive, and far and away the most important and precious thing in the whole universe. OF WHAT DOES PERSONALITY CONSIST? Personality consists, first of all, of our physical traits, such as our hair coloring, our skin, our eyes; the shape of our face, our stature, and our figure. We portray our personality to others by the way we talk and walk and stand. Our mannerisms, the way we smile, the clarity of our eyes, the expression of our mouth, the way We shake hands and our manner of greeting people are all personality traits. We reflect our personality through our habits, our grooming, our vocabulary, our thoughts, and attitudes. A PLEASING PERSONALITY A pleasing personality is an asset of great worth. It is built upon the basic foundation of consideration for others. A pleasing personality involves such traits asS— 2. Being reliable and dependable in doing what you say you will do. 3. Being tolerant of others. 4. Being honest. 5. Being natural and unpretentious. 6. Being interesting by being interested. 7. Being enthusiastic. G. Being optimistic. 9. Being considerate and polite. 10. Being gracious in manner. 11. Developing 4 pleasant voice and a refined vocabulary. Personality is the sum total of an individual's specific behavior. How simple it is to get along with others when we remember to give them the warmth of our friendship, the gladness of our smile, and the strength of our approval. IMPROVING PERSONALITY To improve our personality we endeavor to eliminate displeasing traits of behavior. A check list for ourselves is helpful at times. 1. Do we avoid the use of sarcasm? 9, Do we avoid saying things about others which we wouldn't say in their presence? 3. When we make 4 promise, are we careful about living up to it? 4. Dowe avoid arguments if possible? 5. Dowe attempt to dominate people? 6. Do we make fun of people? 7. Do we act and feel as if we are superior? 937 December 1970 Cultivation of the habits of behavior that will enrich our own lives and increase the happiness of others is a worthwhile goal. How wonderful it is to know it is possible to overcome negative traits and develop positive ones. PERSONALITY TRAITS IMPORTANT IN A MOTHER Today in the midst of a troubled world, it is vital for mothers to have strength of character and stability. Both are important personality traits. Mothers are facing the challenge of maintaining decent family life in a world which seems to promote irreSOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World sponsible living. To meet this situation she needs poise, balance, level-headedness, good sense, and moral stability. A mother's example before her children should be one of abiding faith in God and unwavering belief in Church standards. CONCLUSION Personality is the sum total of all those qualities which make each of us unique and different from all other individuals. Therefore, it is more important to develop a pleasing personality than to acquire material assets in becoming "a lovelier you." 4 ' — = Lesson 7—Self-Control and Discipline Northern Hemisphere: Third week, Apri! 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third week, September 1971 OBJECTIVE: To understand that ''no"' can mean that parents care. INTRODUCTION There are rewards to being a parent and there are hazards. A task for every parent is to reduce the hazards and increase the rewards. Understanding children and their needs at particular periods in their development— sometimes compared to a series of "childhoods"—can help us to avoid child-rearing mistakes, to relate better to the needs of our children and, thus, to enjoy them more fully. In the lesson today we will address ourselves specifi- 938 cally to the psychological need of every child for control or discipline, which can be defined as training according to rules, instruction in the proper conduct er action, bringing to a state of order. CHILDREN NEED CONTROLS Parents should not fear to set limits, or to restrict their children, or to punish them reasonably when motivated by love. According to King Benjamin, we ——— are not to er" Permit oy Sure that ¢ mother's needs are allow) our children to "t ansgresg Served, th She h the necesgj he laws Od, and fj t and les of life, is "rippling j]] quarrel one With 4nother " (MoNesses, js Valued fo h Wn sake Slah 4:14 The ther of all and bring to the therin ro] Chastens wh he "loveth," Past e Periences f herself bein Pulitzey Prize winner, Phillis Mother CUInley, has Written Sensitive] Later, in the next "childhood," about the heeds of children. She during ages 2PProximately One to e »"" Mrs. ' States, and since authority Indicates Pattern of respect that the child Order in the World, children 4nd most will later have for law and order People wish '0 support lay oe receive and for the Values and authority Many, are external and are Promore fully developed. Boys idenant are lose as to be almost thers anything The One, and it has b N suggested TY to be lik them every way that the Infant does no at first, Possible Corporatin their Istinguish between Itself and the Values and 10ns. Girls SImilar] Mother, T ure Nsistenc Pattern afte their mothers Also December 1970 The "tares" of unbelief and misconduct grow in our midst at the peril of our children. IMPORTANCE OF TEACHING-LEARNING The Lord has recognized the importance of the teaching-learning needs of very young children by giving us the Sunday School, the Primary, and our family home evening lessons. As the example and teachings of parents become an internalized part of the child, reinforced by teachers in Primary and Sunday School, the Latter-day Saint child is ready for baptism and the selfdiscipline of speaking the truth and doing what is nght. Secular schooling begins in earnest for most children at the age of five or six and continues for many years. It is estimated that when school is in session children are occupied in the classroom or by its demands twenty to thirty percent of the time they are awake. The school's program is pervasive and has a major influence in the lives of our children; and while it is true that the teachings of the home, the Sunday School, and the Primary provide guidelines for them, it is nonetheless very important that schools properly reinforce these teachings. We neglect the schools at the peril of our children in the same way children are placed in jeopardy by the inhospitable and evil influences that we sometimes permit in our neighborhoods. School children in the elementary grades learn to do things with others. As they discover other children in_ cooperative work and play, they become a mutually vital force in molding 940 and influencing one another. The lives of children become inter- ~ woven. Adults who intelligently involve themselves in school-related activities, through parentteacher-school relationships, contribute to the quality of the education their children receive. DISCIPLINE AND SELF-CONTROL President McKay has defined quality education for us. He has written: I believe that discipline in the classroom, which implies self-control, and which connotes consideration for others, is the most important part of teaching.... The best lesson a child can learn is self-control, and to feel his relationship to others to the extent that he must have respect for their feelings. Self-denial is so important and self-control such a valuable quality in human nature, that one man has said truly that the worst education that teaches self-denial is better than the best which teaches everything else and not that. (David O. McKay, Man May Know for Himself {Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1969], p. 337.) The conscience of a child, so much a part of self-control, is largely formed before adolescence, and yet, adolescents seek advice from peers and welcome a restraining hand from caring adults who recognize and accept their need for identity and independence. Parents will incur suspicion if they are patronizing, for as illustrated in the following -humorous item from Changing Times, adolescents like to think they know for themselves. A mother wrote: Seventeen was a bad year for me... The year my son was 17, that is. Things were frequently stormy.... Once during a particularly emotional argument about his attitudes, he mumbled ""You do some things that I don't like, too." That seemed highly reasonable to me as I mentally reviewed some of my known failings (like prying into his personal life, by asking him how he was, or making him feel guilty by taking out the garbage in his presence). With complete sincerity I asked him to tell me what he had in mind. After a pause to gather control, he said, "Well a lot of times you act as though you know more than I do." ("Guilty: the Pooped Generation," From Changing Times, the Kiplinger Magazine, Vol.-24, No. 2 [February 1979], p. 42. Reprinted by Permission. ) Adolescents may know that parents are wiser than they, but in their struggle to achieve independence in anticipation of the imminent responsibility of further education, a mission, employment, and marriage, they somehow have to deny the importance of their parents. Nevertheless, there is a widespread indication that adolescents welcome a resurgence of spirit and desire which, if uncontrolled, could carry them into dangerous shoals. Examples are the widespread use of drugs and a prevalent disregard for moral standards which Latter-day Saint parents clearly recognize as ever-present dangers, but which their children may not fully recognize or comprehend because of the false standards of their peers, teachers, and other adults. Latter-day Saint youth know what is night and wrong, but they are unavoidably influenced by the teaching and actions of others. Therefore, they need to be reminded by parents, neighbors, friends, and teachers who care. Class Discussion In what way is the expression "character is caught, not taught" related to the theme of this lesson? Lesson Department SUMMARY In this lesson we have tried to show the importance of teaching youth self-control, self-discipline, and the yeses and noes of everyday actions. We have attempted to show that if we really care for our children we will make sure that these teachings become their legacy. Admittedly, the separate "childhoods" are only briefly mentioned, but an effort has been made to indicate that we need to teach the importance of right and wrong and to set limits for children—not to deprive or provoke but for their protection and because we love them. The infant, in a state of biological and emotional dependence, relies upon the parent for full protection. Later he learns the meaning of "no" as the process begins of psychologically internalizing control. When the external "dos and do nots". Are made a part of the conscience, the child becomes accountable for his acts. Nevertheless, until accountability is exercised and tested in ever-widening circles of friends, associates, and situations, it cannot be wholly relied upon and, therefore, needs reinforcement from loving, caring parents and teachers who serve as reinforcers. In our era no age is more critical or fraught with hazards than adolescence, where every conceivable idea and practice become the environment in which the adolescent tests himself, makes choices, and experiences life. Children of all ages are entitled to the guidelines which parents have the right and re- \ sponsibility to provide and to all the reinforcement they can get outside the family. 941 December 1970 Class Discussion What is the relationship of permissiveness (where it is excessive) with the very young child to the willful uncontrolled acts of those same children in adolescence? FOR HOME-DOING Accept aS a challenge for yourself some act of self-denial or self-discipline in an effort toward self-improvement. SOCIAL RELATIONS. Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 8—That We Might Have Joy Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: ''Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Ne. 2:25), and this lesson is designed to help the Latter-day Saint woman achieve more joy through a healthy balance of the religious, mental, social, and physical dimensions of her life. Father Lehi explained certain dimensions of the gospel to his son Jacob, as recorded in the second chapter of 2 Nephi. A statement by Lehi summarizes the purpose of life and Adam's responsibility in the eternal scheme: "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." (2 Ne. 9°95, Bee also 2 Ne. 9:10; 2 Ne. 27:30; D&C 6:31; 18:15; 42:61.) In the Old and New Testament (Neh. 8:10; Job 38:7; John 16:22) the term "joy" is used to identify a desirable state of being and a suitable goal for man. It is also used to indicate. One of man's ultimate achievements. Joy is associated with exaltation in the kingdom of the Father, and the term appears to be synonymous with the achievement of inner and outer harmony with God and his purposes. The lessons for this year recognize the need for the Latter- 942 day Saint woman to understand the current life problems of herself and her family that she may discover how to achieve the balance that makes it possible to be "in the world but not of the world." While extended communications media are available to hasten the Lord's work, they are also available to the forces of Satan. Satan has, in effect, been invited to live among US. He can come to us via radio, television, motion pictures, theater, publications, and the public platform. Satan's bid for our time, our energies, our thoughts, and our very souls is relentless and skillful. We must qualify ourselves to acknowledge the Lord and his program and avoid Satan's enticings. The person who has balanced his life patterns has learned to use good judgment, and by virtue of having good judgment, is not apt to submit to Satan's tempta- tions. Four dimensions of our life that are important to keep in balance and that need frequent checking to assure a sufficient but not exclusive focus of our time and energies are religious activities, mental activities, social activities, and physical activities. Satan glories in using partial truths to enhance his work, and some of his tactics are best detected and avoided if we keep these four dimensions in balance. Let us examine each of them and try to understand what the healthy balance is and how we can detect any pattern that lacks balance. RELIGIOUS ACTIVITY When we speak of religious activities needing to be kept in balance in our lives, we must be sure to make the distinction between these activities and spirituality. Spirituality refers to man's relationship with God. Understanding this, we must realize that true spirituality should run through the fabric of all of our activities. As the Lord put it, we should be "doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God." (D&C 82:19. Italics added.) The vitality of this spiritual force will guide us in meeting the problems of the right emphasis and balance to apply to all the dimensions of our lives. Religious activities include such things as a study of the scriptures, service in the Church, and attendance at the numerous meetings available to us during the week. Since many of us suffer more from an underemphasis in this area, we usually need to spend more time and effort on Lesson Department religious activities in order to achieve a balance. The woman who becomes too preoccupied with housework or social events may neglect her religious practice. Occasionally, one overemphasizes religious activities to the exclusion of other life dimensions. Reading the scriptures is a highly commendable and constructive activity, but if one reads only the scriptures to the complete neglect of other materials such as daily newspapers, magazines, journals, or books, he risks a onesidedness that may result in an unbalanced pattern of life. Knowledge of God, spiritual matters, and man's relation to God and to his fellowmen is often enhanced through becoming acquainted with sources of knowledge in addition to the scriptures. Many great scientists, literary writers, philosophers, and social scientists come to a greater conviction of God and his works through their study of the physical world, the history of man and his social adaptations, the many and varied aspects of the great body of knowledge and understanding in all areas of life. One's progress may be impeded if there is neglect in acquiring knowledge of man and his world. It is possible for a wife and mother to pursue her religious practices so enthusiastically and so completely that she seriously neglects her family. Marital disharmony and estrangement from the children may result. A mother must balance her Church work with her role as wife and mother so as to avoid alienation from her loved ones. If she truly understands the gospel of Jesus Christ, 943 December 1970 She wil] realize What her first and 8reatest Calling js. Urch 4ssignments Without neglecting her family? MENTAL INTERESTS Man was dowed by God With the ability to learn fro God and Tom other en. The Pursuit of nowledge, therefor lS a major activity of nkind. So of the Important aSpects of life are discerned on] Y the Spirit, but Intellectual] Pursuits ag an area or growth a d advancement Too little Interest and effort In the Mental a a result jin 18norance of the la of the unj NEURO wiih. Intellect jg enlarged and €xpanded through constant effort to learn hatever One ig Capable kno arrowness O intellectya) Interest Stifles th Od-given Capacity to think Clear Y and ¢ te SPiritua] know]. He is Capable of do less t ence one' free agency? The Pursuit of knowledge Mm a Woman' life Shou] € done Without eglect of Other Vital life €xperiences, Ac demic €xcellence IS a wort while 80al or achieve Ment but ot tot exclusion of Spiritual a IVities 800d socia] adjustment. Questions for Discussion l. How can a wom SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITy The S vior on m n. Our conPeople's diff. Culties as Part of his OWn, misses thers. The hild js completely SelfConcerned Only with is Persona] needs and Physica] sratifications, As the child Moves e law and the Prophets. " Matt. 7:12.) ife can also become unbal- 4nCed if one is Overly concerned ecome Overinvested to the exclusion of herself. Suc vestment j; December 1970 for the mother's well-being. An additional reaction from the individual who undervalues herself is to give a priority to others' expectations, even when these expectations are inappropriate. One husband, for example, told his wife she was completely responsible for the marital disharmony which resulted in their divorce. She had felt uncertain about her rights and privileges in the marriage and wondered if she had the right to challenge the unrighteous behavior of her husband. Because of her low selfesteem she had failed to use her right to set standards that her husband needed to modify his impulsive, pleasure-seeking, and irresponsible behavior. Question for Discussion How does active participation in Relief Society help a woman develop and maintain a balanced life? PHYSICAL HEALTH The Word of Wisdom, among other scriptures, indicates the importance and value of good physical health. The Latter-day Saint woman should be mindful of how she can best achieve good health without overemphasizing her health as the only goal of her life. Neglect of one's physical health is contrary to the doctrine of the Church. The human body is the tabernacle of the spirit, and, as such, should receive the best possible care, but some persons are inclined to overemphasize physical attributes to the exclusion of other important areas. The individual who is constantly in search of some "fountain of youth" is missing the opportunity to make more im- 946 portant and significant achievements. Good physical health is a boon to personal growth and development, but the physical body is not to be overvalued to the exclusion of spiritual and mental growth or sound social responsibility. Questions for Discussion 1. In what ways is a woman apt to overvalue physical health? 2. How is a wife and mother apt to undervalue her physical health? 3. How can a woman check herself to be certain she is not out of balance in her life? 4. What areas of life is the average woman most apt to neglect? 5. What different challenges exist for the married and the single woman in maintaining a balanced life? SUMMARY The busy day-to-day activities of the average Latter-day Saint woman can become so hectic that she may let some dimension of her life be neglected. Each of the life adjustment areas of religious and mental development, social responsibility, and physical health should have a place in the daily life experiences of every woman. To neglect or to overemphasize any one of these areas is to diminish one's chance to achieve joy in this life and salvation in the next. Poor judgment, a distorted, inadequate, or inaccurate view of life and the Lord's program can result in inappropriate emphasis on one of life's dimensions to the exclusion of others. The Latter-day Saint woman is most apt to achieve genuine joy in this life when she keeps her life balanced and productive in all important areas. OBJECT] VE: To €ncoura Ciation of Spiritual tru > Four April 197] Sphere: Fourth Meet; A ' "ugust 197] Pirituality in the life of a Woman through an appre. Selections from the Writings of William Wordsworth, ART &€ greater Ss ths foung in en the Pieces eelj come in Of the Jigs ng of rightnes wonderfully ar | aW puzzle fall into velation iS often "is a 800d example of the sere and we re his Painting with Wo SUggesteg by the last Stanza: nN on my Couch | lie ] Pensive MOod, Month we Month we devoted a l Son to R ber | turn atte liam Ntion to WilCloud." Although the Subject ma ] December 1970 writings and _ philosophy are beautifully harmonious with the ideals and doctrines of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The following introduction to Wordsworth is reprinted from volume 1, Out of the Best Books, pp. 53-54: Occasionally in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth... Who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books [D&C 88:118; 109:14], we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Arnold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry.... Judged by his best work... Wordsworth achieves distinction among the world's greatest poets. As Russell Noyes says "Wordsworth was the most truly original genius of his age and exerted a power over the poetic destinies of his century unequaled by any of his contemporanes." More than any other poet he stands as the great shaper of the whole romantic movement in western world literature and probably, all things considered, must be recognized as_ the greatest English poet between Milton and Browning. In an age of great poets, Wordworth stands highest of all. His poems are not so challengingly mystical as Blake's, nor so hauntingly musical as Coleridge's, nor so soaringly lyrical as Shelley's, nor so exuberantly variable as Byron's, nor so enchantingly euphonical as Keats', nor so stingingly satirical as Burns'—yet he is greater than all these, for more than any of them he spoke enduring truths in words of beauty, and that is the essence of great poetry.... 948 From Wordsworth more than from any other poet we learn, as Emest Bernbaum says, "the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking." SELECTIONS BY WORDSWORTH Since these introductory comments on Wordsworth, we have printed the following selections by Wordsworth in volumes 1 to 4 of Out of the Best Books: "Ode: Intimations of Immortality" (vol. 1, pp. 55-63) Excerpts from The Prelude (vol. 1, pp. 64-66 and vol. 2, pp. 360-64) "Character of the Happy Warrior" (vol. 1, pp. 67-70) "The World Is Too Much With Us" (vol. 1, pp. 229-30) "Michael" (vol. 1, pp. 405-19) "We Are Seven" (vol. 1, pp. 469-72) "My Heart Leaps Up" (vol. 2, pp. 360-64) "T Wandered Lonely As a Cloud" (vol. 3, pp. 4-7) "She Was a Phantom of Delight" (vol. 3, pp. 229-30) "Composed upon Westminster Bridge" (vol. 4, p. 169) (Note: Volume 5 contains no Wordsworth poems.), "THE WORLD IS TOO MUCH WITH US" We reprint here several of Wordsworth's short poems and brief discussions on them. First, the sonnet "The World Is Too Much With Us": The world is too much with us; late and soon, Getting and spending, we lay waste our powers; Little we see in nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon! The sea that bares her bosom to the moon; The winds that will be howling at all hours, And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers; For this, for everything, we are out of tune; It moves us not.—Great God! I'd rather be A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn; So might I, standing on this pleasant lea, Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn; Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea; Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn. (Out of the Best Books, 1:229.) DISCUSSION Wordsworth was a champion of ethics and spirituality. He feared materialism and hated selfishness. In a mood of high indignation he wrote several memorable sonnets attacking selfishness and the pursuit of wrong goals. The best known and most powerful of these is the famous attack on worldly materialism quoted above. For Wordsworth knew, as few men have known, that most of the evils in the world stem from the minds of people—"Much it grieved my heart to think what man _ has made of man" (from "Lines Written in Early Spring')—and he likewise knew that the solution to these evils must come from within, from the very heart of people, a great outpouring of unselfish love: Love, now a universal birth, From heart to heart is stealing, From earth to man, from man to earth; —It is the hour of feeling. (From "To My Sister," Out of the Best Books, 1:230.) He knew that sometimes out of grief and difficulty comes wisdom—'"a deep distress hath humanized my soul" (from "Elegiac Stanzas Suggested by a Picture of Peele Castle in a Storm") —that to do evil is worse than to endure evil, that the greatest, most unselfish love is love of that Lesson Department which seems not to deserve love, that the sweetest moment of life is that filled with genuine repentance, and that the greatest source of strength is the inner resource of the immortal human spirit in harmony with God's teachings. And so in this sonnet Wordsworth cries out that he would rather be a pagan than a materialist who worships wordly possessions and misses the values of beauty and spirituality. Wordsworth would agree with Matthew Arnold, who said that "perfection consists in becoming something rather than in having something." "MY HEART LEAPS UP" As a further example of Wordsworth's rich insights as a poet, we reprint a small lyric from volume 2: My heart leaps up when I behold A rainbow in the sky: So was it when my life began; So is it now I am a man; So be it when I shall grow old, Or let me die! The child is father of the man; And I could wish my days to be Bound each to each by natural piety. (Out of the Best Books, 2:360.) DISCUSSION Psychologists, teachers, and almost all people nowadays agree that the most important formative years in shaping adult personality and character are the very early years. In fact, some psychologists and educators insist that by the time a child is six or seven most of his adult qualities will have been determined. If this is true, or even partially true, then obviously parents must be as wise as possible in providing the 949 December 1970 right environment during their children's earliest years. What present-day psychologists are now saying, poets and prophets have been saying for generations. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" we read in Proverbs 22:6. "As the twig is bent, so shall the tree grow" is an old folk saying. Our heritage is rich with scriptures and comments of this kind recognizing the importance of wise education in youth. The Wordsworth lyric just quoted also emphasizes these points. The key line here is "The child is father of the man." Anyone who studies Wordsworth's poetry as a whole knows how modern he is in recognizing the vital relationship between childhood experiences and adult personalities. Indeed ''the child is father of the man" in the sense that what a man or woman becomes is largely determined by what the child experiences. "THE PRELUDE" This is extensively restated in Wordsworth's masterpiece, The Prelude, which is a long poetic recollection of incidents and feelings in his childhood that Wordsworth felt contributed especially to his personal growth to maturity as a poet. Often he includes in The Prelude incidents which might not appear to be very important but which he knew had great impression upon him as a child—and therefore great importance. Of the many passages that might be chosen from this long, complex poem to illustrate this point, we chose just one: 950 Fair seed-time had my soul, and I grew up Fostered alike by beauty and by fear: Much favoured in my birthplace, and no less In that beloved Vale to which erelong We were transplanted—there were we let loose For sports of wider range. Ere I had told Ten birth-days, when among the mountain-slopes Frost, and the breath of frosty wind, had snapped The last autumnal crocus, twas my joy With store of springes o'er my shoulder hung To range the open heights where woodcocks run Among the smooth green turf. Through half the night, Scudding away from snare to snare, I plied That anxious visitation;—moon and stars Were shining o'er my head. I was alone, And seemed to be a trouble to the peace That dwelt among them. Sometimes it befell In these night wanderings, that a strong desire O'erpowered my better reason, and the bird Which was the captive of another's toil Became my prey; and when the deed was done I heard among the solitary hills Low breathings coming after me, and sounds Of undistinguishable motion, steps Almost as silent as the turf they trod. Nor less when spring had warmed the cultured Vale, Roved we as plunderers where the mother-bird Had in high places built her lodge, though mean Our object and inglorious, yet the end Was not ignoble. (Out of the Best Books, 2:361-62.) The phrase ''fair seed time" is especially meaningful. Childhood is a time of tender growing when, influenced by experiences of beauty and fear, the attitudes, values, and personality qualities of adulthood are fixed. Thus Wordsworth recalls, in_ richly musical blank-verse lines, two boyish pranks of snaring birds and robbing birds' nests, and then observes, "though mean our object and inglorious, yet the end was not ignoble." The incidents themselves may have been "mean and inglorious," but the end—the shaping of a mature character— was not ignoble. As we read these passages and think of what they imply, we are deeply impressed with the importance of providing the right environment for children. Discussion Questions 1. Is there danger in providing children too little direction? 2. Is there danger in providing too much direction, or too much restriction? CONCLUSION As a concluding comment on Wordsworth, perhaps the most useful thing we might do is look at his work as a whole and try to identify those poems that represent his very best achievement as one of the world's great poets. Surely among his best poems are "Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey," a beautiful, meditative-descriptive ode Lesson Department of rich music and_ thought; "Michael," the finest of his narrative poems, telling with Old Testament dignity and simplicity the tragic story of an old man and his love for a son who betrays a father's trust; the "Intimations of Immortality" ode, the poem probably most familiar to Latter-day Saints, rich both in artistry and in thought; and a dozen or so sonnets. In the finest of his passages we find dignity of tone, sonority of phrase, and loftiness of thought such as we seldom find elsewhere —"high seriousness" as Matthew Arnold liked to call this combination of qualities. First and last, Wordsworth was a nature poet, describing the relationship between the inner world of man and the outer world of nature. But he was also deep-thinking in other matters, leading us in his poetry to extraordinary psychological, philosophical, and _ religious insights that draw us, as The Prelude concludes, to "Faith in life endless, the sustaining thought of human Being, Eternity, and God." CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—Ideal Family Relationships Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To strengthen family relationships through becoming better acquainted with selections in the cultural arts that portray love, understanding, and other family ideals. 951 December 1970 ART "La Bonne Mére"' by Jean Honoré Fragonard (1732-1806), French, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Reproduction Page 688, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1970. COMMENTARY to look for an escape. We dream. We indulge in flights of fancy which may lead to over. Gaiety, sentimentality, and sham which became the surface covering for the Corruptness within. Art reflects the society from which it springs. Daumier, the Social realist described in an earlier lesson, 'Advice toa Young Artist," Portrayed the social upheaval and the Problems of the comman man, whereas Jean Honoré Fragonard Painted the veneer, the facade, of the Upper classes. Ment about the times. Perhaps what we need most is a clarity of vision, or discernment to recognize that which is real and that which is of true worth. Ideal relationships, family or otherwise, are based on sound practical Principles which, if Practiced, move us toward our goal of Perfection. INTRODUCTION: c focus upon selections that illusThe family group is the heart trate the family as an ideal, of the gospel. Throughout the loving group. Again the role of five volumes of Out of the Best the woman as wife and mother Books, Selections are printed will be emphasized. Which focus upon ideal family In reviewing the material for relationships showing love, underthis lesson, it seems desirable to Standing, trust, and other family identify several different types ideals. This lesson will review of selections ranging from those these selections (differing from that dramatize problems within lesson number One that focused the family froup to those that upon selections to be read in Openly portray ideal family refamily groups for family enter. Lationships. Class leaders should tainment and study) and will] emphasize the Positive examples 952 but may want also to draw attention to the negative ones, because we often learn as much through analyzing problems as through stressing ideal relationships. PROBLEMS IN MARRIAGE AND FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Selections in the volumes that particularly explore problems in marriage and family relationships include the following: "Birthday Party" by Katharing Brush (vol. 1, pp. 176-78) "Marriage 4 la Mode" by Katherine Mansfield (vol. 2, pp. 62-73) "Too Early Spring" by Stephen Vincent Benét (vol. 2, pp. 319-33) "Home Burial" by Robert Frost (vol. 2, pp. 334-39) "Dora" by Alfred Lord Tennyson (vol. 3, pp. 161-66) "Clay" by James Joyce (vol. 3, pp. 167- 78) Four of the selections in this list are concerned with misunderStandings or problems in communication within the family— between husband and wife in "Birthday Party" and "Home Burial" and between parents and children in "Too Early Spring" and "Dora." The other two selections, the brilliant "Marriage a la Mode" and the equally brilliant "Clay," depict distorted values and callousness in human relations that destroy family unity, love, and understanding. All six selections give valuable insights into problems that can weaken the family. Another group of selections touches on family problems and illustrates family ideals. These include "Michael" by William Wordsworth (vol. 1, pp. 405-19) which shows the depth of a father's love in spite of the grief of a son's Lesson 'Department withdrawal; "Sixteen" by Jessamyn West (vol. 2, pp. 24-32) which shows how a young girl's selfishness starts to change to unselfishness through the death of her grandfather; "The Leader of the People" by John Steinbeck (vol. 2, pp. 166-82) which dramatizes certain problems in family understanding and communication but also shows the love that can bind a family together in spite of these problems; and the parable of the Prodigal Son (vol. 3, pp. 200-3), which shows a father's love and understanding reaching out to embrace two very different sons. Again, all four of these selections give valuable insights into family relationships. Questions for Discussion 1. What is the value of knowing the negative side of a family situation? A third group of selections is primarily love stories and poems. These include: "The Woman" by Zona Gale (vol. 2, pp. 238-41) "A Garland of Love Lyrics" (vol. 3, pp. 219-38) "Stella's Birthday" by Jonathan Swift (vol. 4, pp. 160-61) "Love Poem" by John Frederick Nims (vol. 4, pp. 162-63) Mark Twain's Family Letters (vol. 5, pp. 93-100) These selections portray the power of love in marriage, not only as a source of happiness in the early years but also as an anchor of strength in the later years. IDEAL FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS The fourth group, which relates most completely to this lesson, portrays families inter- 953 December 1970 reacting in rich, meaningful ways. The families are not without problems, but love, trust, and understanding are rich enough to triumph over the problems and, equally important, help solve them. The selections in this group are: "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens (vol. 1, pp. 246-74) "The Sick Child" by Colette (vol. 1, pp. 420-39) "My Little Boy" by Carl Ewald (vol. 2, pp. 8-23) "Mother" by Kathleen Norris (vol. 2, pp. 133-51) "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden" by Thorton Wilder (vol. 3, pp. 20-34) "The Cotter's Saturday Night" by Robert Burns (vol. 3, pp. 189-99) "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin (vol. 5, pp. 77-78) "Another April" by Jesse Stuart (vol. 5, pp. 79-86) "Neighbor Rosicky" by Willa Cather (vol. 5, pp. 101-28) "Mother of Comptons" by Milton S. Mayer (vol. 5, pp. 198-203) "A Christmas Carol" is a wonderful old classic showing a family bound together by love and joy in spite of poverty—with the Christmas spirit _ finally permeating even the heart of old Scrooge. "The Sick Child" is a delicate, lovely story describing a little boy hovering near death through weeks of burning fever and a mother who, with protective love, waits anxiously for the Moment of crisis to come and pass. "My Little Boy," translated from the Danish, is a delightsome dramatization showing how a wise father tenderly guides his son in growing up, an experience which helps them all—father, mother, and little son—to develop. "Mother" is the description of another wise parent who hum- 954 bly, yet gladly and realistically, accepts and triumphs in her responsibilities of motherhood. "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden" describes still another mother (this time portrayed in a drama), showing how she rises to the challenge of being the wise mother for her rambunctious family. "The Cotter's Saturday Night," a poem, describes a humble working family in their evening activities—a sort of old-fashioned family home evening, with the entire family bound together by love and religion in an atmosphere of informality but also firm parental control. "The Secret Heart" is a delicate modern poem portraying a father's love for his sleeping son, giving the son a sense of security that will sustain him all the rest of his life. "Another April" is a modern short story showing how a young mother fulfills her role both as a mother to her little boy and as a daughter to her aging father. "Neighbor Rosicky," one of the greatest of the stories in the five volumes, is a beautiful portrayal of a husband and wife united in a love so deep that it extends beyond each other to embrace and influence not only children but also neighbors and everyone who comes within reach of the couple's influence. Finally "Mother of Comptons" is a portrait of an extraordinary mother who creates an ideal home atmosphere that propels her children on their separate roads to greatness. Any. One of these selections would be excellent as the heart of this lesson, and readers are encouraged to reread as many of the selections as possible and share them with their families for the rich insights the selections will give in developing ideal family relationships. Sufficient comments to stimulate meaningful response and discussion are printed in Out of the Best Books. "MY LITTLE BOY" We reprint here just one episode from Carl Ewald's "My Little Boy," showing the father teaching his son a lesson in economics: It has been decreed in the privy council that my little boy shall have a weekly income of one cent. Every Sunday morning, that sum shall be paid to him, free of income-tax, out of the treasury and he has leave to dispose of it entirely at his own pleasure. He receives this announcement with composure and sits apart for a while and ponders on it. "Every Sunday?" he asks. "Every Sunday." "All the time till the summer holidays?" "All the time till the summer holidays."' In the summer holidays, he is to go to the country, to stay with his godmother, in whose house he was pleased to allow himself to be born. The summer holidays are, consequently, the limits of his calculation: beyond them lies, for the moment, his Nirvana. And we employ this restricted horizon of ours to further our true happiness. That is to say, we calculate, with the aid of the almanac, that, if every thing goes as heretofore, there will be fifteen Sundays before the summer holidays. We arrange a drawer with fifteen compartments and in each compartment we put one cent. Thus we know exactly what we have and are able at any time to survey our financial status. And, when he sees that great lot of cents lying there, my little boy's breast is filled with mad delight. He feels endlessly rich, safe for a long time. The courtyard rings with his bragging, with all that he is going to do with his money. His special favourites are invited to come up and view his treasure. Lesson Department The first Sunday passes in a normal fashion, as was to be expected. He takes his cent and turns it straightway into a stick of chocolate of the best sort, with almonds on it and sugar, in short, an ideal stick in every way. The whole performance is over in five minutes: by that time, the stick of chocolate is gone, with the sole exception of a remnant in the corners of our mouth, which our ruthless mother wipes away, and a stain on our collar, which annoys us. He sits by me, with a vacant little face, and swings his legs. I open the drawer and look at the empty space and at the fourteen others: "So that's gone," I say. My accent betrays a certain melancholy, which finds an echo in his breast. But he does not deliver himself of it at once. "Father... Is it long till next Sunday?" "Very long, my boy; ever so many days." We sit a little, steeped in our own thoughts. Then I say, pensively: "Now, if you had bought a top, you would perhaps have had more pleasure out of it. I know a place where there is a lovely top: red, with a green ring round it. It is just over the way, in the toy-shop. I saw it yesterday. I should be greatly mistaken if the toy-man was not willing to sell it for a cent. And you've got a whip, you know." We go over the way and look at the top in the shop-window. It is really a splendid top. "The shop's shut," says my little boy despondently. I look at him with surprise: "Yes, but what does that matter to us? Anyway, we can't buy the top before next Sunday. You see, you've spent your cent on chocolate. Give me your handkerchief: there's still a bit on your cheek." There is no more to be said. Crestfallen and pensively, we go home. We sit a long time at the dining-room window, from which we can see the window of the shop. During the course of the week, we look at the top daily, for it does not do to let one's love grow cold. One might so easily forget it. And the top shines always more seductively. We go in and make sure that the price is really in S55) December 1970 keeping With our means. We make the that J Bive you five; Shopkeeper take a Solemn Oath to keep | Should have Your cent and the top for us till Sunday morning, even four Cents...» If boys Should come and bid him much He interrupts me with a higher Sums for it. I take out m i In ay morning, we are on the and take One cent ut h Spot before nine o'clock nd acquire our "That Won't bep asant next § Teasure wit embling han nd we | Say, "and the next Play with it al] day and Sleep with it at next night, until, on Ww dnesday Morning, jt But the thoughtless y lsappears Without a trace, after the co he Mstallments Nasty Manner Which tops h e. Are paid off e en the turn comes the next alWays o the spot hi cent, Something remarkable happens. TaWer is 9 ed an Sees h There 0 t Courtyard Site cent Is re d and © has a ski Ing-ro nd my little into MY pocket Instead of h OY, therefo ' Wants to ha © 4 skipping. The t time, 80es we rope too But this cult matter simply musing thing that I sh arefy] Inquiries establish the fact that have ¢ cent; and the Skip 8-ro 4 skipping-ro f the Sort useq by the Sull fresh Memory, becay Upper cla lS nowhere to be ob alned for Pangs which underwent befo €ss than five cents Purchase ¢ Sunday, alrega 'y the © business jg discussed aS early as IS not quite SO pleasant Saturda fourth Stallment fal] ue, my little "It's the Simplest thing in the World," Y's face | ks ery gloom Say. "You ust no Pend your cent anything the Matter?" tomorro Next Sun ay you ust do "T shou © much | e © same and the next and the next. O, Chocolate" h Says, Without Io € Sunda after th » you will have e Saved your five ce ts and can buy your S that all Y can get one i Ss lPPing-rope t once." fortnight ha €&, you wi s Shall] | get my Skipping-rope Paid fo he Skipping-ro then?" Will be yo again." "In five Sundays from now." 'Ts so ch ji to have the € Says nothing, but | Can see that Stick of chocolate i he does not thj Y idea very brilliant Of ¢ b full of © sincerest € cou f the day, he Tives from Ompassion, but | an't he P it. What' Sources nknown t, an acquaintance 80ne jg fone, We Saw it wit our With financia] circumsta ces which he eyes and know exactly Where jt has Serves up t e day morning 80ne to nd, that § day m ing, we In the followin Ords: Part in g deje. Ted m id "Father, You must lend me five cents Later In the day, however, for the Skipping-rope. Lll give you forty him Standing Over the drawer With raised Cents back 0 oe eyebrows 4nd purs d-u uth. I git He Stands Close to me, very red in down quietly and Wait. And | do not t he j or falling Into the claw. Evelopment economist js taking Of the us quite its norma] course, i n't d at so businesg my _ ther, SUPPose we Oved the cent boy," "It would 't do yo 4NY good now from here into this unday's place either, And you re Not even in 4 Position and I took it and bought the chocolate. To do it, for you have only thirteen cents, stick,» 48 you kno, "Why, then you won't have Your cent He Collapses like one Whose last hope for the other Sunday," is gone. "T don't mind that, Father, | _ ia "Let us just See," | Say, We talk about it, and then we do it, And We g0 to Our drawer and stare And, With that, as 4 matter of Course, at it long and deep] e enter Upon the most reckless Specula The very next Sunday, he is clever enough to take the furthest cent, which lies just before the summer holidays. He pursues the path of vice without a scruple, until, at last, the blow falls and five long Sundays come in a row without the least chance of a cent. Where should they come from? They were there. We know that. They are gone. We have spent them ourselves. But during those drab days of poverty, we sit every morning over the empty drawer and talk long and profoundly about that painful phenomenon, which is so simple and so easy to understand and which one must needs make the best of. Lesson Department And we hope and trust that our experience will do us good, when after our trip, we start a new set of cents. (Excerpt from "My Little Boy," by Carl Ewald, Out of the Best Books, vol. 2, Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1966], pp. 13-16.) Questions for Discussion 1. Did the father handle the situation wisely? 2. Specifically, what dangers and lessons in economics for all of us are pointed up in this little sketch? - The Eighth CULTURAL REFINEMENT LESSON ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed, and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the course. A discussion could follow in which the sisters would express themselves as to the objective which has had the most application in their lives over the past seven years' lessons based on the five volumes of Out of the Best Books. Assigned sisters may come prepared to read a short selection taken from a prose or poem selection that has especially appealed to them. Eter ae DISCOURSE ON LEAVES Consider the leaves of summer Which are really of autumn < As they silently drift to lie = Frozen in a pool of light.— < To become winter leaves \ a That once were leaves of Spring green, fragile At a rough touch, snapping Under the quick takeoff Of a bird with black feathers 4 To fall in the light pool Beside other winters, Now brown-soaked and sunk In new wells of water, Fodder for trailing roots of old trees. Renewing again spring greens, Now summer-turned gold to September, A whirling dervish of scarlet Overtones amid eternal soft Cries of falling leaves. —Grayce E. Cutler 957 December 1970 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26—Jan 2 oala (A JOx NGF SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOURS March 14-20 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 BEST WISHES FOR A Oa Sem if in [mm = peseERET FREwSs PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 COM PANY 'Singing Mothers" ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Happiness is fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 958 "ep re Pisa THINGS LOVELY. We seek after these things.''= Joseph Smith cA Sr Jor spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 The Holy City Praise Be to Thee More Holiness Give Me. Walked The Lost Chord Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store -BYU Bookstore: Ricks College Bookstore Deseret Bookstore " 959 The Pilgrims' Song | Walked Today Where Jesus 99 97 96 95 94 93 92 960 hy Congrats Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Lenora Ann Hudson Sheffield Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Celinda Twitchell Olson Portland, Oregon Mrs. Elizabeth Walker Stott Portland, Oregon Miss Florence Brown Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susanna Clark Westman Long Beach, California Mrs. Minnie Chatterley Harris Lehi, Utah Mrs. Janetta Caroline Johnson Nelson Murray, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Boehi Peck Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rose H. Peay Spanish Fork, Utah. Mrs. Clara Parkes Jones Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Compton Hess Long Beach, California Mrs. Margaret Alzadie Marquess Holt Winslow, Arizona Mrs. Mary Ann Boreham Nelson Lewis Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Nellie Thomas Boyce Humpherys Groveland, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Bullock Holt Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Isabell Sutherland Harrison Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Edna May Irvine Bell, California Mrs. Florence Ellen Dunford Newton Hunter, Utah Miss Mary Penman Ogden, Utah Mrs. Caroline Hanson Anderson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Turner Forman Field Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Eliza Coon Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Fanny White Morgan Mrs. Pearl Bullen Harrison Logan, Utah Mrs. Bell Arnett Sheets St. Augustine, Florida Mrs. Lucinda Maud Van Leuven Buxton - Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Della Shaw Chandler North Ogden, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Eliza Hyer Kemp Dayton, Idaho Mrs. Mary Esplin Chamberlain Orderville, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Jane Lilly Morton, Pennsylvania Mrs. Rosa May Byington Simpson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Annie Isgreen Bevan Sacramento, California Miss Anna Rasmussen Mrs. Mary Slaughter Stephenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nora Louisa Buchanan Pearson Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Christina Alvina Thompson Davis { Grand Junction, Colorado North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emily Rasmusson Collet Coutts, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Violet Susanna Syrett Anderson | Kingston, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Schwarz Jones Mrs. Jenettie Stewart Wood Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Gertrude Helena Nelson Eliason | Moroni, Utah Mrs. Verna Young Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Helen Bryce Merrill Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Clarissa Clark Isaacson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Johanna Ottesen Halverson Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Maud Stahr Brown Mrs. Thankful Halsey Gardner Grigg Vale, Oregon Chandler, Arizona 9 1 | | | | | New books for Christmas giving: rom Deseret Boo 1. REMEMBERING THE McKAYS John J Stewart $2.95 A reading experience about a harmonious Marriage that will not soon be forgotten. You'll chuckle at their sense of humor, feel the warmth of their kindness and courtesy toward each other and treasure their sense of values. 2. JOSEPH SMITH, PROPHET OF THE RESTORATION Leon Hartshorn In this book the Prophet becomes a living human being with which the reader may get the feeling of walking and talking with the man. 3. INSPIRATIONAL TR UTHS From The Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Written by an author of past Relief Society lessons. Specific scriptures from the Doctrine and Covenants are each illustrated with a Story from life which illustrates the appli. Cation of that scripture in human experience. 4. MORMON ESSAYS D. James Cannon Each week for a year, the author practiced one of 52 principles selected from the scriptures. This interesting book tells the results of this concentrated application of the ospel of Christ. $3.95 $3.95 $3.95 wort As "Experiment upon my word A4 1 JAMES CAN forme! Bed V ys Salt Lake — Cottonwood Mall Valley Fair Mall Orange, California ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me items circled: 1 2 3 4 Volal C086 Sof. Ease This must include 25¢ handling and postage for the first book ordered and 15c for each additional book ordered in the same shipment. Also include 4%% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by: CL] check, (1 money order, or 1] charged established account. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah CHERRY NUT BREAD Cake-like and so colorful 2 cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 teaspoon soda 2 cup shortening 1 cup chopped nuts 34 cup granulated 2 eggs Y% cup diced maraschino U AND | SUGAR 1 cup buttermilk cherry halves Sift dry ingredients together. Combine all ingredients except nuts and cherries in large mixer bowl. Blend at lowest speed on mixer until dry ingredients are moistened, about 20 seconds. Beat 1 minute on low speed. Stir in nuts and cherries. Grease 19x5x3" loaf pan and spoon in batter. Bake in moderate oven, 350°, 55-60 minutes, or until done. Cool 10 minutes and remove from pan and cool. Frost with powdered sugar glaze and decorate with nuts and cherries. U and | Sugar Company Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, \daho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.
