' YA Fs JS, oa i ee a ne a A pen teste ca i Ah Nt a JOYOUS GREETINGS FOR 1969 The General Board extends a joyous greeting to every member of Relief Society as the year 1969 rises on the horizon. It is a time to look back, to weigh the events of the past year, and to look forward, resolving more vigorously to pursue eternal truth as it applies to one's individual life. How have weaknesses, sadness, goodness, and joys positioned one during the past year? The measure will be the degree of obedience to the first and second great commandments. Is the year richer in the essence of love which envelops one's thoughts and actions? A perfect love of Christ is the far goal. In its light all incidents of life are transmuted into eternal verities and viewed from the pinnacle of acceptance, "... Not my will, but thine, be done." (Luke 22:42.) In seeking the love of Christ it is heartening to recall what is written on the rich young ruler who could not forsake his worldly riches to take up the cross and follow Christ. In spite of this weakness, it reads "Then Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) So Jesus is ready to love everyone in spite of personal weaknesses and failings. Never need one feel forsaken or alone. Instead, a wellspring of thankfulness and nearness will warm and flood the soul. May 1969 become a memorable year of personal eternal progress amid the conflicts of the world. Love will bring peace to the soul and allow one to live in the world and yet not be of it, all the time pursuing the goal of eternal life. May this be the precious 'experience of every Relief Society member throughout the New Year. Affectionately, General Presidency Seay od Se ee The Cover: Farmstead in Sanpete Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Frontispiece: Winter to the East, Near Snyderville, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes See O 3 VEU VE OU, The Magazine is wonderful, and the sisters up here in Canada really fove it. Many who are nonmembers read the Magazine and love it, too. It is a great help in missionary work. Helen D. Toronto, Relief Society Supervisor, Canadian Mission The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful, and we receive much humility and inspiration from it when problems beset us. Anna Molenaar, Napier, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand | have subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for a year, although | have been a member of the Church for almost eight. It seems unbelievable all the things that one - can learn from the Magazine, especially in the theology lessons, which are the ones | like best. Mariluz de Flores, Rama de Talca, Chile — | have thoroughly enjoyed the non-fiction in The Relief Society Magazine in recent issues. Marie Call Webb's ''Lady on Survival'' (August 1968), and Jean A. Jensen's '"'A Dutch Treat'' (September 1968) are my favorites. | hope there will be more articles of this type. Jeanne W. Gunn, Provo, Utah | was thrilled when the June 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine contained an article on '"'Australia—An Island Continent in Bloom," by Wealtha S. Mendenhail, and pictures of several of the largest cities. | was then preparing to accompany my husband to a scientific convention in Adelaide, and the background information helped to make ~ our trip more enjoyable. Elna K. Wallace, Los Angeles, California — | am a long-time member of the Church, baptized when | was eight years old, and | _ am now a grandmother of five. | enjoy the Magazine very much, especially the poetry. — Mrs. Kathleen Fulton, Palatka, Florida | have found our Magazine wonderful company out here. | brought all of this year's — copies with me, but had to leave the rest at home in Cairns, Queensland, much to my sorrow. | am re-reading the 1968 Magazines and find as much, if not more, enjoyment — from them than before. My twelve-year-old daughter has read many of the stories and some of the articles. She loves the pictures of the work the sisters'do. We came across from Queensland to Northern Territory in June, and we are the only married couple at this camp. | miss attending Relief Society, and | miss the Church meetings, but the Lord has something in store for me | am sure. Nancy D. F. Tuddenham, Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia As a new member of the Church, just a year this September, | am more than pleased with The Relief Society Magazine. The lessons and advice help me to be more like what | should be to my family, and the poems and stories are clean and entertaining. | was especially delighted with the article by Myrtle R. Olson on home nursing (September 1968). | am a member of the career staff of the Indianapolis Area Chapter of the Red Cross, in the nursing and safety services, so this program is dear to my heart. The knowledge learned in home nursing class is threefold in value: in the home, in Relief Society duties, and in community service. Linda R. Greene, Indianapolis, Indiana It was a great thrill to see my ''family'' come to life in the October Magazine (''The Anniversary,'' by. Kathleen Peace Gregory) under the hands of your artist Mary Scopes. My real life family are quite proud of my attempt at short story writing. Kathleen Peace Gregory, Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 January 1969 Number 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 1 Joyous Greetings for 1969 4 Our Children—''The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" Joseph Fielding Smith 8 Obligations of Membership in Relief Society Harold B. Lee 16 Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society David E. Heywood 17. Maurine M. Haycock Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Edith S. Elliott 18 The GIANT System in Genealogical Work—1969 Genealogical Society 25 ~~ Fight Birth Defects Through the National Foundation March of Dimes George P. Voss Fiction 26 'If You Give Enough" Helen H. Trutton 32 Make Room for Christmas Lucy Parr 46 Welcome the Task—Chapter 3 Michele Bartmess General Features From Near and Far _ Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial—Fasting and Prayer Marianne C. Sharp Notes To the Field—Fall and Spring Socials; Sustaining to Positions in Stake and Ward Auxiliaries; Magazines to Be Ordered one Month Before Beginning Date Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 31 'Quilt Ladies'— Melda Skinner and Shirley McQueen 38 Bone Hairpins—A Reminiscence Norma A. Wrathall 40 Calling All Student Wives Patricia R. Watkins 42 The Influence of a Friend Shirley Chase 44 Who Will Show Her How? Dorothy F. Condry Lessons 59 = Spiritual Living—The Ministry of Angels Roy W. Doxey 64 Visiting Teacher Message—''... And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More.'' Alice Colton Smith 65 Homemaking—Let's Go Inside Celestia J. Taylor 67 Social Relations—''Not Where You Serve, But How'' Alberta H. Christensen 72 Cultural Refinement—The Reward of Persistence Robert K. Thomas Poetry Advice to the Vulnerable, Gay N. Blanchard 20; Thanks for Friends, Roxana Farnsworth Hase 24; Snowbound?, Dorothy R. Cox 25; At Year's Beginning, Zara Sabin 36; Consider, Verna S. Carter 37; Scavengers?, Ruth G. Rothe 39; Wayfarer, Ethel Jacobson 41; The Doll Woman, Katherine F. Larsen 45; Might, Gladys Hesser Burnham 50; Child Asleep, Christie Lund Coles 75; The Generation Gap, Pauline B. Hills 77; Veil the Future, Norma Bowkett 78; Storm, Dorothy J. Roberts 78. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned untess return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Our Children— The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" Po fA President Joseph Fielding Smith SF Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] @ My dear sisters: I am very happy to be here with you today, and I hope and pray that what I might say will be of benefit to one and all. There are certain old truths which will be truths as long as the world endures, and which no amount of progress can change. One of these is that the family (the organization consisting of father, mother, and children) is the foundation of all things in the Church; another, that sins against pure and healthy family life are those which, of all others, are sure in the end to be visited most heavily upon the nations in which they take place. So, we must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty in the Church. But each of you, as mothers, can strive—at least as light: and strength are given you —toward the ideal home where there must exist a perfect companionship between parents and children, built upon the feeling of mutual interest, knowledge, taste, and sympathy. Far more important than the question of occupation or wealth 4 of people is the question of how their family life is conducted. All other things are of minor consequence, so long as there are real homes, and so long as those who make up these homes do their duty to each other. I am sure, my good sisters, there is no disagreement among us as to the importance of the home. Roosevelt has compared a home without children to "a land without Our Children—''The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" trees—barren and_ unfruitful." While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless, an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking. WHAT DO THEY MEAN TO US? If I were to put the question here today, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be—"What do our children mean to us?" Our children—"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our Heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands upon the seashore. From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question: "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36.) What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children? So you mothers see that this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks are great, but greatest of all is our reward. Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. Surely she who can train her sons and daughters is_ thrice fortunate among them, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium. WHAT OF THE WORLD? Since the world began there have been only two classes of people, one who declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times are the best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and_ those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. The only real protection or adequate defense can be afforded by the home and its influences. But there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. There is at least one sure cure: training the girls in the home. Girls are not trained in the home today as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example, a good standard of morals. Many girls of 5 January 1969 today have no moral sense whatsoever. It is an age of conservatism versus jazz, and there is no understanding nor sympathy between parents and children, too many times. Mothers give too little—girls take too much. They begin picking at each other instead of quietly and thoroughly threshing it out and coming to an understanding. If you parents have not that patience, forbearance, to understand these "jazzage children," they will cut loose and go where they are understood, and therein lies the tragedy of the situation. It is only when parents and children come to a fellowship built upon understanding that they can be one in feeling and in heart. The fact that young people are ungrateful is a very common lament among us today. Well, they are—it is true. Some children are just naturally grateful and appreciative, others just the contrary. But this development of the trait of ingratitude indicates a woeful lack of education along the lines of appreciation, either of the material gifts, service rendered, or of the things worthwhile in the world. Certainly this fault, if any in all the category, can be charged to parents' neglect. RESPECT THE LAWS OF GOD Perhaps the fault of our children today is the lack of reverence, the disregard for any authority, temporal or spiritual. But, is the sin confined to the young alone? Is it not an irreverent age? Here again must we resort to the home as the one sure cure, and see to it that it is a 6 sanctuary where the laws of God are respected and observed. I have deliberately stressed the home as the greatest, most unfailing source of all good things in the world, but it is the workshop where human characters are built and the manner in which they are formed depends upon the relationship existing between parents and the children. The home cannot be what it should be unless these relations are of the proper character. Whether they are so or not depends, it is true, upon both parents and children, but much more upon parents. They must do their best. Most effective training is done before the child is old enough to appreciate what is being done. Teach the little ones to do the right thing. The great Master Teacher said, "Man cannot live by bread alone," neither can children live by merely having their material wants cared for. This is very necessary, it is true, but it is only a part; so far as the mother is concerned, much the easiest part of the work. First of all parents must try to be, or at least put forth their best efforts to be, what they wish the children to be. It is impossible for you to be an example of what you are not. The only way to teach children the beauty and use in service is to teach them how, and permit them to render it. "Oh, go away and leave me alone, I haven't time to be bothered," said a hurried, impatient mother to her little three-year-old daughter who was trying to help perform a certain household task. I shall have to Our Children—''The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden"' tell you what a youngster said to his mother when Sister Smith and I attended a stake conference in New York. Sister Smith asked all present to tell their mothers and fathers that they loved them, and for the parents not to push them away, when they came to tell them. This little child went to his mother and said, "Mama, I love you, and don't you push me away, like. The good lady said." With whom rests the fault? The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain. There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced. DEVELOP SYMPATHETIC UNDERSTANDING If I had to suggest one thing which I think we as parents are most lacking, it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children. Live with the children; follow their paths, try with them to read "books in the running brooks/Sermons in stones and good in every thing." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness. Know everything that claims the interest of the children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts." As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise. We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past. They did their work and left us the splendid heritage which we now enjoy. Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship, to train our children to appreciate their inheritance. We may thus, in our turn, have the assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children. I am sure if we teach these things to the sisters of the Relief Society we shall see the fruits of companionship of parents and children, and what a great joy we will have in teaching these things that the Lord feels so important because he has stated, that we as parents will be held responsible if we fail in our teaching the gospel truths to our children. President McKay said: I know of no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, and in the world than for every man and woman first to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace such as _ hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity, and envy. Now may the Lord bless you good sisters as you go into your different stakes and wards, and may his Spirit be with you and guide, guard, and protect you in the service of our Master, and I leave my blessing with you, and I am sure that President McKay would like me to express his love for you, also, and I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. LIM COV RY Sey == Obligations of = Membership in Relief Society Pa >} SS Elder Harold B. Lee Ss Of The Council of the Twelve =) SQ ee | ' OS SS [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Annual CS SQ General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1968.] ae = TVANVINVANVANAN AD if ¥ AW vais #69 eedaiedeeiettciaineet my RRR iY * Re: w As you may have observed, I think I have almost. Rewritten what I had planned to say to you. After the skit which has just been presented, and the singing of this beautiful chorus, the Lord willing and with your faith and prayers, and humbled by Sister Spafford's most unusual and, I'm afraid, all too undeserving introduction, I should attempt to talk somewhat to a subject which the Relief Society Presidency have suggested. This was the letter of the Relief Society Presidency from which I read. "We feel the need for an authoritative statement on the obligations of membership in Relief Society as stated in a message of the First Presidency in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the Relief Society as published in A Centenary of Relief Society." This was the statement: This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. The members should 8 permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of membership in this great Society. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7.) That, I am sure, you will recognize as a tremendous chalSS == 091.09.00.00:00.:00.00 09100109.:09.:02.:00.00.00 Se = lenge to one assigned to address this great conference. As I studied that statement of the First Presidency, there came back to me a statement that must have come from a great teacher who knew the importance of repetition as the soul of learning. This was cast in great long words, but every one of them is meaningful, and this I shall give to you. "Frequent recurrence to fundamentalsisessential to perpetuity." Now, if you think about that, "frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." As I analyzed the statement of the First Presidency, I became aware that there were four headings. And it is to those four headings that I shall now attempt to make a few comments. First: The responsibility of Relief Society in consecration to service. Consecration means to set apart or devote to the service or worship of God. Service means a performance of labor for the benefit of another; spiritual serving, as shown by obedience, good works, and love, as dedicated to the service of God. As I listened to this skit on obedience, impressing obedience to what the Brethren have commanded, or have instructed, or have pleaded with us regarding family home evening, I am tempted to repeat some of what I said to you a year ago, at least to recall to you a few things, as I link it with this specific part of the Presidency's message. MOTHER'S ROLE IS TO TEACH GOSPEL What is the mother's role, Obligations of Membership in Relief Society then, in the great service of the kingdom? Her first and most important role is to remember the teaching of the gospel in the family as it was expressed in the first revelation, given in the First Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which has been called the Preface to the revelations to this day, and four important purposes of gospel restoration as they apply particularly to the home were expressed. And then I read from the First Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: a. "That faith also might increase in the earth... And inasmuch as they erred that it might be made known; b. "And inasmuch as they sought wisdom that they might be instructed; c. 'And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent; d. "And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time." (D&C 1:21, 25-28.) Now the mother's role in this vital home-centered gospel teaching is very clear, and I just speak now of some of those things to recall what you just heard and witnessed in this excellent presentation that has been called to our attention. Put Father at the head of the house. And as they said, even when he doesn't seem to deserve it. Provoking husbands to honor their priesthood when they are not honoring their priesthood; enlisting the aid of the priesthood in helping you with family problems—home teachers, holding of your family home evenings, and even if Father isn't there, or even if some of the children are 9 January 1969 not always there, but make an effort to see to it ahead of time that everyone is alerted to the fact that this night is family home night, and there must be nothing to interfere. Mothers stay at the crossroads of the home. Some time ago, I was attending a quarterly stake conference in a stake that I will not identify, and the names I will use will not be the real names, lest you try to identify it. THE IMPORTANCE OF TEMPLE MARRIAGE I had looked over the statistics and had discovered a very poor percentage of those who were married had been married in the temple. And as I looked over the afternoon conference session, I said to the president of the stake, thinking of something that might be done and said to awaken them to the need for some more impressive attendance of this vital matter, "Have you some mother here, an older mother, who had a large family and had the joy of seeing every one of her family married in the temple?" He looked out over the audience and he said, "Well, there is Sister (I shall call her Sister Jones), she has had a family of eleven, and they all have been married in the temple, but you don't expect to call her up to speak? She has never been called on to speak to an audience of this kind." I said, "I suppose not, if she's raised a family of eleven. I didn't say I was going to call on her to speak, I want her to come up here, I want to ask her a few questions." 10 And as this lovely whitehaired mother stood beside me at the microphone, I said, "Would you take a lesson out of your book and tell us, what have you done to reach this most marvelous achievement?" And. She replied, "Well, I never thought of it." But I urged 'her for a further expression. "I might give you two suggestions. In the first place, when our family was growing up, I always was there at the crossroads of the home, when my children were coming to or going from the home. And second: whatever we did we did together as a family. We played together, we prayed together, we worked together, we did everything together. I guess that's all I can think of." I said to her, "Now you have preached two great sermons." Then I looked down at the audience and there was a young mother holding in her arms what I supposed was her first baby, and I asked the stake president, "Was that young lady married in the temple?" and he replied, "Yes," so I invited her to come to the stand and asked her if she would say something about how important she' considered her temple marriage. PART OF AN ETERNAL FAMILY CIRCLE When she got her breath, she said, "Well, I am the eleventh child of that mother who has just spoken. And when you asked her those questions I said, why doesn't he ask us that question? We know what mother did, that made us wish to do what she wanted us to do in the home." Then she told of some of the ment by 4 Man who Was a "wolf," who tried to take aq. Vantage of the Young girls who Worked in that Place of employMent. She resisted, but he Made And so She thought Maybe She Was a little too restrained. Little Startled, and she Said, "A]] right, my dear, you are old €nough to know your own mind." Never again S long as life | Sted, would do anything con Sclously that ould deprive me of on keep Your children from going Contrary to Your counse] Will be the fear of losing their Place in ° the eternal amily circle. But January 1969 preted as "including the original work of deacons, ministrations to the poor and sick." (Page 913.) And from Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History: The people by offering large and generous contributions when the safety and interests of the community rendered them necessary... Each one bore a part proportioned to his circumstances.... These were brought before the 'assemblies and were called "oblations." There reigned among the members of the Christian church a perfect equality. This appeared by the feasts of charity in which all were indiscriminately assembled; by the names of brethren and sisters. (Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History, page 104.) Then he goes on: Some, particularly of the eastern churches, elected deaconesses and chose for that purpose, matrons or widows of eminent sanctity who administered to the necessities of the poor, and performed several other offices, that tended to the maintenance of order and decency in the church. Did you ever hear of the Relief Society so well described? BISHOP'S WORK WITH RELIEF SOCIETY And again he describes the work of the bishops as it relates to this organization. Let none, however, confound the bishops of this primitive and "golden period of the church with those we read of in the following pages. For though they were both distinguished by the same name, yet they differed extremely, and that in many respects. A bishop during the first and second century, was a person who had the care of one Christian assembly, which at that time was, generally speaking, small enough to be contained in a private house. In this 12 assembly he acted not so much with the authority of a master, as with the zeal and diligence of a faithful servant. He instructed the people, performed the several parts of divine worship. Attended the sick, and inspected into the circumstances and supplies of the poor. He charged, indeed, the presbyters (elders) with the performance of those duties and services, which the multiplicity of his engagements rendered it impossible for him to fill; but had not the power to decide or enact anything without the consent of the presbyters (elders) and the people. The revenues were extremely small, since the church had no certain income, but depended upon gifts or oblations of the multitude, which, no doubt, were inconsiderable. (Ibid. Pp. 105-106.) There you have it. The Relief Society helps in the government of the Church. The Relief Society, as no other organization, is the "handmaiden" of the Priesthood of God. In their joint responsibility in rendering compassionate service, they present a sort of "Father and Mother Image" in the Kingdom of God to look after the needy and the unfortunate. LOYALTY TO EACH OTHER Now this next, Mothers, the Presidency calls your attention to loyalty to each other. Visiting teachers have their place in the teaching of mothers who have not developed the knowledge and methods in keeping pace with their children. And, as I wrote that statement here, I remembered what somebody said, "If you want to keep young, go where youth are, and if you want to get old, try to keep up with them." But there was something that was said to me by a banker friend, a short while ago, who was visiting our city. He took me aside and said, "I have a daughter who is having disciplinary problems with her family. I have just said to her, 'I want you to go out and live among the Mormon people where they can teach you how to discipline your children. My daughter, looked at me and said, 'You mean you want me to join the Church?' I said, "That's exactly what I mean.' " I asked him if he knew about our Family Home Evening program. He had never heard of it. I sent him two Family Home Evening Manuals, one for last year, and one for this year, and suggested that he give these as a help to his daughter in counseling with her daughter. After he does that, I propose to ask him if he and his wife are holding Family Home Evenings, likewise. SEX EDUCATION IN THE SCHOOLS There is something else that is giving many of our mothers great concern today. That is the matter of sex education in the schools. I had some _ worried mothers, with their stake presidency, who came up to a stake conference I was attending in the California area a short while ago. And they were worried because of the ugly things that are creeping into the sex education, that to them go beyond the bounds of propriety which in their opinion is giving dangerous instruction to children and youth. Now what has that to do with Relief Society?. I had a visit from a woman who was writing a book. She wanted to know if I would read her manuscript, and I took a Obligations of Membership in Relief Society look at it. It was on sex. And I said I had no time to read this book, and she said, "Will you read this one chapter?" And it was one of the raciest, most blunt, and most plain descriptions that I could possibly read. As I laid it down, she asked, "Well, what do you think of it?" "Well," I said, "if I spoke frankly I would tell you that you could never print that kind of a book with my consent." She looked a bit startled. She was not pleased. But a short while afterwards, one of our sisters took me aside and questioned me because I had said this to her friend. And I said, "Well, I have something that I heard President Clark say, and I should lke to read it to you." And that came to my mind today after I had heard these sisters from California, and I want to read what President Clark said a few years ago. Unchastity is too common. It is in our schools from the grades up. It is in our business houses and industrial plants. It is too large a part of our ordinary and social lives. Parents are grasping at straws in an effort to hold their children. A cry is raised, the Church needs a book on sex, but what should such a book tell? All that the schools have taught sex facts on... All their teachings have torn away the modesty that once clothed sex. Their discussions tend to make it sometimes seem to make sex animals out of boys and girls. The teachings do little but arouse curiosity for experience. It is said these courses tell enough about the generation of human beings to enable them to largely escape parenthood. Books are written, courses are given about courtship and marriage, to what point? We have not too far to go to get the heathenish abominations practiced and preached in an early time again, against which the Lord has again and again lashed out to ancient Israel and early Christians. 13 January 1969 A work on chastity can begin in one sentence: Be chaste. That tells everything. You do not need to know all the details of reproduction processes in order to keep clean. Be chaste because God commanded it. That is all there is to it. Thou shalt not commit adultery, said the Lord at Sinai, and he has drawn no fine distinctions such as some would like to draw between adultery and fornication. The Lord used the words interchangeably. KEEP FAITH IN GOD STRONG I read something another writer had said on this same subject. He said the reason for sex deviation is loss of belief in God. Once they lose God they lose the purpose of life and when the purpose of living is forgotten, the universe becomes meaningless. This impresses the importance, then, of visiting teaching by Relief Society sisters. When you go into a home, and you find the mother and father who haven't the genius or the talent to teach their children, it is your business to help these mothers in this most vital part of their family education. Go with motherly intuition, sensing in the heart what the mind does not know. Your place in the Welfare Program will be told and more completely by Elder Taylor, so I will just mention one or two thoughts. Teaching for successful wifehood and motherhood is a part of welfare; to demonstrate a woman's effectiveness as a homemaker; preparing a mother to receive her new baby; analyze accurately through a loyal sister's eyes the wants and needs which brethren may not perceive. Don't gossip about matters re- 14 lating to your sisters. Never remember nor publicize what you do for another, but never forget a favor a sister renders to you. Yes, be loyal to each other, as sisters in the gospel of the kingdom. We can banish competitive or hostile interests that detract from Relief Society duties, obligations, privileges, and honor, opportunities and achievement of membership. While attending a meeting of an organization of women, I shall not name it, I was startled when one of our Relief Society presidents was introduced as the speaker for that occasion. In the introduction this organization head said, "She has now graduated from Relief Society into this woman's organization." Graduating from Relief Society! RELIEF SOCIETY FULFILLS NEEDS There must be a constant reassessing of what Relief Society gives to make certain nothing is left out in filling the needs of younger mothers and_ older grandmothers to fulfill the purpose of the Relief Society as defined by the Prophet Joseph Smith. And keep in mind what I said as I started, "frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." Read again and again from those early instructions and bring the Relief Society back to those standards as may be needed. Relief Society must not be something simply to duplicate worldly organizations, such as social clubs, or PTA, or literary societies, but Relief Society must make a significant contri- bution not to be obtained anywhere else. In matters of home storage, again Brother Taylor will tell you more about that, and may I just offer this one caution. Don't promote competitive purchasing or merchandise projects of a commercial nature under the name of the Relief Society or any other Church entity. Give counsel to mothers who are neglecting their families in some of the important details. Now when I speak of these mothers, of what these schools are doing in the way of teaching children about intimate things of life—mothers in the outside world are worried. I just read in the Sunday newspaper that in 1970, there will be one out of ten births that will be illegitimate births. Shocking! Forty per cent of our unwed mothers under twenty years of age are from families on relief; fifty per cent already had one or more illegitimate children. And to combat the rising tide of illegitimacy, they write, public and private agencies are focusing their attention on education. Among the measures aimed at prevention of illegitimacy are sex education courses in public schools, special schools for unwed mothers, birth control, assistance to repeaters on welfare. But not one word about the thing that the Lord has said, "Thou shalt not." And the positive things that President Clark has told us. Be chaste because God commands! "BRAVERY IS COURAGE IN ACTION." I read something from General Omar Bradley's definition of Obligations of Membership in Relief Society bravery. (He was a famous general under General Dwight D. EKisenhower in the Second World War.) "Bravery," he said, "is courage in action. It is that quality which enables a man to face up to a challenge with decision and purpose whether that challenge be eminent physical danger, or the defense of a moral principle, or a pioneering effort in new fields of progress. It is that which sets the hero above the coward." We have a challenge today in these things of which I have spoken. We have a challenge before us in this State of Utah with regard to the threat of legislation which would increase the availability of alcoholic beverages which, may the Lord forbid to ever come in the way that is now being proposed in the coming election. You mothers must rise up whenever you see the ugly heads of these things, and make sure that these things shall not be brought to your very doors. Bravery is courage in action. It produces the deed which sets the hero above the coward, as I have quoted. Yes, remember what the First Presidency has said in their Centennial message to the Relief Society and their injunctions which I have repeated to you now with such observations as I have been able to bring from my _ understanding and study of what they said. May the Lord bless us so to do, and give us the courage of our convictions in these troublous days and_ challenging times in which we live, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 15 ha t Dm AA awerla kK | Miitenberger ~ f pial q David E. Heywood, Regional Representative of the Council of the Twelve w Mayola Rogers Miltenberger possesses a heritage which she has tremendously built upon. Heritage, training, experience, and accomplishment fit her well to serve unselfishly in the call, as of October 23, 1968, to the Relief Society General Board. She is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. Sister Miltenberger's forebears have given faithful service in the Church. Her mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother served as Relief Society stake presidents. Her great-grandfather was the first stake president of the Snowflake Stake. Her greatgrandmother, Aurelia Spencer Rogers, daughter of Orson Spencer, founded the Primary Association. After high school graduation in Snowflake, Arizona, two years at the Brigham Young University, and a Bachelor's Degree at the University of Arizona, she obtained a Master's Degree in social work at Tulane University. She is a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers, and was Arizona Chapter chairman of the latter organization at one time. Sister Miltenberger has served in many Church positions, which 16 include ward Relief Society president. In these callings, as well as in her professional field, she has put the Church and the Lord first, being ever careful not to lean on her own understanding. In 1962, she was chosen to establish and direct the newly organized Arizona Relief Society Service Social, under the leadership of the Relief Society General Presidency and the priesthood of the area. Her work has been of such quality that the Relief Society General Presidency has called upon her strength and organizing ability to establish agencies of the Church in two other states, as well as to help in the parent agency in Utah. Sister Miltenberger's late husband, Lt. Col. Edwin J. Miltenberger, was a military career man and came from one of the old established, respected families of New Orleans. A host of friends and loved ones will wish her continued blessings in her new calling. Maurine M. Haycock Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society Edith S. Elliott, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Maurine McClellan Haycock was called to serve as a member of the General Board of Relief Society on October 23, 1968. She is well qualified for this position. The most important aim in her life is to serve the Lord. Her parents were George A. And Mary Wright McClellan. In 1938 she was married to David Arthur Haycock in the Salt Lake Temple. Early in their married life she held the unique position of being the wife of the youngest bishop in the Church at that time. Bishop Haycock was twenty-six years old when called to serve in Riverview Ward, Pioneer Stake. In 1952, the Haycock family moved to Washington, D. C. When Brother Haycock became administrative assistant to Elder Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture in President Eisenhower's cabinet. Sister Maurine served as a Relief Society visiting teacher. Two years later, Brother Haycock was appointed President of the Hawaiian Mission, and Sister Haycock gave devoted service to her new duties. When released, the family moved to Bountiful, Utah, and Brother Haycock is now se¢retary to the Council of the Twelve. Sister Haycock has had valuable experience in several wards as a class leader or as a member of the presidency in all of the Church auxiliaries. Sister Haycock's leadership was soon recognized and she was called to the Presidency of the South Davis Relief Society Stake Board. She has served for eight years as second counselor and then first counselor in charge of homemaking. For the past four years she has correlated the sewing assignments for the thirteen stakes in the Salt Lake Regional Bishops Storehouse. Brother and Sister Haycock are the parents of four lovely daughters: Marilyn (Mrs. Dee E. Morrison), Salinas, California; Judith Ann (Mrs. Carl W. Buchanan), Bountiful, Utah; Lynnette, a senior at Brigham Young University; and Cheryl. Senior at Viewmont High School, Bountiful. Little David Wendell Buchanan and Rebecca Ann Morrison will soon be saying, "Grandma" and "Grandpa." Truly the Haycock "cup runneth over." 17 re 0909709000008 2 G POLLO LACLCECKRECL KER LER V0 VICGoVveOvVoOVvVVvoVe? I? IY vrggog06cee¢? Eda7d g 7O7Tggygegegedgeesyeegdgved¢ggd§gdg dg "GIANT. 7 System in Genealogical Work 1969 0O0¢o000 0000080000000 0 @ Y Gg YU y V0 Ggudu vO SaN 0000000900000 000020 Q AS83335 59T80355352 38 923 GG QO GU OY YJ Prepared by the Genealogical Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints w@ Of vital interest to members of the Relief Society was an announcement made in the October 1968 priesthood meeting of the Semi-annual General Conference of the Church. It was disclosed in this meeting by a member of the First Presidency that the Genealogical Society has devised a more efficient system for preparing records to be used for temple ordinance work. During the seventy-five years of its organization, the Genealogical Society has tried to be of assistance to the saints in the work that Joseph Smith the Prophet described as "one of the greatest and most important subjects that God has revealed." During these years the Genealogical Society has continually searched to discover better and more efficient ways of performing the work of identifying our deceased relatives so the research and temple ordinance work could go forward more efficiently and rapidly. Acting under the direction and guidance of the First Presidency of the Church, and after prayerful and thoughtful 18 deliberation, a simplified system of recording identifying information of our kindred dead has been developed. Under this new plan the work of submitting records for temple ordinance work can go forward with greater ease and accuracy, and with much speedier processing of the tabulated information. In January 1969, a new instructional booklet will be made available to the members of the Church which will provide the details of this new program for simplifying and recording research work. Accompanying the booklet will be a sample form of a new, easy-to-use record called the Individual Entry Form. This form will allow individual names to be submitted to the Genealogical Society for temple ordinance work. Heretofore, only completed family group records have been accepted which has forced our saints not only to gather information for the family as a whole, thus slowing their efforts, but has also required them to make complex decisions beyond their capacity to do so. Under the new system the names of individuals will be submitted so that the temple work can be performed on an individual basis. The new program will be called the GIANT System, which name is taken from the initial letters of the complete name, Genealogical Information And Name Tabulation System. The new manual explaining the procedures for submitting individual names for ordinance work will be very concise and will consist of only twenty-seven pages of instruction. The Prophet Joseph taught,... That we redeem our dead, and connect ourselves with our fathers which are in heaven, and seal up our dead to come forth in the first resurrection; and here we want the power of Elijah to seal those who dwell on earth to those who dwell in heaven. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 337-338.) The GIANT System is so simple that all members of the Church from twelve years of age and up can use this method to comply with and fulfill the Lord's direction to the Church. Following the publication and distribution of the new instructional brochure, there will be a six-month period in which to complete and submit to the Genealogical Society all family group records already in preparation under the present system. During this period the Society can be acquainting themselves with the new system. After July 1, 1969, no more family group records prepared under the old system will be accepted by the Society. This will give the Society time to complete the processing of all records in its possession by The GIANT System in Genealogical Work—1969 1 October 1969. Beginning 1 October 1969, the Society will begin to accept the new individual entry. All records of research work should be submitted under the new plan on the new individual entry form and on family group record forms prepared under the new system. It is not to be inferred that the family group record will no longer be used or that it is being modified or changed. The Genealogical Society will still accept work submitted on these forms, but these will then be prepared in accordance with the simplified instructions which are part of the GIANT System. It will be more advantageous, in most instances, for the saints to use the individual entry forms for all future work when the information gathered will qualify the sheet for acceptance by the Society. The present program of ward record examiners will be continued without change. A modified instructional booklet for ward record examiners will be issued, but no change in procedures will be made. Relief Society sisters all over the Church will find this simplified program for submitting names for temple work to be easily understood and simple to fill out. The GIANT System will aid the saints better to carry out the divine edict of saving our dead and becoming saviors on Mount Zion. The Relief Society Presidency will present information in greater detail in future issues of the Relief Society Magazine so that our sisters will be well-informed and prepared to assist their husbands in priesthood genealogical work. 19 ADVICE TO THE VULNERABLE Never say, ''For the last time' About a lovely thing. Savor with joy the moment And let the heart sing. Too final a sound, ''For the last time," Too poignant the sudden ache. If ecstasy's gift be thus stolen The heart may silently break. Drink to the full each rapture Take life through the open gate. And if it should be '"'For the last time..." Oh, let that knowledge wait. ~Gay N. Blanchard Florence S. Jacobsen, General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in October 1968, was named a ''Woman of Conscience'"' by the National Council of Women. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and incoming President of the National Council of Women, proposed Mrs. Jacobsen for the award, stating that she ''truly exemplifies a 'Woman of Conscience,' subscribing in full and in every aspect of her life to the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights.' '' Beatrix Maria Treuherz is a young Brazilian woman who represents the public relations staff of the Varig Airlines and travels internationally in promoting the company's interests. Ariel Durant has collaborated with her husband Will in writing Rousseau and Revolution, the tenth and concluding volume of The Story of Civilization. Critics comment that this is a great series, written with lucidity, which delightfully ''opens a window on history,"' and that ''the warm blood of life courses through the pages.'' Miss Sharon Hintze, a graduate student in mathematics at Brigham Young University, has received the highest award that an American can win to attend a British University. The award, a Marshall Scholarship to the University of Warwick, was announced by the British Consul General in San Francisco, stating that the scholarship honor is unexcelled. Miss Hintze, a daughter of Dr. Lehi Hintze, Chairman of the B. Y. U. Geology Department, and Mrs. Hintze, will pursue advanced studies in algebraic topology. She will spend two academic years at Warwick, which is one of the newer British universities, founded in 1965. Lise Besthoff, of New York, former department store fashion director and buyer, started a business of her own, buying for individuals, ranging from those with modest incomes to kings. Often working on commission, she still delivers her. Clients' goods at less than what they would otherwise pay for them. May Sarton, poet and writer of poetic prose, is author of Plant Deaming Deep (Norton Publishers), in which she describes the joy and satisfaction she found in an old country house in New Hampshire. There she found ''life-restoring silence' and solitude for thinking, writing, and gardening. She found, also, personal development and rewarding experiences in her association with the people of the small New England town. Joan Sutherland is a coloratura soprano of whom Utah Symphony conductor Maurice Abravanel said: ''She has resurrected the image of the great prima donna—and the virtuoso vocal works of the last century have been renewed because of her superb vocal artistry.'' Australian-born, the diva is now~soloist to the world. 21 January 1969 m As one studies the scriptures, one wonders at the power of fasting and prayer. President Joseph F. Smith said that, if observed by the world,... Fasting would call attention to the sin of overeating, place the body in subjection to the spirit, and so promote communion with the Holy Ghost, and insure a Spiritual strength and power.... As fasting should always be accompanied by prayer, this law would bring people nearer to God. (Gospel Doctrine, Third Edition, page 298.) We read that Daniel was given power and understanding after mourning three full weeks, | ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did | anoint myself at ail, till three whole weeks were fulfilled. Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and | am come for thy words. (Dan. 10:3, 12.) Inspiring words on fasting and its power are learned from the experiences of the sons of Mosiah:... They had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God. (Alma 17:3.) Experiencing joy seems to be a part of true fasting, also, for one reads in the Doctrine and Covenants:... That thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, 22 epironAL Fastin in other words, (D&C 59:13-14.) While the observance of. Fast Day is outlined in some detail, the principle of fasting would seem to be an observance in the gospel which is left to the individual to live. How often should one pray on a Fast Day is left to the individual to decide. How often should one fast at other times than Fast Day is also a matter of individual decision. In times of grave illness and heavy trouble, however, instinctively one seeks the Lord in fasting and prayer, for the scriptures teach the power to be found rejoicing and prayer. Volume 56 January 1969 Number 1 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer : and Prayer therein. The Lord has said that he will not command in all things. President Joseph F. Smith said "'God delights in the willing heart.'' (J. D. 25:59.) When one fasts it should be accompanied by joy. The Savior said:... When ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance... That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret.... (Matt. 6:16, 18.) President Joseph F. Smith added the comment, ''In other words, appear to the world to be happy." (J. D. 25:58.) Emphasizing the personal disAnna B. Hart Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Lila B. Walch Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Darlene C. Dedekind Edith P. Backman Edythe K. Watson Winniefred S. Manwaring Ellen N. Barnes Elna P. Haymond Kathryn S. Gilbert Mary R. Young Verda F. Burton Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C, Pingree Afton W. Hunt Myrtle R. Olson Elsa T. Peterson Alice C. Smith Fanny S. Kienitz Lucile P. Peterson Elizabeth B. Wintars Elaine B. Curtis Jennie R. Scott Zelma R. West Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner frene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock cretion in fasting, President Smith also said:... But let it be remembered that the observance of the fast day by abstaining twenty-four hours from food and drink is not an absolute rule, it is no iron-clad law to us, but it is left with the people as a matter of conscience, to exercise wisdom and discretion.... But those should fast who can... (Gospel Doctrine, Third Ed., page 306.) He also said: On the Sabbath day you are to do no other thing than to prepare your food with singleness of heart, that your fasting may be perfect, and your joy may be full. This is what the Lord calls fasting and prayer. (Ibid. P. 308.) The Prophet Joseph wrote, under date of January 17, 1843, This being the time appointed by the Twelve as a day of humiliation, fasting, praise, prayer, and thanksgiving before the great Eloheim.... There was great joy among the people, that | had once more been delivered from the grasp of my enemies. (DHC V:252.) Fasting expresses to the Lord deep and profound personal feelings, prayers of entreaty, prayers of gratitude, of thanksgiving, prayers for assistance in preparatian for a special calling, prayers of love, of affirmation of faith reaching to knowledge. The joys of fasting and prayer are to be found. There is a great power to be experienced in fasting and prayer offered by the Lord to all as a blessing and a joy in spiritual strength and inner light. —M. C. S. 23 FALL AND SPRING SOCIALS Since Relief Society work is carried forward on a twelve-month basis, it is recommended that the two socials, heretofore designated as opening and closing socials, be called hereafter fall and spring socials, respectively. SETTING APART TO POSITIONS IN STAKE AND WARD AUXILIARIES The General Board of Relief Society calls attention to the recent ruling appearing in The Priesthood Bulletin, November 1968, page 14 ''Setting Apart to Positions in Stake and Ward Auxiliaries,'' paragraphs 4 and 5, that the sustaining vote of the ward membership of ward officers and teachers in ward auxiliary organizations is to be held at a sacrament meeting under the direction of the bishop. (This clarifies and amends instructions given in the ''Official Instructions,'' The Relief Society Magazine, November 1968, page 826.) MAGAZINES TO BE ORDERED ONE MONTH BEFORE BEGINNING DATE The General Board calls to the attention of Magazine subscribers are representatives the need to order the Magazine a full month ahead of the month in which it is to be started. For instance, a subscription to begin in March should reach the Magazine office by the first of February. When the desired issue is not received by a subscriber, invariably it is found that the order for the Magazine did not reach the General Board office by the first of the preceding month. THANKS FOR FRIENDS Thanks for the friends who remember to pray for me, Who when | am weak know just what to say for me, Whose faith remains strong when mine seems diminished, Who feel that my work is important, not finished, Thanks for the friends who through years stand undaunted, Who make me feel needed, beloved, and wanted. —Roxana Farnsworth Hase 24 Fight | RIVE: ise IVE GCefects | march of Dimes The National Foundation George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations w When the March of Dimes entered the field in 1958, birth defects seemed to be an unconquerable health menace, and, even today, 250,000 of America's newborn are stricken annually, and an additional 500,000 babies die in the womb. Medical science is beginning to see some hope, however, for the prevention of some defects. The recently marketed Rh vaccine and the German measles vaccine now being developed are two examples. In addition, the March of Dimes conducts prenatal care education programs to help reduce defects and infant mortality. The March of Dimes depends on an informed public to finance its programs of basic and clinical research, its nationwide network of more than 100 Birth Defects Centers and its programs of professional and public education. When you give to the March of Dimes, you fight birth defects. You help support more than 100 birth defects treatment centers. You help support brilliant medical scientific investigators. You help support a massive health education program aimed at getting the best possible medical care for every mother-to-be. That's the way it should be. Every child is entitled to a healthy start in life. Most children born with birth defects can be helped, but too many people still believe these afflictions are hopeless. Help us tell them of the progress medical science has made. FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS. GIVE TO THE MARCH OF DIMES SNOWBOUND? Now Winter thinks to bind me. But |, within these walls touched by fireglow, Escape his grasp, through magic of beloved books. So, winterbound, completely free am | this winter hour. —Dorothy R. Cox 25 ® Mary placed the last decoration on the Christmas tree before moving to the window to watch the soft white snow drift silently to the ground. It's going to be a wonderful Christmas this year, she thought—the children will have such a delightful time in the snow. If this weather continues, I'll have to dig Roy's old bobsled out of the garage. She sat down. She was still feeling a little weak from her illness and three-weeks stay at the nursing home. She had so much to be thankful for; she was well enough to have her son and his family home for Christmas, and the stay at the nursing home hadn't been so bad really— for one thing she had met some new friends. She leaned back on the davenport thoughtfully. She had meant to visit back at the Home before 26 "I can't imagine... Why you would ask me." "Tt You Give Enough" Helen H. Trutton this. Most of the patients she had met were lonely, some were neglected by their families, and some had no one at all to care. Maybe she could manage a short visit tomorrow and take them some of the cookies she had just baked. She chuckled to herself. Not even three hungry grandchildren could eat the dozens and dozens she had made. Mary sat up Straight. She would prepare a lovely basket of her choicest cookies and give them to Mrs. Gibson. Maybe she wouldn't accept them. Mary had tried to make friends with her, but she certainly hadn't succeeded during the three weeks. Mrs. Gibson was the loneliest person in the entire nursing home, that was certain. Mary didn't see one visitor enter her room. Once she asked the nurse about her. She had answered, "Mrs. Gibson Just tude, ess. She never has associated with the Others," "Is she terribly j]]9" Mary had asked. "No—not Seriously, though She has to have daily Medication," "Any relatives?" Mary had inquired. "T believe there is a woman, a distant Cousin or Someone who comes occasionally, but she never stays long." "What a Shame! She must be SO lonely." Mary remembered the nurse her a hug and Said Mary ary clasped her hands behind her head, allowing a lock of Eray hair to fall down bright blue eyes, her chin tilted ir. She frowned slightly at the telephone greeted her, « other, Jimmy has the flu—that Means we can t Possibly Spend Christmas With you." Mary SWallowed. Course Prefers go]j-' "If You Give Enough" red ribbons, and was hurrying down the street. Supposing Mrs. Gibson wouldn't accept her invitation to spend Christmas with her? Certainly it was her privilege to refuse. She recalled the mornings when she was at the nursing home. She would smile and say "sood morning." Sometimes Mrs. Gibson barely answered and sometimes she appeared not to hear. Several times Mary had stopped at her door and attempted a conversation, but she never got far. She slowed her steps, she was nearing the nursing home now. The snow was still coming down in large white graceful flakes like a bird winging its way to the earth. Everything looked so peaceful and calm, even the late blooming flowers didn't seem to mind the intrusion of the blanket of snow as they nodded daintily in the light breeze. She shook the snow from her scarf she had tied around her head, and stepped inside the building. Mrs. Lawes, the head nurse and manager, met her at the door. "My goodness, Mary Nish, what are you doing out on such a day?" 28 "It's really very pleasant out there, and I am bundled up like an Eskimo." "You must be careful." "I am. I made a few cookies for some of my friends." Mrs. Lawes smiled broadly. "Well, I can wager they will be happy to see you." Mary started down the hall. "T'll want to have a few words with you when I get ready to leave." "Very well, Mrs. Nish, I won't be far away." Mary hummed a tune as she hurried down the hall to make her first stop in the room of Mrs. Larson. She was delighted as she peeked her head around the open door to see three other friends she had planned to invite. "Well, Mary Nish," Mrs. Larson said, "come in, it's good to see you." "You look like Santa Claus," another greeted her. "T'm glad I found you four together," she said, handing each a package of cookies. "I hope you'll like them. I baked them fresh today." "Home-baked cookies!" they all seemed to exclaim in unison. "How wonderful, Mary," Mrs. Larson added, "but should you do so much?" "T feel fine. Oh, I take it easy ~ and slow, of course." "Sit down. We were just talking about you," Mrs. Larson said. "We miss your smiling face. You kept us all happy," Mrs. Smith said, then quickly added, "but, of course, were glad you are well and can be home, especially for Christmas." Mary removed her coat before sitting down. "My children, that is, my son and his family will be detained in coming home for Christmas—my grandson has the flu, but we'll be together later." "That's good," Mrs. Larson said. "So I was thinking, why not have you four over for the day? I want to ask Mrs. Johnson, too, and Mrs. Gibson." "We'd love to come," they replied again all together. "Mrs. Johnson has gone to her daughter's home,' Mrs. Smith said, "but Mrs. Gibson?" "Mary, I don't suppose she would come—she's still no friendlier than she was when you were here," Mrs. Larson said. "But I could ask." "Yes, you could." She stood up. "Then it's all settled." "If we can get permission to spend a day away from the nursing home," Mrs. Larson said. "T'll check with Mrs. Lawes right after I see Mrs. Gibson, and I'll let you know." At her next stop, she hesitated several moments before tapping on the door. She waited a short time, then knocked again. "Come in," she heard Mrs. Gibson say, "since when does a nurse knock before entering." Mary stuck her head in the door and called, "It's Mary Nish." "T see," Mrs. Gibson answered, "T thought you had gone home some time ago." "T brought you some cookies, I hope you'll enjoy them." The woman sitting in her wheelchair stared at her without speaking. Immediately. Finally she stammered, "Why—I—why would you bring me anything?" "If You Give Enough" "Because I thought you might enjoy them. They're fresh and my favorite recipe." Mrs. Gibson turned away quickly. "I didn't mean to sound rude, I—I just didn't expect anyone to bring me anything. They look delicious, thank you. Thank you very much. Would you care to sit down?" Mary smiled across the room at her. "Yes, for a moment. You see I'm inviting four of my friends from the nursing home to spend Christmas day at my home, and I—I hoped you'd come, too. Would you Mrs. Gibson?" The woman looked at her first with wonderment, and yet there was gratitude, too, in her eyes. She fumbled with a handkerchief and wiped her face. "I can't imagine," she finally said slowly, "why you would ask me. I've stayed behind these four walls for over a year—TI didn't think anyone cared." "Most people around you are friendly, if you give them a chance to be." Mrs. Gibson left her wheelchair and moved over to the window. "I guess I never did have much of a way with people. I have one visitor, and she seldom comes. I don't blame her—not really." "Will you come?" Mary asked again. "You—you mean you really want me? What about your other guests?" "We all want you." She went back to the wheelchair and sat down quietly. "Thank you, Mrs. Nish, yes, I'd like so much to come to your 29 January 1969 home for Christmas—if I'm allowed to leave." She found her in the office near the entrance still checking charts. She looked up and smiled. "Looks as if you found them all. You want to see me?" Mary handed her the list. "T'd like very much to have these ladies spend Christmas day at my home." The nurse took the slip of Paper and studied it Closely for several moments. Finally, she we couldn't possibly let them leave. Mrs. Gibson for Instance..,." "Not even for a few hours?" "Tt wouldn't be advisable—I'm certain their doctors wouldn't allow it." She looked again at the sheet of paper she was holding. "Let's see, Mrs. Larson could go, and possibly, Mrs. Smith... But...." "T was going to cook a Christmas dinner,..." Doctor Lamson stuck his head around the door at that moment. "You were going to do what, Mary Nish?" "Oh, hello, Doctor, I didn't see you.": "That's obvious. I'm sorry, but as your doctor, I Say absolutely not. You'd fuss too much." "But I've already asked them." "T'm sorry," Mrs. Lawes Said. - She done? Built up everyone's hopes? Now She would have to 30 tell them they couldn't come. She turned Sadly to return to her friends, and almost bumped into Mrs. Gibson. "You heard?" She asked. "You tried," she said Softly. Then she turned to Mrs. Lawes. "T have the largest room in this Place. Could we have a table in my room and...?" "And have the dinner there?" the nurse asked. Of course you could. How about it, Mary?" Doctor Lamson put his hand on Mary's shoulder. "Now, I'd Physician, her chin tilted with Just a hint "If you promise to save me a Piece of pie." "T promise," "Then it's settled," Mrs. Gibson said, and for the first time Mary saw that she was smiling. "Will you tell the others?" "T surely will," Mary answered. Hank you." After Mrs. Gibson left, Mrs. Awes reached out and took Mary's hand. "How did you ever do it? [ didn't think anyone could ever reach Mrs. Gibson." Then she squeezed her hand. "Oh, I know all right. I've heard you say if 'if you give enough love...' well, you did win, Mrs, Nish. Have a wonderful Christmas!" ity Melda Barker Steele Skinner, Provo, Utah, has often been called the ''Quilt Lady." She estimates that she has made over 300 quilts for gifts and for donation to Relief Society. In addition to making quilts, she also sews rags for rugs, and embroiders towels and pillow cases. Her homemade bread is one of the first items sold at Relief Society fund-raising events. Sister Skinner is the mother of six children; she has twenty-four grandchildren, and twenty great-grandchildren, all of whom adore her. For the young ones, she makes doll quilts, which are treasured throughout the years. Annie Jensen Kirby McQueen, Preston, Idaho, not only makes beautiful quilts, but she teaches this art to others. She has originated many beautiful patterns. For fifty-five years she has been a member of Relief Society, and for many of these years she has served as "'quilt chairman."', For each new baby in the family, she has made a lovely quilt, and has donated many to Relief Society bazaars. At one Relief Society General Conference, she provided a display at the homemaking session, which was lovely and well received. Eight natural children call her mother, as well as four others whom she reared, and many grandchildren love their busy grandma. T ad " © ~Make Room m Adaystretcher, Laura Redding thought. Why couldn't some inventive genius come up with that? A guaranteed success—women would stand in line for even the first, unperfected models. Or, at the very least, a wastedtime collection device that would pick up all the time from all the people who might say, "I simply don't know what to do with myself today," place it on tap at some central bureau, to be dispensed like plasma or gamma globulin, first priority going to mothers the two weeks before Christmas. Laura shook her head vigorously, clearing it of such nonsense. Just look at that list! A week before Christmas, and all those plans and preparations left untouched or unfinished. "All on account of Alexander Graham Bell, anyway," she sighed, debating through four 32 for Christmas Lucy Parr rings whether to ignore the pealing telephone. If one more person had one more suggestion.... "Good morning." She never could ignore the magnetism of that bell. "Yes—yes, this is the Redding residence. Doctor who?" Laura listened, dazed, as this voice, this Dr. Seaton, explained. Personal physician to Laura's Aunt Elva Haney, he was calling from Danville. Aunt Elva, nearing seventy-five, had fallen on a patch of ice, broken a wrist, and been shaken up somewhat. "She has been here at the hospital since Thursday," the doctor went on. "But she should have let us know...." "Insisted she didn't want to be a nuisance," Dr. Seaton said briskly. "It was with some reluctance, because of the busy season, that she gave me your name as the family member living near." The doctor paused, and Laura waited, her mind refusing to function beyond the knowledge that this call spelled emergency, just that way, in bold letters. "Mrs. Haney will be able to leave the hospital by tomorrow," the man said, "if... Well, I feel that she should not try to go home alone these first days. Might you come and take her home with you for a brief visit?" "IT... Well, I..." Laura shook her head as if recovering from a blow. "Yes, Dr. Seaton. Of course, I'll come. In the morning... About ten." The receiver fell back in its cradle, as rebellion arose in her mind. "I can't! Oh, I won't." But immediately she thought, "T can. I must. I will." But how could she? So little time. So many things yet to be accomplished. How to take a half day tomorrow to drive the fifty miles to Danville and bring Aunt Elva back? How to find time for rearranging their lives to accommodate an old lady? Laura slumped to a chair. Why couldn't this have waited just a little longer, when the holiday rush was over? "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matt. 25:40.) Laura sat up with a start. Could she have become so selfcentered as to think of her own convenience when a loved one needed help! Aunt Elva and Uncle Gib hadn't thought of convenience those summers long ago, when as many as a dozen of the cousins had converged on the farm at Make Room for Christmas once. Aunt Elva had cooked and cleaned and removed slivers— and comforted in the night. And she had smiled as she did it. Childless, she now had no one to turn to except those tousled, mischievous, nieces and nephews. "T will!" Laura said firmly, and got to her feet. Sherene could move in with Cindy for as long as necessary. She would fuss a bit, but that front bedroom would be more pleasant for Aunt Elva, with its view of the street. How pampered they had become, that she should feel hesitant about suggesting that the girls share a room. Quickly, Laura went about her work, trying to push the panic of the Christmas rush from her mind, thinking of the things that must be done in preparation for Aunt Elva's arrival. From somewhere she would just have to find the time, and strength, to see them through these next few days. Laura waited until dessert time that night to make her announcement. Jonathan looked up, surprised. "Think you can swing it, honey?" "T have to swing it,' Laura answered. "But why, Mom?" Sherene demanded, upon learning about the room arrangement. "It's not fair. Everything's just the way I like it, and now you...." Hurriedly, Laura explained her reasons, her firmness cutting further complaints to a minimum. After the first announcement, Jimmy exhibited boredom about the entire subject. Only fiveyear-old Cindy showed anything but reluctance. 33 January 1969 "Oh, I think that will be fun, to have a grandma-age lady at our house." Her friend Pamela had a grandmother to visit, which fascinated Cindy. It was late afternoon the following day before Laura returned from Danville with Aunt Elva, two hours longer than she had budgeted for the trip. With an effort, she fought back the panic that kept pushing at her, helping Aunt Elva to get settled in the front bedroom. Dinner was a quickly-assembled noodle casserole and canned biscuits. "Aw, Mom," Jimmy complained, "I never did like slippery dinners. Why can't we have a real....?" Laura silenced him with a glare, and they finished the meal in reasonable peace. Before Laura could suggest a helping hand with the dishes, a horn sounded and_ Sherene grabbed her coat. "That's Mrs. Webb. She's driving us to our practice for the pageant. I'll be back before nine." Home to a teenager often was little more than a convenient filling station, Laura thought in resignation. And command post, she added, as Sherene turned at the door to remind, "Don't forget—I have to have my costume by Tuesday." And now Jimmy reminded her, "And the cookies you promised for our Cub Scout Christmas party." Laura nodded, wanting to press her hands tightly over her ears, as Cindy did when refusing to hear a reprimand. But at least Jimmy's was one party which, mercifully, she hadn't been bur- 34 dened with this time around. "I do wish I might lend a hand," Aunt Elva apologized, as Laura began clearing away the dishes. "But this cast...." "Of course you're not to help," Laura insisted. "You're our guest." After a time, she felt rising impatience with the way Aunt Elva persisted in a_ constant reiteration of the past, the simple holiday celebrations when the families had gathered at Grandmother Dalton's place, each bringing a part of the meal and a great measure of anticipation. "Remember Uncle Anson and his fiddle, do you?" the old lady queried. "The hours we spent, just hearing the Christmas songs over and over again. My, the way that man could bring the peace of Christmas right into the room to abide with us." She sighed. "Even during those depression years, when fear walked a few paces behind so many folks...." Then Aunt Elva smiled. "And Aunt Melinda—every year it was the same. A handmade pincushion for every niece in the family." Remembering, Laura laughed. "And Uncle Harmon, measuring each one of us kids to his belt buckle, that one day, every year. The size of Uncle Harm, both up and around, made it entirely plausible to me that giants walked the earth." Abruptly, Laura turned away. Sure, it had been good. But standing here reminiscing didn't get her own Christmas preparations finished on time. Grandma hadn't known about Cub Scouts, or a myriad other things that waited for Laura's attention. Before excusing herself for the night, Aunt Elva insisted, "I've not bothered much about breakfast in the years since Uncle Gib died, since I moved to that apartment in town. So, if you don't mind, dear, I'll just sleep in a bit." "T'll bring a tray later...." "You'll do no such thing," the old lady declared. "Should I feel hungry, I can help myself to a glass of milk." Laura did not argue, though she wondered if this was Aunt Elva's way of giving them an opportunity to untangle the family for the morning, without a strange presence imposing. A: breakfast, the children were almost rude in their demands. "Mom, just put my costume in a box, so I can carry it easily," Sherene commanded. "I promised Beth that she could see it today, before the others do." "The costume is not quite finished," Laura said, forcing impatience from her voice. "I? Ll work at it...." "Not finished! Well, crying out loud, you said...." "I said I'd try," Laura reminded. "Well, if you hadn't brought that old lady here, then there would be time to do things right." "Honey," Laura said gently, "that old lady happens to be my aunt, a member of the family— and a member of the human family." "But why did she have to bother now?" Sherene demanded. Jonathan gave the answer that Laura had formed. "Because now is when she is hurt and needs help." Make Room for Christmas "But why us?" Sherene persisted. "Because we're closest," Laura answered. "Because right now, helping her is more important than letting Beth get a preview of your costume." She could not be too cross with Sherene, having felt some rebellion herself. "Well, [ll be glad when all this is over," Sherene snapped, pushing away from the table. But, before Laura could voice her dismay at such a statement, Jonathan glanced at his watch and stood. "What time do I expect you at the office?" Laura had almost forgotten the company party early this evening. She glanced around the cluttered kitchen. Then, surprising herself as much as Jonathan, she said, "I'm not coming," her voice perfectly calm. "Not...?" "Not," she repeated. "I have neither the time nor the inclination to watch Mr. Swaynson, in those false whiskers and phony voice, pretending to be Santa Claus to a lot of equally ridiculous adults." Until now, she had not admitted, even to herself, how thoroughly bored she had become by these parties. "Jon, honey, at least for this time, you can collect the clever little toys for both of us. Suddenly Jonathan laughed. "Bless you. I'll be home early." And she noted that he was whistling as he backed his car from the garage. With the two older children at last on their way to the final day of school activities, and Cindy absorbed in one of Aunt Elva's 35 January 1969 tales of "the way it used to be," Laura rushed at her work. And then she stopped in alarm. That was just what she was doing—rushing at things—attacking them in her pent-up frustration, close to anger. What were they doing? This normally close family, snapping at each other, tempers frazzled, at a time that should be a joyous celebration. Having Aunt Elva come had cost her most of one precious day. But they had been on this impossible merry-go-round long before Aunt Elva's arrival. What a frightening reflection of their manner of observing Christmas, that Sherene should even think "Well, I'll be glad when all this is over." Where had Christmas gone, the true spirit of Christmas, "the way it used to be," as Aunt Elva had so vividly reminded? Where was the time just to hold close the sacredness of Christmas? It was buried, under an avalanche of unnecessary doing and having. That was where the difference lay. Christmas had once centered around people and spirit, not around things. But we can go back, Laura thought exultantly. We can make room for Christmas, in our hearts and in our lives. Bit by bit, they could cull out the nonessentials and find their way back to the spirit of peace, to the spirit of Christ, which could be found only in the quietness of each human heart. AT YEAR'S BEGINNING Great-grandfather's Bible has a special place on his walnut table, a crocheted fan, ribbon run, covers it. This and his "specs," steel-rimmed, in leather case, lie unused all year long. As December middles on to January, the book is opened to the Christmas story. Glasses handy on the page and chair close drawn remind that he once sat, just so, On Christmas Eve. 36 Now his third great-grandchildren place a manger scene, turn on the lights. He knew not these— and read anew the old loved story.... Today at year's beginning | put the scene away and close the book again. —Zara Sabin inside and out _ © - -: ~ My sister walks the second mile, 4 4 | could if | would choose " =. To take the challenge and the will | yee' And fit them to my shoes., My sister's goodness is a light And people see its glow. If | would forget self in service Real joy | would know. God gave me agency and a bit of time To prove myself on com And I'll ask myself at judgment "Have | justified my birth?" Norma A. Wrathall @ Sometimes, a thing you handled long ago will span the years and carry you, suddenly, into a moment from the past. It was so with the bone hairpins, which I happened to find in the wooden box in which they were kept. Mama always used bone hairpins to hold her long wavy hair in place, coiled smoothly on top of her head. She said that wire hairpins scratched the hair and roughened it, and furthermore, couldn't be depended upon to hold firmly. I never recall seeing a wire hairpin in her hair at any time, nor did she ever wear a net. At night, the rich brown locks were combed to smoothness and braided into a long braid. Next morning, her hair was combed out, coiled softly, and pinned up before she ever set foot into the kitchen at six-thirty or so, to begin her day's work. Mama spent very little time, actually, caring for her hair, or for any other personal thing. She didn't have the time to spare. But every two weeks, she prepared to wash her hair, using rain water that was collected in a big barrel under the water spout during summer rains, or melted snow in winter. Lacking either of these, ditch water was used, after it had been dipped into a tub and the sediment allowed to settle out for at least a day. The ditch water came from melting snow in the mountains. We lived in a hard-water area, and this was before the days of water-softening compounds or bubbly shampoos. Mama would shave part of a bar of Packer's Tar Soap into a small pan, put some water with it, and let it stand on the back of the wood-and-coal range to melt, while she put a big pan of water on the front of the stove to heat, and spread newspapers over the middle part of the kitchen floor. Looking back, I wonder that she wasn't entitled to a bit of privacy; but my sister and I always watched her, sometimes handing the soap pan, or an extra towel, if needed. 38 her. I'm still trying. In my opinion she is a perfect mother, and I know her children agree with me. They are her most important possessions and they know it. She is always patient and friendly towards them. They love her and are obedient because they love to please her. She takes time to listen to their problems and always tries to help them find a solution. She is constantly on the alert for teaching opportunities. She arises early and goes to bed late in order to keep her house in order. My friend is a tremendously spiritual person. She loves our Heavenly Father and she lives very close to him. She acknowledges his help in everything she does. She has a strong testimony of the gospel and never makes excuses for not living it. She firmly believes that we can do whatever the Lord asks us to do and she does it cheerfully. I will never forget a missionary conference where she bore her testimony. Our husbands worked together in the stake mission presidency and had been required to spend many hours away from home the previous few weeks. I had only two small children, but I had been feeling sorry for myself. During the conference, several stake missionaries and their wives bore their testimonies and then excused themselves for not having put in the expected number of hours by saying that their families needed them. In my heart I knew this was not right, but I nodded in agreement and wished my husband felt the same way. Then my friend stood, and with tears in her eyes, told how difficult it was for her to The Influence of a Friend rear her children (seven now) with her husband goneso much. "But," she said, "I have found that if I do not complain and cheerfully let him go and do the work I know the Lord wants him to do, the Lord sends a special spirit into our home that takes the place of our father and priesthood bearer. This spirit protects, comforts, and helps me just as my husband would if he were at home." My friend has so many wonderful qualities that it would take a whole book to tell all of them, but I must tell one more because it is so very rare. When I had only known her a few weeks I began telling her why I didn't like a neighbor. Instead of sympathizing with me and adding her own disparaging remarks, she said, "Well, I have known her for a long time and I'm sure when you really get to know her, you'll like her, too." I soon learned not to speak against anyone in her presence. She didn't dislike anyone. If someone did something of which she didn't approve, she would try to find out the motive. If she couldn't uncover a justifiable excuse, she would still not condemn. My friend and I are separated by a thousand miles now and I miss her terribly. Whenever I have a spiritual experience or learn a new gospel truth, I long to call her and share it with her, knowing she would understand and truly rejoice with me. When I have a new discipline problem with my children or discover a successful way to manage them, I wish I could lift the receiver and say to her, "Do you have a minute to talk?" 43 Wine Hy jd tad Ah = WHO WILL SHOW HER HOW? = Dorothy F. Condry + | @ When my sister, Norma, came to see me last week, she handed me an old shoebox tied with string, saying, "I went by Aunt Cora's the other day and found her rummaging through her cedar chest. Suddenly she pulled out this box and handed it to me. I didn't know what to do with it, so I brought it to you." "What in the world is it?" I asked. "Why don't you open it and find out?" I untied the string and lifted the lid. The box was literally filled with exquisite tatting, in a combination of blue and white thread. "How beautiful!" I exclaimed. "Isn't it!" Norma agreed. As I carefully examined the contents, I discovered a number of bundles of completed circles of tatted edging, tied together according to size. At the very bottom of the box were several linen doilies to which some of the lace had been sewed. What a lovely table setting this would make! There would be doilies large enough to use under platters and small enough for tumblers, along with several in-between sizes. I closed my eyes and visualized the completed linen set. "Grandma Dyer made the tatting for Aunt Cora years ago,'"' Norma informed me. (Aunt Cora is now ninety years old.) "T thought it might be her work. It looks as though whoever started sewing the edging onto the doilies didn't keep at it very long." "Oh, Aunt Cora was supposed to do that," Norma explained. 'She didn't tell me why she gave up on the job, but I imagine it was for the same reason I don't want to tackle it—it's just too much needlework." Then she added, quickly, "But you have a lot of patience, Dorothy. Why don't you finish the set? It's yours, if you do!" "Thanks for the compliment—and the tatting. I suppose you knew I would accept your challenge. I only wish it had come sooner. That good old arthritis is really bothering my hands these days." As I undertake to complete this project on which Grandmother Dyer's fingers worked so diligently those many years ago, I am well aware of what a tedious task it will be. The linen circles first have to be finished with narrow, carefully rolled hems before the tatting can be sewed on with tiny stitches. But it will make such a gorgeous luncheon set, I am bound and determined to finish it—and in time to use it myself! Why? Because I'm not at all sure any of my children, or grandchildren, would appreciate, or even care to own, this, their great-grandmother's heirloom. Girls today, our young homemakers and mothers, show little interest in handwork. Embroidering and tatting are rapidly becoming lost arts. The other I day I asked my young daughter-in-law, "Don't you want me to teach you how to tat?" She shrugged her shoulders and merely replied, ''Plastic doilies suit me just fine. They're so easy to keep clean, too." "But you have so many more gadgets to help with your housework than I did when I was your age, how is it I had time for handwork and you don't?" She looked at me a full minute, carefully weighing her reply. "When your mother was young, and even when you were my age, a mother was more or less relegated to her kitchen, or at least to one corner of the parlor, when politics, or public affairs were under discussion. A woman just wasn't supposed to know about such things, and her opinion was seldom sought on matters outside the home. Her opportunity for self-expression was what she could make with her hands. That's why she spent so much time doing handwork. 44 Who Will Show Her How? "Times have changed. Young mothers today are well-educated and are expected to have opinions on important matters. The radio and TV help us keep posted on local and world news as we go about our housework. We are encouraged to participate in community projects and to vote in political contests. We have innumerable opportunities for self-expression and no longer need to keep our opinions and personalities bottled up while we sit in a corner and knit." As she finished speaking, I just sat there, speechless. "Please don't think I'm being rude," she quickly apologized. "But that's my answer to your question." I had to admit there was much truth in her explanation, but it left me feeling completely defeated in my effort to promote in her life what has so enriched mine. When I was only twelve, my neighbor's fifteen-year-old niece came visiting. One day, as I watched her knitting, I asked if she would show me how. She was more than willing and proved an excellent teacher. I soon learned how to knit and also how to crochet. My mother had previously showed me how to embroider, and a few years later my grandmother helped me master the art of tatting. I have thoroughly enjoyed these accomplishments through the years, and proudly use my handmade garments and home decorations. But now I find myself wondering—will these tokens of my efforts towards self-expression which I prize so highly be unappreciated and a lost art in the not too distant future? Recently, when my father's sister passed on, I became heir to some lovely doilies with drawn threads and intricate stitches—different from any I know how to make. There are also several centerpieces with edging made by combining crocheting and various kinds of braid, such as rickrack and coronation braid. I figured. Out how to make the edging, but the drawn work has me puzzled, and I know of no one who can show me how it was done. As I studied over that lovely needlework, which, to me, is a lost art, I couldn't help wondering, suppose some day my granddaughter looks with admiring eyes at a piece of my handwork, and has a desire to learn how it was made, will there be anyone around who can show her how? THE DOLL WOMAN Widowed these years, and childless years before, She collects dolls. Ranged on windowledge, on door Lintel, their bright bland faces vaguely smile Or pout in miniature childishness, the while Their moving or painted eyes in simulated Candor look from each corner; their mock-animated Poses liven every nook and shelf. She moves among them, lavishing herself In care of them. Each child-facsimile Is carefully posed, arranged; daily she dusts each elf, Each pretty puppet, lifeless eternally— For the children, oh, the children! —They flock to her from miles around, To touch, to exclaim, to see! —Katherine F. Larsen 45 Welcome The Task chapter 3 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, disquieted by a discussion with Steve Rey, the young man she had been dating, has gone to Houston to visit her mother's widowed cousin, Bea McPherson. Bea's stepson arranges for Jennifer to go on a blind date to the Astrodome. @ Bea seemed amused by the look on Jennifer's pretty young face. "Now what could you have done that is so bad?" she asked smilingly. Jennifer kicked her shoes off. "Oh, Bea, have you ever laid eyes on that Jim Long?" "Jimmy Long has been in the ward for a number of years, and he is good looking. Have you fallen for him already?" "Well, I could, given half a chance. And I guess I did sort of flirt with him a little." "You were just dazzled by all those white teeth and those blue eyes of his. How did you and 46 Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Dick get along, or did you?" Bea asked. "Well, it was nothing spectacular," Jennifer commented. "He is very pleasant, and extremely nice, but we didn't really hit it off. Perhaps I'm too young for him." "Tt is possible. Well, you run along and get some sleep, and dream about Jim, for we'll be seeing him in church tomorrow." They did see Jim Long in church, and at many other places, too, for he was as interested in Jennifer as she was in him. He spent a great deal of time at Bea's home, after work, and he took Jennifer to some interesting places. Bea loved entertaining, and it was always easy to find a number of people who would enjoy steaks cooked out of doors and swimming in the large, lovely pool. Jennifer delighted in attending church meetings in the mission field, for it seemed that being a member of a minority group pulled the members closer together. The singing of the hymns was enthusiastic, and Jennifer loved listening to Jim's excellent voice as she sat proudly beside him. She decided to send Steve a card and note, just to see if he would respond. She told him about the many things she was doing, but not with whom. She hoped he was having a good summer, although, she thought rather guiltily, working on construction was hot, tiring work. She was both pleased and surprised to receive a letter from him the very next day, indicating that he had written even before she did. "Jenny, how is your mother's heart condition?" Bea inquired one afternoon. Jennifer's face clouded. "Well, the doctor at home says that he doesn't think he wants to operate." ' "T)oesn't think!" Bea exploded. "Such indecision." "That's about how we feel. We want a definite answer from him about how Mother really is. It hurts to know that she suffers so much, yet never complains. She never has, but without an operation, she won't improve." "She is one in a million," Bea said sincerely. "And she has reared quite a family." Jennifer colored. '""We aren't quite reared yet. Sam is just twelve." "Just how are those three boys doing?" Bea asked. "They are quite a trio." Welcome the Task Jennifer thought of her three brothers, and wondered if anything should happen to_ her mother, what she would do? "Dave will be a junior this fall, and is quite a football player." "T knew your father would make one out of him," Bea said thoughtfully. "Yes, Dad has really helped and encouraged him all the way. Pete is a ninth grader, and, at times, quite a menace. Just before I left, he was using the freezer outlet in the garage for the heater for his pigeons, and he forgot to plug the freezer back in. When we discovered it, everything was floating." "Oh, dear, was it a total loss?" "You know Mother, she gave some of the meat and vegetables to the Relief Society, it was really good meat, and she gave some to the neighbors, and was able to get a little remuneration for some of it. Still, it badly depleted the supply. Pete is really sorry, but he has to learn to think." "They all go through that stage," Bea commented. "Sam's a dear," Jennifer told her. "He will be in the sixth grade, and is smart as a whip. He has a temper to go along with that red hair of his, but Mother is working on that, too." Just talking about her family made Jennifer miss them. She had been in Houston a month, and was enjoying every minute of it, but thoughts of home often pulled at her heartstrings. "dow long are you staying here?" Jim inquired, as he assisted her into his bright blue sports car. 47 January 1969 "Bea wants me to remain until Labor Day," she smiled up at him, still somewhat dazzled by his good looks. "So do I, and longer if you would." "Tm a student, remember. School starts in September, and I've yet to discover a way of attending by proxy." "T've yet to figure a way of keeping you here, but I'm working on it," Jim said, looking at her fondly. "You're smart enough already, Jenny. You don't need any more education. And you've done a world of good to Bea." Jennifer tried to put the skids on her wildly beating heart, for she was normally a level-headed girl and didn't want to ruin that reputation by falling for a young man so fast. Besides, she was afraid that Jim was the kind of man who dropped a girl as soon as he was certain that she was thoroughly and completely captivated by him. She steered the conversation to what she hoped was a safer topic. "What about your school plans, Jim? I know that you are in pre-law." Jim loved to talk about himself, this Jennifer knew. "Well, I have one more semester here. Then I think I will go out to Utah." He looked at her meaningfully. Jennifer decided that she had steered the conversation the wrong way. Keep your cool, she thought to herself. Keep him talking about himself. Don't let all those good looks and that easy flattery of his go to your head. After all, you've known him scarcely a month, let it not be said that Jennifer Miles was 48 swept off her feet, neither let it be said that she was a fool and deserved a broken heart. It only took a few questions to get Jim again talking about himself. He had his future well in mind, and he was planning to get ahead in the world. He was brilliant, but most of all he was determined. Jennifer wondered if he might not be above stepping on a few toes to get what he wanted. The one big difference between her and Jim, she decided, was that money, position, and appearances were quite important to him, while to her they were secondary. It seemed that whenever there was a party at Bea's, Dick Craddock was there. Jennifer, although wrapped up in her own life, had not failed to notice that he was very attentive to Bea, in a mature, interested way. Some of the great sadness seemed to have left his eyes. It fell into pattern when Paula mentioned one evening that she thought Bea and Dick were good for one another. "What do you mean?" Jennifer asked absently. "They have both lost the one they love," Paula replied. Jennifer's interest picked up. "Oh, really, is Dick a widower?" = EN told her that Dick had lost his wife and two-year-old son in an automobile accident, in which he had been only slightly injured. Although the other driver had clearly been at fault, Dick had gone on blaming himself through many years. Bea's good humor and infectious happiness, despite her trials, had made him apparently forget his own sadness a little, and he had mellowed a great deal toward his fellow workers. He always seemed genuinely concerned to see that Bea had an enjoyable time, and helped her as hostess. "Of course," Paula said, "he hasn't rushed with any romantic overtures, but they certainly do seem to enjoy one another's company very much." After that Jennifer was aware that there did seem to be an attraction between her cousin and the man with whom she had had a date the evening she first met Jim. She had been dating Jim for two months when he inquired as to the other men in her life, quite casually, and offhandedly. Apparently her moment's hesitation made him think that there might be someone back in Utah. Although Jennifer had not thought too seriously of Steve throughout the summer, it made her bristle slightly to have Jim say matter-of-factly, "Well Ill be keeping you busy when I reach Utah in February." Somehow she felt as though he was indicating that he was unconcerned that there was anyone who could possibly be competition, and that Jennifer might prefer to make her own decision. This sent her on a sentimental journey. In her mind she saw Steve as an elder, bearing a humble, moving testimony; on Diversion Day, at Stratford Upon Avon, so impressed and _ interested; the night of his farewell at the mission home, asking her if she would write. There was Steve at a football game, excited and engrossed; at a play, comprehending the message and art; Welcome the Task Steve across from her in the library, intent on his writing, serious and thoughtful, never quite satisfied. The memories could go on and on. She could see Steve with his mother, so devoted, or romping in the yard with her brothers, flushed and laughing, his blonde head gleaming with perspiration. For more than two years they had shared so much. How she_ suddenly yearned to see him. Of course, to be fair, she had to admit that Jim had devoted a great deal more of his time to her in the two months than Steve ever would, but this was summer, and Jim wasn't forced to work long, hot hours to put himself through school, nor did he have a widowed mother to whom he felt an_ obligation. Why, she thought, am I defending Steve so, and against what? I am afraid, my dear Mr. Long, there is competition, or at least I hope so. Jim interrupted her silent thoughts. "You're awfully quiet, Jenny." She could think of no clever reply, so she merely smiled and said, "I'm sorry, I was just thinking." "Of the past, present, or the future?" he questioned. "A little of each," she confessed, without looking at Jim. "Hmm," he said, "How about just the present for now?" O. A rare evening when Bea prepared a meal to be eaten inside, she invited the bishop and his wife over. The bishop was well-known throughout the area as Dr. Hopper, director of the famed Texas Medical Center, one 49 January 1969 of the leaders in the field of heart disease and internal medi- "Perhaps it __ would be possi- -- ble, to arrange -for the surgery." The bishop was indeed an impressive man, Jennifer thought. Eventually the conversation got around to the topic of Elizabeth Miles' heart condition. He seemed very interested, and asked Jennifer several questions. A little while later he said, "Jennifer, do you think that your mother might be willing to risk major heart surgery of a kind that hasn't been performed too many times on humans yet, but has been very successful?" "Yes, I really think she would, Bishop, why?" "Have you ever heard of Dr. Benjamin Mayhew?" Jennifer had not, but Bea had, and was impressed. Dr. Mayhew was one of the world's foremost heart specialists. Jennifer caught on, just as the bishop was saying, "I'm not certain, but it might be possible that we could arrange for your mother to undergo surgery here in Houston, providing she is fit, of course. This would require an examination, but Dr. Mayhew has been interested in performing a mitro operation." Jennifer's heart raced. This man was director of the hospital, perhaps it would be possible, he had said, to arrange for the surgery. It wasn't certain, but.... That night Jennifer prayed fervently that things could be worked out so that her mother could be relieved of her misery. Jennifer realized that it might mean that she must drop out of school for awhile, but it would be well worth it. It would also mean that she was going to have to remain in Houston at least until it was decided whether Dr. Mayhew still wanted to perform such an operation. Of course there was the question of whether the family wished to take the risk. There were many matters to be settled, but this seemed to Jennifer to be the answer to many prayers. (To be continued) DADID AD AD GD CD AD GD AD ALD AD AD AD GD AD CI AID GI GIS = — MIGHT If only we unveil our eyes Awaits the trusting soul who sees = UYU PYUCUCVCV CY CY CV CYCYCVCYUCYVCYUCYUCVCE! SYUCVCVCYVCICICS Mey = = = = = God's might encompasses our world Enfolding each of us in love. To know the truth. A home above That God protects the least of these. —Gladys Hesser Burnham San Fernando Stake (California), Saugus Ward Relief Society Presents "Speaking of Melinda" for "Expo 68" May 17, 1968 The children in the front row, the two children at the right in the second row, and several of the sisters Standing in the back row are members of the cast for the Ina Eaton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society, reports: "A special stake event exposing the breadth and accomplishments of Relief Society was presented. "The program was highlighted by the presentation of the dramatization 'Speaking of Melinda,' by the Saugus Ward. The stake Singing Mothers, a luncheon, style review; and colorful exhibits rounded out the program. The extensive participation by the wards meant valuable experience and enjoyment gained by many sisters." 51 January 1969 Denver West Stake (Colorado), Broomfield Ward Displays Handicraft at Patio Party Honoring Officers and Class Leaders May 29, 1968 Margene S. Miller, former president, Denver West Stake Relief Society, reports: "Dorothea C. Shawcroft, President of the Broomfield Ward Relief Society, and her counselors decided to show their appreciation for the devoted work carried out in Relief Society by the officers and class leaders by hostessing a patio party in their honor. They had held their first bazaar in 1967 and were eagerly preparing for one in 1968. "Colorful displays representing various activities and homemaking meetings throughout the year thrilled the sisters. Towel painting, tiered trays, rock people, burlap and formafilm flowers, and place mats were some of the many beautiful articles displayed. 'Betty Z. Curtis is the new president of Denver West Stake Relief Society." $e West Mexican Mission, Obregon, Sonora, Branch Celebrates Relief Society Birthday March 17, 1968 Left to right: Ana Maria Millan, First Counselor, Obregén Branch Relief Society; Delia M. DeGarcia, Second Counselor; Hector Portelo; Eufemia Saenz Vda. De Ramos, President; Carmen Quijada; Engracia Padilla. Rae Olsen, Supervisor, West Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Obregon, Sonora, Branch Relief Society celebrated the birthday of Relief Society with a special dance program entitled 'Chiapas.' Professor Hector Portelo assisted in the preparation of the program. There was a good spirit present among the sisters who are happy to have the Retief Society program in their branch." eS Fresno Stake (California) Combines Singing Mothers Concert and Art Show May 28, 1968 Viorene E. Wardle, former president, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers of the Fresno Stake presented an interesting spring concert which was followed by an art show. The theme for the event was 'Palette of Song.' "The lovely music provided by the individual ward choruses and the combined chorus under the direction of Nancy Adamson was woven into a lovely narration written by LoRen Snow. 'After the concert, the guests were invited into the cultural hall to view the delightful paintings done in oils, water colors, chalk pastels, charcoal, ink, and pencil. There were sixty-nine paintings contributed by thirty-four sisters of the stake. "The sisters were very enthusiastic with the results of the concert and art show combination and felt that it brings more culture into the lives of families in the stake. 'Norma G. Boswell is the new president of Fresno Stake Relief Society." 52 January 1969 Ashley Stake (Utah), Vernal First Ward Holds ''Dutch Market'? Bazaar May 6, 1968 Left and right, outside doorway: Marsale E. Siddoway, President, Vernal First Ward Relief Society; Beverly B. Bennett, SecretaryTreasurer.; In the doorway, front row: Pamela Hales; Carolyn Hales. Back row: Gay Hales, Homemaking Counselor; Edith O, Stagg, Education Counselor. Gae R. Johnson, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Vernal First Ward carried out one of our most successful bazaars this year in our stake. A Dutch theme was followed throughout the entire bazaar and an enjoyable time was had both by visitors and those who worked so hard to make the bazaar a success." East Provo Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''Moods in Music"' c May 9, 1968 Jean B. Breinhoit, President, East Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The Singing Mothers of the East Provo Stake entertained a large audience in the Provo Tabernacle, with a lovely program of music of different varieties. The theme for the program was 'Moods in Music.' "The program featured the 'Apron Strings,' a talented and popular group of Latter-day Saint mothers who have been singing together for nine years, and have performed at innumerable functions in the area. "The combined choruses were conducted by Fay P. Loveless, accompanied by Hortense B. Robinson." Santa Monica Stake (California) Holds Festival of Arts May 25, 1968 Standing, left to right: Evelyn Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society; Lenora Eidemiller, First Counselor; Beth Chatwin, Second Counselor; Florence Basil, Secretary-Treasurer; Audra Emfield, visiting teacher message leader; Lucille Peterson, cultural refinement class leader; Billie Jane Morgan, homemaking leader; Serena Smith, spiritual living class leader; Kit Myers, organist. Sister Bluth reports: '"'The stake Relief Society combined with the MIA, to present, as a missionary effort, an Arts Festival which would enlighten the visitors of the wonderful opportunities of self-expression offered by the Church. "An anthology of 101 original poems, stories, and essays was compiled, and one was presented to each guest. Over 100 beautiful paintings were on display, and there were several displays of quilting, handwork, and other arts. Each ward had a booth of articles to sell and their were several different kinds of food booths. "The Singing Mothers performed, and a fashion show of clothing representing Church standards was presented by the MIA. It was a very successful event, and was well attended." SSS x 'ag. 'ee ©.' fe on gs Bey 3 rq 2 January 1969 Logan State (Utah) Relief Society Presents Cultural Refinement Festival May 20, 1968 Cultural refinement class leaders of Logan Stake Relief Society, seated, left to right: Afton Zollinger; Leona Daley; Lucille S. Hansen, stake leader; Blanche P. Crookston. Standing, left to right: Emma Harris; Joan Niederhauser; Ann Edwards; Bonnie Edwards; Myra Cooper; Ada P. Walker. Lucy N. Ellis, President, Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our stake presented a Cultural Refinement Festival, displaying talents in painting, sculpturing, flower arranging, writing, and music. "The program consisted of music and songs, reading of poetry, and messages of inspiration. Refreshments were served to 300 sisters and all who attended received a booklet containing the stories, poems, and essays entered in the festival. "Following the program, a reception was held in which the sisters were privileged to meet General Board members Winniefred S. Manwaring, Blanche Stoddard, and Alice C. Smith. This was indeed a great privilege for us to have these sisters present." Grand Coulee North Stake Relief Society Presents Music Festival, "Let All My Lifé Be Music'"' May 31, 1968 Officers of the Grand Coulee North Stake Relief Society, left to right, beginning seventh from right: Crystal Harris, President; Ora Gene Port, Secretary-Treasurer; Tamara Young, Second Counselor; Beverly Zitting, First Counselor; Marsha Pederson, chorister. Sister Harris reports: ''Our stake is newly organized and widely scattered. However, we considered it important to bring the sisters together in a music festival. Over fifty Singing Mothers participated in a very gratifying and successful concert with the theme, 'Let All My Life Be Music.' "Each ward and branch was assigned a special number to present, and the combined choruses presented two numbers. An outstanding skit, 'It Takes More Than Music,' was written and presented by the Wenatchee Second Ward. ''It took a considerable amount of effort by the stake music department to work with all the wards and branches, some as many as 100 miles distant. We are very pleased with the efforts of so many dedicated sisters which made this event successful." Atlanta Stake (Georgia) Holds First Visiting Teacher Convention May 25, 1968 Front row, fifth from left: Bonnie B. Singleton, President, Atlanta Stake Relief Society; sixth: Joyce P. Selin, former president. Second row, third from left: Mary T. Wilhite, Secretary-Treasurer. Third row, far right: Judy H. Martin, Education Counselor. Fourth row, second from right: Joyce B. Willis, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Singleton reports: ''Approximately 100 sisters attended our visiting teacher convention this year. The members of the stake board decorated the tables. Each visiting teacher was presented a tribute for her Book of Remembrance. 'Musical selections and a presentation of 'A Call to Benevolence,' and a tribute to the retiring Relief Society President, Joyce P. Selin, a tribute to visiting teaching, and remarks by the new Relief Society President and the Stake President, William L. Nichols, provided the bulk of the program. "Refreshments were served by the Gleaners of the stake, and an enjoyable, inspirational time was had by all who attended." 56 | Laila as a January 1969 Central British Mission, Midlands East District Bazaar November 25, 1967 Left to right: Hazel Grey, work director, Peterborough Branch Relief Society; Josephine Overton, President. Isabel H. Cannon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society, reports: '"'The Relief Societies of the Midlands East District combined their efforts and held a 'Bonanza Bazaar.' Peterborough Branch was the host, and was joined by Corby, Stamford, and Grantham Branches. "The bazaar was held in true western style, with those working at the booths dressed up as cowboys and Indians. Davy Crockett was there to give presents to the children from a covered wagon. Refreshments consisted of beans on toast, soup, and other typical western foods. "The day was completed by a square dance demonstration by the Triple A (Anglo-American Air Force) square dance team from nearby Alconbury Air Force Base. Later, everyone joined in the dancing. "The bazaar was very effective not only as a fund-raising project, but also as a wonderful family activity and it strengthened ties within the branches. A side benefit was the extensive publicity and coverage given by the newspapers."' ; Department Lesson SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 95—The Ministry of Angels Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 129: 130:1-11.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to understand better how she may keep from being deceived by evil spirits. INTRODUCTION A principal belief of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is that heavenly messengers minister today. When the mob in Jackson County, Missouri, issued a manifesto invoking the saints to leave that place under threat of death, it stated that the Mormons openly blasphemed God because they believed in direct communication from heaven. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts; Salt Lake City: The Deseret Book Company, 1946, Vol. 1, pp. 374-376 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Why should professed "Christian" people denounce the basic Bible teaching that communication from heaven may come through various media of revelation: visions, dreams, angels, and so forth? The Bible gives many examples of the ministration of holy beings from the other side of the veil. From the Old Testament we learn of many such 59 January 1969 examples. (Genesis 16:7-11; 22: 11-12; Exodus 3:2; Daniel 6:22.) Several accounts are also recorded in the New Testament. (Luke 1:11-13, 28; 22:48; Acts 1:10; 5:18-19.) Whenever a gospel dispensation has been on the earth, communication from heaven has been received from angels, as well as by other media of revelation. THE RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL The fundamental Bible belief that God will direct his people today, as well as in the past, was renewed with the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This doctrine, affirmed by example and by the witness of the Holy Ghost, has given new hope and faith in the Bible and in the justice of God. Latter-day Saints teach that the Church has been restored by direct revelation from heaven, and that the authority to perform ordinances of salvation has been given by angelic personages from heaven. The Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were thus restored. (D&C 27:7-8, 12- 13.) Elijah, Elias, and Moses conferred their keys of authority upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836. Ancient prophets have not only returned to the earth as angels, but they have prophesied the time when angels would minister in the last days. (Malachi 3:1-4; 4:5-6; Revelation 14:6-7.) The restoration of the ancient records of the Nephites by the angel Moroni has given a new book of scripture, which also 60 records the ministry of angels in times past and of their messages concerning today and of the future. (1 Nephi 13 and 14.) The Prophet Joseph Smith became well acquainted with many persons of former dispensations who came as angelic persons to convey messages, powers, and authority. (D&C 128:20-21.) Class Discussion What makes you believe that the ministry of angels is reasonable and scriptural? HEAVENLY BEINGS In vision the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon saw the heavenly hosts composed of members of the Godhead and angels. Their testimony is: And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before: his throne, worshipping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. (D&C 76:20-21.) Another revelation speaks of two kinds of beings in heaven, namely, resurrected personages with bodies of flesh and bones, and the spirits of just men made perfect. (D&C 129:1-3.) It is also recorded that translated beings serve as heavenly messengers. An example is John the Revelator, the apostle of the Lord, who did not die but is engaged in the work of salvation. (D&C 7.) Among Latter-day Saints, the ministry of the Three Nephites, who are translated beings, is best known. These disciples of the Savior, appointed on the American Continent, desired that they might continue to labor for the salvation of men until the second coming of Christ. (3 Nephi 28.) WHAT IS AN ANGEL? Angels are heavenly beings who act in the capacity of envoys, or messengers between the heaven and earth. They may be spirits who have never had bodies or spirits whose bodies lie in the grave, or they may be resurrected beings, or translated beings of flesh and bones who must yet die. The Prophet said that all angels who minister to this earth have either lived upon it or will live upon it. (D&C 130:5.) These truths concerning angels point out that angels are individuals with the same body structure as we are, and that they do not have wings, as popularly conceived. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith; ninth printing; Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956, p. 162.) Angels, as translated, or resurrected beings, have advanced higher in knowledge and power than spirits, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, and they are subject to God. (DHC 6:51; 5: 426-427.) In the meantime, resurrected or translated beings serve as divine messengers until they receive a greater glory, in bringing authority and instruction from God. (DHC 4:575-576). Such an one was Moroni, the custodian of the plates from which has come The Book of Mormon. The Lesson Department Prophet's description of Moroni's first appearance gives some characteristics of a resurrected angel: While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a_ personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose robe of most exquisitive whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:30-31.) FALLEN ANGELS The revelations are clear as to the existence of the devil and his fallen angels. Lucifer rebelled in the premortal world and influenced one-third of the hosts of heaven to follow him, and thus they lost their place among the children of God. (Moses 4:1-3; Revelation 12:4; 2 Peter 2:4; D&C 29:36-38.) These angels of Satan are personal beings, that is, they are in form and shape as human. Beings are, but of spirit. (D&C 131:7-8.) Evil spirits are sentient beings who have the characteristics of a person. (D&C 10:10-15, 20-27.) The Lord has revealed the machinations of Satan's hosts toward mankind in order that Latter-day Saints may understand their operations. All evil 61 January 1969 comes from Satan for he persuadeth no man to do good. (Moroni 7:12, 17.) His desire is to deceive, foster contention, encourage hatred, murder, and to incite men to rage against good. (2 Nephi 9:9; 3 Nephi 11:29; €:2; 2 Nephi 28:7-9, 19-22.) SATAN AND THE SAINTS Those who have made covenants with the Lord in baptism and in the temples are especial targets of Satan's hosts. To destroy the work of the Lord by deceiving the saints is one means by which Satan hopes to gain the victory. (D&C 76:28.) He has organized his forces, set up his kingdom to simulate the genuine in order to deceive the unwary. (DHC 6:364.) His approaches are many and devious, as well described in The Book of Mormon. (2 Nephi 28.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said:... The punishment of the devil was that he should not have a _ habitation like men. The devil's retaliation is, he comes into this world, binds up men's bodies, and occupies them himself. When the authorities come along, they eject him from a _ stolen habitation. (DHC 5:403.) During the ministry of the Savior, evil spirits possessing the bodies of two persons were cast into a herd of swine at the request of the devils. (Matthew 8:28-32.) The first miracle in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was the casting of an evil spirit out of Newel Knight by the Prophet Joseph Smith. When the Prophet rebuked the spirit, Newel spoke out and said 62 that he saw the devil leave him and vanish from his sight. (DHC 1:92-93.) The Prophet recorded the following about this miracle: This scene was now entirely changed, for as soon as the devil had departed from our friend, his countenance became natural, his distortions of body ceased, and almost immediately the Spirit of the Lord descended upon him, and the visions of eternity were opened to his view. (DHC 1:82-83.) EXISTENCE OF DEVILS Shortly after the gospel was introduced in England, Elders Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, and _ Isaac Russell, were beset by legions of devils who attempted to overcome and destroy these servants of the Lord. The elders heard and saw these spirits. (Orson F. Whitney, Life of Heber C. Kimball, Stevens and Wallis, Inc., Salt Lake City: second ed., 1945, pp. 129-132.) President Wilford Woodruff had a similar experience in Engiand, but through the intervention of messengers of God, the evil spirits were unable to accomplish their work of destruction. (The Deseret Weekly, November 7, 1896.) Many missionaries have experienced confrontations with evil beings from the unseen world. It seems that the devil is particularly interested in preventing the servants of God from accomplishing their missions. KNOWLEDGE IS NECESSARY The Prophet once said that a man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge. (DHC 4:588; D&C 131:6.) Then he said: ... For if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth. Hence it needs revelation to assist us, and give us knowledge of the things of God. (DHC 4:588.) Class Discussion What preparation should a Latter-day Saint make that he may not de deceived? BISHOPS The Lord has placed bishops in the stakes and branch presidents in the missions in his Church to preside over the people in their wards and branches. In their calling the Lord has said the following: And unto the bishop. Of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God. (D&C 46:27.) From the First Presidency instructions come to the stake presidents under whom _ the bishops in the stakes serve and to the branch presidents in the missions from the mission presidents. In the event the bishops or branch presidents may require counsel from their respective presidents, they may receive help. In a letter to these Church officers, the First Presidency so counseled the members of the Church. They further stated that if these stake and mission officers require the assistance of the First Presidency, they may ask for it, but the members should Lesson Department seek counsel from their local officers. IMPLEMENTATION With the restoration of the Church, the same teachings and practices of the gospel were restored. The ministry of angels and the gifts and blessings of the gospel are again on the earth. Ministering angels have come to the earth where a specific need existed. As' President Wilford Woodruff, who had received such holy visitants, said, the Lord does not send an angel to a person simply to satisfy curiosity, but rather, to perform a work that only an angel can perform. (The Deseret Weekly, November 7, 1896.) The members of the Church are principal targets of the Adversary, for if he can deceive them through false doctrines, false practices, and even by the false notion that there is no devil, nor a future existence, nor a judgment, he has gained a tremendous victory. If he can persuade them to believe in the ideas of men rather than the counsel of the leaders of the Church, his ends are attained. On the other hand, if the saint will seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost to which he is entitled, he will not be deceived; if he will gain knowledge from the scriptures he will not be deceived; if he will follow the counsel of his Church leaders through the line of authority of the First Presidency, stake presidency, and bishopric, he will find himself on the secure, safe path to peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come. (D&C 59:23.) 63 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 7—''... And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More." (D&C 58:42.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To understand that true repentance results in complete forgiveness by the Lord. One afternoon a mission president sent to his wife for additional counseling a young lady missionary. The young missionary was heartbroken over a sin that she had committed. In her grief she sobbed, "I can never be forgiven, I can never forgive myself. I have forfeited all chance to be accepted in the celestial kingdom." Nearly two thousand years ago, a woman _ stood _ before Jesus. She was condemned of one of the most serious crimes, one that struck at the heart of the family. Her accusers were adamant. She must pay the prescribed penalty. She must die. She was a sinner taken in the act. When the scribes and Pharisees pressed him for judgment, Jesus replied, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." (John 8:7.) One by one her accusers stole away. When all had left, Jesus said unto her:... Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? 64 She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. (John 8:10-12.) Jesus pointed the way to true repentance and forgiveness for us all, the way out of darkness into light, when he said, "go, and sin no more." We are to turn away from evil, struggle against our sins until they are overcome, and seek only the good. Alma, the younger, said of himself, "... I had rebelled against my God... I had not kept his holy commandments. Yea, and I had murdered many of his children, or rather led them away unto destruction...." (Alma 36:13-14.) As he learned the meaning of repentance and God's graciousness, he _ said, "Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto all men, for the arms of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: "Repent, and I will receive you." (Alma 5:33.) In Isaiah, we read: Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. (Isaiah 1:18.) In our day, the Lord said, "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them." (D&C 58:43.) (Italics Lesson Department added.) "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more." (D&C 58:42.) If the Lord forgives and remembers our sins no more after we have repented, can we forgive ourselves and remember our sins no more? Can we forgive repentant others their sins and remember them no more? HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education rerio Discussion 7—Let's Go Inside Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on picture groupings and other wall accessories. INTRODUCTION One of the reasons why our homes reflect the personality of those who live in them is that we surround ourselves with the things we love, the things which complement ourselves, and the things which satisfy our yearnings for what to us is beautiful. Naturally, our foremost concern is to make the interiors of our homes as comfortable and inviting as possible, but for one reason or another we sometimes fail to achieve these ends. Since not all of us are endowed with the gift of knowing exactly what to do and how to do it, we need a few guiding principles which will help us in the choice and arrangement of the things we put in our homes. We may differ in our cultural heritage and in our national and climatic environments, but the underlying problems are the same. With the application of these principles and a hittle imagination, we can create a home which ls not only individually our own but which is also beautiful and in good taste. In this discussion we might say that good taste is the orderly arrangement of details which suit the function and design of the surroundings and are pleasing to look at. Sometimes the little things make all the difference. Interior 65 January 1969 decorators are unanimous in their conclusion that the pictures and books, in particular, are of great importance in the home, not only for their decorative value but also for their contribution as denominators of the intellect and personality of the owners. Emphasis in this discussion will be focused on these "little things," the things we put on our walls— pictures, decorative hangings, mirrors, etc. HOW SHALL WE CHOOSE OUR WALL ACCESSORIES? 1. By our personal taste. Our selection of wall accessories depends first of all upon our personal likes and dislikes—what we see on our walls certainly ought to be things we like and appreciate. However, in our selection and use of them we should constantly seek ways to grow in our knowledge and appreciation of what is good taste. This we can do by reading widely in current magazines and books, by observing beautiful homes (open houses, homes of friends, etc.), and by taking classes when possible. 2. By their suitability. The wrong kind of wall accessory or even the right kind in the wrong place can do much to mar the beauty and good taste of any room. Our choices should be suitable (1) to the wall space, (2) to the room, and (3) to the family's mode of living. A. (1) Walls which already have scenic wall paper or strongly-patterned paper do not require additional enrichment. A plain, neutral surface offers a good background for pictures or other decorative features. (2) A picture or hanging of unusual decorative or esthetic value should be given ample wall space. (The Oriental tradition of restraint —the use of only one picture or object of great beauty in a given space—is well recognized and commended.) 66 (3) Where numerous pictures of varying sizes and shapes are used, it is advisable to group them in close proximity so that they appear as a single unit, or in simple geometric arrangement to suit the particular space (stepladder grouping for stairway, straight-line grouping over sofa or chest, etc.) (4) To create an illusion of greater space or to accentuate particular centers of interest, mirrors are invaluable. B. Wall accessories should complement the room in which they are used in subject matter, style, and color. (1) They should harmonize with the entire room scheme (Any accessory which presents a note of discord should be eliminated.) (2) They should bring points of interest to the room. (3) They should add to the atmosphere or mood—gay, vivid subjects and colors; restful, soothing ones; those suitable for children or for grownups, depending on location, etc. (4) They should be appropriate to the room in size and style. (A small room should not be overpowered by a large, massive wall accessory, nor should a_ large room be cluttered with small insignificant ones.) To Discuss 1. How can I determine whether or not my home is in good taste? (Advise the use of magazines, libraries, and observation.) 2. How can those of us who have little means apply these principles to our homes? (Make it clear that money is not the criterion of either beauty or good taste—sometimes quite the opposite). 3. How can we develop good taste in our children? (Encourage children to be creative in the decorating of their own rooms.) CONCLUSION If we want our homes to be more than just a place for shelter, eating, and sleeping; just an en- closure to keep out inclement elements—if we want our homes to be a joy and an inspiration and to provide peace and contentment and uplift to our spirits—then we Lesson Department must be willing to put forth the necessary effort in thought, study, and planning which it takes to make them places of beauty and good taste. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 7—''Not Where You Serve, But How"' (Reference: Alberta H. Christensen Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To stress the importance of President Clark's statement, "In the service of the Lord, it is not where you serve, but how."* INTRODUCTION This statement was made by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In a General Conference of the Church, April 9, 1951. The importance of the statement for all who serve in the Church and, particularly, to the Latter-day Saint woman, is the concern of this lesson. IMPORTANCE OF LEADERSHIP Leaders are important, in fact they are necessary if a project or organization is to move forward with coordinated action. This is evident in all areas of life. Religion is no exception, including that great area of priesthood authority which is fundamental to the gospel of Jesus Christ. In the Pearl of Great Price we read that certain of our Father's spirit children were foreordained to positions of leadership upon the earth even before their mortal birth. Of Abraham we read: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and hesaw that they were good; and *Clark, J. Reuben, Jr., "Not Where You Serve, but How," The Improvement Era, Volume 54, June 1951, p. 412. (Address of a Solemn Assembly, April 9, 1951, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 35.) 67 January 1969 he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born. (Abraham 3:22-23.) The statement by President Clark, "... Not where you serve, but how," has important meaning for the Latter-day Saint woman, for she is familiar with the framework of Church organization and is, generally, aware of the numerous positions to be filled in order that the objectives of the Church may be accomplished. She may have had occasion to consider or may have held such positions in the ward as Relief Society president, class leader, special committee chairman, or may have been an administrative officer in the Primary or Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. One of the great strengths of the organization of the Church lies in the numerous opportunities for leadership service offered to its general membership. Leadership assignments are for unspecified, sometimes short, periods of time, then other individuals are called to fill the vacant positions. Questions for Discussion (a) What are the values to the Church of this leadership rotation? (b) to the individual? GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS OF LEADERSHIP Question for Discussion What are some general qualifications for effective leadership? In addition to the general qualifications for effective leadership, such as: understanding the assignment, personal integrity, enthusiasm, ability to inspire, often there are specific quali- 68 fications needed for a particular leadership assignment. Examples are seen in the differing requirements for the following callings: ward Scout master; stake patriarch; ward or stake Relief Society president; MIA dance director. (Other examples may be suggested.) IMPORTANCE OF ''FOLLOWERSHIP"' Question for Discussion How important is "followership"? Much has been said and written relative to successful leadership about the qualifications required of one who outlines the pattern for performance, of the qualities which the leader must demonstrate if she is to inspire and motivate others to follow. We speak of the personal qualities which strengthen the relationship between the few in number who map the course, and that numerous host who walk the charted road. But if to serve means to give aid, to help another, do they not also serve who follow? In an address to Relief Society sisters in a Relief Society Annual General Conference, President Clark said: I pray God to bless you, to bless you who preside and you who serve, and it is as blessed to serve as it is to preside, and with infinitely less responsibility. The humblest man, and the humblest 'woman, doing his duty in the place in which he is called to work, will deserve and receive just as much reward as the man who so serves and so acts in the highest position. The Lord always used the poor of the earth to illustrate how men should live. (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "The Prophet's Sailing Orders to Relief Society," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1949, p. 798.) The poet Milton wrote, "They also serve who only stand and wait" —applicable where enduring patience may be the needed virtue; a virtue manifest in the faithful soldier, waiting and watching through the long hours of the night, or the captain of a ship, who, not thinking of himself, waits until all passengers are safe in the lifeboats; a virtue which was not evidenced in the undependable watchman on the tower. (D&C 101:44-55.) NOT WHERE, BUT HOW Question for Discussion If those who follow also serve, what is the human denominator which makes a difference in the quality of service? Much less, perhaps, has been written about the requirements for effective "followership" than about the qualifications of those who lead. Yet, "followership" also is important, and there is a factor in the rendering of service, wherever that service may be, which may make the difference between the partial or total success of any enterprise. It also may make the difference between personal growth and complacent mediocrity. Willingness to accept counsel, to do whatever one is called to do in the service of the Lord, as opposed to reluctant, half-hearted compliance, may be the differing factor. Thus, it is not where one serves, but the spirit and diligence with which one serves that are all important. Nor is there any place, in the service to the Church, for honor-seeking or an attitude of jealousy, on the part of either those who lead or those who follow. Lesson Department For Class Consideration Discuss the importance of attitude in the service a woman renders (a) her family; (b) her friends; (c) any position she may hold in the Church. Only when wisely directed leadership is matched by wise and dedicated "followership" may we hope for completely successful results. The application of this principle is clearly evident in the successful operation of a ward or stake Relief Society. The message of the beautifully expressed address commemorating the coming of the Mormon pioneers 100 years before, delivered by President Clark at a session of the General Conference of the Church, October 5, 1947, is relevant to this statement. Speaking of those who were of that "great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt," President Clark pays impressive and humble tribute to: "".. Especially to the meekest and lowliest of them, those great souls, majestic in the simplicity of their faith and in their living testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, to those souls in name unknown, unremembered, unhonored in the pages of history, but lovingly revered round the hearthstones of their children and their children's children who pass down from generation to generation the story of their faith and their mighty works, and the righteousness of their lives and living, those souls who worked and worked, and prayed and followed, and wrought so gloriously. "T would not take away one word of praise or gratitude, honor 69 January 1969 or reverence from the great men who led these humble ones of ours. They were mighty men in brain and brawn, in courage and valor, in honesty and in love of truth, living near the Lord—Brothers Brigham and Heber and Wilford and Willard and Charles, the two Orsons and Parley and John and George and Erastus and Lorenzo and Daniel and Joseph and Jedediah, and a host of other giants, each and all richly blessed with the Lords's divine love and with that gift of the Holy Ghost that made them leaders truly like unto Moses of old. I yield, we yield, to no one in our gratitude for them and for their work of directing the conquest of the wilderness and of saving men's souls. Their names shine lustrously on those pages of history which record only the doings of the makers of epochs—those choice spirits, chosen before the foundation of the world, to be the leaders and builders of dispensations of God's dealings with men; and these leaders of ours to be the builders of that dispensation which of old was named the Dispensation of the Fullness of Time. Unnumbered eternities will remember and honor them. "But I should like now and here to say a few words about those who trod after where those giants led, some in the same companies that the Brethren piloted, some in later companies following that year and the years after, some in the fateful handcarts with their unexcelled devotion, heroism, and faith, all trickling forward in a never-failing, tiny stream, till they filled the valley they entered and then 70 flowed out at the sides and ends, peopling this whole wildernesswaste which they fructified, making it to fulfil the ancient prophecy that the desert should blossom as the rose. "I would like to say something about the last wagon in each of the long wagon trains that toiled slowly over the plains, up mountain defiles, down steep, narrow canyons, and out into the valley floor that was to be home —this last wagon: last, because the ox team that pulled it was the smallest and leanest and weakest, and had the tenderest feet of any in the train; it was slow starting, and slow moving; last, because worn and creaking, it took more time to fix and to grease, for young Jimmy generally had trouble in getting the wagon jack under the "ex"; last, because its windrent cover was old and patched and took hours to mend and tie up to keep out the storm; last, because the wife, heavy with child, must rest till the very moment of starting; last, because sickly little Bill, the last born, poorly nourished, must be washed and coaxed to eat the rough food, all they had; last, because with all his tasks—helping little Bill, cooking and cleaning up the breakfast,—Mother was not able to help much—Father took a little longer to yoke his cattle and to gird himself for the day's labor; last, because his morning prayers took a few more minutes than the others spent— he had so many blessings to thank the Lord for and some special blessings to ask the Lord to grant, blessings of health and strength, especially for his wife, and for little Bill, and for the rest, and the blessings for himself that his own courage would not fail, but most of all for the blessing of faith, faith in God and in the Brethren who sometimes seemed so far away.... "But back in the last wagon, not always could they see the Brethren way out in front and the blue heaven was often shut out from their sight by heavy, dense clouds of the dust of the earth. Yet day after day, they of the last wagon pressed forward, worn and tired, footsore, sometimes almost disheartened, borne up by their faith that God loved them, that the restored gospel was true, and that the Lord led and directed the Brethren out in front. Sometimes, they in the last wagon glimpsed, for an instant, when faith surged strongest, the glories of a_ celestial world, but it seemed so far away, and the vision so quickly vanished, because want and weariness and heartache and sometimes discouragement were always pressing so near. When the vision faded, their hearts sank. But they prayed again and pushed on, with little praise, with not too much encouragement, and never with adulation.... But yet in that last wagon there was devotion and loyalty and integrity, and above and beyond everything else, faith in the Brethren and in God's power and goodness...." (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., One Hundred Eighteenth Conference Report, October 1947, pp. 155 ff.; President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., To Them of the Last Wagon.) Class Involvement Questions 1. How important to the success of that Lesson Department great westward trek were the followers, even to the last wagon? 2. How important is it that the followers today have faith in the leaders of the Church, those who "are out in front''? President Clark states that: "These tens of thousands who so moved and so built were the warp and the woof of Brother Brigham's great commonwealth. Without them Brother Brigham had failed his mission. These were the instruments—the _ shovelers, the plowers, and the sowers and reapers, the machinists, the architects, the masons, the woodworkers, the organ builders, the artisans, the mathematicians, the men of letters, all gathered from the four corners of the earth, furnished by the Lord to Brother Brigham and the prophet leaders who came after, that he and they might direct the working out of His purposes..." (Ibid. Page 159.) SUMMARY All service which advances a righteous cause is important. President Clark said further: In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, one takes the place to which one is duly called, which place one neither seeks nor declines...(Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 35, page 187.) It is the intent of the heart, the spirit of humble acceptance, and the diligence with which one serves that are important. "Not where you serve, but how." For Home-Doing Evaluate the quality of your individual service. 71 i — - ——— CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Six By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure.""—Edward Eggleston Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that discouragement is a greater hindrance to success than lack of ability. ART: ''Two Self Portraits'' by Rembrandt van Ryn (1606-1669), Dutch Portrait of a Young Man—Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio Self Portrait—National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. Paintings reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, pp. 686, 687 Commentary on art selections by Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University (The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON A story is told which emphasizes the devices Satan uses to turn us from righteous endeavor. It depicts envy as an insidious needle and failure as a huge club in this graphic account. Hardly calling attention to itself, at first glance, is a plain, much-used wedge which is finally identified as the most consistently effective of all Satan's tools. This wedge is labeled discouragement. If we smile at the obvious symbolism in this tale, we should not miss its simple point. Discouragement is the precursor of most wrongdoing. When we lose faith in ourselves and in our 72 page 689.) efforts, it is difficult to retain faith in principles and promises which seem beyond us. The lesson for this month attempts to help us see that the bridge between discouragement and encouragement may well be persistence. "SAY NOT THE STRUGGLE NOUGHT AVAILETH" Arthur Hugh Clough's poem "Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth" is an excellent introduction to the realities of apparent defeat: Say not, the struggle nought availeth, The labour and the wounds are vain, The enemy faints not, nor faileth, And as things have been they remain. If hopes were dupes, fears may be liars; It may be, in you smoke concealed, Your comrades chase e'en now the fliers, And, but for you, possess the field. For while the tired waves, vainly breaking, Seem here no painful inch to gain, Farback, through creeks and inlets making, Comes silent, flooding in, the main. And not by eastern windows only, When day light comes, comes in the light, In front, the sun climbs slow, how slowly, But westward, look, the land is bright. What makes this lyric memorable is its nice balance of the ideal and the real. The battle metaphor which is developed in the first two stanzas does not degenerate into superficial heroics. We don't meet a victor in this poem so much as a determined participant who refuses to give up. For every negative assertion he has a_ positive counter. If his hopes have been blasted, his fears may be no more reliable. If the waves seem to be getting no place, the tide is flooding the shore. There is no attempt in this poem to suggest that the struggle makes difficulties easier to bear. At the conclusion, the sun is still not coming up very rapidly. But trying to find hope is in itself hope-producing. Refusal to accept defeat keeps us sensitive to every possibility of victory. In such sensitivity we are far more prepared to succeed than we would be if we let ourselves become so dulled by opposition that we couldn't recognize a positive opportunity when it appeared. Discussion Question In "Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth" a clear view of the difficulties which the author faces does not keep Lesson Department him from looking on the positive possibilities of his situation. Is there ever a danger that too detailed an anticipated view of our circumstances may compromise our efforts to improve? "" THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS" Oliver Wendell Holmes' poem "The Chambered Nautilus" treats discouragement only implicitly. The focus of this beloved poem is overwhelmingly positive: THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS by Oliver Wendell Holmes This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main,— The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings. And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair. Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pear!! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed,— Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed! Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, He left the past year's dwelling for the new.; Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more. Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:— 73 January 1969 Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea! Where Clough is more realistic, Holmes is optimistic. After developing his image for three stanzas, he gives the "heavenly message" of growth and vision which the shell of the chambered or pearly nautilus had suggested to him. The final stanza is almost pure exhortation, for Holmes' optimism is meant to be acted upon. "More stately mansions" must be built; they are not achieved without endless effort. As we live up to the opportunities we currently enjoy, we become capable of still loftier and more rewarding experiences. We cannot be satisfied with present achievement lest we make a prison out of our limited horizon. Discussion Question "The Chambered Nautilus" has occasionally been cited as a poetic expression of the Latter-day Saint concept of eternal progression. How appropriate do you feel this comparison to be? "LEARNING THE RIVER" Mark Twain's "Learning the River" lets us participate so fully in the discouragement and frustration he experienced in becoming a river pilot that we relive our own youthful disillusionments. If occasional difficult tasks proved easier in the doing than in the anticipating, others were shockingly harder 74 a, t hecsley TB IBIASL Ev MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' "Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music _—— Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Plan Your Vacation With Us ANNUAL TOURS: Hill Cumorah Pageant Canadian Rockies and Northwest Black Hills Passion Play Hawaii Rose Parade and others Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Am erican History Doll Clothes Patterns e@ Colonial Family e Pilgrim Family e Pioneer Family @ Lincoln Family @ Daniel Boone Family NEW EASY CONSTRUCTION METHOD Christmas, Bazaar & Collectors Items Send $1.00 per family ppd. To: ANITA'S DOLL PATTERNS P. O. Box 1243-R Ogden, Utah 84402 CHILD ASLEEP Seeing you asleep, | weep: Weep for the soft Gentleness the night Has laid upon your face, Like love, like light: My fingers trace The way your hair, Silken and fair, Falls in soft grace. Oh, child, so innocent, So content; hear the beat Of tomorrow's firm, Relentless feet. But, tonight, sleep. Sleep sweet. Oh, child of innocence And of wonder, sleep. —Christie Lund Coles Lesson Department than our youthful simplicity foresaw them. How true to our own experience is that fact that young 'Twain's teacher pilot simply wouldn't allow him to indulge himself in discouragement. The mechanical fact that he had a watch to stand every few hours made no allowance for the way he felt. How many of us might never have learned to play a musical instrument if our parents had not been equally persistent in seeing that we persisted! Discussion Question In writing about his youth, Mark Twain did not hesitate to exaggerate or play down his actual experience in order to achieve certain effects. At what point does such an attitude toward "fact" become a problem for the reader? "TALK" BY JOHN HOLMES "Talk" demonstrates how persuasively a local, personal situation can carry overtones of general truth when it is reported in its essence. The background given in the poem is quite scanty: a young boy loiters around the shop of a man who constructs minutely detailed ship models. Since the model builder is deaf, he rarely speaks. But what young John Holmes learns—and what we learn in sharing his reminiscence—are the inviolable rules of good craftsmanship. The facts of his experience speak to him as clearly as if they had been shouted aloud. In retrospect, they were part of the "best talk" he ever encountered. Many of us can recall similar maturing experiences. Holmes is particularly successful in evoking how difficult it is for young people 75 January 1969 to understand that effort—no matter how persistent or sincere —must result in accomplishment if it is to have its full meaning. Persistence without development gives routine activity more than its due. The boy in "Talk" does learn to appreciate the necessity. For careful, continuing work, but he learns a good deal more than this in his watching and listening. He finally realizes that "however you build it, / The ship must sail; you can't explain to the ocean." Such an arresting comment gives labor its fulfillment. In an age given to explanation, which is often no more than justification for failure, we recognize how often we have tried to "explain to the ocean" while we were sinking. As we develop the _ positive attitudes in which all skills must be based, we begin to understand that doggedness is a minor virtue until it is completed by real achievement. Habit may simply reinforce error unless it supports a worthy goal. Discussion Question Does John Holmes convince you that the silences of his youthful hours in the model builder's shop were "'some of the best talk" he ever experienced? How appropriate is the word "talk" here? "THE MARCH OF ZION'S CAMP" BY S. DILWORTH YOUNG To those who have read the history of the march which is commemorated in "The March of Zion's Camp," this poem speaks with special poignance. Few commandments in early Church history seemed more capable of 76 testing faith and commitment than the order to march to the relief of their brothers and sisters in Missouri. Although five hundred men were thus called for, only about one hundred left Kirtland in May 1834. Along the way an additional hundred joined the group. Despite warning from the Prophet agains disunity, some members of the company expressed dissatisfaction with the purpose and results of the expedition, and an epidemic of cholera left more than a score dead. The incident which is the dramatic center of Elder Young's account—the miraculous deliverance at Fishing River—helped many who were in the group to understand that the Lord requires our best efforts but is not dependent upon them. The form of this poem, with its apparently casual lines, is an interesting example of the loose but real organization which characterized Zion's Camp. Line lengths may vary but none really gets out of hand. Rhythm shifts with idea as the actual cadence of informally marching men adapts itself to terrain and circumstance. Although there is a clear narrative tone to this work, there is such tension in most of the lines that they are, at least, as much exhortation as they are part of a story. "The March of Zion's Camp" seems an appropriate conclusion for our section on persistence, for it aids us in seeing that the reward of sustained effort may not be the expected one. Those who left Ohio in this determined band thought that they were going to "redeem" Zion. When the Camp was disbanded, the saints in Missouri were still undergoing trial, and there were those who felt that the whole effort was unsuccessful. In retrospect, however, those who were to assume major positions in the Church had their faith tested under fire. In addition, the Lord was preparing men through this experience for the responsibility of Lesson Department moving the entire Latter-day Saint people west in the even more difficult days to come. Discussion Question If '""The March of Zion's Camp" was not set on the page in poetic form it would still be poetry, although it might look like prose. What would make it unmistakably poetic? MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS USED ON THE CULTURAL REFINEMENT RECORDING FOR OCTOBER The October lesson in the cultural refinement course presented music using ancient instruments. It is felt that a listing of these instruments and identification of the different groups might be of interest. Identifications are by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of the College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. Ancient Instruments 1. Vielle—an early version of the violin, held on the arm, rather than on the shoulder. Gamba—forerunner of the cello Tambour—two-headed drum Pt Gs 2 BS) a very deep nasal tone. 6. Baroque oboe—old-fashioned oboe Instruments Used Group I—vielle, gamba, and tambour Group II—baroque oboe and recorder Group III—same as group I Recorder—flute-like instrument, comes in various sizes Krumhorn—reed instrument, with the mouthpiece enclosed in a capsule. It has Group IV—two recorders, a vielle, and a gamba Group V—three recorders and a krumhorn nero THE GENERATION GAP Experts say love can span the Generation gap. This | believe to be Very true. For the sweetest words anyone Any age can hear are simply "I love you."' —Pauline B. Hills 77 January 1969 Happiness is otal electric living VEIL THE FUTURE If | knew then What | know now— That death would take you In your youth— Would | With my protective Cry Inhibit your ascent to truth? Beneath the Lord's protective bough Time was your friend. Free as the sun You smiled your warmth On everyone. Compassionate, wise, The One above Veils the future With his love. —Norma Bowkett STORM With staccato emphasis a storm Will try to toss your dream aside To leave a dark and trembling void, The whole of phantasy torn wide— With staccato emphasis And a blinding light, Startling you from slumber In the deep of night. Storms. So often brashly come In the lonely dark and cold When a dream is hardest To evaluate and hold. Yet, how the gentle-fingered dawn Reaching quietly across its wake Will find the dream and more beside For your empty arms to take. —Dorothy J. Roberts BEST WISHES FOR A ma Fs \ *K a DESERET FREwsS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 78 : < g 2 E R s:. E History of 1842-1966 A gift for every Latter-day Saint woman to be treasured in all seasons— @The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments, objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — Gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid. Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main « Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 79 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 101 99 97 96 95 94 93 80 Mrs. Marie Sorensen Jensen Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Joseph Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lavina Anderson Francom Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Amanda Hendricks Price Gridley, California Mrs. Olive Louise Harris Vincent Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ismilda Thueson England Ogden, Utah Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor Provo, Utah Mrs. Zerviah S. Greene Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Theresa Egan Dayley Boise, Idaho Mrs. Johanna Elzinga Hand Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Jane Coulson Harris Centralia, Washington Mrs. Emma Jones Stevens Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Roxburgh Barclay Gardner Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Ellen Wheeler Reynolds Springville, Utah 92 91 90 Mrs. Mary Ann Johnston Franks Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Theresia Klein Redwood City, California Mrs. Hattie Redding Merriam-Owens San Diego, California Mrs. Hannah Kemp Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Mary Dunn Woodford Orem, Utah Mrs. Sarah Minnie Honeycutt Zimmerman National City, California Mrs. Rachel Rees Jacobsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Clara Augusta Krey Martenson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lottie Rhodes Turner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Moran Carter Denver, Colorado Mrs. Jane Sutherland Davidson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Peet Lyon Dick Los Angeles, California Mrs. Sarah Shaw Gregson Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Alice Dorothy Paulson Heiner Morgan, Utah Mrs. Rosa Brasher Johnson Shelbyville, Tennessee Mrs. Hannah Jane Oliver Kempton Stafford, Arizona Mrs. Elizabeth Harries Liddle Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Christina Wangsgaard McKay Huntsville, Utah Mrs. Emily Burrell Romney Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico |, Richer Lite LIVING, LOVING ING &s and MARRYING $4.50! " J by Dr. Lindsay R. Curtis and ) YING Dr. Wayne J. Anderson ARR J A wonderfully practical guide to the most difficult art of all... A happy marriage and home oy life. A fresh approach to social and moral problems within the: ASON. PRD. To the community. | WAYNE J ANDEI | caterers ORDEAL IN MEXICO $4.95 by Karl E. Young A Richer Life through Trials of Others A hostile environment challenged the Mormon colonists in Mexico. The hostility of a revolutionary war brought the challenge to a peak in 1912. The testing point of their faith is illustrated in many stories and incidents. See photos never before published as history comes alive in... Ordeal in Mexico. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me............ Copies of LIVING, LOVING and MARRYING acopies ORDEAL IN MEXICO Total Cost $000.00.| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [7] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 342% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Jan. R. S. Mag. 69 LINDSAY R. CURTISALD home and as the family relates Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Your Beneficial Life dollars work for you—and your community. Every family with growing children needs shelter—both physical shelter from the elements and financial shelter from adversity. The dollars you invest in Beneficial Life insurance help provide both: first, of course by protecting your family's all-important income. And second, by helping many families to own their own homes. Currently Beneficial Life mortgage money is helping provide homes for more than 6,000 families—which would make up a city the BENEFICIAL LIFE id size of Tempe, Arizona or Covina, California! Srsurance Fo a 'Virgil H Smith, Pres Salt Lake City, Utah JIRelietS Society - Magazine FEBRUARY 1969, The Cover: LISTEN TO SILENCE Listen to silence: Let its silver spill Into the tired spirit, And the uncertain will. Find the deep, cool well Of darkness where it sleeps, Renew yourself from the pound Of noise the city keeps. Listen to silence: Let it mother you so You will know who you are, And where you are to go. Listen to silence: It can heal your pain; It can lift you upward, And make you whole again. —Christie Lund Coles ss Jupiter Columns at Baalbek, Lebanon Transparency by Alice Colton Smith Lithographed { Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: } Art Layout: Brook in Winter Photograph by Lee Van )7 Dick Scopes Illustrations: '» Mary Scopes It is a great joy to see how our many young sisters welcome the Magazine as a "helper" in their lives, since becoming members or just married. As one young mother said, ''It gives us everything to be better wives, mothers, and Church members.'' One of the most thrilling moments of my life came when my sweet young eighteen-year-old daughter, who is a freshman at Ricks College, said to me over the phone, ''Oh; Mom, | just love Relief Society, and the lessons are the greatest...."' | am so thankful that our Church colleges have Relief Society for the young sisters so that they will have this foundation to build upon when they get married. Helen Shaw, President, South Carolina West Stake, Charlotte, North Carolina | will never make ''Five-hour Rolls' again after finding the wonderful recipe for onehour rolls and other breads in the August issue sent in by Mildred Lewis, Mesa, Arizona. In the September issue | thoroughly enjoyed the article ''A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River,"' by Claire Noall. | know | have walked these same paths and beheld some of the scenes portrayed in her beautiful color transparencies. The October issue, coming to me on a blue day, was so very welcome. | especially liked the poem, "To Everything There Is a Season," by Alice Brady Myers. June B. Jensen, Orem, Utah It made me happy to see my former missionary companion's picture in the November Magazine, page 855. Vidella Rushton Vance and | met in Omaha in 1923 and became devoted friends, and through the years we have written letters to each other and visited when we could. She and her husband Reed have always lived in Salt Lake City, until their call to Australia nearly two years ago, and | have lived in Blackfoot, Idaho, since my marriage.... | love the Magazine and the work in Relief Society and other organizations. Rita D. Williams, Blackfoot, Idaho Having recently finished reading the story by Mabel Harmer, "If Spring Be Late,' | should like to say that | enjoyed it tremendously. My husband and | spent two years (1960-62) in Great Britain, and it was so much fun reading this story, and | enjoyed reliving so many things that she wrote about—the beautiful countryside, the rain and fog, riding the tube in London (which we did), the different expressions of the people, which | still love to hear, from people who are here now in our country. We learned courtesy over there, as we have never known it. The people were so kind, even though they were not members of our Church. Sister Harmer's story brought back many happy memories of our mission there. Our love is still with the members in Plymouth, England, and Newport and Swansea, Wales, where my husband was branch president, and where we spent so many happy months. May God continue to bless the saints throughout Great Britain, that the branches may continue to grow and prosper. Marjorie H. Bronson, Murray, Utah May | tell you how much | enjoyed the story ''If Spring Be Late,'' by Mabel Harmer. Since | love the castles and cottages of Britain so much, it really is a joy to read a story with an English-American setting. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is sent to me each month by Mrs. Ro Day, a member of the Mormon Church on Dover Street, Newport Beach, California. Now | am not a member of this Church, but Mrs. Ro Day is a member and has charge of the sewing and embroidery part. On page 662 of the September issue is a picture of Mrs. McBride. | am the same age and do all the things that she does—also take care of my garden and patio. Elfie A. Robsne, Newport Beach, California 82 The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 February 1969 Number 2 ee ee Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 84 According to the Law of Heaven Marion G. Romney 106 Diet and Heart Disease The American Heart Association 124 Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Margery S. Cannon Fiction 91 The Perfect Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd 99 Common Ground Lynne Partridge 107 A Day for Diddle-Daddling Alice Morrey Bailey 126 Welcome the Task—Chapter 4 Michele Bartmess General Features 82 From'Near and Far 103 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 104 Editorial—Loyalty Louise W. Madsen 132 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 114 Hobbies—Handicraft for Bazaars 115 Made-Over Dolls Myrtle R. Olson 119 Grandmother and the Stockings Mada W. Stanger 120 Recipes From Italy Caro! Berrey 122 A New Oilcloth Mabel Luke Anderson 123 Young Friend Ida A. Isaacson Lesson Department 140 Spiritual Living—Doctrinal Instructions Roy W. Doxey 145 Visiting Teacher Message— ''... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled' Alice Colton Smith 147 Homemaking—Let's Go Inside (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor 148 Social Relations—Are We Preparing? Alberta H. Christensen 152 Cultural Refinement—The Achievement of Serenity Bruce B. Clark Poetry 81 Listen to Silence! Think of Beaches, Pearle M. Olsen 90; Peace Reach, Gay N. Blanchard 98; Generation Span, Verna S. Carter 102; City Watercolor Scene, Katherine F. Larsen 106; Abraham Lincoln, Mabel Jones Gabbott 112; Waiting, Carmen Daines Fredrickson 118; On A Stormy Night, Dorothy J. Roberts 119; More Violets Will Bloom, Zara Sabin 121; Indian Weaver, Enola Chamberlin 123; Children on a Deserted Beach, Ethel Jacobson 125; To Be Near You, Rowena Jensen Bills 131; Of Man and God, Alda L. Brown 146; Marriage, Julie Wilson 157; The Mountains Cry, Renata W. Sukys 158; The Silver Song, Beulah Huish Sadleir 158; Jacaranda Tree, Bernice Ames 159; Spring Waits Close, Linnie Fisher Robinson 159. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 83 According to the Law of Heaven Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1968. ] mw I am happy to be here, Sister Spafford. I have enjoyed this meeting very much. I feel right at home. This lovely chorus from Rigby has thrilled us with their lovely music and I feel as if I were part of the Rigby Stake. Although I have never lived there, I did once court a girl who lived in Rigby, and I met my wife just a few miles from there, up at Rexburg. I've always felt I was a part of that great upper Snake River community. I commend them. When Sister Witehira offered the invocation, I remembered the assignment given to me by President McKay to organize the Auckland Stake. 84 That was back in 1958, I believe. He had invited Sister Romney and me to go to the dedication of the New Zealand Temple. He told me he would expect us to tour the islands of the Pacific on the way home. We were sitting in the Auckland chapel one day after the dedication, when President McKay said, "Brother Romney, I want you to stay here and organize the Auckland Stake, the first stake south of the equator in this dispensation." I remembered, too, that about the fifteenth of August of this year I was in the Auckland airport where I nearly froze. Sister Romney and I were on our way to Australia. When Sister Dawson spoke, I remembered that we were in Perth holding conference on the twenty-fourth of August, just the other day. There, at Fremantle, we looked out over the Indian Ocean—and we did more than that—we flew over it—between 5,000 and 6,000 miles. It is quite a pond of water. Our destination was Johannesburg, South Africa. When this dear sister from South America, Sister de Mella, gave her talk in Spanish, it thrilled me again, because for ten years Sister Romney and I have been working with the Spanish-speaking people in Central America, Mexico, and on this side of the border. And, of course, I have met. Sister Spafford before. We labored together for many years in the welfare work, and now I am an advisor to the Relief Society. So I feel at home here. I hope I can continue to so feel and that I can deliver the message I have prepared, under the spirit that we have enjoyed here this morning. In the meeting of March 17, 1842, in which the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, it is reported that President John Taylor said he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven." (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842, page 8.) In their invitation to me to speak here today, the Presidency of the Relief Society expressed the wish that I speak to these words of President Taylor. It is rather a narrow subject, and so it took considerable preparation. But, since I am the junior advisor to the Relief Society, a suggestion by the Presidency is, of course, a command to me. I shall therefore do my best. PRESIDENT TAYLOR RECOGNIZED POTENTIAL OF RELIEF SOCIETY To begin with, I want to say that I do not believe President Taylor's statement was lightly made. I think his words were carefully chosen and deliberately spoken. I am further persuaded that, in addition to his witness that the Prophet had organized the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," he had a profound understanding of the significance of what had been done. I think he rather fully realized the potentialities of this great According to the Law of Heaven organization, and that he did, in fact, rejoice in its organization according to the law of heaven. In support of this thesis, I call your attention to the fact that he had a great intellect, which through hard work and diligent study he had trained and disciplined; and that he had a profound understanding of law, particularly the: law of heaven which he equated to the law of the gospel. Concerning his mental capacity, President Brigham Young paid him this tribute: With regard to Brother John Taylor, I will say that he has one of the strongest intellects that can be found. He is a powerful man, and we may say that he is a powerful editor. But I will use a term to suit myself and say that he is one of the strongest editors that ever wrote. (The Gospel Kingdom, Introduction to Book I, Compiled by Homer Durham.) That is a great tribute from President Young. With respect to John Taylor's training and his self-disciplining, a brief résumé of his life will testify. John Taylor was born November 1, 1808, in Westmoreland, England. He was christened in the Church of England and he early exhibited religious tendencies. B. H. Roberts says in his Life of John Taylor, that he... Possessed a portion of the spirit of God.... Manifestations of its presence were frequent, not only in the expansion of his mind to understand doctrines and principles, but also in dreams and visions. "Often when alone," he writes, "and sometimes in company, I heard sweet, soft, melodious music, as if performed by angelic or supernatural beings." When but a small boy he saw, in vision, an angel in the heavens, holding a trumpet to his mouth, sounding a message to the 85 February 1969 nations. (Life of John Taylor, by B. H. Roberts, 1892 edition, pp. 27-28.) Believing that he found more light in Methodism, he became a Methodist. Walking to his first appointment as a local Methodist preacher, at seventeen years of age, he suddenly stopped and said to his companion, "I have a strong impression on my mind, that I have to go to America to preach the gospel!" A SEARCH FOR SATISFACTION So strong was this impression that nine years later, when the ship on which he was traveling to Canada was so threatened in a severe storm that the captain and officers were expecting her to go down, he had no fear. The voice of the spirit was still saying within him, "You must yet go to America and preach the gospel." (Ibid., page 29.) In Toronto, although successful as a Methodist preacher, he was never satisfied with the doctrines of that church. Although he was now preaching the gospel in America, he often said to his wife, "This is not the work; it is something of more importance." (I[bid., page 30.) He, with several others who could find no satisfaction in the sectarian doctrines of the day, clung to the Bible, studied its teachings, and met... Several times a week to search the scriptures, and investigate the doctrines of the Christian religion as contained in the Bible... They agreed, in their investigation, to reject every man's opinion and work, and to search the scriptures alone, praying for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. (lbid., page 31.) Because of their beliefs, they voluntarily forfeited their offices 86 in the Methodist Church. It was under these conditions that John Taylor was contacted by Parley P. Pratt. John Taylor had previously heard only evil rumors about the Mormons. He was, therefore, not very receptive at first. Finally, however, Parley P. Pratt was. Introduced to Mr. Taylor and his religious friends. They were delighted with his preaching... [which] was in strict harmony with what they themselves believed; but what he had to say about Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon perplexed a great many, and some of their members even refused to investigate fit}... John Taylor, however, was of a different mind. We are here [he said to his associates], ostensibly in search of truth. Hitherto we have fully investigated other creeds and doctrines and proved them false. Why should we fear to investigate Mormonism?... I desire to investigate his [Mr. Pratt's] doctrines and claims to authority, and shall be very glad if some of my friends will unite with me in this investigation. But if no one will unite with me, be assured I shall make the investigation alone. If I find his religion true, I shall accept it, no matter what the consequences may be; and if false, then I shall expose it. After this, John Taylor began the investigation of Mormonism in earnest... And on the 9th of May 1836, himself and his wife were baptized. (Jbid., pages 37- 38.) DEFENDER OF THE PROPHET Ten months later he visited Kirtland, where he was entertained in the Prophet's home. At that time apostasy was rampant in Kirtland, but John Taylor fearlessly and effectively defended the Prophet. In August of 1837, he received word from the Prophet that he would be called to fill one of the vacancies in the Quorum of the Twelve. To this office he was called and ordained by Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, December 18, 1838. In the meantime, he had completed, with his family, a tortuous journey from Toronto to Far West, Missouri. With fortitude and courage, he endured the hardships incident to the Missouri persecutions and the expulsion of the saints from that State. Between August 1839 and July 1841, he performed a memorable mission in England. Back home, he was immediately loaded with responsibilities incident to the development of Nauvoo and the expansion of the Church. {In} February, 1842, [the month before the Relief Society was organized]... He was chosen associate editor of the Times and Seasons... (Ibid., page 102.) Prominent among President Taylor's many attainments was, as already indicated, a profound understanding of law and _ its controlling function in the universe. It was, therefore, natural for him to use the word "law" in his description of the Relief Society organization. An understanding that God created and governs the universe strictly according to law was for him the beginning of all wisdom. All things are under the influence, control and government of law... The sun rises and sets regularly, the earth revolves upon its axis, and so it is with all the planetary systems.... Heavenly bodies... Are governed by a science and intelligence that is beyond the reach of men in mortality... They move strictly according to certain laws by which all of them have been, are, and will be governed. And these laws are under the surveillance and control of the great LawAccording to the Law of Heaven giver, who manages, controls, and directs all these worlds... Everything in Nature is governed strictly according to immutable, eternal, unchangeable laws, practical, philosophical, and strictly scientific, if these terms are preferred; but they are, nevertheless, placed there by the Almighty. (The Gospel Kingdom, Homer Durham, pp. 67-68.) He recognized the laws of nature concerning which men of science and_ philosophy have learned so much—particularly in this modern time—and he respected them. ANOTHER FIELD OF LAW But he knew there was another field of law—the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which holds the key to a knowledge and control of all things. He had a keen appreciation of the difference between these two fields of law. There is a philosophy of the earth and a philosophy. Of the heavens. The latter can unravel all mysteries pertaining to the earth. But the philosophy of the earth cannot enter into the mysteries of the kingdom of God, or the purposes of the Most High. (/bid., page 73.) That John Taylor did not regard philosophy as the key to a knowledge of heavenly things is evident from the following statement: Speaking of philosophy... I was almost buried up in it while I was in Paris. I was walking about one day in the Jardin des. Plantes—a_ splendid garden. There they had a sort of exceedingly light cake. It was so thin and light that vou could blow it away, and vou could eat all day of it, and never be satisfied. Somebody asked me what the name of it was. I said, I don't know the proper name, but in the absence of one, I can give it a name—I will call it philosophy, or fried froth, whichever you like. It is 87 February 1969 so light you can blow it away, eat it all day, and at night be as far from being satisfied as when you began.... (Ibid., page 78.) John Taylor recognized in the gospel the "adhesive principle sufficiently powerful to unite" the peoples of the earth. (Jbid., page 83.) We. Under the inspiration of the Almighty, will introduce the laws of God that exist in the heavens and upon the earth. And form a nucleus of truth, of virtue and intelligence. Of law and order. Of principles pertaining to morals, to philosophy, to politics, to religion, and to everything that is pure, exalting, and ennobling, and the kingdom will be the Lord's. (Lbid., page 83.) He predicted that we will yet see the world... Flocking to Zion by thousands and tens of thousands... They will say, "We don't know anything about your religion, we don't care much about religious matters, but you are honest and honorable, and upright and just, and you have a good, just and secure government, and we want to put ourselves under your protection, for we cannot feel safe anywhere else. (Ibid., page 72.) He frequently spoke of the power of the priesthood and its administrative function in the law of heaven. Here is an example: We are the offspring of God, and God in these last days has seen. Fit to place us in communication with himself. He has, through the revelations of himself and of his Son Jesus Christ, by the ministry of holy angels and by the restoration of the holy priesthood which emanates from God, and by which he himself is governed, placed us in a position whereby we can fulfill the object of our creation. There are certain eternal laws that have existed from before the foundation of the world. There has been a priesthood also in existence always, and hence it is called the everlasting priesthood, and it is administered in time and in eternity. 88 That priesthood has been conferred upon man together with the right of the gospel. And we are told how man can get into possession of the Holy Spirit of God, and how he can be placed in communication with God. ([bid., pp. 70-71.) It is altogether understandable that John Taylor, with his understanding, faith, and expectations, would be alert and sensitive to what was going on as he saw and heard the Prophet organize the Relief Society, and he understood Joseph's statements that "the Lord has something better for them than a written constitution." That is what the Prophet told Eliza R. Snow when she took to him several articles of incorporation which the sisters had drawn up as a prospective guide for their organization. And _ the Prophet said the Lord had something better for the sisters than a written constitution. SISTERS ORGANIZED UNDER THE PRIESTHOOD And he understood what the Prophet was talking about when he said: I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood.... This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized. (A Centenary of Relief Soctety, page 14.) John Taylor understood this as few do, and these statements must have had a profound influence, as also did the Prophet's instructions that... The Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community.... Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls. The Prophet also declared to the sisters that. They would... Receive instructions from the order of the priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation.... (Ibid., pp. 15-16.) That was the constitution for the Relief Society. And _ the Prophet further stated that if they needed his instruction, to ask him and he would give it "from time to time." These statements opened to the mind of John Taylor new visions of the role that women were to play in the building of Zion. He fully realized that a society "under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood"— which Priesthood he knew to be the power and the pattern of government by which and under which God himself orders and controls the universe—was indeed "organized according to the law of heaven." He knew that the "something" which the Lord had for the sisters—which would be "better for them than a written constitution"—was the guidance of the living oracles of God— those Priesthood bearers with whom God himself communicates and through whom he directs his work in the earth. Such a constitution, he knew, would give the Relief Society guidance superior to that enjoyed by any other female organization in the earth. THE SPIRIT BORE RECORD We may be assured that no implication of this divine organiAccording to the Law of Heaven zational pattern escaped the keen, well-ordered mind of John Taylor. To him the spirit bore record that it was indeed organized "according to the law of heaven." Surely, in this knowledge, he had reason, and did as he said, rejoice. He had further cause to rejoice in the knowledge that in organizing the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," the Prophet was taking a major step toward perfecting the organization of the Church. Again, he would have rejoiced in his prophetic vision of the service this great organization was destined to render as it pursued the objectives prescribed by the Prophet—service in extending sustenance to the needy, comfort to the bereaved, and joy to the sorrowing, for This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God _ has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV: 605.) And, finally, he would have rejoiced as he contemplated the blessings promised to Relief Society sisters by the Prophet in these words: If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. (Ibid., page 605.) All these, and many other considerations, give solemnity and significance to the statement of John Taylor that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven." God bless you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 89 | THINK OF BEACHES Light shades are quickening on darker blues, And whitecaps ride upon the building crest Of waves that drench the waiting sand.... Then rush away to join a deep unrest. | walk along the beach and swing my arms In metered time with each returning wave. | think of beaches girdling the earth Where these same waters fondle and engrave The sands that wait for their own time, Leaving driftwood and empty shells... Then wilfully exchange again Their patterned greetings and farewells. —Pearle M. Olsen The of MW Rosa Lee Lloyd m Sadie McGregor awakened with a warm, happy glow in her young heart. This was to be a big day in her ordinary workaday life. It was the day she had planned and prepared for ever since last spring when she had realized that Mrs. Harriet Hollenbeck, for whom she had cleaned house every Saturday for the last ten years, was having a difficult time financially since Mr. Hollenbeck's death a year ago. Mrs. Hollenbeck seemed like the wealthiest of all the women Sadie cleaned for. She was noted for her charities and her work for the blind and her' generous baskets to the underprivileged at Oint Sur on the California Coast Photo by Josef Muench Perfect Gift "Now a tall glass of milk for each of us." hristmas time. Mrs. Hollenbeck, blond and queenly beautiful, was really Lady Bountiful in Crystal Falls. Sadie couldn't count the lovely things she had given to her over the years since she was nineteen. She sat on the little chintz covered chair near her bed and looked around gratefully at her two-room apartment. She leaned over, touching the flowered bedspread Mrs. Hollenbeck had given to her last Christmas. Her blue eyes misted as they looked at the little carved table that held her television set and the gold vase with the imported artificial roses, the curtains with real lace edging them—all gifts from Mrs. Hollenbeck. Sadie's heart sang with gratitude that now, this very day, she 91 February 1969 was going to do something special for Mrs. Hollenbeck. This apartment was Sadie's corner of paradise. This was where she came home after the long, hard cleaning days, six days a week every week of the year; this was where she kicked off her sturdy, black shoes and put on those elegant pink slippers with the saucy little bows that her niece, Carolyn, had sent for her birthday with the cute note that said: Wear these, Aunt Sadie, when you want to feel like Cinderella at the ball. And don't quit looking for Prince Charming! WWhhat Prince Charming? Sadie thought, with a sigh. Would there ever be a Prince Charming for her, she wondered wistfully? But she did feel a sort of loveliness about her when she wore the shppers. She really did, in spite of her practical mind. She had saved every penny she could to buy the pink flowered housecoat that added more elegance to the slippers. Saving pennies was not easy for Sadie McGregor. There was her rent to pay, food was costing more and more each time she went to market, and there was her nephew Ted to help through college. He could depend on Sadie's check every month the way he could depend that the world would turn on its axis. She had helped her other nephews, Tom, Jack, and Bill through college, and now Ted who was the youngest. And she always saved money for the day when she could not work quite so hard. This morning she put the pink 92 slippers by her big chair, ready for her when she would come home. The flowered housecoat hung nearby in her closert. She knew she was not a glamorous girl, the kind shown in the fashion magazines, but some of the women she _ worked for praised her fresh rosy cheeks and wavy brown hair and told her she was the best cleaning woman in Crystal Falls. I do the best I can with what the Heavenly Father has given to me, she told herself. And, above all, she was grateful for good health and nice people to work for. Especially Mrs. Hollenbeck. She should not have favorites, of course, but who could help loving one person a little more than another when one was so kind and considerate and worth loving? It was exactly nine o'clock when Sadie rang the bell at the Hollenbeck front door. That was another sweet thing about Mrs. Hollenbeck, she always insisted that Sadie enter and leave by the front door. Sadie rang again. No answer. She rang again, then again, listening as the chimes echoed through the hallway. Mrs. Hollenbeck must have _ overslept, Sadie thought, holding back an anxious thought. Where could she be and how could Sadie get in to see if she was all right? "The door is unlocked," a hearty male voice called from the sidewalk. Sadie swung around. A big, ruddy-faced man was getting off a bicycle, leaning it carefully against the rolling lawn, then walked up the pathway toward her. == Sadie had the strangest feeling that she had seen him before. He was bareheaded and sunburnt and looked, at the same time, like a man who could plow a field or preach a sermon, doing both with vigor and ability. Fi. Is Mrs. Hollenbeck's brother, Dr. Judson Ryan, Sadie thought. She has his picture in her bedroom. I have dusted it many times. He was coming for spring vacation and here it was springtime in Crystal Falls! "You must be Sadie," he said, smiling a big, wide smile that made Sadie smile back. "Harriet told me to let you in at nine o'clock. So I unlocked the front door while I took a whirl around the block waiting for you. She's gone to help with the spring party for the blind children. She will be home before you leave." "You must be her brother, Dr. Judson Ryan," Sadie said. The big man nodded his head. "I'm Dr. Ryan, all right. But I'm not a medical doctor. I'm a veterinarian at the zoo in Bridge City. It's a fine place for me. I love my work, but I don't fly under false colors. So you just call me Dr. Jud the way everyone else does." He opened the door and Sadie followed him inside. "T'll start in the kitchen," she told him. "I'll get the scrubbing done first, then the dusting and polishing will seem like fun." "That's right!" he agreed. He was looking at her with steady humorous eyes that had little crinkles at the corners. "We have to make fun out of hard work. If we don't we have a sorry time of it. Now Ill be The Perfect Gift off for my morning bicycle ride. Good for the old legs." Sadie heard the front door close, then she took a moment to run to the front window to watch him stride down the walk, get on his bicycle, and ride off into the sunshine. She was thoughtful while scrubbing and waxing the kitchen floor. Mrs. Hollenbeck had three brothers, she remembered. She always shrugged her shoulders when she spoke of Judson. "He's a real character. He never does anything we expect him to do. My parents gave all of us equal opportunity; Harold is president of Abion Incorporated, Charles is an outstanding lawyer, and both have fine families. But Judson!" she had shrugged her shoulders again and an indulgent smile curved her lovely lips. "He loved all the dogs and cats in the neighborhood. He was always bringing home some animal that was hurt and trying to make it well. He could have been a great surgeon, but no, he wanted to be an animal doctor at the zoo. We have all tried to find a wife for him, he's so attractive and lovable. But he told us he would select his own girl. He's the happiest bachelor I know, so who's to say what he should do?" It was almost noon when Sadie finished cleaning the lower level of the house. She stood near the stairway and surveyed her mornings work. Everything was scrubbed and polished and reflected the special touch of love she had given to it on this very special day—Mrs. Hollenbeck's birthday. Sadie decided to eat the luncheon she had brought before she 93 February 1969 started the upstairs. She had taken her bologna sandwich and shining red apple from the refrigerator when Dr. Judson came in, looking like a man who has just climbed a mountain. He stood in the kitchen doorway beaming down at her. "A good-sized sandwich and a big red apple—just what I like for my lunch. Now you wait a minute until I fix mine and we'll eat together. No fun eating alone!" Sadie sat quietly at the table with her hands folded in her lap. She hoped Dr. Jud wouldn't notice that her hands were red and rough and her nails chipped a little. Oh, how she wished she had worn her rubber gloves this morning! She would have liked to offer to make his sandwich, but it seemed wiser just to sit and listen to him talk. After all, eating with her was his idea, and if Mrs. Hollenbeck came home unexpectedly and he was making his own sandwich, she would see it was his idea. "Now a tall glass of milk for each of us," he was saying. As he sat down across the table from her, the clock in the hallway chimed twelve o'clock. Sadie listened to each lovely chime, holding her breath a little, clinging to each magic moment. She was sure no hour ever passed so quickly, no food ever tasted so good, no milk ever looked so white and creamy, and no girl was ever so happily entertained as she was. He told her of Madame Lassa, the lioness, who had just had cubs, and how 94 he worked to save the life of old Mr. Philicus, the huge bear that had lived longer than any bear the zoo ever had. He told her of a trip he planned to Africa as soon as he could arrange it, and of the strange, new animals he would bring home to Bridge City Zoo. This is the way life should be, she kept thinking. This is the way our Heavenly Father has planned things; work and laugh and talk together. Oh, I must not care for him this way, Sadie told herself over and over. I must not be so fascinated with the things he says. He is Mrs. Hollenbeck's brother, and she wouldn't like me to care this way. I am only Sadie, her cleaning woman. She glanced quickly at her wrist watch, then got to her feet. "It's after one!" she gasped. "T must hurry. There's all the upstairs to do!" "Now you take it easy, Sadie." Dr. Jud followed her to the stairway. '"You've done a day's work already. What we should do is rent another bicycle and take you out into the country to see the blossoms. They should be coming out by now. How about it? Can you ride?" Sadies' heart beat up into her throat. She could only stand there looking at him. Their eyes caught and held and a sort of wonder passed between them. "T—I have my work to do," she managed. "I promised, Dr. Jud. I wouldn't disappoint Mrs. Hollenbeck for anything." He pretended to scowl at her. "Are you turning me down, Sadie? Don't you want to ride out and see the blossoms with me?" "Oh, I do! I do!" she exclaimed, "but I can't leave my work today." "Tomorrow?" he questioned, holding her eyes with his own. Sadie was unable to answer for the torment in her mind. Oh, Dr. Jud, she thought, you will never know how much I would like to go with you tomorrow. I can ride a bicycle. It would be a day out of heaven for me. But how can I do this to Mrs. Hollenbeck? How can I go out with her own brother? She might be displeased. She might never let me work for her again. DD. Jud seemed to realize the conflict in her mind. "I know," he said, "you think Harriet might not approve." His voice strengthened. "Now you listen to me, Sadie. I am my own man. Always have been. I do what's right and fair to everyone. I have never willingly hurt a living creature in this universe, but when I see a girl with rosy cheeks and eyes as blue and honest as the sky on a clear day, and I can laugh with her and talk with her and the world is suddenly happier because I have met her, I'm not going to listen to anyone who doesn't approve. Not when I feel right in here about it." He tapped his big chest. "You be ready about six in the morning," he added, and his voice was almost convincing. "T'll be over with the bicycles: and our luncheon." He turned abruptly and strode out of the front door. Sadie stood completely still for a long breathless moment. He's strong, she thought, over a catchy little sigh. And he's The Perfect Gift good and he's my idea of... She whispered the last words in her secret heart as she turned and ran up the stairway. Oh, Mrs. Hollenbeck, she thought, as she moved the furniture and ran the vacuum over the beautiful green carpet, please try to understand. Please be kind about this. I don't want to intrude into your life. I know how proud you are. I didn't try to win your brother. I was only being myself, Sadie McGregor, who would work her fingers to the bone for you! Sadie worked without a pause until five o'clock. Everything in the house glistened in the soft afternoon' sunshine _ glinting through the windows. She sat on the gold and white bench in the front hallway holding her purse on her lap as she waited for Mrs. Hollenbeck. It held the precious note she had taken almost a week to write. It had to say just the right words. Dear Mrs. Hollenbeck: I wanted to give you something to let you know how much I admire you and appreciate you and always will. My gift is my seven hours work today. I have polished everything extra special and my heart and my love come with my gift. Yours truly Sadie McGregor Her head came up as she heard Mrs. Hollenbeck's'-car. In the driveway. She took: the envelope from her purse and* got to her feet. A glad, warm happiness flowed through her, easing her tired body. This was the moment she had planned for. Mrs. Hollenbeck rang the bell and Sadie had the door open be=: fore the chimes faded away. "Hello,. Sadie," she said cor- 95 February 1969 dially as she took the scarf from her lovely blond hair. "What a day! What a lot of people to look after. My, everything looks so clean and beautiful. What would I do without you, Sadie?" Her eyes went over everything approvingly, then came back to Sadie. She opened her purse and took out a ten dollar bill and two one dollar bills. "A little extra tip today, Sadie," she smiled, handing them to her. Sadie took the bills and with a swift gesture she put them in the envelope with her note. Then she handed it to Mrs. Hollenbeck, watching her with shining, expectant eyes. Mrs. Hollenbeck opened the envelope, glanced questioningly at Sadie, then read the note. Sadie waited for her face to brighten into a smile. She waited tremulously, for the touch of her hand, for the sweet words of appreciation she had dreamed of hearing. Instead, Mrs. Hollenbeck's face was a carved mask. She put the bills in the envelope and handed it back to Sadie. "I can't," she said. "I can't let you do this, Sadie. A whole day's work!" Her voice was gracious and kind as always and she was smiling, but Sadie felt suddenly freezing cold as though she had walked headfirst into an icy wind. She shivered. "T can't let you do this," Mrs. Hollenbeck repeated. "It wouldn't —be right." Without a word Sadie put the envelope into her purse and walked out into the chilly April twilight. 96 She generally took the bus home after a long day's work, but tonight she held her coat tightly around her and walked toward her apartment seven blocks away. She bit her lip to keep it from trembling and she held back the tears; but they stung her eyes and spilled over on her cheeks, in spite of her determination not to cry. There was no reason for her to cry because she had done nothing wrong, she told herself, lifting her head as her chin squared off. Heavenly Father knew she had meant no disrespect to Mrs. Hollenbeck. She had given what she had to give with her heart's love, and, somehow, she knew it was right and she refused to cry about something that was good. She walked the seven blocks to her apartment with her chin as firm and her heart as convinced as any of her Scotch ancestors who had sailed the seas or pioneered this valley. She was bone weary and very hungry, as she unlocked the door and turned on the lights. She would boil a potato, fry a steak, and make a fresh green salad with crispy little onions on top. But first, she decided with a determined smile, she would put on her pink slippers with the little bows and wear her bright flowered housecoat she had been saving for a special day. A special day, she repeated, feeling like a wounded animal, hurting deep inside. Life had to go on, she had learned when she had lost her parents when she was only nineteen, and you had to cling to the good things that happened to you until the dark, ugly shadows faded away. The good things, she whispered to herself, like meeting Dr. Jud. Even if she never saw him again, still, just meeting him had made it a very special day. She had barely stepped into her pink slippers and buttoned her housecoat when the door bell rang. Sadie stood very still wondering who would call at dinnertime. Here she was all prettied up in her pink outfit. Would they be surprised! Then she shrugged her shoulders and opened the door. Mrs. Hollenbeck stood there, with her lovely hair looking as though she had been riding in the wind without her head scarf. Her eyes were brimming with tears and her cheeks were streaked. "Sadie..." She put her hands out as though reaching for courage. Sadie took them in both her own and pulled her gently inside. "lve come—for the gift you 29 gave me..... The Perfect Gift Mrs. Hollenbeck's voice stumbled and Sadie bent her head to hear her. "I've come to tell you how—how wrong I was. How ungracious. Please—forgive me." She covered her face with her hands, and Sadie put her strong young arms around her and held her until she could control her tears. "My brother Jud told me many things, Sadie. Jud never minces words. He said I hadn't given as much in my whole lifetime as you had offered me tonight. He said—I had to learn to be a gracious receiver as well as a gracious giver. Then he reminded me of a poet that our mother always quoted: 'Who gives of himself feeds three, himself, his hungering neighbor and me.' " Sadie could not speak for the hot lump in her throat. That bit of poetry said everything to her. She wished she knew more about poetry, but she had been so busy earning a living and keeping her own apartment, there hadn't been much time for poetry; but from this minute on she would take time to learn more about poems and what the poets meant as Dr. Jud did. Mrs. Hollenbeck wiped her cheeks with a dainty lace handkerchief. "T'm here, Sadie, to tell you I will gladly accept your gift. It is one of the dearest gifts ever offered to me." Sadie walked to the table, opened her purse and took out the envelope. "Thank you, dear," Mrs. Hollenbeck said as she took it. Her voice was gracious and charming again and her shoulders didn't 97 February 1969 droop any more. She smoothed her hair back into place. Then her eyes went over Sadie, head to toes as though looking at her for the-first time. She gazed a long moment at Sadie's pink slippers with the gay little bows. Her eyes went over the flowered housecoat again, then up to her curly brown hair. Sadie's cheeks pinked up and she looked like a girl in her teens. Mrs. Hollenbeck's eyes had a bright warm glow that erased the hurt in Sadie's heart. "T can see what Jud means," she said at last. "He told me he had found a girl with roses in her cheeks, dreams in her eyes, and a heart as honest as the Rocky Mountains." Mrs. Hollenbeck's lips quirked. "Sometimes Jud gets his poetry mixed up with the practical. But I know what he meant." She turned toward the door, then she faced Sadie again. "Whatever happens, Sadie, between you and Jud—remember —you both have my blessing." She closed the door gently behind her. Sadie leaned back against it breathing a little prayer. Then she looked. Down at her pink slippers. -There really is a_ Prince Charming for every girl, she thought as she danced toward the kitchen. There really is! She must write to her niece and thank her for the slippers. Al PEACE REACH Where is the word to reach another heart? Oh, where the phrase To link your understanding With my thought? Words on words, Carefully chosen words... Lest your heart note my true intent Or read mistaken inflections Into the yearnings | would have you feel. And still | cannot be sure... Is there a way to oneness in our thought? Or must | despair your ever really knowing What is in my heart? There is one word The word that was in the Beginning "And the Word was God." He can weld our thoughts in sameness And melt our understanding Into one clear stream, If only we may be in tune And find with him that oneness To know together, truth. 98 —Gay N. Blanchard Co mmon G roun d Lynne Partridge Laie, Hawaii @ Our prejudices are manmade, self-limiting blinders, and indeed, were we to gaze openly at reality, we would see that what existed in our minds had little, if any, connection with reality —or so I have come to believe since my tenth year. In 1911, in Coalville, Utah, my grandmothers met for the first time. The meeting took place in the snow-blue, wallpapered living room of my parents' two-story brick house, the house which my father had built three years before after being made president of the Coalville Bank. I was present at this historic, now almost legendary confrontation, only because I was unnoticed. I was small for age ten, and with brown eyes, auburn hair, brown pin-striped blouse, and brown skirt, I could blend into the woodwork, especially behind the staircase. I don't remember when I first heard my parents discuss the possibility of their mothers' meeting one another, but it was a regular, recurring topic in conversation at our house. It would invariably begin by Mother saying, "Franklin, I think it behooves us to bring Mother down for a rest." Papa would agree that Mother Tarbert, after sixteen children and fifteen toilsome, rigorous, austere years on a_ northern Wyoming farm, merited a rest. "Pauline," he would — say, "why don't you write to your mother and invite her to stay with you a month?" Here Mother would wonder if Mother Pamier, my father's 99 February 1969 mother, might come to visit from Ogden, and thus the two could meet, and wouldn't that be lovely? Ev times my mother had tried to persuade her mother to come for a visit. Not because Grandmother needed a rest, but because Mother needed help with a new baby or in moving to a new and better house, as we did on occasion. But to both of these approaches Grandmother Tarbert regularly had returned adamant "No's." "You are well enough off," she would write, "to Aire all the help you need." And _ her letter usually closed with a description of the crops yet to be planted, or the animals which had calved recently, or the vield from the sugar beet crops which were the only crops worth any money. G randmother Tarbert had not approved my mother's marriage. Franklin Pamier was one of those rich Pamiers from Ogden, and the banker Pamiers, Dezzie Tarbert maintained, were not Iltke, nor company of, the farmer pioneer Tarberts. Though Dezzie bore her sixteen children in Morgan, she and her Charles Edward tore up roots and moved their meager belongings and substantial family to Wyoming when Brigham Young called for men to settle the Big Horn. There they prospered, to a degree, and the older children to a greater degree proliferated, but they had not become rich. And they had not left Morgan before Pauline, the ninth of Dezzie's children, had met Frank. Frank, in Pauline's mind, was 100 a real gentleman. His language was gentle, his manner was gentle, even his clothes were gentle, and like everything else, refined. Frank spoke German and grammatical English; he walked erect with quiet, intelligent, unswerving determination, and he made Pauline feel like a court-bred lady. Dezzie could not fathom what her daughter saw in this cityman. To Dezzie, Frank's hands were soft and white compared to a farm boy's browned, sinewy hands. His scented beard, clean, tailored suits, polished shoes, and gold vest watch seemed almost unmanly beside the rough, dustcoated apparel of the pioneer boy. And Frank's speech was polite to the point of lacking force, Dezzie felt. And, anyway, she had an inherent distrust of men who made their livelihoods pushing pencils instead of plows. So, lacking both my grandmother's permission and _ her blessing, in the winter of 1899, and on horseback, my parents eloped. They rode for two hours through a dry, driving blizzard to the Morgan depot, caught a train to Salt Lake City, and were married January 5th. In subsequent years my grandmother forgave her daughter, and developed respect, even love for her son-in-law, but she had never come to visit, and she would not meet Frank's family. The miracle which ultimately precipitated my grandmothers' meeting came quite by accident. Grandmother Tarbert came to Morgan to attend one of her sisters critically ill with pneumonia. It became impossible for her not to come visit us, not with Coal- ville only twenty miles away, and my father the owner of a Pierce-Arrow, one of the fifteen cars in the county. And thus she had come, a sparse figure who pulled her storm-gray hair skin-tight over her head into a frugal bun at the back. She was only fiftyeight, but her wind-weathered, sun-etched face spoke more of one seventy. Her hands were bony, although quick and strong, and her voice was dry and cracked, reminding me of a bonfire. Her lips were thin and pursed. Her eyes, though, were young. They were black and penetrating, and alive with what seems to me now, a childlike curiosity. It was in those eyes that I fathomed my dear grandmother's backbone, her steel will, and, thank goodness, her sense of humor. There were two rockers in our living room, one a black, straightbacked, hardwood chair, and the other a_ pillowed, soft, floralprinted affair. Mother and I always preferred the latter, while my father usually chose a large, somber, stuffed, stationary armchair for his evening reading. For this meeting, Grandmother chose the black rocker. Grandmother Pamier, a frequent visitor at our house, sat as usual in the floral rocker. She was seventy-two, white haired, and had soft, pink-white skin. Her hands were not cracked or rough, and her smile was luminous, her voice lilting. I wondered, as had my parents for weeks, where two such women would find mutual territory. My parents left them alone Common Ground to find out. Papa took Mother for a ride, said they would be back in an hour after running some errands. I nearly stopped breathing in the silence which settled in that room once the Pierce-Arrow could no_ longer be heard. The only sounds were our mantel clock, the occasional rustle of Grandmother Pamier's skirts—and the rapid, militant rocking of Grandmother Tarbert's chair. Grandmother Pamier, known for her ability to make people comfortable in social situations, began. "Sister Tarbert, I understand you and your husband do farm work in Wyoming." "We raise sugar beets, beef stock. Best crop is our children." "How many children do you have?" Without missing a beat in her rocking, Grandmother Tarbert pursed her lips reflectively, then, "The last six were boys." Grandmother Pamier looked sharply, and, for half a minute was silent. But she had borne twelve children herself, though three died in infancy, and she pressed forward. The conversation was staccato. Esther Pamier asked questions; Dezzie Tarbert answered them. They covered the subject of their combined twenty-eight children in roughly two and a half minutes, the only similarities seemingly being that each bore children in '71, '74, °76, °78, and 80. Grandmother Pamier went back a further step: "I came to Salt Lake Valley in 1857, by wagon train,' she remembered. "When did you happen to come West, Sister Tarbert?" 101 February 1969 Dezzie Tarbert's sharp voice crackled. "We came then, too. Our company was made up of handcarts." Esther Pamier dropped the subject and again retreated. She must have noted, and I somehow felt, that Grandmother Tarbert, in her way, was trying to be warm, but somehow she couldn't, as if she didn't know how, or as if an unseen wall of pride prevented her from unbending before the older woman who sat opposite. "My family came from Hallow, in Worcester, England," Grandmother Pamier recounted. "We sailed from Liverpool in 1857." My Grandmother Tarbert's rocking slowed. "We came from Edinburgh," she said quietly, "and sailed from Liverpool that same year. I was seven. There was a storm on that voyage." Her eyes grew bottomless as she remembered. Grandmother Pamier sighed audibly, with relief, I felt. And almost gaily she said, "Oh my! We experienced such a storm as you can't believe. Hundreds of us huddled together while that old ship, 'New Grinstead, pitched and rolled. I remember," and she paused as if recalling something she had not thought of in many years, "there was a little Scots girl who hid her head under my skirts, until out of exhaustion, she fell asleep in my lap." Grandmother Tarbert's rocking had stopped. She rose from her chair, and as she did, I found Grandmother Pamier and I stood likewise. "That was my ship," her voice cracked, "J was that little girl!" The two old women embraced, and cried, and laughed, and suddenly I realized there J was standing, unseen, perfectly blended into the woodwork, grinning from ear to ear. I felt a little foolish, but I couldn't help it. They were infectious. They retraced the same subjects and this time couldn't talk fast enough to say all they wanted to say. When my parents returned an hour later they walked into the house open-mouthed, unnoticed by their two chattering mothers, sitting side by side on our plush, orange, stuffed couch. The following year Grandmother Pamier died, but I heard Grandmother Tarbert retell this story many times in the last twenty years of her life. And each time, I felt my first excitement in seeing two unlike old ladies discover common ground. Ss GENERATION SPAN In our lot on a city street Grows a mulberry tree. How interesting | think to Trace its genealogy. Perhaps its grandfather with Fruit and worm process Contributed the lovely silk In Grandma's wedding dress! —Verna S. Carter 102 Le i, Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency, received the second annual ''Eternal Quest of Womanhood" award at Utah State University, Logan, Utah, in November 1968. The citation, presented by Latter-day Saint women students at the University, was given under the direction of Linda Durrant, President, and Pam Fiscus, in charge of the program. The citation read, tn part: ''We feel a need for someone living in our own time to look up to as a pattern. We feel your life is exemplary and worthy of the tribute.'' Sister Smith spoke and sang on the program. Mrs. Lyndon B. Johnson, on a farewell First-Lady tour in November, visited a number of the beautification spots which are the fruition of her desires for America, combined with cooperation by Government conservation interests and art sponsorship. In California, Mrs. Johnson dedicated the country's newest National Park, which is conserving for future generations the magnificent Redwoods, some of them more than six hundred years old. Mrs. Richard M. Nixon brings to the very difficult post of First Lady of the United States, intelligence, beauty, poise, and experience in political and diplomatic affairs, with their many social demands. She is a devoted wife and mother. Jane Elligett, wife, mother, homemaker, graduate of Bryn Mawr College of Mathematics, presently a professor at South Florida Learning Center, is well-known as an executive and director of several public opinion surveys in the United States. She is also vicepresident of the Alfred Politz Research Foundation and has written a much discussed and useful book, ''Mathematics for the Disadvantaged." Mirla Greenwood Thayne, Provo, Utah, is author of The Little Things—Poems, Stories, and Articles (Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City). Mrs. Thayne is a poet, lyricist, and musician. Her work is nationally known. Her talents have been put to use for family and friends. Jessamyn West, the talented Quaker writer who gave us The Friendly Persuasion, has returned to its delightful and admirable Birdwell family for her new novelette Underground, a humorous, dramatic, serious tale drawn from Civil War history. (Harcourt, Brace and World.) Marilyn Mercer, journalist, writes that today women constitute one-third of the American labor force. Only seven per cent of American doctors are women, however, and only ten per cent of women college teachers are full professors. Mrs. O. A. Beech is chairman of the Board, Beech Aircraft Corporation, and Mrs.. Cecilia Kline of Arizona is president of Kline Incorporated, advertising and public relations agency. Mrs. Kline has recently been honored with an appointment as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Society of Arts and Letters. 103 EDITORIAL Loyalty g@ 'Loyalty is one of the noblest attributes of the soul.'' (President David O. McKay.) Loyalty is a most desirable virtue, praised by poets, philosophers, and men of religion; honored by the great and the humble; sought by leaders of nations, churches, and other organizations; achieved by the unselfish and truly loving. Several important traits are encompassed in loyalty. FIDELITY is a facet of loyalty. It implies strict adherence to obiigations and duties as well as respect for leaders, peers, and oneself. Fidelity is the virtue which leads one to remember and to keep vows, to be true to God, to fellow men, and to the teachings of parents. Wisdom dictates that one be true to himself in order to build a worthy life. Fidelity describes the true relationship of marriage partners. ALLEGIANCE is a component of loyalty. It is best defined as patriotism to one's country and homage to its flag, respect for law, and submission to authority. Support of leaders under whom one serves requires whole-hearted allegiance and willingess to follow prescribed policiesand procedures. Allegiance is not a visionary concept. It is a real, constant, active support. 104 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J Madsen Leone G Layton Blanche B Stoddard Aleine M Young Alberta H Christensen Mildred B Eyring Edith P Backman Winniefred S Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R Young Atton W Hunt Elsa T Peterson Fanny S Kienitz Elizabeth B Winters Jennie R_ Scott Alice L_ Wilkinson irene W Buehner Irene C Lloyd Hazel S Love Fawn H Sharp Celestia J Taylor Anne R Gledhill Belva B Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J Cannon Lila 8. Walch Lenore C Gundersen Marjorie C Pingree Darlene C Dedekind Edythe K Watson Ellen N Barnes Kathryn S Gilbert Verda F Burton Myrtle R Olson Alice C Smith Luctle P Peterson Elaine B Curtis Zelma R West Leanor J Brown Reba C Aldous Luella W Finlinson Norma B Ashton Mayola R Miltenberger Maurine M Haycock FAITHFULNESS is inherent in loyalty. A faithful person is trustworthy and dependable. Full confidence can be placed upon one who honors his calling and is de-. Voted to his work. Faithfulness has both religious and secular connotations and is expressed in adherence to ideals. UNSELFISHNESS is necessary to loyalty. One must be willing to submerge self-interest and selfaggrandizement for the good of others. In these days when great emphasis is placed on one's own betterment to the exclusion of concern for others, unselfish loyalty is a prized trait in an associate. As in all things, the Savior is the highest example. He had implicit confidence in the Father and the Father in him. Nothing could tempt him to be disloyal. "Therefore doth my Father love me,"' Christ explained as he laid down his life to fulfill his mission. Having examined the nature of loyalty, it becomes apparent that the true Latter-day Saint strives to be loyal to himself, to his parents and their teachings, to his country, and to God and his Church. Loyalty is second only to love, the Prophet has said. Let loyalty be so ingrained in our characters that together the loyal followers of our Lord, true to the leaders he has placed over his Church, will present the face of strength and unity to the world. —L. W. M. 105 Diet and Heart Disease The American Heart Association Heart disease continues to reign as the nation's Number One Killer. More lives are lost to diseases of the heart and blood vessels than all other diseases combined. Research has made great strides in finding the causes and many cures. Probably the most hopeful news from research studies comes in the prevention of heart disease. What can you do to help prevent heart disease in your family? Answers from research point to certain "risk factors'' in heart disease. Among the risk factors are cigarette smoking, high blood pressure, lack of regular exercise, and regular physical check-ups with a physician; diet is one factor that needs particular attention. The woman in the home is probably the best person to encourage better eating habits in the American family. Scientific studies show that the American diet and our eating habits need some changes. The way to a man's heart is still through his stomach, but the old saying has taken on a new meaning: the food you eat can endanger your heart, or protect it. Many scientists now recommend a meal plan that is low in saturated fat and cholesterol and still provides all the essential nutrients. Your Heart Association believes that watching your diet is good preventive medicine. Contact your Heart Association for information and leaflets. Protect yourself and your family and support the fight against heart disease. CITY WATERCOLOR SCENE Now rain comes quietly, over and over Channeling on dark roofs of the town; Small dogs turn homeward, sparrows take cover Under wide eaves, as fine rain spins down. Low lying clouds and dun tree branches Blend in a wetwash of misted grays; Soiled snow recedes on soaked lawns, rain drenches Weed-covered lots, wet-blacks paved highways. Now that the maelstrom of white has ended, And snowadrifts reduced to a gutter-line, Come—rejoice at rain that has blended Winter and Spring in one blurred design. —Katherine F. Larsen 106 A Day for Diddle-Daddling Alice Morrey Bailey @ The breakfast dishes were still on the table when Etta Jennings came, trying to borrow a pattern for Eunice's dress, but we all sat, because Etta was company. Besides, we were just as curious as we were polite, maybe more so. Etta hardly ever came to our house. "My land," Mama said. "What brings you out so early? I'll bet your work's all done already." "T always have my work done by eight o'clock," said Etta a little reprovingly. "It's a pattern "TI thought you had patterns." I need. I've got to make Eunice a Fourth of July dress and she wants one just like Callie's." "T'd be more than glad," said Mama. "I'd give it to you in a minute, but I never used a pattern in my life." Janie's face was red about the dirty dishes, and I felt mine was, too, because it was eight o'clock and we hadn't even started our work, but it helped when Etta said: "Callie always looks like she just stepped out of the Sears Roebuck catalogue." Callie was I. "That's where I get the ideas for her dresses," Mama said, but Etta was getting up to go. "T thought you had patterns," she said, her face screwed up with worry. She was a thin woman and her face looked like somebody 107 February 1969 had set an egg-beater in the middle of it and given it half a turn. "No," Mama said. "At twentyfive cents apiece and me with five girls? I make my own, out of newspaper. I pin them on, of course, till they are right before I cut into the cloth. It's easy, Etta. You just..." "T would never dare! I'll borrow a pattern from Annie, but. I've got to get at it." She looked discontentedly around our dining room. "I declare! I don't know how you get over the ground with seven kids and farm help to do for. Me, with only one child, and I'm on the run every minute." Mama thought that over as if it was news to her. "I do have a lot to do, don't I?" When Etta was gone Mama looked after her with approval. "There's a woman who never diddle-daddles. Here it is only eight and she has her dishes done and her beds made and she knows exactly what she is going to do every minute of this day. I admire a woman like that." E tta was hitching along down the path, giving a little jerk about every third step. She seemed to be hurrying, but was going up and down and from side to side as much as she was going forward. When Mama walked she didn't seem to hurry, but I had to run to keep up. 'Mama, when are we going to make my Fourth dress?" I asked. I just ached for her to say "right now." "Why, child! It's only May." "T know, but Etta is starting Eunice's dress right now." "Tl think about it," Mama said. Sometimes Mama thought 108 about a thing a whole month, and the night before the Fourth she was almost always up till two or three finishing dresses for us girls, but somehow they were always laid out on the beds in plenty of time before the celebration. "Right now I am going to make a cake. You girls get at your work." It was my week to wash dishes. Jennie and Lucy were already making beds. Mary was sweeping the kitchen—not very well, because the broom was taller than she was. What made it worse was that Lalla was right in the middle of the sweepings with her Ilittle broom "helping" by sweeping busily in every direction. Before Mama could make a cake she found she had to go after eggs, because we'd eaten so many for breakfast. "I'll be gone just a minute," she whispered, and slipped out while Lalla had her back turned. Lalla was a nuisance in the chicken coop. "Mama?" said Lalla, missing her. ""Mama's gone bye-bye," I said calmly, and she accepted it, went back to her sweeping. Mama wasn't back in a minute, as she thought she would be. When I wiped off the kitchen table I saw her feeding the chickens from the granary door, and knew she had argued it was easier to gather eggs while they were eating, but later she was cleaning out the chicken coop. Now she would want me to get the wheelbarrow and put the fertilizer on her flower bed. I'd get out of that job if I could! Sometimes we stopped working when Mama was not in the house, at least until we saw her coming back, but Etta had stirred us up with shame and we kept on. I made a little bet with myself that I would finish the dishes before Mama came back with the eggs, and I won, even though washing dishes for twelve people, counting Papa, Johnny, and Tom, and the three hired men took just hours and hours. On top of that there was the cream separator and the milk buckets and the strainer, and all of them had to be scalded. UJ anie wanted me to finish because she didn't want to mop the kitchen floor until [ quit spilling dishwater on it, and I didn't blame her. We were at that time using separated milk to mop the floors because Mama had read somewhere that it made them shine, and it did, but it made the mop sour, so I was glad when she gave up that idea. It was nearly noon when Mama got back to the house, and when she came it was only to get a rag, to be dipped in bluing to mark the thirteen eggs she had in her apron. "That old hen wants to set," she said by way of explanation, "and all I could find was enough eggs." Mama always used thirteen because if one spoiled she would have a dozen chicks. "What day is it today?" We got the calendar and figured out when the hen would come off in twenty-one days, but while Mama was fishing in the rag bag to find a scrap she could spare for the bluing, she ran onto something else. "Well, I never!" she said. "Here is that crepe de chine I lost last summer." A Day for Diddle-Daddling She pulled it out, somewhat worse for the wrinkling, but it was pretty for all that. "I meant to make me a waist out of it, but there was too much and I didn't want to spoil it." She looked at its pink pile in her hands, then measured it off from her fingertips to her nose. "I do believe there's enough for your Fourth dress in this piece, Callie." I stood stock-still, afraid she would change her mind. "What's the matter, Callie? Don't you like it? It will be beautiful when it is pressed." "Mama, I love it," I breathed. "Well, all right, then. Here, Jennie. You mark these eggs and then you and Lucy go out and set the hen." "Mama, I'm scared. She'll peck at me. I never set a hen before." "Well, you can't learn any younger," said Mama. "Just pick her up by her back." She didn't even notice that Jennie had turned white as a sheet. I would have offered to show Jennie how, except that I was afraid I would break the spell and Mama would think of something else to use that material for. "Shall I get the catalogue?" I asked. "Yes, do," she said. "We'll pick out a pattern. I do hope we have some thread to match." We got the newspapers out and looked through the catalogue. The prettiest dress had puffed sleeves and a scalloped overskirt and a sash. "Oh, Mama! That's the dress I want. Can you make that one?" Mama considered it for just ages, I thought. "I think so," she finally said. "If we use some batiste for the top part of the under- 109 February 1969 skirt, that will leave enough material for the bottom ruffle." I did everything I could to help. While Mama was cutting out the newspaper pattern I built up the fire and put the flatirons on, set up the ironing board and got the machine out, and, by the time Mama had the pattern ready, the material was pressed and the scissors and thread were at her fingertips. Mama wouldn't cut paper with her good scissors. I heard Jennie and Lucy coming to the house crying, but I couldn't take a deep breath until Mama actually cut into the material. ""Mama, we're scared of the old hen," Jennie wept. "Goodness, child. What have you been doing all this time? You've been gone long enough for her to be ready to hatch." "Just looking at the old hen," Lucy wept. "She ruffled her feathers at us and scolded." Mama was rising to help them, but I interceded. "Ill help them, Mama." "All right," she said, and went back to her sewing. "Callie," she added, just as I was going out the door. "Get the wheelbarrow and put that fertilizer on my flower bed." I knew it! "Yes, Mama," I said. "Can I do it after lunch? I'll get lunch and get the baby to sleep." I didn't wait for an answer. Secretly I was afraid of the old hen, too, but didn't dare show Jennie and Lucy. I didn't just help them; I took a firm grip on the hen's back feathers, avoiding her beak, and lifted her off the nest. Jennie hurried up and put the eggs in and we got out of there. She was fussing around 110 setting on them, pecking each egg under her feathers as if they were already hatched into baby chicks. I liked her for it. "I can't wait for the baby chickens," said Lucy. "You'll have to watch Lalla that she doesn't love them to death." I hurried back to the house, and none too soon, for Mary was cross and Lalla was crying for her lunch. In another minute Mama would have stopped sewing to take care of them, so I did it. After lunch I sat on the little chair and sang Lalla to sleep. By all this managing on my part Mama was ready to try on the underskirt before I did the lunch dishes. "Did you forget the wheelbarrow?" Mamma asked. It was safe to leave her now, I thought, with Mary and Lalla asleep. Jennie and Lucy had been given permission to go play with the Jensen children, and I couldn't see a thing to interfere with Mama sewing. "T'll be just outside if you want me for trying on," I said. "T declare! I never saw anybody so helpful," answered Mama blandly. It took quite awhile for me to fertilize the garden. I had meant to protest how heavy the wheelbarrow was for a little girl eleven, but, under the circumstances, I said nothing. I have seen Mama start after chips of a morning and never get back in the house the livelong day. She would feed the chickens, gather the eggs, water the cows and toss them a little feed if the men were at the field, going from one to the other without any previous planning. At last I came in and washed my face and hands and changed my dress. "You're just in time for me to try on your dress," Mama said. It was all done but the finishing and pressing, and it was just beautiful. I stood on the chair and. Admired myself in it, visualizing how I would look with my hair in ringlets with a pink bow. "Come down now, Callie. Let's get it done before the men get home and the babies wake up," Mama said. "When a task is once begun never leave it till it's done." I had heard Grandma say that a million times, but I nearly fell over to hear Mama say it. Mama meant well, but she was easygoing. Once, when my girl friends and I went to the flowing wells below town, we played too long and were late A Day for Diddle-Daddling getting home. We had gone for watercress, because it was spring and we were hungry for something green and we had enough of our diet of ham and potatoes and gravy and bottled fruit. We hadn't thought of containers, and had our aprons full of wet, somewhat limp, and thoroughly bug-infested cress when we noticed the sun was going down and realized we had to walk over two miles to get home before dark. "My mother is surely going to be mad when I get home," one of them whimpered. "Papa will take a willow and tingle my legs," another one said. They kept this up until I began to feel the same fear, and by the time I got home I was in a panic. I never will forget coming in the back door, closing it behind me and almost sliding down it in a heap, wondering what awful fate would be mine, but all Mama said when she saw me was: "Laws, Honey. How you've grown since I saw you!" I think I never loved her more before or since than I did at that minute. "Watercress," she said, "My, that's nice," and she freshened it in water, carefully picked the bugs off it and we ate it with fresh baked bread and melted butter. I loved her now. She was just finishing my dress, tying the sash with it on a hanger against the wall on the coat rack when the gate clanged. It was Etta Jennings coming up the walk and she looked as if she had been through a calamity. Mama met her at the door. "T bet I've walked ten miles trying to find a pattern," she said, and then she saw my dress. 111 February 1969 "Where in the world did you get that dress? It's just exactly what I wanted for my Eunice." I held my breath. It would be just like Mama to up and give it to her. Mama would give anything away, almost. She stood looking with pity at Etta's perspiring face. I just knew she was on the verge of giving her my dress for Eunice, but Etta said, "Ill give you ten dollars for that dress right this minute." Mama's look changed just a little bit. "T can't rightly do that," she said. "That's Callie's dress, not mine to sell, but Ill tell you what. You bring Eunice and your material over and Ill cut out a dress for her." "Just like that one?" Etta asked, and I caught my breath again. The last thing in the world I wanted was for Eunice to have a Fourth dress just like mine. I was on the verge of urging Mama to sell it when she spoke again. "Prettier," she said, but how could you have a prettier dress than that? "Pink is not Eunice's color, not with that beautiful red hair. You need blue or green for her, to match her eyes." I looked at Mama. She hadn't mentioned Eunice's freckles nor the way her teeth stuck out. "The material, is blue," Etta said thoughtfully. "The clerk said the same as you, but I couldn't think of imposing on you, not with all you have to do. You must have' worked all day to make that dress and get your Saturday cleaning done, too." All of us, even Etta, knew she would bring the material, and it didn't matter now. My Fourth dress was made and it was mine. "To tell you the truth," Mama said, "the girls did the cleaning. Callie took care of the babies and did everything else. I set out to make a cake and never got it done. All I did this whole day through was diddle-daddle." 112 ABRAHAM LINCOLN | wonder had | lived when Lincoln lived Would | have looked at him as men do now, Have heard his homespun jokes as classic wit, Or thought his furrowed face a noble brow? Would | have known the pathos and the pain Behind his chosen words at Gettysburg? Would | have been there at the Springville train To mourn him, to recall his parting word? The stories have worn well—about the rails He split, the borrowed book, the cent returned, The humble cabin birth, the circuit trails, His great compassion—all these we have learned. But would | recognize his greatness under The tall hat, beneath the sorrowing heart? | wonder. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Photo by Hedgecoth Photographers February 1969 Florence Smith (left) and Alwilda Newbold (right), Vermont Ward, South Los Angeles Stake, enjoy working together to make aprons for Relief Society bazaars and for gifts. Sister Newbold is a professional tailor and her creative talents find a wide scope in her aprons. Each year she makes from seventy-five to a hundred aprons of all styles. She is also an expert at knitting, crocheting, and embroidery work. She feels that one needs a variety for gifts and bazaars, and it also keeps her busy and happy. Sister Smith has assisted Sister Newbold for many years in apron-making. She is especially skilled in the fancy stitches and decorative work that make the aprons artistic. Making aprons together has given these sisters a deep and rewarding friendship, enhanced by their joy in presenting their work as gifts and bazaar items. E * & | * he re er Stake, Idaho, makes unusual and lovely quilts to be Idren, and sixteen great grandll as to her Martha Callahan Durfee, Weis presented to her six children, thirty-nine grandchi children, and presents many for use by Relief Society for bazaars, as we many friends and neighbors. She has made quilts out of men's neckties, which suit the male recipients to a tee. Sister Durfee is eighty years old, and has served as a visiting teacher for fortyeight years. Her cheerful smile is always welcome at Relief Society meetings. 114 February 1969 ward for their bazaar, and mothers were most fortunate who were able to purchase one of those beautiful items. Not long ago another wonderful idea came to Sister Lach, rejuvenating old dolls and stuffed toys! Sister Lach buys old stuffed toys and dolls for almost nothing at the Deseret Industries. She takes a seam undone on the animals, removes the stuffing and then washes the outside covering. Then she carefully replaces the stuffing and sews the animal together. Oftentimes an ear or an eye is missing and she carefully replaces it. The animals are just like new when Sister Lach finishes working on them—an unbelievable sight when seeing the objects "before" and "after." Many times a doll may have an arm or a leg missing. She finds other old dolls which have a matching leg or arm and replaces the missing one. She cuts, shampoos, and styles the hair of the dolls so they look beautiful. The doll is scrubbed from top to bottom and any other repairs that are needed are done. Then Sister Lach, with her ingenuity and great talent in sewing, dresses these dolls. They resemble a "Paris" creation when she is finished. They are beautiful to behold. The clothes are so lovely that they are just as attractive as those on a newly purchased doll. 116 the upper Part of the February 1969 For stuffed animals: Step. 1. Remove all felt trims, such as eyes and tongues. Save for use as a pattern. Step 2. Open a seam large enough to insert your hand, and remove the stuffing, saving it for use later. (Toys which are labeled "completely washable" or stuffed with shredded foam, may be put in the washing 'machine and the filling need not be removed.) Wash the entire outer form in-good hot soapsuds. Rinse in clear water. Shake well, and hang out to dry in a warm place and fluff out the material occasionally while drying. Step 3. Pack all the stuffing back in the toy, starting with the legs and head. Then pack the body well, supplementing the stuffing with upholster's cotton, as needed, until the toy is firm. Step 4. Sew up the opened seam and brush the fur. Cut new tongue and eye pieces from felt and glue them in place with fabric glue. Many hours of labor go into such a project, but it is indeed a labor of love, a love and desire to do something for others, a desire to bring happiness and beauty into the lives of little children. This Sister Lach does by giving these animals and dolls to children. WAITING I'm sitting in my big arm chair Passing the time away, Nothing seems to change It's the same from day to day. I'm sitting quietly by Counting the hours till night, There's nothing | can do But wait for the waning light. My strength is almost gone | can hardly leave my chair, Will | rise tomorrow To wait by the window there? It's beautiful outside, dear, But leaves ride on the wind. The ground is thick with gold now And the branches thinned. — Carmen Daines Fredrickson 118 ee ee ~!. ~ Grandmother! Mada W. Stanger a and the Stockings, a @ I remember Grandmother's visits! How we looked forward to her coming! These visits were not too frequent, and only once in awhile did she stay all day or overnight. Grandma is just a little woman, but her love and sweet personality are just the reverse of her size. We loved to see her come, because of her love and kindness. No grandmother could have shown more love for grandchildren than she showed us. Now the vears have rolled along, and Grandmother is getting older. Her little body is getting frail, and she is not as active as she used to be. But as long as I live I shall remember Grandma and the stockings. There were eight growing, active, healthy children in our familv. We lived on a farm, and there was always plenty to be done. All the girls were taught the art of homemaking at an early age by our sweet mother, as we cooked for hay men, put up fruit. Sometimes, it was necessary for the girls to help Father and the bovs with the farm work. Mother worked so hard to do her manv household tasks, but like many others, night came before her work was done. One task that we all seemed to save until we had more time was darning the stockings. Mother would put them in a little wire basket that folded flat when empty. Each washday the basket and the stack of stockings for ten people would grow and grow. We all learned how to darn stockings, but all too often when we sat to darn, we could make only a small dent in the stockings before we left the job unfinished. And so the basket bulged. Then Grandmother would come to visit! After rearing a large family herself, she knew of the many things a mother often leaves undone and always offered to help. Somehow or other, she would always find her way to the stocking basket. Her loving hands would darn and darn while she visited with Mother, until the basket would fold flat, and our own individual stocking bags were filled with neatly darned stockings. And we appreciated her helpful talent. I must honestly admit that when I knew Grandma would be there, I secretlv hoped if she had the time. She would help us conquer the stockings. Now, as I hurriedly darn my family's few stockings that need darning these days, I lovingly remember, with a smile, the days Grandmother came to visit, and the basket full of stockings waiting to be done! SS ON A STORMY NIGHT Save me a summer, | cried, In the storm's midnight, In the mountain's domain, And keep me a dream intact From the scolding thunder, From the lightning's obliteration. Keep for me beyond the dark zenith Always a dawn in reply. —Dorothy J. Roberts 119 Carol Berrey @ Here are some delicious recipes that are favorites with the members in the Rome Branch. I am sure they will please those who like, or would like, to try authentic Italian food. The first recipe I obtained from a charming restaurant in a small village outside of Rome. BISTECCA ALLA PIZZIOLA (Steak cooked in a delicious tomato sauce) 4 thin steaks 4 green olives (pitted) 4 slices of American cheese oregano or substitute oil, as desired Brown steaks in an oiled frying pan. Cover each steak with a slice of cheese and decorate with slices of olive. Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and oregano. Cook on low heat until the meat is done and the cheese melts. For an elegant dinner, rol] the meat and cheese, with the olives and seasoning inside. Secure the rolls with toothpicks. Place in the pan with a little oil and one can of tomatoes (about 6 oz.) cut into small pieces. Add salt, pepper, onion, and a little garlic. Cook until the meat is done and the sauce is thickened. RISO AL LATTE (Rice cooked in milk) 2 c. Rice 2 tbsp. Butter (more or less, as desired) 1 quart milk, approximately salt 2 tbsp. Sugar Cook the rice for 8-10 minutes; remove from the stove, and rinse. Add about 7, of the milk. Cook, adding milk as is needed, until the rice is done. Add the sugar, butter, and salt. Serve piping hot. 120 Recipes From Italy LASAGNA AL FORNO (Baked lasagna) Meat Sauce celery, and onion Put olive oil, beef, vegetables, and spices into a frying pan and cook until the onion is golden. Add the tomatoes (cut into small pieces) with all the juice in the can. Add salt and pepper to taste. Boil slowly for 2 hours. White Sauce 1 qt. Milk 2 tbsp. Flour % ¢. Butter or other shortening. 1 tsp. Salt Heat the milk. Add butter, flour, and salt. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Lasagna Noodles In a large pan, bring the water to a boil. Add salt. When the water boils again, add the lasagna, a piece at a time. Cook for about 20 minutes. Then drain the lasagna tomato and beef mixture, then a layer of lasagna, and cover with three tablespoons of white sauce. Sprinkle with a little cheese. Continue this layering until the pan is filled, finishing with the white sauce. Put into a hot oven (400°) and cook until the top forms a golden crust. Serves four. Sis Tonight the rounding moon Reached its zenith and cast a glow Of almost noon Upon the mounded silent snow. Diamonds, pearls, and amethyst Spread a calm quiescent braise On pyracantha's tented head Where cedar waxwings kept their tryst Just yesterday. A soft gray haze Shaded the lowly violet bed Where | knelt in gathering gloom For flowers which now perfume this room. Tomorrow or tomorrow this full moon Will wane; waxwings return again To beautify each bush, and soon More violets will bloom where snow has lain. —Zara Sabin 121 4 tbsp. Olive oil Y, lb. Ground beef 3 tbsp. Each, chopped carrot, 2 gallons of water I tsp. Salt parsley, as desired basil, as desired 1 can tomatoes (1 Ib) 1 package lasagna noodles (16 02.) A New Oilcloth Mabel Luke Anderson 7 @ The canning was done, and the cellar shelves filled with colorful jars of fruits, vegetables, and pickles; the last spicy smell of catsup and chili sauce was only faintly lingering. After the canning chores were over, there always came the special bonus when mother would say, "I think we can get a new oilcloth for the kitchen table today." I am sure we would not have been more happy had she said, "We will get a new dinette set today." The old drop-leaf table that had served two or three generations would do, and would be renewed in the splendor of a new oilcloth. Sometimes Mother gave me the silver half dollar, and mine was the envied privilege of going to the store and, from the array offered, pick out a gay check, colorful plaid, or a floral or fruit design. It was a hard choice, but when I came home bearing the long slim parcel, careful that it not be bent. I indeed felt it was a red-letter day. The old cover was taken off to be put on the shelves on the back porch, and my purchase was laid with ceremony on the table among admiring exclamations and compliments of the fine choice I had made. There it was in all its beauty—what mattered it if it in. Mo way "matched" the other colors in the room? It was so gay, so light-hearted and smelled so clean that it brightened the entire room and gave a lift to our lives. We had a little ritual for that first meal, while the oilcloth was so grand and new. We did not cover its elegance with any other tablecloth but set the dishes right on the pretty cover. The humble fare that was put on it tasted fine and I know a king couldn't have enjoyed his supper more. The slick new surface, also, made a smooth, clean, and cheerful background for our school studies. That shining oilcloth on the kitchen table meant we were ready for winter, no matter what it would bring; that the hard work of canning was over; the pig killed and put away; that there were barrels of meat, bins of vegetables and apples, sacks of flour safely hanging on racks from the cellar beams. Cans of sugar. Molasses, and honey gave one a secure feeling of being prepared against the snows of winter. Twice a year we enjoyed the ceremony of a new oilcloth. In the spring, at housecleaning time, getting a new oilcloth for the kitchen table was a signal pr. \ 122 A New Oilcloth that the housecleaning was done. The last rug had been beaten. The last feather bed aired, the last window washed. I think it came to mean a symbol of accomplishment. Of a goal reached. A job well done, whether spring housecleaning or fall canning. And even now as I look back. That new oilcloth is a symbol of many good things in a way of life that has gone forever. Life was lived at a simpler level: a symbol for homes in which work, fun, and love were shared. A svmbol for appreciation of little things, when there was less urgency to earn extra dollars. A symbol of a life where nothing was bought until one had the money to pay for it—credit was practically an unknown word in its present meaning. Saved cash bought necessities first, luxuries when there was enough left over to pay for them. The tempo of life was slower; it was also without its tensions. It was a symbol of a home where Mother was always present. The oilcloth was a svmbol of a frugal life. Yes, as I look back, that new oilcloth epitomizes a nostalgic past, a svmbol of a vesterday of values of integritv and wholesomeness. Each of us has his own private symbol of the good things of those vesterdavs as a standard of comparison as we make our choices today and tomorrow. INDIAN WEAVER The desert, Gray as a bleached dead tree, Brown as an autumn leaf, Yellow in spots like gold, Stretched around her, As, sitting on the sand, She weaves the woof of red and gold and blue - Across the warp of dusty white. Is it a blanket? Yes, but that is not all. A smile is on her lips As, with deft fingers, She weaves some cherished dream. —Enola Chamberlin Young Friend Ida A. Isaacson @ I met a young friend of mine at leadership meeting. She brought her bicycle to a full stop as we met. She is the mother of five lovely children. She had a basket on the front of her bievele, and it held her Relief Society Magazine, and her Out of the Best Books, Volume Four, a notebook, and her purse. It was gratifying to see her, and I was happily surprised at her mode of travel. Lt indicated vouthfulness, economy, and a method of traveling that was faster than walking those blocks. And it denoted good judgment. After the meeting was over, I am sure that she mounted her bicycle and arrived home a little earlier to greet her children and to make plans for dinner and attend to the multiple things that a young mother and wife must do. I admired her. 123 ~~ —. Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is Margery S. Cannon @ "Who are you?" asked the caterpillar of Alice in Wonderland. "TL ee hardly know, sir, just at present..." Alice answered, Since her abrupt entry into the caterpillar's incredible land, she had been facing new situations so rapidly that it was no wonder she was bewildered. Similarly, our own world is a wonderland to every newborn child—big, strange, unfamiliar, and untried. "Who am I?" he well might ask, and in that moment of newness he begins to form an image of himself. Parents. Schoolteachers have devised regular "show and tell" periods to help children develop positive feelings about themselves. Each child has a moment in the spotlight to show and tell something to his class. The "ohs" and "ahs" when a child shows one of his creations, the spontaneous spurt of laughter when he tells a funny story, the interested comments of the teacher, all help a child to define himself as a worthwhile individual. This same "show and tell" principle can be used by parents to build positive feelings in their children. One of the most effective methods of achieving this is Such a cluster of loved ones brings a warm blankety feeling of belonging. Several pages and pictures later he realizes that he is growing bigger and learning new things. A "stick people" drawing. Tissue Paper roses. A picture of himself on roller skates. He pauses at each new proof of accomplishment and a smile carves into his cheeks. 124 Show and Telf Your Child Who He Is chair by the baby's crib so she could sing to him and keep him company." Or, "Our neighbor, Mrs. James, loved to have Jimmy visit. She said he was the only Comments such as these tell a child that he is appreciated and loved and spark loving responses in return. And, somehow, they seem a bit more impressive when they're written down in a book. To parents with large families, keeping up the books may loom as quite an undertaking. No doubt about it. But it is also extremely rewarding. Working on a child's book can be a shared experience, a precious togetherness time, someCHILDREN ON A DESERTED BEACH Sand is hard and wet To your toes Where each wave flows Up and back, day-long, And swings In tune with a song The ocean sings. Miles of sea glint with sun Along miles of weed— Strewn beach, but we can run Easily as the little birds With stilt legs, that Run and feed AS waves recede. Now birds are gone. There is nothing More— Only sun sliding down the sky Into the far edge of the sea And us running endlessly Along the endless shore. —Ethel Jacobson 125 Welcome The Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young woman of twenty-four is spending the summer in Houston, Texas, with her mother's cousin, Bea McPherson. Jennifer has left behind Steve Rey, whom she is attracted to, but the relationship is unsure. In Houston, she meets handsome Jim Long, who has been wooing her. The bishop of Bea's ward is the director of the famous Texas Medical Center, and has indicated that it might be possible for Jennifer's mother to have heart surgery to relieve the serious heart condition from which she is suffering. ® One night early in September, Jennifer ventured to ask Bea what her feelings about Dick were. "What do you mean?" Bea asked guardedly. "Surely you are aware that there is an attraction existing between you two, it shows on both of you." "Why, Jenny, are you trying to play matchmaker?" Bea asked lightly. "No, I don't think anyone needs to. I was just wondering if you were aware of what seems to be happening." 126 Chapter 4 Bea was silent for a few minutes. "Well, Jenny, one never knows. We both have a lot of forgetting to do. It's hard for me to accept the way Dick was so bitter about the deaths of his wife and son. I loved John just as deeply as any woman ever loved, I'm sure. He was the light of my life. But that light went out, and I have to make the best life I can for myself and our boys. His memory is a comfort to me, but one can't live with and for a memory. I remember him with love, and I'm not bitter that he's gone, just sad. And I know we'll be together again, that's the greatest comfort. Jennifer understood this. ''Perhaps Dick needed being around someone like you to be able to see this himself," she suggested. "Perhaps, I don't know. Ten years is a long time to carry a bitterness in your heart. It can't completely disappear overnight. And then, I'm just not ready for anything yet. In two weeks it will have been a year. I'm not mourning, but I'm still adjusting. First Christmases, anniversaries, birthdays, special days of all kinds aren't easy. There are so many firsts...." she trailed off lamely. "T think I understand, Bea," Jennifer said quietly. The day following their conversation, Bishop Hopper phoned and asked Jennifer if she could come to his office and meet Dr. Mayhew. She was immensely lmpressed with the famous surgeon, and extremely pleased to learn that he was willing to examine Mrs. Miles, with the possibility of performing surgery as soon as possible. Jennifer wanted to call her parents and tell them, but decided that a detailed explanatory letter would be best. She explained everything, from meeting Bishop Hopper to her impression of Dr. Mayhew. She urged them to consult the doctor who was currently treating her mother, but most of all to pray about it, though she knew that would be their first act. It would be no easy decision. Surgery of any kind was frightening, and risky. There was no guarantee that her condition would be improved, or indeed, if she would survive the operation. Bea immediately began to make plans to have Charles and Elizabeth as her guests for as long as they would need to remain in Houston. Her friendship became increasingly more precious to Jennifer. Each ring of the phone sent a fearful, excited chill down Jennifer's back. Finally, one evening she recognized her father's voice. Welcome the Task "Jenny," he said _ huskily, "We've decided to take the chance. Your mother is losing ground now, so we'll make a fight for it." Tears came to Jennifer's eyes. Her dear, sweet mother must face a choice that was really no choice at all. Her mother came on the line and expressed her love for Jennifer and her faith that this was indeed the right decision; that she felt Jennifer was guided to Houston for a reason, and perhaps this was it. Jennifer would not attend school this semester, but would remain in Houston until her mother was able to return home. She and Bea met the plane. It was a joyous reunion. She hadn't realized how much she had really missed them until she watched them come down the ramp. Her tiny mother, with her brown eyes and auburn red hair shining, was smiling and leaning on her husband's arm. Charles was a big man, and looked even bigger next to his petite wife. Jennifer noticed that her father looked more serious than usual. His eyes were full of love, but his strong jaw was set, and he kept a protective arm about his wife. Her mother's optimistic personality always had a way of disguising the real issues, if they were unpleasant. She assured them that they had had a marvelous flight, and she was so grateful to Bea for taking care of her daughter, and for extending her hospitality to Elizabeth and her husband. "We've asked Nyta Rey to stay at the house with the boys," 127 February 1969 her mother commented. "She's been such a dear friend to me, and I'm sure she'll be able to help the boys through all of this." "Yes," Charles added, "and that boy of hers—Steve—sends his love." Jennifer blushed. Her mother had begun to suspect before Jennifer left home that Steve had much to do with her daughter's moods. Well, no mind, for he was a fine boy, and if her daughter chose him it would be a happy day for both families. "Pete has taken quite a liking to Steve," her father commented, referring to his impetuous middle son. "We all have, as a matter of feet." Jennifer ignored the pointed remark. "I'm looking forward to coming home as soon as Mother can,' she announced quietly. "And, of course, you must meet Jim." Her mother patted her cheek as she always did in an expression of affection. ""We had hoped you would want us to, Jenny." Her heart sang. She would be going home. Home to Springville and the beautiful, rugged Wasatch Mountains which looked over the valley like a protecting father. Home to the lake, their street, the large brick home, and the huge lilac bush in the front yard, the big walnut tree in the back yard that had afforded her both shade and a back rest as she pursued the world through books during her youth. She hadn't realized how much she _ had missed all this until just that moment. She was looking forward to seeing Steve, yet she knew she would miss the attentions of Jim Long. 128 But, more importantly, she was going home to Dave, Pete, and Sam. Home to their teasing, their balking at being reminded of chores needing attention, but also back to their awkward attempts to show affection, their shyness at talking over a particular problem, their triumphant happiness when their teams won, and their quiet attempts to take losing like the men their father was molding them to be. How much would they have changed now? But she would be with her mother and father again, to discuss, to help, and to learn. Oh, Mother, she thought, you have to make it, for all of us. They had anticipated a rather long wait at Dr. Mayhew's office, knowing how busy the famous surgeon must be. However, Mrs. Miles was led directly into the examination room by the friendly, smiling nurse. For Jennifer, Charles, and Bea, the wait seemed endless. "T'm sure he is giving her a very thorough examination," Bea reassured them, as she caught them both glancing at their watches periodically. "The time certainly drags," Jennifer complained. She picked up a magazine and began thumbing through it, but her mind was in the examination room with her mother. Suppose the surgeon felt that the surgery was just too great a risk. Must they face the fact that she would die slowly before their eyes? She forced the thought from her mind. The family had left the matter in the hands of their Father in heaven. Finally, the nurse returned and asked them if they would please come into the doctor's con- ference room. Bea hesitated and Charles said, "Please, come along." They seated themselves comfortably, eagerly anticipating, yet dreading the appearance of the doctor. The nurse brought Mrs. Miles in first, and she sat down between Charles and Jennifer. Her eyes were bright and she smiled reassuringly. Finally Dr. Mayhew, accompanied by Bishop Hopper, came in. Jennifer was once again impressed by the bearing of the surgeon. He was considerably younger than she had expected him to be, only about forty-five. She thought that Jim Long would be this kind of person, famous and successful at a relatively young age. The doctor's dark hair was graying slightly at the temples, and he had an air of calm, poised self-assurance. He was tall, and would, by most standards, be considered distinguished, even handsome. When he spoke, his voice held a kind of quiet authority, coupled with a "you can have absolute faith in me," tone. He was friendly, but came right to the point. "Much of what I am going to tell you, you probably already know. The patient's heart has been severely damaged by rheumatic fever during childhood. There is a great deal of scar tissue, but the most pressing problem is a badly damaged mitro valve. Now what we plan to do is remove this valve and replace it with an artificial one. It is a delicate operation, generally successful though." Welcome the Task Before they could relax too much, he went on. "However, the patient's liver and lungs are in extremely poor condition, which, of course, increases the risk a great deal. We want to put her directly into the hospital if she decides to have the surgery, and run more extensive tests. As things look right now, her chances are about forty-sixty." They looked at one another without speaking. Jennifer's heart pounded. Forty-sixty sounded frightening. She had _ thought that fifty-fifty would be bad enough. Finally the surgeon spoke again. "I am willing to perform the surgery, and I think it will be successful, but it's a decision that only you folks can make." Bishop Hopper said, "We can give you three days, in which to make the decision. We know how difficult it is. But within three days you would have to enter the hospital for tests, or we couldn't meet the surgery time we have open." Mrs. Miles spoke up quietly. "No, we will not need the three days. We knew there was a risk when we came. We had already decided that if Dr. Mayhew was willing to perform the surgery, I was willing to risk it. Now, when do I enter the hospital?" Her voice held that no nonsense authority that she was forced to use on her sons so often. Bishop Hopper smiled confidently. "We'll have you come in first thing in the morning." He patted her shoulder, and everyone shook hands. Dr. Mayhew informed them that she would undergo surgery a week from the day she entered the hospital. 129 February 1969 " The day before the operation, all of Bea's family and the entire Miles family in Utah, as well as Jennifer and her father fasted. Jim accompanied Mr. Miles and Bishop Hopper to the hospital where they administered to Elizabeth. A bouquet of flowers bearing Steve's name along with that of his mother, and Jennifer's three brothers, had arrived earlier. "I'm so blessed," Mrs. _Miles smiled warmly at them.: \ oN y As he was leaving, Jim bent down and whispered something in her ear. Jennifer curiously asked her mother what it was, later, when they were alone. "Oh, he was just reminding me what a wonderful daughter I have," she said tenderly. "He seems like a nice young man Jenny. Do you care for him deeply?" Jennifer smiled. Jim Long was quite a person, and she told her mother that she was flattered by his attentions, but no: more at. The time. "Jenny," her mother said seri- 130 ously, "if by chance the Lord wills I don't come through this, promise me you will look out for your father and the boys." Jennifer shuddered inwardly. "T promise, Mother, but you're going to be all right," she said with a great deal more confidence than she dared feel. "I hope so, Jenny, I really hope so." The day dawned dark and cold. It was late November and winter had a grim grip on_ things. Charles, Jennifer, and Bea arrived at the hospital early, so that they might see Mrs. Miles before she was placed under sedation. They were permitted to remain with her until she was rolled down the corridor into the operating room. Jennifer could barely control her shaking hands as she sat down to begin the long wait. Dr. Mayhew had estimated that the surgery would require about three hours. The waiting room was a cheerful, light, and comfortable place, but they were oblivious of these things. Jennifer fought the panic rising within her at the thought of her mother, in the operating room, fighting for her life against this condition which had plagued her for so long. Her heart seemed to be racing three times faster than was necessary to sustain her. She felt both hot and cold at the same time, as if icy blood was being pumped through a feverish body. It seemed as though she could hardly breathe. Each glance at the clock told her that only five minutes had -passed. She tried to look around at the other people waiting. Bea seemed lost in thought. She must be remembering sitting in a room such as this while surgeons fought to save John's life, Jennifer thought. Her father looked older, tired. Jennifer had realized several years ago just how much he depended on his wife. Outwardly he was a strong, confident, vibrant man, but his wife was the key to all that was strong about him. She thought about her three brothers. They were good boys, but they needed their mother's guidance and advice, for all three of them loved and respected her almost reverently. Jennifer looked around the room, feeling empathy for those who were awaiting news of a loved one. She felt sorry for the young couple who looked so forlorn, probably their young child was in surgery, she thought. Welcome the Task Their apprehension increased when the clock moved from three and a half hours to four from the time Mrs. Miles had gone into the operating room. A grim faced doctor approached, and gently touched a middle-aged man on the shoulder. "I'm sorry, Mr. Warren, we did all we could." The silent room was filled with the man's sobs. Jennifer's heart went out to him. How hard it is to lose a loved one, but what a comfort the gospel could be at such a time. She had fidgeted and paced the floor for more than five hours when the door down the hall opened again. She recognized Dr. Mayhew's tall frame coming toward them. She tried vainly to read his expression. (To be continued) Never spent, Desert sand, In your hand. You may go, | love you so. TO BE NEAR YOU | wish | were a flower in your garden, Delicate in scent, Or a Mozart Symphony, inspiring, Or just your footprint in the sun-warmed hy To add a breath of beauty wherever To be near you fondly close, because —Rowena Jensen Bills 131 Your shadow on the cool of earth, a raindrop )} FROM THE FIELD Ail material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Korean Mission Conference Creates Central and Southern Districts, August 26, 1968 Top picture, front row, center (in black dress): Soon Sung Kim, President, Southern District Relief Society; to her right: Boo Yun Kim, First Counselor. Second row, second from left: Sun Pyo Pak, Second Counselor; (in plaid dress): Rosemarie Slover, Supervisor, Korean Mission Relief Society. The second picture includes many of the same sisters during a testimony meeting at the conference in Pusan. Sister Slover reports: ''At our general district conference, the mission was divided into the Central and Southern Districts. All sisters of the new Southern District were invited to attend one of the meetings, and the spirit present was truly wonderful. 'Most of the sisters are new in positions of leadership, but they have a strong desire to serve and a testimony of the importance of the work they will be doing."' Ben Lomond Stake (Utah), North Ogden Third Ward Relief Society Makes Satin Pillowcases Virtue O. Spackman and Blanche H. Ellis working on satin pillowcases for North Ogden Third Ward Relief Society. Margaret C. Jones, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Orders could not be filled fast enough for the lovely satin pillowcases which were Relief Society's contribution to the building fund in the North Ogden Third Ward of our stake. Over $250 has been added to the building fund, plus $100 to the Relief Society treasury through this project. 'The pillowcases are not only beautiful, the members of the ward report that they contribute to soft, restful sleep, and protect the ladies' hairdos." 132 Fort Worth Stake (Texas) Singing Mothers Join Large Group for '"'Hemisfair Performance" August 9-10, 1968 Lucille W. Molen, President, Fort Worth Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Thirtythree sisters from the Fort Worth Stake joined the large combined group of Singing Mothers who performed at the 'Hemisfair' in San Antonio, Texas, in August. The sisters began rehearsing in April for this event. Margaret Porter directed the group, and they were accompanied by Joan Wooley. Director of the combined groups was Montess A. Anderegg. The sisters expressed appreciation for this opportunity and felt that it was a worthwhile and inspirational activity. "Our stake was organized last September and we are working very diligently to get the Magazine in each home. We love it dearly." Western States Mission Relief Society Presidency Holds Conference Left to right: Mildred Rose, Education Counselor, Western States Mission Relief Society; Edith Hall, Homemaking Counselor; Carrell Thorpe, President; Arline M. Scott, Supervisor; Janet Luke, Secretary. Sister Scott reports: ''Each year the presidency of the Western States Mission Relief Society visits each of the five districts in the mission and holds a conference on Saturday and Sunday. This year, as in previous years, instructions concerning Relief Society procedures were discussed. District fashion shows were held, and many items which could be used for bazaars were demonstrated. "A Singing Mothers chorus from each district sang at the conferences, and reviews of the past year's work were given by the officers of the district boards. "We feel that these conferences benefit Relief Society in the mission very much, and we enjoyed them also." Italian Mission Holds First Relief Society Conferences May 11, 18, June 8, 1968 Members of the Italian Mission Relief Society Presidency, left to right: Chiara Banchetti, First Counselor; Wanda Duns, Supervisor; Marilee Swift, President; Joanne Gerstner, Second Counselor. Sister Duns reports: ''Four Relief Society conferences were held in the Italian Mission to insure that all sisters of Relief Society would be able to attend at least one session. The sessions were held in Palmero, Sicily; Milan; Pisa; and Taranto. 'President Duns and | were able to attend three of these meetings and address the sisters. Approximately twenty sisters attended each meeting. "At each conference there was a discussion period, a luncheon prepared by the mission Relief Society presidency, addresses by the presidency, a demonstration of homemaking meeting ideas, and a bazaar featuring the lovely handwork of the Italian sisters."' North Sevier Stake (Utah) Board Contributes To ' Success of the Relief Society Program North Sevier Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Aldena A. Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Arnelda M. Poulson, Second Counselor; Bernice M. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Wilma H. Sorensen, President. Standing, left to right: Ora C. Mason, visiting teacher message leader; Thula Nielsen, homemaking leader; Leona J. Mickelsen, spiritual living class leader; LaVerde S. Gurney, Magazine representative; Melva N. Johnson, social relations class leader; Joyce Gronning, cultural refinement class leader; LaJuana Bastian, organist; Billie Lou Johnson, chorister. Sister Sorensen reports: ''These sisters have been faithful in furthering the success of Relief Society in our stake. They serve devotedly and attend the required meetings regularly. We have a lovely board room which was decorated and furnished by contributions and stake board funds. It also serves as a garment distribution center, managed by the president and assisted by other willing Relief Society workers." South Box Elder Stake Honors All Who Have Served on the Stake Board, August 14, 1968 Front row, third from left: Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; fourth: Helen Bunnell, former president. The remaining sisters are current and past members of the stake board. Sister Nebeker reports: ''A dinner honoring all those who had served on the Relief Society stake board since 1963 when the stake was organized, was held. The occasion was to reveal a history book compiled recently. 'Included in the history book were pictures and write-ups of socials, special accomplishments, programs from conferences, and other events, and statistical data. "We felt that getting together to see the history book would be a pleasant interjude for the sisters. One of the highlights of the book is a personal history sketch of each sister who served on the stake board. It was a most pleasant and successful evening."' New York Stake, West Point Branch Relief Society Unique in Locale and Activities Members of the West Point Branch Relief Society, left to right: Lola Turek; Mary Blackham; Lois Hobson, Second Counselor; Myrna Redd; Polly Jordan, First Counselor; Joyce Mumford, President; Penny Lockard; Kaye Palmer; Elaine Bons. Ada H. Miller, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The West Point Branch Relief Society, though newly organized and consisting of only nine members, is productive and active. On May 10, 1968, they held a spring social consisting of a cruise down the Hudson River. "Their unique location affords them interesting fund-raising possibilities. The corsages worn by the sisters are colorful chrysanthemums which are in great demand during the football season when the Army team meets its opponents. The wall hangings are actual miniature reproductions of the uniforms worn by cadets at the United States Military Academy. 'We are inspired by the devoted manner in which these sisters carry out the functions of Relief Society." . OER ayena) 9 Alabama Stake ''Fashions For All Seasons" Show August 24, 1968 Left to right: Kathleen Nelson; Linda Mattle; Sue Drake; Delores Hazzard. Donalee A. Beazer, President, Alabama Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The theme of our annual fashion show was 'Fashions for All Seasons.' The four sisters in the picture are our fashion coordinators, one commenting for each season. They are wearing dresses from the same pattern, styled to their particular season. "There were 124 outfits modeled by seventy-nine participants, including husbands and children. We feel that our fashion shows are great incentives to encourage the women and girls in the stake to develop sewing skills. We are very proud of the fine workmanship in the clothes demonstrated in these shows."' Juab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Marks Centennial With Unique Program, June 22, 1968 Left to right, sisters who have served as presidents of Juab Stake Relief Society: Martha C. Eagar; Lyle C. Pratt; Lua L. Stephenson; Chole N. Bailey; Edna J. Cazier; Blanche B. Brough, current President. Sister Brough reports: ''Our stake observed its centennial anniversary with a unique program. The program included a dramatization of several important historical events in the stake. The script was written by Sadie H. Greenhalgh and was taken from actual minutes and testimonies. "The Singing Mothers sang several appropriate numbers during the program. An original banner made by Relief Society sisters in 1868 was on display. Colorful display tables with pictures, relics, and histories covering the 100 years were a popular and much appreciated attraction. "A delicious buffet luncheon was served and it was a time of rejoicing and reflecting back to the marvelous work of the sisters who came before us. We shall go forth with renewed zest to carry forth our part of the heritage. | 'There were five of the past fifteen presidents who have served since 1868 present | at the celebration. We were also honored to have Sister Fanny S. Kienitz of the Relief Society General Board present at our celebration."' | rr Roy North Stake (Utah) Presents ''A Call To Benevolence' To Honor First Anniversary of Stake Relief Society July 11, 1968 Front row, fourth and fifth from left: Mabel G. Peterson, President, Roy North Stake Relief Society; Arlene Cheever, First Counselor. Third row, at left: Nina Chappell, Secretary-Treasurer. The remaining sisters are members of the stake board and ward presidencies and secretaries. Sister Peterson reports: '(Commemorating the first anniversary of the Roy North Stake Relief Society, and in appreciation of the wonderful work accomplished by the wards during the year, the Relief Society presidency entertained members of the stake board and the ward presidencies and secretaries at a luncheon. Following the luncheon, members of the stake board presented 'A Call to Benevolence.' " Lesson 96—Doctrinal Instructions SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 130:8-23; 131:5-8.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman devotes herself to gaining more knowledge through diligence and obedience. INTRODUCTION The Prophet Joseph Smith made observations upon the public and private remarks of member and nonmember. One time Orson Hyde gave his views on various gospel subjects which called forth corrections by the Prophet. At another time the Prophet corrected some statements made by a Methodist preacher. These corrections have provided the Church with some important doctrinal instructions contained in Sections 130 and 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants. KNOWLEDGE Latter-day Saints believe in many scriptures which emphasize the need to acquire knowledge. Important among these are the following: It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. (D&C 131:6.) 140 Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. (D&C 130:18-19.) Since the purpose of life is to understand and live the laws which ultimately give salvation (eternal life), then salvation knowledge is the most important part of learning. If one lacks knowledge of the Savior, the atonement, how to accept the atonement for individual salvation, and also the Church which represents the Lord for salvation, it is impossible to be saved. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co.; 2d ed. Rev., 1949, Vol. V., p. 387 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) The person who fails to live gospel teachings degenerates in knowledge. (DHC 4:588.) On the other hand, as one studies by faith, his concepts of God and eternity are enlarged, and his power to do good is increased. (D&C 88:118; Alma 12:9-11; DHC 2:8.) Essential salvation knowledge to be learned by the saint is that which pertains to the preservation of his membership in the Church. The revelations give ways by which one may not be deceived by every wind of doctrine. The Latter-day Saint is well grounded in the path of safety when he accepts the following truth: Everything we know about God and our relationship to him comes from revelation. (D&C 52: 9, 36.) The revelations are true for they come from the Giver of all truth. Knowledge pertaining to this life only, is insufficient for salvation. We must learn not only how to overcome our sins here, but we must, as the Prophet Joseph Smith says in the following quotation, learn how to triumph over evil in the world to come: Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet. And when we have power to put all enemies under our feet in this world, and a knowledge to triumph over all evil spirits in the world to come, then we are saved.... (DHC 5:387.) The member of the Church who learns the principles of salvation and the keys against being deceived while in mortality, will have that much advantage in the world to come. What we learn here will help us forever. Lesson Department Class Discussion Why is gospel knowledge necessary for success in this life and in the world to come? OBEDIENCE There is no true success in this life unless one is obedient to gospel principles. When one considers that this hfe is man's probationary period this fact is apparent. Elder Richard L. Evans of the Council of the Twelve, in discussing Section 130:18-19, has pointed out that if the student will keep in mind that diligence and obedience are the key words in the Lord's admonition for his children to acquire intelligence, he will not leave the faith. Those words are most meaningful— and I have no fear of learning, of the pursuit of knowledge, for any of our young people, if they will keep in mind diligence and obedience—obedience to the commandments of God, diligence in keeping close to the Church, in keeping active, keeping prayerful, keeping clean, keeping circumspect in their conduct. (Conference Report, April 1956, p. 44.) This advice concerning learning all truth, religious or secular, is in harmony with the Lord's counsel concerning good books, languages, and people. (D&C 90:15.) The following two scriptures emphasize the reason for obedience and also the operation of law: I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise. (D&C 82:10.) There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— 141 February 1969 And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. ([bid., 130:20-21.) In 1831, the Lord gave reasons 'why the saints should be obedient. Among them are that we are citizens of the Lord's kingdom; the Lord has given this earth to his saints; lest death overtake us; the Savior pleads our cause as our Advocate; and we are Christ's sons and daughters because of our accepting his atonement. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Ed., pp. 252-254.) Class Discussion Why is obedience such an important law of God? THE GODHEAD The Prophet Joseph Smith said the following about the importance of knowing about God: If any man does not know God, and inquires what kind of a being he is,— if he will search diligently his own heart— if the declaration of Jesus and the apostles be true, he will realize that he has not eternal life; for there can be eternal life on no other principle. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, ninth printing, Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956, p. 344.) To know God ultimately is to become like him by obedience to his commandments. (D&C 84 19-23; 132:23-24.) The first step in knowing God is to recognize that God is a personal Being of flesh and bones. The doctrine of eternal life, or exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is dependent upon this truth. The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a 142 body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us. A man may receive the Holy Ghost, and it may descend upon him and not tarry with him. (D&C 130:22-23.) Why is it of value for the Latter-day Saint to know that God is a personal Being with body, parts, and passions? First, one may then know that faithful men may become as the Father in every sense of the word. Second, to know that God is personal and that he is our Father gives man the ability to approach Deity in prayer in a meaningful way, rather than to pray to an all-present spirit, as God is conceived in_ the "Christian" world. Third, the true concept of God and Christ and the Holy Ghost, who is also an individual—a Personage of spirit gives meaning to the scriptures about the members of the Godhead. Fourth, that God has a habitat, and he is not in person throughout all space. (D&C 130:8; Abraham 3:2-4, 9.) Class Discussion Wherein does the revealed doctrine of God help you to understand better the plan of salvation? ETERNAL MAN Latter-day Saints have the opportunity to know about themselves and their place in the plan of salvation. Whereas the "Christian" churches teach that man has his beginning, in this life, the Lord has revealed that all men had a premortal existence. (Abraham 3:22-23.) Men -and women are eternal beings by nature. They are made up of body and spirit, both of which are eternal. (D&C 93:29, 33; 131:7-8.) The following comes from the Prophet Joseph Smith: The spirit of man is not a created being; it existed from eternity, and will exist to eternity. Anything created cannot be eternal; and earth, water, etc., had their existence in an elementary state, from eternity. (DHC 3:387.) Latter-day Saints understand that they shall have an eternal existence. They will never experience a time when there is not conscious existence. Through the resurrection man's body will be eternally wedded to his spirit. (D&C 93:33-34.) With this understanding of man's eternity, how does this information contribute to the Latter-day Saint's understanding of himself and of the need to give obedience to gospel principles? The following points may contribute to the answer to this question: (1) Since man is an eternal being there will be no end to conscious existence; therefore, he will come to judgment as the Lord has predicted. (D&C 76:110-111.) (2) Man is capable of accepting religious truth when he hears it, unless sin darkens his comprehension. (D&C 93:30- 33.) (3) Man is endowed with free agency and is responsible for his. Actions in mortality. (D&C 93:29-33.) Although man was created by God, the Creator is not responsible for what man does during his earthly probation. (4) Since man was begotten by God, he is capable of becoming as his Heavenly Parent. (5) Because man is eternal, the Latter-day Saint has the basis for making decisions, for he knows that these decisions have their eternal consequences for good or Lesson Department for evil. THE EARTH The scriptures reveal that the earth is a living organism. (Moses 7:48-50; John A. Widtsoe, Joseph Smith, p. 149-150.) Elder James E. Talmage said the following concerning all created things: Every created thing has been made for a purpose; and every thing that fills the measure of its creation is to be advanced in the scale of progression, within the bounds of its own kind or kingdom, be it an atom or a world, a protozoan or man. (Roy W. Doxey, The Latterday Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1964, 3:162.) The earth fulfills the purpose for which it was created in obeying a celestial law. (D&C 88:25.) It was created that it might be a habitat for man; in. Fact,. Men are born of this earth. Because the earth fulfills this purpose, it will be rewarded by being sanctified and become a celestial planet. (/bid., 88:26.) In this condition, the earth will be as a Urim and Thummim. Whereby celestial beings will be able to learn about "all kingdoms of a lower order..." (Lbid., 130:9.) Those who receive the highest blessings of the celestial kingdom will receive a white stone which "will become a Urim_= and Thummim... Whereby things pertaining to a higher order of kingdoms will be made known" (Tbid., 10-11.) In one's quest for saving knowledge there is discovered that, as the earth obeys the law by which it progresses to a celestial kingdom, so also the Latterday Saint understands that full obedience to gospel law is necessary for eventual celestialization. 143 February 1969 SALVATION The purpose of life is to work out one's salvation in this world and in the world to come. (D&C 46:7.) Salvation comes by obedience to the principles and practices of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, reminds us that eternal life is not achieved in this life, but an assurance of it may be received here. (D&C 131:5.) In order to make one's calling and election sure, the following three things are necessary: (1) to receive the testimony of Jesus and be baptized; (2) to receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands; and (3) to be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise. Brother Romney proceeded to say:... What is required is wholehearted devotion to the gospel and unreserved allegiance to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Speaking to this point, the Prophet taught "... That those who keep the commandments of the Lord and walk in his statutes to the end, are the only individuals" who shall receive the blessings.... We must be willing to sacrifice everything. Through self-discipline and devotion we must demonstrate to the Lord that we are willing to serve him under all circumstances. When we have done this, we shall receive an assurance that we shall have eternal life in the world to come. Then we shall have peace in this world. (Conference Report, September 1949, pp. 41-44.) JOSEPH SMITH, THE PROPHET The Lord declared that this generation would receive the word of the Lord through his Prophet, Joseph Smith. (D&C 5:10.) As long as the dispensation of the fulness of times continues, the word of the Lord through the modern books of scriptures and 144 the Prophet's writings will continue to go forth to the world. One of the remarkable evidences to support the mission of Joseph Smith is the prophecy on war. (D&C. 87.) This revelation states that the American Civil War would begin with the rebellion of South Carolina, for a "voice" declared to Joseph Smith that there would be armed conflict between the North and the South. It would "probably arise through the slave question." (D&C 130:12-13.) Slavery would be a_ contributing cause of the Civil War, but not the sole cause of it. This point of view agrees with most historians on the cause of that war, although there are some proponents of the theory that slavery was the single cause. The important truth is that the Civil War was prophesied, and that the details of that war, mentioned in Section 87, were fulfilled. Out of that truth comes a lesson. As one gains more knowledge through diligent study, its value to him comes through his obedience to what is learned. This blessing comes through studying by faith. (D&C 88:118.) THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST The Savior told his disciples anciently and today that no man knows the day and the hour of his second coming. (Matthew 24:36; D&C 49:7.) Preparations are underway and have been since the dispensation began for the return of the Savior. His words to his disciples are pertinent today: Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord dothcome. (Matthew 24:42; Joseph Smith 1:46.) As one gains more knowledge by his diligence and obedience, his faith is strengthened and his insight into the signs of the times is enlarged. He is obedient to this counsel and finds safety in these words: "... If ye are prepared ye shall not fear." (D&C 38:30.) IMPLEMENTATION Every Latter-day Saint is counseled to learn the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. A regular time each day for study brings many rewarding blessings. Without salvation knowledge it is impossible to be saved. Knowledge in itself is not sufficient for Lesson Department salvation, but knowledge obeyed brings salvation in this life and in the world to come. (D&C 59:23.) A rewarding experience for a Latter-day Saint is to learn the value or application of each principle or doctrine of the gospel. By doing this he learns that gospel teachings are consistent in themselves, and each principle is harmonious with the other parts of the gospel. Basic to one's appreciation of the gospel as a motivator for righteous action is the doctrine of man's relationship to God, premortality, purpose of life, man's environment, the assurance of being on the Lord's side, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 8—''... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled' (D&C 42:88) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that reconciliation is more than forgiveness. Two little boys were playing together. The younger brother through carelessness broke a beloved toy of the older boy. When the older one protested, the younger one kicked him. Instantly the two were fighting. The wails of anger and hurt reached the mother who _ intervened. Gradually the hot passions subsided. Finally, the mother persuaded the younger child to ask forgiveness of his brother for breaking his toy. The older boy, then, said, "I forgive him," but his eyes were angry, his tone grudging, and all morning he was short-tempered and curt with his brother. The mood persisted all day. When night came the mother tried again to smooth away the 145 February 1969 anger and hurt, but the boy could not forget his broken toy. She explained again how important it is to forgive. "I told him I forgave him," he replied sullenly. Are words enough? What must take place in the heart, mind, and behavior of both the offender and offended? And if thy brother or sister offend thee, thou shalt take him or her between him or her and thee alone; and if he or she confess thou shalt be reconciled. (D&C 42:88.)... Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. (Matthew 5:44.) Give to him that asketh of thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away. (Matthew 5:42.) And be kind one to another....(Ephesians 4:32.) In these words of Jesus, the apostle Paul, and the words of the Lord given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, we see that more is expected than just the sentiment and expression of forgiveness. It is not enough to say, "I forgive." To "love," "bless," "do good," "pray," "give," and "be kind" demand not only an attitude of forgiveness toward the other person, but action. "Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed." (Shakespeare, Richard II, Act I, Scene I.) Repentance and forgiveness are the first essential steps, the necessary states of mind and heart which prepare the way for reconciliation. The next step requires great courage. One must take the offending one into a private session and work out the problem. Many misunderstandings can be erased, if we are wise, tactful, and loving. In addition reconciliation is reciprocal. One must confess, the other forgive, and both must enter into a loving, harmonious relationship. Jesus drew the pattern for us in the story of the prodigal son who "... When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." (Luke 15: 20.) The sin, then, is to be forsaken and forgiven; the hurt assuaged; the pattern of loving friendship and companionship resumed. "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." (Matt. 5:9.) OF MAN AND GOD Man's loud jet shattered the night, Rattling my window pane.... God's silent moon rose in its wake, Quieting the earth to peace again.... > —Alda L. Brown 146 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education ' } j H Discussion 8—Let's Go Inside (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on furniture arrangements and use of accessories. INTRODUCTION (Review the introduction to Discussion 7, most of which is applicable here. Review also Discussion 5, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1967.) Although in the arrangement of our furniture we are concerned with the overall effect of beauty and charm, we must not lose sight of the practical considerations of convenience and _ use. Beautiful rooms which are not conducive to comfort and convenience or which are not practical for family living have failed in their function as a home. Efficiency in function and ease of maintenance are necessary qualifications for today's way of living whether it be in the Americas, in the countries of Europe, or in the islands of the sea. It is not possible to present plans of furniture arrangements that have universal application, for homes and people all over the world differ widely in most of the things which determine their ways of living. The following suggestions, however, should help us effectively to utilize what we have and plan wisely for what we need to acquire. Furniture should be arranged to serve the purpose of the room. Furniture should be conveniently placed for its particular use and for its accessibility. Furniture should not interfere with circulation; doorways and other passageways should be free from obstruction. The center of the room is usually kept relatively clear for circulation. Furniture should be placed in proper relation to any architectural or mechanical features so as not to interfere with the swinging of doors, the opening of windows, or the operation of electrical or heating devices. Furniture should be arranged so as to afford an agreeable balance between sizes, heights, and forms. Furniture should be arranged so that the room will not appear to be underfurnished or overcrowded. Furniture should be arranged so as not to obstruct the view or interfere with the enjoyment of any work of art or architectural feature of interest. Furniture should conform to the size and style of the room. Small delicate refined pieces, for example, should not be placed in large-scaled rooms where only large pieces are appropriate, and vice versa. Furniture may be placed so as to take advantage of natural light or possible view. Furniture groupings for different purposes should be separated by a reasonable space or by screens or room dividers. Groupings for noisy activities should be arranged as far as possible from those planned for quiet areas. 147 February 1969 Major pieces of furniture could be arranged so that they seldom or never have to be moved. This will save time and energy, not to mention wear and tear on the furniture itself. WHAT ABOUT THE ACCESSORIES? In one of our previous discussions we were told that the "little things make all the difference." Have you ever wondered why one room can be a place of inviting warmth and_ beauty while another, though comparable in size'and cost, can appear cold and impersonal or cluttered and busy? The accessories—those little personal touches—make the difference. These are the things which contribute to the character of the room, which complement the color scheme, and which reflect the culture, interests and personality of those who live there. We all have them; some of us use them to add beauty and character to our homes, and some to add clutter and confusion. A few suggestions may help us to use them to enhance the beauty of our homes rather than to mar it. We should select and use only accessories that are beautiful or interesting or that make a needed contribution to its setting. We should avoid making unwise purchases or using items which detract from the harmony of the surroundings. We should relate our accessories to our furniture groups. We should study our arrangements and discard any unnecessary pieces. It is far better to use too few accessories than too many. We should keep accessories clean and free from dust, grime, or tarnish. We should have the courage to de-- velop our own creative urges and express our own individualities. CONCLUSION In any arrangement of our home furnishings, it is well to remember that people are more important than furniture or things. Our furniture and our accessories are for our use and our enjoyment, and they should therefore be chosen and arranged to promote the kind of living which will meet our own needs and make us comfortable and happy in our homes. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 8—Are We Preparing? Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out that being prepared for tomorrow may require diligent effort today. 148 INTRODUCTION Although a single act of service to others may inspire thousands, the good life is not the result of. A few isolated, worthy deeds. It is achieved by daily striving and by consistent application of righteous principles. It is of interest to observe how important, in the lives of men who have achieved greatness, are the progressive steps which have led to their accomplishments. So it was with President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. He was continually preparing for the future. Consequently, when national appointments and religious callings came to him, he was sufficiently prepared to fill these positions with efficiency and honor and to make significant contributions. This last social relations lesson of the 1968-69 year, will be largely one of review and of questioning. It will be a looking back to the "Profiles Remembered" of lesson 1 and will enlarge upon some ideas discussed in the lessons that followed. This question will be ever in mind: Am I prepared to meet the challenges of today? Am I really preparing for that tomorrow which I hope to realize? Am I putting forth intelligent, dedicated effort today with my eyes upon the harvest? Or am I merely spending today's precious time? SEED TIME AND HARVEST In the cycle of harvest to harvest, we observe three general stages of growth; the seed planting, the nurturing, and the reaping. Each period is important, for without the seed there would be no harvest; without proper Lesson Department nurturing, the quality of harvest might be inferior or even lost; without the reaping and replanting, the cycle would be broken. Such an analysis may be of interest to the Latter-day Saint woman for her particular role in life places her in an influential position in this cycle. TODAY IN THE CYCLE Where is today, in this life cycle? For the home with small children, today is the time of planting—planting of the basic seeds for habit and character building. For the home where there are no children present, it may be a time for special nurturing. In each period there is need for appraisal; a time for such questions: Am I planting seeds of faith, of initiative, of dependability in the lives of the children? Am I nurturing the qualities of maturity by providing a favorable home-climate for their natural growth? Am I, who now am adult in body, nurturing qualities in myself, which will enrich all human relationships in which I am involved? Am I doing that which will make my relationship with my Heavenly Father faithstrengthened? A WISE TRAINING We observed in lesson 1 that President Clark was introduced to the need and value of work, at an early age. That he welcomed the challenge of work throughout his life, is evidence that he received wise training in his formative years. This attitude toward work became basic to his character and general philosophy. He believed that for maximum 149 February 1969 growth, an individual should put forth spiritual, mental, and physical effort, and he believed that it is important for individuals and for nations to give full value in return for that which they receive. At a First Citizen's Conference on Government Management held at Estes Park, Colorado, in 1939, President Clark related the struggles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through handicaps of nature, and through various migrations resulting from _ severe persecution, to its later growth and prosperity. He said: The Church vigorously decries idleness. Industry, economy, and thrift are extolled. Deceit, avarice, dishonesty, lying, greed, graft are condemned. Honesty, truthfulness, sobriety, willingness to give, love for fellowmen, sympathy for woe, misery, and want, service to and for others are urged to the point of command. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., ""The Honor and Value of Work and Self-Reliance," The Improvement Era, September 1965, pp. 780-781.) An impressive statement from this discussion is this: The laws of righteousness and progress are eternal. There is no escape from them, either for the individual or for the nation. An uncorrupted citizenry builds a great state; no state ever built an uncorrupted citizenry. ([bid.) Question: Do you believe that Latter-day Saint mothers today may be denying their children the development which comes from work because they want them to have an "easier" life than they themselves had? Discuss briefly. ASKING MYSELF—IN REVIEW The following questions relate to the social relations lessons of 150 this year (1968-69). They will recall major ideas developed in the lessons and may encourage additional thinking and class participation. 1. (a) Are the questions which every thoughtful Latter-day Saint woman asks regarding her place in the plan of life satisfactorily answered in my mind? (b) How should these answers influence my activities and my attitude? (Lessons 2 and 8.) 2. (a) Am I making use of the teachings of the Savior in my various human relationships? For. Example, are they helping me: To make love and kindness dominant in the atmosphere of the home? To demonstrate compassion for a neighbor who has_ experienced disappointment or sorrow, with a concrete act of kindness? To encourage a peaceful, friendly atmosphere in the neighborhood by being such a person? To be merciful to myself by forgiving myself of an error as I strive to overcome it? (b) Do I read the scriptures enough to know what Jesus teaches regarding human relationship problems? (Lesson 3.) 3. (a) Am I allowing the uncertainties of today's complex world to make me discouraged? If so, what am I forgetting? (b) Am I helping my children understand that faith, virtue, and courage are especially important and needed in today's world—and that they must help to build a better tomorrow? (Lesson 4.) 4. (a)Do I ever appraise my attitude and activities to see if I am being deceived by false religious doctrines, the importance of luxury possessions, false social values? (b) Do I ever wonder if my attitude and actions may give an impression that I consider myself better than others? (c) Do I deceive myself, thinking that I am sufficiently righteous and have no need for improvement or concern? (Lesson 5.) 5. (a) Am I striving to bring unity and not dissension into all relationships where I am involved? If so, how? (b) Do I believe that noncomformity is desirable when to conform would violate a gospel principle, or do I cultivate a general attitude of opposition? (Lesson 6.) 6. (a) Do I follow counsel and direction willingly or do I serve half-heartedly, and resent the time spent in Church service? (b) Am I a good follower by reading the Relief Society lessons in the Magazine before coming to meeting so that I may assist the class leader with helpful participation and benefit myself thereby? (Lesson 7.) FOR ALL WOMANHOOD President Clark had _ great respect for womankind, a deep understanding of her role in the plan of salvation, and a tender, almost reverent appreciation for all women who fulfill the role of wife and mother with compassion and honor. Relief Society sisters who have heard him address their Annual General Conference sessions, have been inspired by his counsel, by his testimony, and by his words which help one to envision the destiny of righteous mothers of Zion. Perhaps no Church leader of our time has spoken of the specific role of the Latter-day Saint woman with more understanding. He speaks movingly of her influence as virtuous sweetheart, devoted wife, and loving mother. In "To Them of the Last Wagon" he pays humble tribute to his own mother, who was born in 1848 as the pioneer convert family moved slowly across the desert miles to the mountain valleys of promise. His wife, Luacine Savage Clark, was a devoted helpmeet. He appreciated her willingness to adapt Lesson Department herself to the varying conditions of their happy married life. Although not specifically mentioned in the following excerpts, which accent wifehood and also motherhood, President Clark was mindful of all Latter-day Saint women. He was aware of the blessings of eternity which await the virtuous woman who accepts the commandments and ordinances of the gospel available to her, although she may not be blessed with motherhood. Uncounted women have been, and are engaged in earthly careers of valuable and unselfish service to children who are not their own earthly offspring. In the fields of nursing, teaching, social work counseling, and many other such vocations, there are innumerable virtuous and worthy women. The justice of the Father will not overlook virtue and service in all his daughters. PLAN AND FULFILLMENT Question: Do you as a Latter-day Saint woman sometimes wonder how important you are in the all encompassing plan of the gospel? In an address delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1946, President Clark outlined the role of woman in the plan of the gospel, emphasizing her importance in forwarding that plan. From his address we quote: So came Eve, an helpmeet to the Priesthood mission of Adam—Eve the last created being in the creation of the world, without whom the whole creation of the world and all that was in the world would have been in vain and the purposes of God have come to naught.... When, after the Fall, both Adam and Eve knowing good from evil, the Lord 151 February 1969 promised them redemption and Adam prophesied concerning their posterity. Eve, hearing the glorious plan and the destiny of herself and Adam, was gladdened, and broke into a great song of praise: "Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good. And evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Moses 5:11.) From that day, when Eve thus placed first among her blessings the power to bear children, the greatest glory of true womanhood has been motherhood. What a miracle is motherhood; how nearly infinite is mother. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Our Wives and Our Mothers in the Eternal Plan," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1946, pp. 795-804.) And how impressively moving are President Clark's words to the daughters of Zion: How fair is the daughter of Zion Whose body is unsullied. How serene is her brow That houses the pure mind. How clear is her eye, shining with the light of truth How beautiful are her cheeks, unblushed with shame. How sweet are her lips, Untasting of forbidden fruit, How lovely are her arms, Shaped for the nurturing of motherhood. How sacred are her breasts, Life fountains for the babes, born of her flesh. How holy is her body For the fashioning of her offspring Begot under the covenant. How angel-like is her mind—the dwelling place of righteousness— How priceless is her soul, Daughter of God, glorified for the eternities. For Home-Doing Re-read this lesson. It is for you—and for me—today. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 7—The Achievement of Serenity Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Seven By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles." —Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that serenity can be achieved as a beautiful goal in life for all women who will build their lives around undeviating honesty and integrity. 152 Lesson Department MUSIC: Johannes Brahms, Sonata No. 2 in D-Minor, Opus 108 For violin and piano—2nd Movement—Adagio Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. There is much music that typifies the attribute of serenity. Out of the myriad musical selections that express this quality, the Adagio movement of the Brahms Sonata No. 2 for violin and piano was selected for two main reasons: First, chamber music was written to be played in intimate surroundings, often the home—the place where perhaps more than anywhere else we _ experience serenity. Second, Brahms was a composer who mastered the art of composition so well that his music often expresses an inner peace and serenity, feelings that came to him, no doubt, because of his faith in himself as a composer. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON Serenity, one of our most beautiful words, describes the tranquil strength of great men and women who live by unyielding integrity. Serenity is the outward calm of an inner conscience at peace with itself. Serenity is the reward of never compromising one's principles no matter how great the temptation or how fearsome the danger. Serenity is the deep inward peace of mind that results from doing what one believes is right. Serenity is the combination of quiet courage linked with undeviating standards. The fruits of righteous living may, at times, be material but, at all times, will be spiritual. One of the greatest of these is peace of mind. The punishments for unrighteous living may, at times, be physical but, at all times, will be spiritual—the anguish of a guilty conscience, the torment of a troubled mind. Moreover, as the joy and serenity are greater for one who does right knowingly rather than accidentally or in ignorance, so the anguish and torment are greater for one who does wrong knowingly rather than accidentally or in ignorance. Serenity, then, is the ultimate earthly reward for one who lives always by high principles and who both lives and dies with a clear conscience. Unfortunately, no man _ or woman ever achieves complete serenity in this life because we are all imperfect. Christ alone was perfect. Even so, serenity still stands as a beautiful ideal to work towards, and one that can, in considerable measure, be reached if the total of good things in our lives heavily outweighs the total of contrary things. Edna St. Vincent Millay in her poem "Conversations at Midnight" had something like this in mind when she wrote: Conversations at Midnight There is no peace on earth today save the peace in the heart 153 February 1969 At home with God. From that sure habitation The heart looks forth upon the sorrows of the savage world And pities them, and ministers to them; but is not implicated. All else has failed, as it must always fail. No man can be at peace with his neighbor who is not at peace With himself; the troubled mind is a trouble maker. There is no freedom like the freedom of a man who sees his duty plain And does it without demur.... Perhaps we may wish to question the meaning of "implicated"' in the fourth line and debate the accuracy of "the troubled mind is a trouble maker" in the seventh line, but the over-all message seems beautifully clear and to the point. LIFE AND WRITINGS OF ELIZA R. SNOW To illustrate serenity, there are many noble, courageous, highprincipled, faith-abiding women, both in and out of the Church, whose lives might be used. We have chosen for consideration one of our own Latter-day Saint pioneer women, probably the most poetically gifted of all the pioneer women, and one of the great women leaders of all time in the Church—Eliza R. Snow. The following information on Sister Snow is excerpted from a booklet published several years ago for the dedication of the Eliza R. Snow Hall, one of the beautiful Heritage Halls for women students at Brigham Young University. From the age of twenty-nine when Eliza Roxey Snow was baptized into the Church, until the end of her long life in 1887, this practical daughter of Puritan 154 forebears was concerned with furthering the cause of the gospel by helping members of the Church to live more abundant lives. As organizer and executive, as writer and speaker, and as the first woman schoolteacher in the Church, she devoted her unusual energy and talents to stimulating active understanding of Gospel principles. Her marked intellectual ability was early recognized by her family, and she was given the best education available in her home state of Massachusetts. It was she who was selected by the Prophet Joseph to teach his "family school"'—both in Kirtland and Nauvoo. Her "select school for young ladies" in Kirtland presented an opportunity for the education of girls not generally available at that time. But Sister Snow's ideas on education were never narrowly academic. She encouraged her students to become proficient in the domestic arts and was herself a skilled needlewoman. Most of all, however, she wanted the young people of the Church to recognize the need for schooling in the Gospel....... True to her trust as secietary of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo, she brought its "Book of Records" with her to Salt Lake Valley. In 1866 President Brigham Young called her to aid the bishops in organizing a Relief Society in every ward and branch of the Church. During the ensuing twenty-one years, as the General President of Relief Society, she faithfully performed this mission.... Today in the Church Eliza R. Snow is probably best remembered as the author of the poem "O My Father," which preaches the uniquely Mormon doctrine that we have a Mother as well as a Father in Heaven. Composed in 1843 while she was living with the Stephen Markhams, this poem was written out on a wooden chest—the only piece of furniture resembling a table which her room afforded.... Eliza R. Snow's vision of the role of women in the Church has left its imprint on all the auxiliary organizations in which women take a directing part. No poem which she has left us pleads so eloquently her love for the truth of the restored gospel as does her life. To the women of the Church she is a symbol of selflessness—of complete devotion to the role which the Lord assigned her.... As we study the poetry of Eliza R. Snow a century after it was written, it will probably seem somewhat old-fashioned to many readers today. The language tends to be flowery and a little stilted, and the poems lack the rich imagery and other artistic subtleties that appeal to contemporary poetic tastes. She was writing in the fashion of her day, and many of her poems were primarily sermons in verse. But this is not to say that she is not an important writer. She wrote hundreds of poems, which, considered as a group, form an impressive body of writing. The poems may be lacking in artistic sophistication, but they are rich in both human wisdom and religious faith, and through them we see the personality and character of a truly great woman—diligent, courageous, spiritual, idealistic, but also sensible, practical, realistic, forgiving, and, above all else, serene in the confidence of her faith in God. SOME GOOD THINGS We shall examine first a small poem called "Some Good Things" which expresses the serenity of her faith. Some Good Things When from injustice' bitter cup We're fore'd to drink the portion up, And wait in silence heaven's reward, Tis good to lean upon the Lord. When haplessly we're plac'd among The venom of a lying tongue, "Tis good to feel our spirits pure And our inheritance secure. Tis good, 'tis soothing to the mind, If friends we cherish prove unkind, And meet us with an angry mood, To know we sought to do them good. Lesson Department When pale-fac'd Envy seeks to fling Across our path its envious sting, *Tis good to know we never aim'd To gain a prize that others claim'd. When by unmerited demand We bow beneath oppression's hand, "Tis good within ourselves to know That tides of fortune ebb and flow. When persecution aims to blind The judgment and pervert the mind, *Tis good to know the path we've trod Is sanction'd and approv'd of God. When superstition's meagre form Goes forth and stirs the wrathful storm, *Tis good amid the blast to find A steadfast, firm, decided mind. When we are tossing to and fro Amid the varying scenes below, 'Tis good to hope through Jesus' love To share his glorious rest above. *Tis good to live by every word Proceeding from the mouth of God: Tis good His faithfulness to trust, And freely own His precepts just. THE LORD IS MY TRUST This serene faith in God which was the main source of Eliza R. Snow's unceasing strength, is further shown in several "psalms" which she wrote, including the following: The Lord Is My Trust Thou that didst create the heavens and the earth, the seas and the fountains of water, thou art my God. Thou art the same—thou changest not, therefore I will not fear; for thy word will endure, and thy promises will surely be verified. In thee have I put my trust; and I know in whom I have confided, and I shall not be confounded. Though difficulties rise before me higher than the Himmaleh mountains, I will go forward; for thou, Lord, wilt open the way before me, and make straight paths for my feet. When the billows of Change encompass me—when its surges dash furiously, 155 February 1969 and the foam thereof is nigh unto overwhelming, thy power will sustain me: I will smile at the rage of the tempest, and ride fearlessly and triumphantly across the boisterous ocean of circumstance. Thy Spirit is better than the juice of the grape, thy approbation is preferable to the smiles of earthly friends, thy favor is richer than the finest gold, and thy wisdom transcendeth all human understanding. Thy power is supreme, thy plans are founded in wisdom, thou wilt perform thy purposes and none can prevent. The principles of thy kingdom are principles of truth, and truth is everlasting as thyself, therefore thy kingdom will stand, and those that abide its laws will come up before thee to dwell in thy presence. I will adhere to thy statutes, I will abide the New and Everlasting Covenant, not counting my life dear unto me. When the clouds of uncertainty gather upon the horizon, darker than the shades of midnight, when distrust is raising its standard over the broad field of expectation, thy word will dissipate every obstruction, and the "testimony of Jesus" will light up a lamp that will guide my vision through the portals of immortality, and communicate to my understanding the glories of the Celestial kingdom. ADDITIONAL POEMS BY ELIZA R. SNOW Harmonious communication and trust-filled understanding— these meant a great deal to Eliza R. Snow. "Sweeter to me than honey in the comb is the communion of congenial minds," she wrote in a poem called "Confidence." Not very often does she speak harshly of anyone, but occasionally she lashes out against those who deceive and betray, "who pray like Abel and perform like Cain," who use "creamy words" to hide dishonesty. Note, for example, the opening lines of her poem "The Hypocrite and the Traitor." 156 The Hypocrite and the Traitor I hate hypocrisy—that velvet thing With silken lips, whence oily words flow out. Tis like a mildew in the social cup Of life—'tis worse than mould—'tis poison—'tis A worm disguised, that eats asunder the Most holy cords of confidence, that bind In cordial fellowship, the hearts of men. Kind words, with falsehood in them? Yes, how strange! Designed to please—and yet, they do not please, But sting, like vipers, into friendship's core. As a final sampling of Eliza R. Snow's many poems, we turn to one in which she outlines what she feels is the proper role for a woman. Comfort, compassion, understanding, encouragement, wise counsel, faith, fortitude— these are the special gifts that a woman can bestow on those she loves: What Is, and What Is Not for Woman 'Tis not for her to plough the deep, And gather pearls from ocean's bed; Or scale the rugged mountain's steep, For laurel wreaths to deck her head. She gathers pearls of other name Than those the ocean's bosom yields— Fair laurels never known to fame, She culls from wisdom's golden fields: *Tis not for her to face the foe Amid the cannon's thund'ring blaze; Or shudder at the winds that blow Tremendous gales in torrid seas. But there are foes of other form— Of other aspect, she should quell; And whisper music to the storm, When seas of passion rudely swell. Tis not for her to lead the van— To be ensconced in Chair of State To legislate 'twixt man and man— Nations and laws to regulate. 'Tis hers to fan the sacred fire Of manhood's true nobility— The heart of nations to inspire With patriotism and liberty. *Tis hers, with heav'nly influence To wield a mighty power divine— To shield the path of innocence And virtue's sacred worth define. 'Tis hers to cultivate the germs Of all the faculties for good, That constitute the Godlike forms Of perfect man and womanhood. *Tis hers the sunbeam to sustain Amid misfortune's chilling breath— To silence grief—to solace pain— To soothe and cheer the bed of death. His pathway in the battle lies— He should not fear the raging flood: Give man the breast-plate courage plies, But give to woman, fortitude. OTHER EXAMPLES OF SERENITY In addition to this material on Eliza R. Snow, the text for this month's lesson (Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, Section 7) contains brief biographical sketches and excerpts from the writings and speeches of Martin Luther, Robert Emmet, Abraham Lincoln, Emile Zola, Mahatma Gandhi, Winston Churchill, and John F. Kennedy which even more dramatically illustrate that kind of serenity which derives from courageous integrity in the face of great adversity. These are dramatic moments lifted from the pages of history. All show great moral courage rooted in sincerity, honesty, integrity, and deep conviction. All portray moments in the lives of great men who had the integrity and courage to speak the convictions of their hearts no matter what the consequences. Some teachers presenting this month's lesson may wish to cover only the material on Eliza R. Snow. There is sufficient on her for a full, rich lesson. Other teachers may want to reach into the vivid, dramatic material on some of the other figures. Lesson Department MARRIAGE | feel a silken threat Each day wind 'round my existence, Not in tangles, But in patterns; Not to bind me, But to free me. | have wanted the thread-like duties Marriage has brought, Not to stop my doing, But to guide my steps, Not to prevent my youth and joy, But enrich. | have found here peace To last the eternities. So this is what heaven is all about. —Julie Wilson The — compLete G— printer * Art and Design * Hot Metal Typesetting ¢ Fototronic Typesetting ¢ Color Processing « Letterpress * Sheet Offset * Web Offset * Perfect Binding * Saddle Stitch Binding * Automatic Case Binding * Shrink Packaging * Shipping and Mailing fo a PESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 157 February 1969 THE SILVER SONG Little winter sparrows, | wonder why you stay When almost all the feathered folk Seek winter holiday. You glean the seeded berries, The sparsely proffered crumbs, Weather tempered to the cold— And wind's bleak, wailing drums. When the sun obscured from sight Wears its mask of gray—you Perch upon a snowy limb, Giving your song away. | thank you for your presence in The spruce tree old and blue, i thank you for your silver song That changes daytime's hue. —Beulah Huish Sadleir PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours— Hill Cumorah Pageant Canadian Rockies and Northwest Black Hills Passion Play Hawaii Rose Parade Europe Alaska Mexico and others Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723, t Beesley Clenepet SS: MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Order Your Easter Music Now Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 158 THE MOUNTAINS' CRY The mountains call, They call to me But numbly stand | by. The pain of love And loneliness fs echoed in their cry. | stand alone Upon the plain, And wait for him to say, "Come, let us go To the mountains high And simple homage pay." —Renata W. Sukys BLAU All Grain #5 SEN » a fray from the tree: Stone " lavendar over the lawn As if stretching up to the blue Flour Mill = and falling with separate color eer tull: the flowers release their hold ': to lace the parched bones of summer write & Dept. R. S. = —Bernice Ames Bao, 686x115 — Tremonton, Utah 84337 JACARANDA TREE Never as lovely held high in pale clusters leafy with green jacaranda blossoms SPRING WAITS CLOSE Now, this is autumn, Mama said, \ This is the season man reaps his bread. \ But Mama ts dead. \ And | stand tall as she was then And have seen autumn again and again. Autumn is the season most for men. The soft white blanket that is winter's blind— Spring waits close in a woman's mind. —Linnie Fisher ca gf \ fs Yet, always spring waits close behind / 159 G rou nd information, the curb, the seam of the street. And scatter the sky beneath our feet. Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 103 Mrs. Eliza Wilcox Sparks, Arcadia, California 102 Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie, Salt Lake City, Utah 98 Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll, Mancos, Colorado 97 = Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols, Salt Lake City, Utah 96 = Mrs. Ruth Elizabeth Maxwell Foote, Safford, Arizona 95 Mrs. Sarah Burr Coleman, Provo, Utah; Mrs. Rosa Cooper Wanslee Foote, Safford, Arizona; Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor, Provo, Utah; Mrs. Mary Lee Myers, American Fork, Utah; Mrs. Jane A. Kerr Scott, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Emily Farnes Smith, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Caroline Ringel Steed, Ogden, Utah 94 Mrs. Catherine Alice McCarrel Bee, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Anna S. Olson Gee, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Lina Bergner Lehmann, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie Astle Reiche, Alameda, California; Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder, Richfield, Utah 93 Mrs. Emma Margaret Stocking Holt, Murray, Utah; Mrs. Anna Anderson Jensen, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie E. Scarborough Millward, Grantsville, Utah; Mrs. Marion Angelia Chausse Petter, Billings, Montana; Mrs. Mary S. Sharp Young, Rigby, Idaho 92 Mrs. Frances R. Tempest Bodell, Herriman, Utah; Mrs. Marie Goddhaus Ballsteadt, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Mary Etta Carrico Britton, Memphis, Tennessee; Mrs. Nettie Chadwick Bybee, Lorenzo, Idaho; Mrs. Mary Powell Fox, Lehi, Utah; Mrs. Alta Salisbury Lewis, Peoria, Illinois; Mrs. Anne Naef Merrill, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Hattie Owens, San Diego, California; Mrs. Mary Ellen Spainhower, San Diego, California; Mrs. Edith Parker Stoddard, West Point, Utah; Mrs. Lillie Clark Walker, Providence, Utah; Mrs. Maude Bell Wells, Las Vegas, Nevada 91 _—s Mrs. Effie Dougal, San Diego, California; Mrs. Emma Louise Jackson Facer, Logan, Utah; Mrs. Margaret Ann Gross Fults, Altamont, Tennessee; Mrs. Ella Ette Stephenson Hill, Burley, Idaho; Mrs. Betha A. Kleinman, Mesa, Arizona; Mrs. Eliza Floral Farnsworth Lemon, Altamont, Utah; Mrs. Jennie Konstance Ericsen Nelsen, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Effie Hunter Simpson, Salt Lake City, Utah 90 Mrs. Josie Oaks Houtz Alleman, Springville, Utah; Mrs. Nellie North Bennion, Murray, Utah; Mrs. Mary Ann Jackson Coulam, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Jane Sutherland Davidson, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Frances Hammond Hollinger, Pioche, Nevada; Mrs. Edna Jessup May Irvine, Bell, California; Mrs. Elizabeth Sylvester Jensen, Richfield, Utah; Mrs. Rosella Brown Kemerer, McKeesport, Pennsylvania; Mrs. Hulda Lundquist Nelson, Weston, Idaho; Mrs. Cornelia Peters Officer, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Annie Brenner Rogge, Safford, Arizona; Mrs. Florence Mae Dury Schmertman, Newhall, California; Mrs. Nellie Christine Ellefsen Smalley, Cascade, Idaho; Anna Eve Seegmiller Starr, St. George, Utah; Mrs. Maude Harris Strong, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Mary Crump Turner, Bluffdale, Utah 160 by Dr. W. Dean Belnap and Dr. Glen C. Griffin This sensible guide to marital harmony frankly discusses all phases of marriage. Includes valuable information on temple marriage, husbandwife relationships and rearing of children. $2.95 They IV by Robert B. Day Here are stories of a rugged people who with courage and determination guarded a treasured faith. Read little known stories about Joseph Smfth. Follow men like Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and William Clayton on the trail to Zion and through the Utah war. $4.95 Sseret' DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 312% sales tax, residents of Send me [] ABOUT MARRIAGE AND MORE $2.95 Cottonwood Mail, Salt Lake City 2472 Washington Blvd., Ogden Orange, California money order (], established account (J. MM eee c nee eeenececceceevsstsvenecceceeccsececeesceenceeeseseeesseevecceteeeuensseeeeeseeens SIMs eee eee ecee cacecec coe eOille oe illes salable sees see seeeeneeceeesaneeeceseeeceees Bee cece cece cetteeseeseseenseteaaeeStatesZip... R. S. Feb. 69 00 ee a 777 So. Main, Town & Country California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. [] THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY $4.95 Total cost $.........0.. E Enclosed find check (1), Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah SPARROW'S WORTH | know that thou art mindful of each sparrow's fall and yet can guide a nation's destiny, then still be ready for answering a call from one who is in need of help like me. | feel secure in thy awareness of my needs and that | have been taught the power of prayer. | do not know of faith the size of mustard seeds, my faith is larger than my heart can bear. My faith is not the kind to be described by size, nor yet the sort dependent on a sign, it is root-deep in knowledge, Lord, that thou art wise and that thy will be done, thy will, not mine. | feel a kinship with each falling bird, | know my sparrow's worth of need is heard. —Kathryn Kay The Cover: g Formal Garden, Portland, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts J stoeaone in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: |) Reflection of Branches Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Art Layout: §) Dick Scopes Iustrations: [| Mary Scopes 161 | had the opportunity of reading in the October Magazine, the article ''Recipe for a Family Home Evening,'"' by Lillian Y. Bradshaw, and | surely enjoyed her suggestions. Reed A. Benson, Fairfax Station, Virginia Having lost our first little baby, my wife and | were very touched by the poem '"'David,"' (by Udora Morris, December 1968). We felt that we could emphathize quite strongly with ''David's'' parents, and so we were grateful for your having printed the poem. Hoyt W. Brewster, Jr., Gardena, California Dear Relief Society Magazine: It is with regret-and tears that | must say goodbye. My sight is so bad and no repairs can be given it, so | cannot read. You anymore. For thirty years and more | have enjoyed you, but now | am unable to read the wonderful stories and articles. Goodbye Magazine. | hate so to see you go. | am eightyfour years old—and can see to get around but cannot see to read. Mrs. Amy Bennett, Downey, Idaho (Editor's note: Sister Bennett's letter has been referred to the Church department for the Sightless and she is now receiving the ''New Messenger Talking Book Magazine," and the Relief Society Lessons and Gospel Doctrine Lessons on records.) The article written by Mae R. Winters in the November 1968 Magazine ('The Apron") recalled so many happy memories of the past and brought tears to my eyes as | pictured my mother Mary Jane Doney Lowe, truly a great pioneer, performing the very same tasks with her dear aprons. Thank you, Sister Winters, for bringing back those precious memories so beautifully written. | do love and appreciate our inspired Magazine. It has been in my home for more than half a century. Aletha L. Handy, Franklin, Idaho | was tickled pink when | picked up my December Relief Society Magazine and saw the article 'Candy Animals—A Family Tradition."' For almost six years my family and | have been making lollipops—the year around, using six different molds of cast aluminum. We have been using almost the same recipe as the one in the Magazine, using half a batch at a time to fill these six molds. Each mold has three cavities, allowing us to make eighteen lollipops at a time. We had just about given up on finding any molds after looking for years, and then we found them in Minnesota. These molds are so inexpensive almost anyone could afford at least one. The reindeer, Santas, and Christmas trees are ideal for Christmas. There is a turkey, a chicken, and a rooster for the rest of the year. Lollipop sticks, special flavoring and colorings may also be purchased through the company. The molds are $1.65—and you can have them to hand down to your children. A catalogue may be purchased for 25c. Address: Maid of Scandinavia, 3245 Raleigh Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416. Margaret Morrill, Price, Utah During the last few months, since | have been on my mission, | have found the true beauty of the messages in The Relief Society Magazine. Periodically we receive copies of the Magazine to pass on to investigators—and | always read it from cover to cover. Nelda Platt, Glenside, S. A. Australia | would like to express my appreciation to Mrs. Berg of Heber City, Utah, for having The Relief Society Magazine sent to me, as | am not a member of the Church. The many articles and stories make most interesting reading to me and my Irish friends to whom | pass my Magazines along. Edna Jordan, Belfast, lreland 162 The Relief Society Magazine volume 56 March 1969 Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 164 Relief Society in the Welfare Plan Henry D. Taylor 170 'The Salt of the Earth'' Belle S. Spafford 174 'What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" Afton W. Hunt 177 Genealogy and the New GIANT System Genealogical Society 184 Mission of the American Red Cross Emil E. Henderson Fiction 185 'A Gift of Love'' Addie Belknap Pierson 223 Welcome the Task—Chapter 5 Michele Bartmess General Features 162 From Near and Far 179 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 180 Editorial—Music in Relief Society Belle S. Spafford 182 |In Memoriam—Rosannah Cannon Irvine 183 Notes To the Field—Bound Volumes of 1968 Magazines 229 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 190 Homemaking Fair Myrtle R. Olson 200 Austrian Mission, Sugar House Stake, North Columbia River Stake—Relief Society Activities 202 Make Your Heirlooms With Découpage 204 Make a Decorative Rug Marjorie Kerr 205 Spring Blossoms Defy the Winter Snow 206 ''Behold, | have Set Before Thee an open Door'' Melva Blakemore 207 A Way to Remember Family and Friends 208 What a Lovely Thing to Do! Dorothy J. Roberts 222 Hobby Features Julia A. Godfrey and Ethel S. West Lesson Departrent 237 Homemaking—Outside Housekeeping Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 161 Sparrow's Worth Kathryn Kay Identity, Margaret B. Jorgensen 173; The Seamstress, Linnie Fisher Robinson 176; My Three Sons, Ann Willis 183; Silent Counsel, Maisie Liston 199; Always Green and Growing, Mabel Jones Gabbott 209. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 163 Relief Society in The Welfare Plan Elder Henry D. Taylor Assistant to the Council of the Twelve LHOVOUTUNPEAOQUUULAUAE EN <CURTSATESIUEL UNE EE 1 HUA — ALLE @ It is an honor, sisters, to be invited to participate in this very important meeting here today. I have been asked to speak on some of the cardinal principles of the Welfare Plan. One of my major assignments as a General Authority, and one that brings me extreme personal satisfaction, is to be associated in the Welfare Program of the Church. This program has attracted much favorable publicity, and many have praised the members for their earnest and sincere desire to stand on their own feet, make their own way, and to care for each other without calling on public assistance. Welfare principles are not new. From its very organization in 1830, the Church has: 1. Encouraged members to establish 3. Fostered the establishment of employment-creating industries. 4. Stood ready at all times to help needy, faithful members. 164 and maintain their economic independence. _ 2. Encouraged habits of thrift and the avoiding of debt. [Address delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1968] From the very beginning, the Lord has had great concern for the poor and has expressed this concern in the following words: I, the Lord, stretched out the heavens, and built the earth, my very handiwork; and all things therein are mine. And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way.... (D&C 104:14-16.) (Italics added.) As you read the Old Testament, the New Testament, the Doctrine and Covenants, and other Church works, you will discover that there is one theme which runs consistently through all of those scriptures, and that is, "remember the poor." The care of the poor and the needy was of special concern to the Christ when he was here upon the earth. The scriptures voice the sentiment and doctrine that it is the duty of those who have to give to those who are in want, and great blessings shall come to those who obey this law. The early 1930's were dark days that tried men's souls. A deep economic depression had spread over the country. Fortunes were wiped out. Men of wealth became poverty stricken. Factories and _ businesses were closed. There was widespread unemployment. Bread _ lines formed, and there was want, hunger, and despair throughout the land. In the wards and stakes of the Church, bishoprics and stake presidencies were doing everything possible to care for their members. The First Presidency was greatly concerned with this grave condition, and in 1933 sent a questionnaire to the Relief Society in The Welfare Plan wards to determine the resources in the hands of the bishops to care for their people. By 1936, after prayerful consideration, a plan had_ been formulated; and in the April General Conference, the First Presidency called for renewed emphasis upon the welfare phase of the gospel, and the Welfare Plan was announced. In introducing the plan, the First Presidency explained the reason for its establishment in the following words: Our primary purpose, said the First Presidency, was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift, and self-respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership. (Welfare Plan Handbook, page 1.) It will be observed that idleness is denounced and work glorified in this statement. Our forefather Adam received the pronouncement from the Lord, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground." (Genesis 3:19.) Again, the Lord said to the Church on February 9, 1831: Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer. (D&C 42:42.) Thus, it is made plain that the Lord expects man to work. Church members should, therefore, be self-sustaining to the extent of their own powers. No true Latter-day Saint will, while physically able, voluntarily shift from himself to others the burden 165 March 1969 of his own support. So long as he can, under the inspiration of the Almighty, and with his own strength and labor, he will supply himself with the necessities of life. A Church member who is unable to provide for himself should then look to his relatives for assistance. No person should become a charge upon the public welfare or the Church as long as his relatives are able to care for him. All Church members should accept the responsibility, insofar as they are able, to care for the needy among their own kin. The Apostle Paul taught this doctrine when he stated: But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel. (I Timothy 5:8.) The late President Stephen L Richards aptly declared: I think my food would choke me if I knew that while I could procure bread my aged father or mother or near kin were on public relief. The concepts have been summarized in the following statement: Church welfare accepts as fundamental truth the proposition that the responsibility for one's economic maintenance rests (1) upon himself, (2) upon his family, (3) upon the Church, if he is a faithful member thereof. (Welfare Plan Handbook, page 1.) The Welfare Program stands ready to help those who cannot help themselves or who cannot obtain sufficient aid from family members, but no _ Latter-day Saint should anticipate that anyone, other than himself, will provide for his own needs. What can we do to prepare ourselves to care for our own 166 needs? I would suggest the following: 1. Obtain an adequate education; learn a trade, skill, or profession so that remunerative employment can be secured. 2. Live within our incomes. As I told you Relief Society sisters on a previous occasion: "Don't let mamma's yearnings exceed papa's earnings." 3. Avoid excessive debt. Necessary debt should be incurred only after very careful and prayerful thought, consideration, getting all the best advice that we possibly can, and keeping well within our ability to repay. We have been counseled to 'Avoid debt as a plague." 4. Acquire and store a reserve of food, clothing, and cash on a sensible, well-planned basis. In the matter of storing food, Elder Harold B. Lee has wisely counseled: We have never laid down an exact formula for what anybody should store, and let me just make this comment: Perhaps if we think more in terms of what it would take to keep us alive in case we didn't have anything to eat, that last would be very easy to put in storage for a year... Just enough to keep us alive if we didn't have anything to eat. We wouldn't get fat on it, but we would live; and if you think in terms of that kind of annual storage rather than a_ whole year's supply of everything that you're accustomed to eat, which, in most cases, is utterly impossible for the average family, I think we will come nearer to what President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Advised us way back in 1937. (See address of President Clark, Conference Report, April 1937, pp. 26-27.) The key figure in the Welfare Plan is the bishop: By word of the Lord, the sole mandate to care for and the sole discretion in caring for the poor of the Church is lodged in the bishop. It is his duty and his only to determine to whom, when, how, and how much shall be given to any member of his ward from Church funds and as ward help. Whoever and whatever the help he calls in to assist him perform his service, he is still responsible. (Welfare Plan Handbook, page 6.) Since the earliest days of the Church, the Relief Society has been and still is the bishop's chief help in administering to those in need. The Relief Society has been trained and prepared to handle certain phases of Welfare work better than any other agency. The bishop has at his disposal two major resources to carry out his responsibility in caring for the poor: Commodities generally produced on the 600 agricultural projects, and processed in canneries owned by the ward and stake members. A flour and feed mill, a coal mine, and clothing manufacturing projects are Church-owned. These commodities are used to stock the 102 bishops storehouses, and from these, the bishops may requisition food, clothing, and other items to aid those in need. It is satisfying to note that the production budget has been filled 97.3 per cent on a Church-wide basis over the past twenty-two years. The other major resource at the disposal of the bishop is the fast offering fund. Contributions are from free-will cash offerings of members who abstain from two meals per month and pay the equivalent amount—or a more generous contribution to the bishop. He uses these funds to provide for the cash needs of welfare recipients, such as to pay rent, utilities, hospital, and medical bills. After the bishop's initial visit to the home of the needy, he will direct the Relief Society president to make a personal inspection of the home and review household needs and to let the family feel her sisterly solicitude and sustained interest in their welfare. He will indicate to her whether the family is to receive partial or full assistance. Relief Society in The Welfare Plan When the Relief Society president analyzes and determines the needs, she will write out a bishop's order and return it to the bishop, for only he has the authority to sign and issue welfare orders. Your General Relief Society Presidency has outlined in detail specific recommendations and suggestions regarding these visits. The Welfare Program is important. Caring for the poor is important. It has been stated that one of the foremost reasons for giving the financial law of the Church was so that the needy and the suffering might be cared for. It seems that this purpose had a preferential claim above all other purposes on the funds of the Church. It is understood that at one time when President Grant was instructing a stake presidency, he stated that before the Church would allow its members to suffer want, it would close every school, every seminary, and every temple. Those physically able are urged and expected to work for the Church assistance they receive within the limits of their ability and health. The Church is strongly opposed to a dole of any kind, whether it be county, State, or Federal. (A dole to us means "receiving something and giving nothing in return.'') Those receiving Church assistance are expected to work. Brigham Young once said: My experience has taught me, and it has become a principle with me, that it is never any benefit to give, out and out, to man or woman, money, food, clothing, or anything else, if they are able-bodied and can work and earn what they need, when there is anything on the earth for 167 March 1969 them to do. This is my principle, and I try to act upon it. To pursue a contrary course would ruin any community in the world and make them idlers. (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 274.) A few years ago, a man went to his bishop and _ practically demanded that the Church aid and assist him. The man was ninety-five per cent blind and used a white cane in his walking. He was thoroughly convinced that he was not able to earn a living. The bishop explained to him that if he were to receive assistance from the Church, he would have to earn that help. The man was most indignant to think that the bishop was so shortsighted and unsympathetic as to feel that he had to labor and earn what he was to receive. However, the bishop insisted, and the man responded. The bishop personally took him to Welfare Square. He was assigned to label cans. The first few days and weeks were difficult. But, gradually, the young man gained more speed and skill, and, within a month's time, he was the fastest, neatest can labeler in the whole cannery. One day he came to the bishop and said if he could label cans this well and do a few other things which he had been taught, he surely ought to be able to take some training at the Blind Center. The bishop helped the young man and his mother during the time that the boy was in the school for the blind. At the conclusion of the course, the bishop assisted him in securing a job—a fine position. From that time on, he has been able to work and to support himself fully, and his mother, and 168 has required no financial assistance from the Church or others. Generally speaking, the Welfare Plan is regarded as a temporal program caring for the physical needs of the people, but the great spiritual aspects of the program should never be overlooked. To the Lord, all things are spiritual, for he has said: Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal.... (D&C 29:24.) In a talk given by President McKay, then a Counselor to President Grant, just six months after the announcement of the Welfare Plan in 1936, some prophetic utterances were made when President McKay said: I do not know of any activity with which we have been associated which promises more fruitful results in temporal and spiritual achievement than this Church Security Program.... It is going to stand out in the Church history as significant.. After all is said and done, the greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical: re-making of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing fertile fields for settlement—all seem strictly temporal, but permeating all of these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality. (Conference Report, October 1936, page 103.) The program is spiritual, but it is difficult to build a person up spiritually when he is physically cold and hungry. The temporal needs must first be met, and then spiritual blessings may follow. Although members of the Church contribute their time and their means, there should be more to it than that. There must be a sharing, and with their contribu- tions should go their prayers, good wishes, a brotherly and sisterly concern, interest, and love. During 1967, some 46,519 of you good women of the Church assisted on various welfare projects—doing a temporal work to bring both temporal and spiritual blessings to others, and, incidentally, to yourselves, because of your unselfish participation. You sisters can give encouragement, sympathy, and inspiration where needed, and, certainly, can be responsible for a great spiritual uplift in the lives of those needing assistance. My dear sisters, the Welfare Program is not on trial. The foundation is firmly laid; it is well established and has been in operation for over thirty-two years. The basic concepts have been tested and proved to be sound. We know the road that we should travel. The Welfare Program is here to stay. Elder Harold B. Lee, who for a quarter of a century served as managing director of the General Church Welfare Committee, and who was associated with the program from its very beginning, has made this observation in reference to the permanency of the Welfare Plan: "This program will last as long as this Church exists as a Church." Shortly after the Church was organized, the Lord gave to the saints what might be considered the "perfect economic system." This was the law known as the. United Order. For a variety of reasons, the saints were not able to live this law; and later tithing was given as a substitute law. We look forward to the time when we may again have the Relief Society in The Welfare Plan privilege of living the United Order. The First Presidency has made _ this. Prediction: "The United Order will be established by the Lord in his own due time and in accordance with the regular prescribed order of the Church." In the meantime, though, I have this assurance—the Welfare Program is a training field which will prepare us for that brighter day when we may again have the blessing of having the United Order. A statement from one of the brethren on this is instructive. He said: It is not asserted that the Welfare Plan is the United Order, but perhaps there is a much greater nearness of approach than we have been accustomed to think. Safe it is to say that a complete living of the law governing this plan, and the practice of the principles involved, would make the transition into the organization of the United Order not too difficult. (Albert E. Bowen, The Church Welfare Plan.) It is my strong and abiding testimony that the Welfare Program was instituted under the inspiration of our Heavenly Father, and that President Grant, through inspiration and revelation from the Holy Ghost, did set up this Welfare Plan. It is not something that was just thought up over night, and, being an inspired program, it will not fail. The Lord has declared that it is his purpose to provide for his saints, but it must needs be done in his own way. It is my firm conviction that the Welfare Plan is the Lord's way today of caring for his people, to which I testify in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. 169 "The Salt of the Earth' @ Perhaps one of the greatest of all recorded discourses is that known to us as "The Sermon on the Mount" given by the Savior to his disciples and devoted adherents who followed him to a mountain near the Sea of Galilee in order that they might hear more of his teachings. These were people who had been attracted by the power of his matchless words and by the miracles he had performed. They felt constrained to forsake their all, and follow after him. In this great sermon, the Savior declared he had not come to destroy the law (the law of Moses) but to fulfill it. He taught the higher law— the law of love, "... Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you." (Matthew 5:44.) The beginning of The Sermon on the Mount sets forth the very essence of true religion and its attendant blessing. Then, in a 170 mode of direct personal address, the Savior pronounced those disciples who sat listening to be the worthy benefactors of mankind when he declared: "Ye are the salt of the earth..." (Matthew 5:13.) This is an interesting analogy. Salt is the great preservative. It prevents deterioration and spoilage. It freshens and sweetens. It serves as a corrective—a purifier. It brings out flavor and gives pungency. In using this analogy, the Savior made clear that the small band of righteous disciples would be as a condiment that would arrest corruption, purify mankind, and bring desirable flavor to earth life. Along with this pronouncement, however, the Savior sounded a warning note as he continued, "but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it [the earth] be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out..." (Matthew 5:13.) With this warning, the Savior demonstrated his recognition of the tendency of man, including the so-called righteous, to lose his saline or purifying qualities. He raised the pertinent question as to how, then, corruption should be stamped out, and the earth be purified. Thus he emphasized the urgency of his disciples' remaining steadfast. Through the years, the term "the salt of the earth," has been appropriately applied to individuals and to groups whose character, purity, and nobility of life have served as leaven to inspire, uplift, and benefit others; those whose characters are above reproach, and whose acts are prompted by the most righteous of motives. Often I find myself applying the term, "the salt of the earth," to the great body of women who are Relief Society visiting teachers. Righteous in their lives, faithful in service, more than 132,000 sisters now go forth month after month in fair weather or foul, in their office and calling as representatives of Relief Society to uplift, to bless, and to exercise sisterly watchcare over the mothers and homemakers of the Church. Theirs is not an easy assignment. It involves conscientious study, prayer, countless hours of time, unselfish effort, and the strict regulation of their individual lives in order that they more fully may meet the requirements of the calling. Regardless of the demands made of them, however, these sisters go forth devotedly on their mission of love and mercy. Many sisters have done so year after year; in some instances for a period of time that is almost comparable to the generally allotted span of life. During the past year, I attended a' stake visiting teacher convention. Seated on the front row were some of the most angelic-looking women one might ever expect to see. They ranged in age from twenty-three to ninety-two years. All were visiting teachers who were being honored for their service. They had served in this calling from three to sixty-four years, respectively. I thought, how unlimited has been the good these sisters have accomplished. Could it have been precisely measured and then compiled with the records of tens of thousands of others who likewise have served, what an overwhelm- "The Salt of the Earth" ing account of righteous accomplishment would be revealed! These sisters, however, do not give this service out of a desire to make a record, or for personal recognition or credit. Such motives would not lead to the achievement of the worthy purposes for which the visiting teacher program is designed. What, then, does prompt them to so serve? May I suggest one or two of the major reasons: 1. Respect for Church calling. 2. The spirit of the gospel which animates their lives. 3. The compassionate nature of the work which is according to the nature of women. 4. The genuine need for such a program. While it is true that the great bulk of visiting teachers give continuously dependable and qualified service, we must recognize that there are times when, with some of the sisters, enthusiasm declines and effort grows lax; when, indeed, "The salt begins to lose its savour." At such a time, we remind ourselves of the words of the Savior spoken to his disciples, "... If the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted?" (Matthew 5:13). So the wise Relief Society president is alert for evidences of this. She asks herself, "What are its evidences, and how may they best be dealt with?" We suggest a few of the evidences as follows: Declining enthusiasm for the work; the attitude that it is merely a routine duty to be performed or a favor conferred upon or concession made to the presidency; irregularity in attendance at visiting teacher meetings, and even in making visits; a shift in 171 March 1969 the compelling motive of the visit from rendering a needed and qualified service to a striving for a record in number of visits made; a tiredness on the part of the teacher; even a questioning of the worth of the program. The key person in helping the visiting teacher to maintain the freshness and vitality of the service and to find joy and satisfaction in the calling is the ward Relief Society president, supported and wisely counseled by the stake Relief Society president. The General Board, too, feels concern and offers its suggestions as follows: Let there be a closeness between the word Relief Society president and the individual visiting teachers so that the president may be aware at the very outset of any adverse attitudes or unproductive efforts. Let her see her responsibilities in motivating the sisters to fruitful and happy effort. Let her so act in the very beginning, by following approved procedures in making the call. Let her frequently emphasize to the visiting teachers, individually and collectively, the lofty purposes of the program. Let her occasionally inquire of the visiting teachers individually as to how they are enjoying their work, thus affording them opportunity confidentially to apprise her of problems or, better still, to be strengthened by bearing testimony of their love for the calling; let her be sensitive to the relationship of compatible women who more or less complement one another, being assigned to serve as companions, and the general success of the visit. Upon occasion, it may be wise for the president to 172 consider the desirability of a change in district assignments. Let her be quick to acknowledge individual as well as collective accomplishments, and to express appreciation for the devotion and the quality of work that brought this about. Let the teachers feel her personal faith and confidence in them, and _ her competence in dealing with the work because of her broad knowledge and understanding of the program and her strong personal conviction of its worthiness and the divinity that guides it. As we consider the type of women who make up the visiting teaching group (more than 139,000 of them), as we contemplate the motives which led them to make approximately 5,000,000 visits last year, as we ponder the uplift and comfort that has been brought into Latter-day Saint homes through their service, as we consider the gospel principles they have taught through precept and example, as we take into account the hands that have been strengthened and the homes that have been blessed, it does not seem inappropriate to refer to the visiting teachers as "The salt of the earth." So important, however, is the program that at no time or under any circumstance should those of us who are in charge of the work allow the salt to lose its savor because of laxity on our own parts. We bear in mind always that the important factor in helping any sister to maintain the savor in any Relief Society calling is to keep her testimony live and growing. Active participation in all aspects of Relief Society work is the open doorway to this. Morning Stillness Photo by Wiltard Li ae FT gate TI ce ET je a | IDENTITY Who am |? Only my Heavenly Father knows, For he created my spirit, and knew my intelligence. What am I? Again, he alone knows, now; But he desires that | learn To comprehend myself. This requires eternity. | could become a unique source Of infinite responses to truth. Why am |? A prism needed Through which truly may shine In numberless hues, That beauty and joy may be embodied. —Margaret B. Jorgensen See ne aie leieaiei< 1 | Soreoek T a { § t 4 - 4 q £ 4 e Pag Dy SISISIZIZISISZ/S==1=I= I=) "What Wilt Thou it Have Me to Do?" { Afton W. Hunt: ates - ~ m It is recorded that, at one time, an individual had the opportunity to ask of the Lord Jesus Christ, this question, "What wilt thou have me to do?" The answer given to Saul was neither comphicated nor difficult to understand. He was told to go to the city of Damascus where he would be shown that which he should do. The great overall rewards from Saul's obedience to these simple instructions in his new-found faith, resulted in immeasurable service to God, to mankind, and to himself. What shall we do with our lives? We who daily face crisis and frustration in the conflict between sin and righteousness, and whose families must be strengthened for an unpredictable future. We, too, would ask, "What wilt thou have me to do?" In essence is not this the question presented to the Prophet Joseph Smith by the women of Nauvoo when they consulted him concerning their desire to be of greater service in the gospel effort? His answer to them was neither complicated nor difficult to understand, but it made plain 174 Member, General Board of Relief Society sislstsistsizistsisist [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] our Heavenly Father's plan for the service, progress, and purposeful living of his daughters. With inspired vision, he organized the sisters that their efforts for service would be combined with opportunities for mental and spiritual growth, and provide ways and means whereby they could equip themselves to meet life's. Challenges in every age. Through obedience to this great plan, the accomplishments of Relief Society as an organization stand in first place among those of organized women of the world; so much so that those unacquainted with Relief Society, and the capabilities of its active individual members, are amazed in learning of it. An example of this is an experience of the cultural refinement class leader of my own ward Relief Society when she traveled with her medical doctor husband on a professional trip to a California hospital. As was her practice, she took with her the Relief Society textbook to study while she waited for him. And so it was that she happened to be in a California hospital waiting room reading Out of The Best Books, Volume 3, when she became aware of being closely observed by a refined appearing woman sitting across the table from her. At length the woman spoke to her saying, "Excuse me, please, but I see by the title of your book that you evidently belong to a literary study group." Our class leader replied that she did, and that the group was the women's organization of the Church to which she belonged. It seemed to surprise the woman to hear that a Church group "What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?" studied literature, or anything other than theology. So our sister had the opportunity to explain to her the extensive educational and service program of Relief Society. On hearing of its variety, and broadness of scope of the studies and activities, the woman's reaction was one of amazement. Could it be that we who are so close to and engaged in our Heavenly Father's program for us, accept it as an ordinary privilege and fail to associate this blessing with its inspired source? Do our neighbors and friends recognize, through us, Relief Society's proffered opportunities? In every stake in the Church there are Latter-day Saint sisters, as well as those not of our faith, who are not yet acquainted with the strengthening influence of Relief Society. Are we using every opportunity to demonstrate its constructive force in our own lives? It has been said that the only Bible some people read is the example they see in the lives of others. As Relief Society sisters, even our small acts speak with power to those who are reading our lives. Evidence of the potency of Relief Society in lifting standards and accomplishments to the point of influencing others through example was recently brought to my attention. A woman from Australia applied at the Church Information Center for assistance in learning about so-called "Mormonism." She explained that she knew nothing about the Church but that she had a friend in Australia who, as she said, "joined the Mormons," and that she also belonged to "their woman's or- 5) March 1969 ganization." She reported that in a very short time it had completely remade the friend and changed her focus in life, that she had almost reversed her former practices and attitudes toward people. Most important of all, she now seemed to be enjoying a happiness one seldom sees in life. The visitor explained that while touring the United States, she had made special effort to come to Salt Lake City to learn the truth about such an organization. It is stimulating to know that the pattern and directives given to Relief Society sisters through the years are as applicable today in preparing us to meet the challenges of modern living, as they have been throughout our history. How grateful we should be for this magnificent blessing that is ours to share. It gives us opportunity to light our spiritual candles every day as we live, that en masse we may become a light- - house to those who are searching for truth. May we so pattern our lives that they will be a visible answer to every woman who is mentally asking, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" aio THE SEAMSTRESS | have been sewing all these many years, It's queer how fast the seasons go, Still, sewing is just an avocation Wedged in between the other loves, you know. Between the summer's canning and the children's time, Between the constant meals—a little dress; On birthday party days the sewing room was locked Against the danger of my eagerness. For always there were times a child would come Seeking some fellowship—unnamable to say— Nothing particular—yet needing something said — About his own well-being or some praise that day. At For hunger must be met in children's hearts | And leisure hours be theirs to feel, \ Making a child know he's loved and special— *~ And now, that all those things are gone, I think | do distinguish there More sowing than sewing, | guess you'd say, Yet, as a seamstress | was more than fair. —Linnie Fisher Robinson IP ~ aie | A sort of stitching just for heart appeal. 176 - [ LS m@ One of the responsibilities of a prophet of the Lord in all ages is to lead as many people as possible to salvation. And one of the greatest problems faced by the prophets has been to get the people to listen to and to follow their counsel. Since the opening of this last and final dispensation of the gospel, all of our prophets have stressed the importance of providing ordinances of salvation to ourselves, the living, and also to the dead. The Savior taught this principle, stressing the fact that no one could enter the kingdom of heaven without being born again— of water and of the spirit. (John 3:5.) At the end of his earthly ministry, he placed the greatest possible stamp of authoritativeness on what he had taught and exemplified by giving up his life, not only to provide the basic requisite—victory over death—but to open the way to eternal membership in his Father's heavenly kingdom to all who have the desire and the will to attain to it. This is his Church—and through his prophets he has continued to emphasize the great joy and rewards that come through following the path he has charted. His greatest work was to offer and make possible salvation for others. The same is the responsibility of his Church —and it's members. A brief study of the counsel given to us by all of our latterday prophets will show how great this responsibility is on our part. The terms—'necessary," '"essential," "greatest responsibility that God has placed 'upon us," "Important duty," "great work," "absolutely necessary,' "under condemnation" (if we do not), "cannot" (obtain the blessings), are repeatedly found among the inspired spoken and_ written counsel that has been given to us in regard to temple work. The Prophet Joseph Smith used the following in his enlightening King Follett funeral sermon:... Hence the responsibility—the awful responsibility—that rests upon us in relation to our dead; for all of the spints who have not obeyed the gospel in the flesh must either obey it in the spirit or be damned. Would that I had forty days and nights in which to tell you all. (DHC, Volume VI, pp. 312-313.) These things apply not only to all persons as individuals, but also to the continuance of family relationships. It is an inherent desire in the hearts of almost all people that their family relationships continue after they leave this life. So strong was this desire in the hearts of the parents of a young engaged couple who were killed in a recent automobile accident in the State of New 177 March 1969 York, that they arranged for the couple to be "symbolically married" before being buried side by side. The "keys of salvation" as administered in the house of the Lord are just what the term implies—keys—and there can be no opening of the door to the kingdom of God without them. We hold these keys which alone can open the door for our ancestors—for all the dead who died without a knowledge of them. They do not have them— they cannot get them—except through us, the living. A significant step is being taken under the inspired guidance of our Church leaders in the implementation of the GIANT (Genealogical Information And Name Tabulation) which program makes use of modern electronic techniques to _ process names for temple ordinance work. For more than ninety years, the diligent efforts of faithful members of the Church have provided many millions of departed spirits with the _ ordinances of salvation. By plodding research and manual methods of recording and submitting names, they have done a marvelous work. But as time and inspired ingenuity frequently change and improve upon what has gone before, so we must be willing to use advancing technology to assist in speeding up the work of salvation. We are told that the major activity of the people who dwell on the earth during the thousand year millennial period will be temple work. Our leaders have repeatedly spoken of the time when thousands of temples will be 178 dedicated to the work of salvation, in all parts of the world. (Prophet Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, Wilford Woodruff, and others, quoted in Latter-Day Prophets Speak, Ludlow, pp. 130- 136.) Known records of identifiable persons do not extend back much beyond 600 years, and, for most countries, much less than that. It is the responsibility of the members of the Church not only to find and provide the saving ordinances for these people who have died without a knowledge of the gospel, but to keep a record of all the ordinances that are performed. As the work increases and continues on into the millenial era, these record files will grow to vast proportions. The use of modern storage and retrieval techniques under the GIANT system will provide the necessary growth potential to take care of these filing needs. How long will it be before the temple ordinances for these persons will be completed? And beyond that? Doubt not—when records are no longer extant for extending ancestral pedigrees and linking of generation to generation—that the Lord, in his great wisdom, will provide a way for accomplishing that which he commands. President Wilford Woodruff stated that the work will continue until the entire human race who merit a place in the family of Adam's posterity has been sealed. Only then can the Mediator between man and his God proclaim, "It is finished." (Wilford Woodruff as quoted in Latter-day Prophets Speak, page 133.) Ramona W. Cannon Margaret Inman Meaders of Albuquerque, New Mexico, university associate professor, researcher, editor, and renowned public speaker, has been named to the very limited membership of the International Platform Association. This is a sixty-five-year-old organization designed to bring speakers of the highest qualifications to platforms around the world. Mark Twain, Carl Sandburg, and President William Howard Taft helped to create the organization and a distinguished membership has been maintained. Alicia de Larrocha is considered one of the world's finest pianists. Harold Schonberg of The New York Times has said; ''Miss Larrocha is the most impressive Spanish pianist to have emerged since the war. A tiny woman, she is pianistically flawless, with infallible fingers, brilliant sonorities, steady rhythm, everything."' Mrs. Paul A. (Lorna) Clayton of Salt Lake City has been elected a member of the National Board of Young Audiences, Inc. She is its first member west of Chicago, elected because of her effective efforts in arranging for concerts for young audiences. Locally, two concerts are given annually in every public school for the fourth, fifth, and sixth grade students. Dr. Leona Holbrook, professor and chairman of the department of physical education for women at Brigham Young University, has received an honor fellowship award from the American Association for Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. Recently Dr. Holbrook directed a study in educational planning in health, physical education, and recre. Tion in Chile, South America. Miss Mary Gardiner Jones, Washington, D. C., is the only female commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission. Marianne Moore was given the 1968 National Medal for Literature on her eighty-first birthday, November 15th. The award carries with it a prize of $5,000. Shirley Mount Hufstedler, recently became the second woman in history to serve on the Circuit Court of the United States. She was named to the Ninth Circuit by President Johnson in July 1968. Mrs. Hufstedler had served previously for seven years as a judge on the Los Angeles Superior Court. A native of Denver, she attended the University of New Mexico and Stanford University. Carmen (Mrs. Kenneth) Kohler, Midway, Utah, exemplifies a number of women who are using the skills and traditions of their native lands as a basis for their professions and hobbies. Mrs. Kohler turned back to Switerzland and used thrift, artistic talent, and receipes which formed the basis for establishing an inn at Midway, Utah, in the beautiful Wasatch Mountain country. 179 EDITORIAL w The sweet, pleasing, harmonious sound of music, expressing the ideals, beliefs, and emotions of Relief Society sisters, has been heard in Relief Society meetings since that first meeting in Nauvoo when the Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The minutes of the founding meeting record that the meeting commenced with singing ''The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" and closed with ''Come Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation.'' How could the feelings of the sisters on that momentous occasion have been expressed more fervently; what could they have done that would have revealed their gratitude to the Lord in a way more pleasing to him than through song, for the Lord declared, ''For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me..."' (D&C, 25- 12)? Throughout its history, Relief Society has encouraged congregational and choral singing. It has urged mothers to see that children with talent are given training. It has encouraged music in the home because of its importance to the spiritual and cultural well-being of the home and family. Relief Society women have responded to the encouragement given and have shown joyful interest in the singing opportunities afforded them by Relief Society. Congregational singing, led by able choristers, has enriched Re- 180 lief Society meetings and brought meaningful enjoyment to members. Choral music in Relief Society has had an interesting history, and countless women have been brought into the Society as active members through the choral music program. Many non-Church members have joined Relief Society to sing in the chorus and have found it an open door to Church membership. Typical of the stake choruses in earlier days was the Salt Lake Stake chorus, conducted by Agnes Olson Thomas. In an interview at her home in Salt Lake City in April 1942, Agnes Thomas said, ''! Was selected to the office of Relief Society chorister in the old Salt Lake Stake... | think it was in 1916—and | served for sixteen years. Our choir numbered about Volume 57 March 1969 Number 3 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer om thirty-five, and we sang in the Assembly Hall at the stake conferences, and always had a program for Annual Day, and often sang at the monthly meetings. We had pleasant times." In 1914, Lizzie Thomas Edward, a brilliant soprano and musical director for the General Board, was selected by the General Board as chorister of a Central Relief Society Choir of selected voices. For a number of years this choir rendered many fine anthems and hymns at the general conferences of Relief Society. In April 1932, the Liberty Stake Chorus of selected voices from the several wards of that stake, directed by Charlotte O. Sackett, furnished music at the Relief Society General Conference. After this successful appearance, the chorus was sponsored by the Anna B. Hart Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Betva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Edythe K. Watson Elfen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma 8B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock General Board, more singers were added from the Salt Lake stakes, and Mrs. Sackett was appointed director. This group, consisting of 250 mothers, furnished the music for the April Conference, 1933, appearing under the name of 'Singing Mothers."' In 1940 the central chorus of Relief Society Singing Mothers was released by the General Board in order to strengthen Relief Society choruses in the wards and stakes of Salt Lake City from which the central chorus of Singing Mothers had been drawn. Since that time, music for each general session of the Relief Society General Conference has been provided by a combined stake Singing Mothers Chorus made up of selected singers from the respective stakes. Such combined choruses come from various areas of the Church. The wisdom of the General Board in disbanding the central chorus in favor of promoting local choruses is reflected in the growth in the number and size of Relief Society Singing Mothers choruses throughout the Church. Today there are 3,612 Singing Mothers choruses, with more than 51,496 women participating. The General Board pays tribute to the outstanding choristers, both local and General Board, who, with skill and devotion, have used their talents to help develop choruses that have attracted wide attention and much _ favorable 181 March 1969 comment from competent judges, and contributed significantly to the growth and accomplishments of the Society. We acknowledge with gratitude the work of the talented accompanists and the instrumentalists whose work is so important in the success of a chorus. We acknowledge with appreciation the invitations extended by distinguished organizations and broadcasting stations to our choruses to present special concerts or provide special musical programs. In today's world where spiritual and cultural activities are so greatly needed, when the home needs the joyous uplift of good music, when mothers need the solace of song as they contend with the problems of life, Relief Society must press forward with its glorious program of congregational and choral singing. This we know will be pleasing unto the Lord. —B. S. S. IN MEMORIAM Rosannah Cannon Irvine June 29, 1873—January 5, 1969 Rosannah Cannon Irvine, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away January 5, 1969, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Sarah Jane Jenne and George Q. Cannon. Her mother served on the General Board of Relief Society, and her father was in the First Presidency of the Church. Sister Irvine served on the General Board from 1921 to 1939. She was a gifted author, and much of her effort was concentrated in the literary department. She was a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine and to other Church publications. Sister Irvine attended the University of Utah and studied elocution in New York. She taught at Utah State Agricultural College, now Utah State University. On June 29, 1898, in the Salt Lake Temple, she was married to Alonzo Blair Irvine, a distinguished lawyer. They were the parents of three children. There were nine grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. Mr. Irvine passed away in 1940. The General Board of Relief Society acknowledges with appreciation her contributions to Relief Society and Relief Society members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Irvine extend heartfelt sympathy at her passing. 182 a hac £ bed be t BOUND VOLUMES OF 1968 MAGAZINES Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1968 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine, page 239.) The cost of binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1968 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1968 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. To press my lips, Upon a fair cheek or a brown, Of my three sons, So long | have stooped down. But suddenly today to my surprise, | find that | must lift my eyes, To meet their eyes; That | must stand on toe tips, And reach up to kiss their lips. These tall young sons, THOMAS, Each straight as any pine— HAROLD, Can they be mine? AND RICHARD | Soon | must share them, Soon | know that they will go. But, oh, | am so happy; That | have had, Three small sons to stoop to, Three tall sons to reach to, Clean sons to give, That others may live. —Ann Willis 183 Mission Of The American Red Cross Emil E. Henderson @ The American Red Cross is the instrument chosen by the Congress to help carry out the obligations assumed by the United States under certain international treaties known as the Geneva or Red Cross Conventions. Specifically, its Congressional charter imposes on the American Red Cross the duties to act as the medium of voluntary relief and communication between the American people and their armed forces, and to carry on a system of national and international relief to prevent and mitigate suffering caused by disasters. All the activities of the American Red Cross and its chapters support these duties. The accomplishment of its mission of health and welfare services at United States military installations in this Country and overseas and to the civilian population across the Nation is a task of great magnitude. Its success depends on the participation and involvement of thousands of volunteers enthusiastically willing to share their time and their talents in the service of others. There is further dependence upon the generosity of those who contribute of their means to finance these humanitarian programs. Services offered by the Red Cross are many and all are dedicated to the health, safety, and peace of mind of people. Whether it be a Home Nursing course offered through cooperative efforts of Red Cross and the Relief Society—emergency action on behalf of a serviceman in Viet Nam—disaster aid to flood victims along the Mississippi—rescue of a drowning child and the administration of First Aid—blood supply in hospitals across the land— services to patients in hospitals by kindly volunteers—or food for the starving children in far away Biafra—every single effort is guided toward giving the ill more opportunity to regain health, the homeless a place of abode, and the discouraged hope for the future. The Red Cross, as much as any organization on the American scene, has erased from the public mind the image of volunteers as serene dispensers of charity. Serene they may be, but they are workers. They do big jobs and small ones; they handle unpleasant tasks as well as pleasant ones. They bring skill and efficiency to their efforts along with understanding and compassion. They come in all ages, sizes, and colors, bound together by one primary motivation—the desire to serve their neighbors. In a recent statement, Mr. E. Roland Harriman, National Chairman, said, "The Red Cross is unquestionably the largest volunteer organization in the country, and in the volunteer spirit lies the Nation's greatest strength." 184 "A Gift of Love" Addie Belknap Pierson @ Helen. The first time I saw Helen was the day we moved into our first "real" home. She came over to borrow the proverbial cup of sugar, welcome us, and help. And help she did. We were very new to the area; it was Jeffs first job after college. Between commencement day at his school and the commencement of his working days, we had had three days. All used in traveling. So there I sat amid boxes, barrels, and dirt that first morning. I was going over my agenda for the day—I was a modern organized house engineer—and had listed: 1. Make bed (the only thing we had unpacked the night before). 2. Clear away breakfast things (sweet roll wrappings and milk carton). 3. Get dressed. 4. Start unpacking. I should have put No. 4 before No. 3, as all the clothes I had - out were one traveling suit and one nightgown. As I was musing over the problem, there was a loud knock, a cheery hello, and, suddenly, a "Say, could I borrow some sugar?" tall angular woman, cup in hand, smile on face, was sprawled out across my very own kitchen floor. Wondering how the smile had stayed on, and making a mental note to find a more convenient place to keep Jeff's books on mathematical data and abstract math than in the doorway, I offered my hand to help the poor lady up. She seemed to come up at all angles, brushing herself off, but with no need for assistance. "My name is Helen—Mom should have called me Grace— Helen Jorgenson. I live in the duplex, closest side to you folks. Say, could I borrow some sugar? Don't have it all out yet? Well, why don't I just help you unpack it and a few of your other necessaries? Howard, that's my husband, and I were glad to hear someone had rented this place. With just a bit of elbow grease and water, it will be looking really pretty again. My goodness, no wonder I tripped—never was much good at arithmetic. I suppose abstract algebra has to do with arithmetic?" The sudden silence in this running dialogue stunned me so _that I could not answer, only 185 March 1969 watch as Helen stacked one box of books on the other, picked both up and walked into the hallway. It was just as well. Evidently the silence was actually a fade-out, since I soon heard, "Where do you keep your soap and water?" echoing back to me from the living room. That's how Helen and I met. We were sort of a Mutt and Jeff team, she being about 5'10" to my 5/2". We had a difference in ages, she was thirty and I was only twenty-two. Both our husbands were away a lot, Jeff was getting started in his chosen profession (work Helen always called it). Actually I never met Howard, her husband, for over a year. "My man is a sailorman," she told me later. "A good man but madly in love with the sea and anything that sails. We met during the war, you know. I worked in a factory near the harbor and I used to watch the ships dock. One day a bosun's mate came up. He stood in my pathway, and along comes Howard, my husband you know, just a seaman he was then, and he told the bosun to find another girl because I was taken. And I guess I have been ever since. Howard, that's my _ husband, hopes to be a Chief someday. Say, aren't you putting those ribbon ties on the wrong side?" This conversation took place over Edward Jefferson Harper the Second's wardrobe making. "That Eddie now, he's a regular little corker," was Helen's exclamation of approval over our own beautiful Edward Jefferson Harper the Second. When Eddie was three months old, Howard 186 (Helen's husband) came home on leave. Jeff and I were very curious to meet Howard Jorgenson. We had visions of a large, blond Swedish-type sailor, with large tattoos on either arm. Even a prize fighter type. "Howard, my husband, writes he has won the title in his weight class," she had told us once. When Helen brought -him over to see "that little corker Eddie," we were both stunned speechless, as so often seems the case when we are with Helen. She is not shocking, just surprising. Anyway, there stood Howard, her husband, all 5'4" of him, and it was a good thing he was standing frontwise or we would have missed him. His boxing class was bantam weight, and he was just lke a banty rooster. But how this little, quiet sailor could seem to make our large Helen feel so protected and feminine, I didn't know— then. About six months later, with Howard back to sea, Helen was over watching me bathe Eddie one morning. As she sat down in the kitchen, she pulled out some beautiful pink yarn and began to knit. For such an ungainly, clumsy girl, Helen did beautiful sewing and handiwork. At last, I thought, Helen and Howard are going to be blessed with a.... "Now this next baby of yours," cut in Helen on my blissful thoughts for her, "will need warmer nighties and more sweaters than that big Eddie, there, needed. Winter babies are different from summer ones you know." Speechless again, I just stared. "Oh, I know all about babies except getting one, I guess," she went on. "I was the oldest in a family of nine. What are you going to name this next one? Tammy? Debbie? Vickie?—Those are all popular now." "Wait, just wait a minute!" I had to get a word in this time. "Helen, how do you know this one, whom I haven't even announced, is going to be a girl?" "Well, you need a girl. It's right and proper that you have one. This big Eddie takes after his Daddy, now you need a sweet pink and gold little baby girl to take after her mom. Your life is run right. You have everything as in a book. You had good rearing, went to college for an education, married your fellow. He is educated and has a good paying job, or profession as you call it. You have a lovely home that I've seen you fix up with bits and scraps, and yet it looks like a million dollars and you always look so— so fashionable yourself. You're a popular couple. You have everything to offer a pink and gold baby girl. "Now me, I should have had a half dozen boys, rowdy, tumbling, freckle-faced, and laughing boys—but a girl, well you know that would be ridiculous...." "Why?" I again edged in a word.... "Why! That's as plain as your turned-up nose. I'm only Helen. Pioneer stock, born out of my time. I am built for hard work, and hard work I do. No man ever opens doors for me, carries my packages, or helps me change flat tires or anything. Oh, sure, Howard does when he's home, but poor Howard, a woman is a "A Gift of Love' lady no matter what she looks like to him. He doesn't see me plain as other folks do." "No! He sees you with 20/20 love and that's what's important. His vision of you." This final outburst of mine startled all three of us, and Eddie began to cry. "Shame on you," was Helen's last word. 8B, the time that beautiful pink sweater was used and all the other pink, warm nighties, socks, and bootees, Jeff and I had four beautiful, handsome, perfect, little gentlemen of whom any parents would be proud. Edward Jefferson was so proud to be the leader of my little men. Michael Allen was a good boy, quiet and helpful. "Now that Mickey, he's the clever one. He will be a good businessman someday," Helen prophesied. James Joseph was going to be tall and, probably, a good ball player. "Oh, dear, did our Jimmy-Joe break another window?" she would sweetly remark. And our baby David John was sweet and gurgly. "Now, Davy Jones, my lad, when this boy catches up with his brothers, you folks are really going to have a whole houseful of rowdy, tumbling, laughing boys." "Oh, Helen! You are irrepressible and irreplaceable. But this house is already full.'"' Now that I had the floor, I began talking in high gear. "Overflowing full! I'm afraid our little dreamhouse doesn't fit our large real life. Jeff and I have decided to look for a larger place, farther out. 187 March 1969 Oh, Helen, I'm so excited. Jeff even says if we can't find what we want, we'll build. I have so many plans. I couldn't tell you before, but Jeff is getting another promotion, and now so many new things are happening that Jeff... And... I...." My voice ran down rather like an old gramophone. Helen was speechless this time and white as a sheet. "Helen, what's the matter? Oh! Say now, we'll still see one another. Maybe not as often as we would like, we'll always be friends—but... Helen, what is it?" "Oh, please—don't move yet for awhile, you're my only friend, my only family, really, since mine's all back East, and I'm, oh, well, ''m pregnant—that's what I am—at forty!" "Helen, you are not in old age! Now hush, don't cry, this isn't like you. Aren't you happy? Why I think its wonderful." "Happy! Certainly I'm happy, but I'm so scared. Howard will be on his last cruise before he retires. That sea is going to rob me of my one other strength when my time comes. You are my only hope. Ill be all alone with this baby—and—and I won't know what to do. Ill drop it." And again the wailing and tears started. "Helen! Helen, here now! You know I wouldn't leave you alone. Our moving will just have to wait. After all, I've got to have my best mover on her feet." Then all 5'2" of me marched over to Howard and Helen's place to beard Howard in his den or forecastle or wherever sailors use for a hide-out on ship. Of 188 course, when the sweet, helpful Howard answered my loud knock, I tried to muster all my organized self but all I squeaked out was, "Can't you stay home one cruise?' Since he just smiled at me as if humoring me, I finally burst out with, "How can you leave us at a time like this!" And I scurried back home. Something about Howard always unnerved me. I guess listening to Helen brag about her husband the many months while he was away made me shocked when I saw him. When Helen began knitting and sewing baby clothes (all blue) our routine settled down. Howard got his last long voyage changed to several short cruises to be able to help, as I had suggested. One night "Aunt" Helen told our boys that soon she would have a playmate for them, and, because her son would have no older brothers, they would have to help him learn to climb trees, play ball, tumble, and wrestle. Katrina Helene was born the next day. Katrina was for her Grandmother Jorgenson and Helene, well, Howard insisted on Helen, and Helen senior glamorized it a little. But this baby girl was no pink and gold baby. She was like Dresden china with beautiful silky black hair. And Helen! Why Helen became beautiful! People say that a bride is always beautiful on her wedding day. Well, a mother holding her newborn for the first time is-even more beautiful. She had been all angles; now she was soft and lovely to behold. This clumsy, awkward woman had let her soul Shine through. The baby was exquisite. She had Howard's small bones and features, but on her they were fine and delicate; she had her mother's dark hair and blue eyes. As a small baby she was happy and easily amused. She was never Kay or Kate— always Katrina. Even my rough boys were quiet and tried not to stumble so much around her. The time soon came for us to move. Howard and Helen, of Course, were on hand to help. Naturally, Helen did most of the directing; none of us would let her do much actual work. Later, on one of their visits to our new dream home, I noticed Howard, Jeff, and all of our boys were doing special things for Helen. Noticing her dress, her hair, getting things for her or Katrina. When they had all gone down to the basement to put together the model ships Howard had brought the boys, Helen said, "So this is how you do it. Just be helpless and they'll help. I haven't told Howard yet, but I think he knows already. Katrina is such a blessing, but she will have to be everything. The Doctor says no more children. I really can't complain. We are so lucky to have her." "Helen, oh my dear Helen, for whatever we're worth you have us. All six of us Harpers, lock, stock and barrel." "That's right. I have. And I have had for ten years. Why, you've let me and Howard be in your family ever since we met. You even postponed your moving to this beautiful home. You've given me so much, I hope I can help you someday." "A Gift of Love' "This last ten years hasn't been just a one-way street. Helen, you've given to me, too. Who kept my feet on the ground when I tried to get too high-faluting? Who helped sew all my children's clothes? Who calmed me down when Jimmy-Joe broke his collar bone and when Eddie had hiccups for two days and Davey Jones swallowed fifty-eight cents in assorted coins? Our friendship and love have been give and take all the way, and I think even [| could argue with you about who got the most. You sound so solemn, as if it is a farewell address. What's going on? What are you and Howard up to?" T demanded. "Well, uh... Howard got this offer to... Teach in uh... A private nautical school for boys and...." "Oh, no! This is too much" J laughed. "Your husband is going into a profession not a job. Oh, dear! Ha! Ha! Ha! Somewhere close around here on the West Coast, of course." "Well its on the coast but it is... Well...." "Mama, Mama, Auntie Helen and Uncle Howard are moving to a boat in the East. Can I go, too?" "Can we, Mom?" "Boys, of course not. You're so noisy and loud she wouldn't know what to do with you. We can visit." My heart sank. "Lots and lots?" asked Davey Jones. "Lots and lots, I voice echoed. I looked at my friend, and (Continued on Page 220) hope," my 189 Homemaking Beauty, Utility, Charm Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1968 Myrtle R. Olson. Member, General Board of Relief Society Garden Scene (Winder Stake, Louise Free, President) As each individual entered the foyer of the Parley's Stake Center, the serenity and beauty of a garden was felt. Lovely blooming chrysanthemums, evergreens, and pyracantha bushes greeted the eye. A beautiful fountain further enhanced the atmosphere. Indeed, this gave a feeling to each sister, as Sister Celestia J. Taylor, the author of our homemaking discussions states: "Gardens bring beauty and repose from the burdens of the day; they provide nourishment for the soul as well as for the body; they are a source of hospitality to our families and our friends." This setting created an atmosphere that would no doubt give to each sister the desire and enthusiasm to have a lovely garden of her own. Beauty, Utility, Charm (Display Arranged by Anne R. Gledhill of the General Board of Relief Society) From the foyer one went to the entry of the cultural hall where the theme was effectively depicted: "Homemaking Fair—Beauty, Utility, Charm." In the alcove was a cornucopia filled with many of the items which make up a fair. There were knitted articles, hand embroidery, a small quilt, an apron, a loaf of bread, canned fruit, vegetables, and other such objects. On a wall in the alcove hung a picture of our beloved prophet, President McKay, and Sister McKay depicting "Charm." A lovely bouquet of flowers brought out "Beauty." "Utility" was characterized by a dress made by one of the sisters. The lovely sign done in blue and gold, "Homemaking Fair—Beauty, Utility, Charm" also hung in the entry. Bridal Display (Bountiful South Stake, Eulalia Butters, former President; Displays by Coy Tyson) The cultural hall was a scene of beauty as the various displays the sisters had so painstakingly prepared came into view. Many stakes and wards participated. The bridal display was "a thing of beauty" to behold. Over five hundred white velour roses had been made by the sisters of the stake and fashioned into topiary trees to form a lovely setting for the live bride and bridesmaids. This would seem like a task most difficult to accomplish, but with ten wards in the stake, each ward was assigned to make fifty roses and this was done with enthusiasm and willingness. Each ward and each person was happy to be a part of such a 190 Homemaking Fair worthwhile project. The trees were lighted with tiny white lights to make them even more beautiful and effective. Every two hours a different lovely young bride and one or two bridesmaids appeared to complete the setting. The dresses which the brides and bridesmaids wore were made by the mothers of the bride, or someone else who loved to fashion a beautiful creation. These dresses showed that something just as lovely, if not more lovely, could be hand sewed rather than purchased. Many handmade trousseau items were displayed in beautiful old trunks that had been restored and antiqued and then lined with velvet. In the background was a wedding cake made by one of the sisters of the stake. A beautiful bouquet of cloth flowers made from dainty lace enhanced the punch table. Everything in this display made each one realize the beauty and charm of articles made by the sisters. Christmas Beads (Parleys Stake, Mary Riley, President, Display by Valora Anderson) The Christmas beads which everyone so enjoys wearing at Christmas were attractively displayed on the tree which we see pictured. These are easily and quickly made. Materials needed: Gold or silver metallic thread, Christmas beads, crochet hook no. F, half-inch velvet ribbon, and a snap fastener. Thread enough beads on the metallic thread to complete one strand of beads and then proceed as follows: Chain 20 stitches, crochet a bead onto the thread, chain three stitches, and add another bead. Continue doing this until you have the desired length, approximately 26 inches, then crochet 20 stitches without any beads. Make as many strands as you desire, depending on how heavy you wish the beads to be (3, 6, or 9 strands). Then braid these strands together. Braiding takes up some length. Different size beads make the necklace more interesting. Finish with a small velvet bow sewed on one end and a small piece of velvet on the other end. Sew a snap fastener on the velvet ribbon to make the clasp. A purchased clasp could also be used. Knitting (Holladay South Stake, Maurine B. Folsom, President, Display by Jane Reynolds) The old-fashioned spinning wheel used by our grandparents made a most appropriate setting for this charming knitting display. How practical yet elegant are the hand-knitted items shown: coats, dresses, sweaters, afghans, house slippers. There were knitted items for all ages, as well as for both men and women. ""Sweet'' Village (Parleys Stake, Mary Riley, President; Castle made by Florence Halliday) The Sugar Castle enchanted all who viewed it. This was made with a cardboard box as the base. The spires were made from cardboard cylinders and topped with ice cream cones. The inside of the box was lined with colored paper and the outside frosted. The frosting was stippled. Candy decorations were also used to make this more attractive. To make the frosting use: 2 egg whites, 1 lb. Powdered sugar, ¥, to 1 tsp. Cream of tartar. Mix these ingredients together and beat well. If the mixture is too stiff, add a small amount of water. By using ingenuity a beautiful castle may be created by anyone. Men's and Boys' Apparel (Valley View Stake, Madeleine Bacon, President) Not very often do we see a display made up entirely of men's and boys' apparel. The autumn leaves enhanced this display. Men's and boys' sweaters were, of course, featured, but there were also attractive suits for boys, and even a suit made for a man which was expertly tailored. A suede vest had been made which anyone would be proud to wear. This proves that if the need arises the sisters would be able to do sewing for men and boys, as well as for girls and women. 191 March 1969 Southwest Indian Mission, and Tongan Displays (Jeanette D. Tingey, Supervisor, Southwest Indian Mission, Display by Bess Ericksen; Supervisor Tongan Mission Relief Society, Jean S. Groberg) How proud we are of our Lamanite and Tongan sisters and the beautiful items which they displayed for us. In the Lamanite display were beautiful quilts, rugs, turquoise jewelry, hand-woven baskets and attractive pottery items. The Tongan sisters displayed place mats, woven slippers, purses made from shells, baskets, a toy elephant woven from straw. There were also items carved from wood. Modern Quilt (Roy Stake, Kathleen J. Dunbar, President) There was displayed a quilt with a modern, unusual design. How it would please a young person with its lovely colors and the attractive appliqued design of butterflies and flowers. ""Vegetable People"' (Craig Stake, Gwen N. Seeley, President) As the vegetable display was viewed, one was made to realize that something attractive can be made from almost nothing. Faces and hair and also hats were put on various shapes of potatoes and squash to make them attractive. One had to look very closely to realize they were vegetables. The top of the display was composed of such items as radish roses, carrot curls, celery strips, and green peppers cut in various shapes. Beaded Jars (Holladay South Stake, Maurine B. Folsom, President; Jars made by Helen Peters) The apothecary jars and snifter pictured were made very elegant with a covering of metallic thread and pearls. To cover the snifter requires the following materials: approximately 100 pearl beads snifter (approximately 31, inches high, 1 spool metallic elastic yarn diameter base 3! Inches, diameter top, No. 3 steel crochet hook 2 inches.) Instructions: String beads onto elastic yarn, Ch. 12 and join. Ist row 12 S. C. 2d row Ch. 2-S. C.-Ch. 3 until there are 12 spaces 3d row Ch. 3-S. C. In 2d Ch. Complete row (12 spaces) 4th row repeat row 3, 2 times more 7th row Ch. 5, slide bead down. S. C. In 3d Ch. Complete row 9th row repeat 8th row 4 times more 13th row S. C. In each Ch, complete row 14th row repeat 13th row 6 times more 21st row slip st. Around and end Stretch and pull over glass. Social Table (Bountiful Stake, Nora A. Stahle, President; Arlene Egan, Bountiful Eighteenth Ward) The social table would be most attractive for any Relief Society function. The sunflower in the center of the bouquet adds a gay note to the table. Individual loaves of bread on cutting boards are at each place. Red and white checked napkins also add charm to this setting. (Continued ongimge Transparencies by J M. Heslop 9 192 ye fags "al Knitting Display - Practical and Elegant A "Sweet" Village - Spired and Gleaming Clothing for Men and Boys Southwest Indian Mission Handicraft 'ic a.. - S ' Z > Weaving, Carving, and Shell Craft from Tonga Modern Quilt in Colorful Appliqué March 1969 Apothecary Jars in Pearled Design Social Table — Sunflower Bouquet — Red and White Table Setting Beinne Eighe, Scotland SILENT COUNSEL —Maisie Liston Birkhill, Angus, Scotland Transparency by Camera Clix Her fragile gesture spoke to me of love, The aged hands beckoning me to come And I did! I am so glad I did for in this request I found A new look at life. The soundless world wherein she dwelt Gave conversation little room And I knew How she longed and prayed for such as I, A visiting teacher of Relief Society. I vowed from then that I should be Her contact with things she cherished most And I've tried To be the kind of sister she thinks I am And one day I will! 199 North Columbia River Stake Relief Society Conference in the Austrian Mission, May 25, 1968. Mission Relief Society officers, left to right: Margaret Tetzl, President; Dietland Binder, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth H. Watkms, Supervisor. "A Spring Market in Vienna" was the theme for a surprwe bazaar held in conjunction with the Relief Society Conference in the Austrian Mission. The sisters each brought a surprise item for the display and these were personally discussed. Quilt Presented by Relief Society to Sugar House Stake President, May 2, 1968. Seated, left to right: A. Clifton Jacobson, Counselor, Stake Presidency; Sister Jacobson; Norma U. Cannon, Homemaking Counselor; Erma M. Kelley, Secretary-Treasurer; Claudia D. Johnson, Education Counselor; Lloyd T. Johnson, Counselor, Stake Presidency. Standing, left to right: Margaret H. Wonnacott, Relief Society President; Ruth Kimball; Wilford C. Kimball, Stake President. A lovely quilt was presented to President and Mrs. Wilford C. Kimball at the close of a "Friendship Luncheon," appropriately themed "A Day to Remember." North Columbia River Stake Relief Society Presents Luau, June 1, 1968. Left to right: Elaine Kaukani, native Hawaiian, who took charge of the entertainment; Eileen Campbell, social relations class leader; Beverly Stephan, spiritual living class leader; EllaRee Taylor, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Dean, native Hawaiian, who took charge of menu and food preparation; Madelein Bennett, homemaking leader; Sarah Williams, Magazine representative; Leah Bentley, Homemaking Counselor; Janette Potts, cultural refinement class leader; Elizabeth Barton, President; Marilyn Horrocks, Education Counselor; Alveretta Wirth, chorister. Twenty native Hawaiians furnished the program for the authentic Hawaiian Luau, an annual money-making project. 201 Make Your Heirlooms With Decoupage Description and Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts Designs and Articles Made by Winifred D. Anderson DAADAAAAAAABAAAAAAAS OV EVWUV VINNY ViITE @ Winifred D. Anderson, decoupage expert, says découpage, now in vogue, is the revival of an artcraft which originated in Venice during the seventeenth century: de (decorate), cou (cut), page (page). In the eighteenth century the ladies of the French court were required to decorate the ornate palace furniture in this way. The poor, unable to afford the paintings of the masters in their homes, simulated these paintings with small pieces of pictures AAAAAAAAAAARAAAAA Oe TAMA ALAA AAALAAAALL SL 4 sie ' VINES 8 OUTTVTTRT EV ET VT ET ERY 68 /CV EVENT OTT TTITIVIUETYUT TY; glued on wood, varnished, and set in ornate frames. A perfectly done piece of découpage becomes a family heirloom. Tools: small sanding block, metal, with brackets to remove paper (faced with a sponge and a piece of felt) roller (from craft house or hobby store or rolling pin or bottle) scissors (manicure or small pointed) sandpaper (221, 400, and 600, waterproof) steel wool (0000 size,) paint brush (1 inch) glue (white), felt as needed, powdered pumice, powdered rottenstone (Continued on page 211) Make a Decorative Rug Marjorie Kerr Huntington Beach Stake, California Transparency by J M. Heslop ® Get your imagination working and let's make a rug. A rug, you say? Well, where do we begin? Let's begin by deciding where we need a throw rug, and the design which will be used. Now for the materials. You will need: e a piece of plywood, the size of the rug being made e carpet samples e a piece of plastic to put over the plywood e paint brush e light-weight denim or unbleached muslin e razor blade e patterns of designs to be made from carpet samples e band-aid for e water-proof adhesive recommended by a carpet dealer (latex) protecting fingers Put the plywood on the kitchen table. Cover it with plastic and tack the denim on. Denim should be about one inch larger than the rug is planned to be. This will be turned under and cemented for an edging. Mark your design on the back side of the carpet samples. Designs may be original drawings, commercial patterns, or they may be enlargements made from pictures in children's books. Cut the designs in the carpets with a razor blade. Paint the back side of design pieces with adhesive and lay them on the denim. Place the rug pieces as close together as possible, filling in the spaces around the design with pieces of a different kind of carpet sample. Light-weighting for ten minutes, until latex sets, will make a better rug. (I use a portable sewing machine as a weight and move it around as I work.) When all of the pieces are in place, turn the rug over and cement down the one inch edging. Let the rug dry, and, if desired, apply some decorative fringe or tassels with rug cement. How about another rug? A flowered one for Kathleen's and Kimberly's room, a striped one for the hall, a hexagon design for Gayle's room, a clown for Kevin's room? 204 aM A Apricot Blossoms in Snow Spring Blossoms Defy The Winter Snow Forsythia @ Although springtime seems to arrive later and later each year, certain lovely blossoms defy the winds and snow, and, sometime in March in some areas of the Northern Hemisphere, their pretty blossoms offer hope for the new and welcome season. Many of these first blossoms appear on fruit trees, such as the apricot and quince blossoms. Forsythia blossoms traditionally bloom before the leaves. The lovely Red Emperor tulips create a radiant sight as they come into bloom long before other flowers greet the warm spring sunshine. Transparencies by Willard Luce Flowering Quince '"'Behold, | Have Set Before Thee an Open Door'"' Designs and arrangements by Melva Blakemore, former counselor, Hawthorne Ward Relief Society, Sugar House Stake, Utah Margaret Wonnacott, President, Sugar House Stake Relief Society Transparency by J M. Heslop The great door of Relief Society (scrollwork design taken from the great door of the main entrance to the Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City, Utah). Through the great door of Relief Society, the sisters may make progress in spiritual growth, happier living, companionship, and knowledge to the goal of perfect womanhood and the eternal door opening to the kingdom of God. Standing, left to right: Melba Blakemore and Margaret Wonnacott. "The scriptures record many uses by the Savior of a doorway as a symbol of entering into the kingdom of God." From an address by Louise W. Madsen, Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society (The Relief Society Magazine, November 1965, page 810) The several displavs illustrating the "Open Door" theme were first prepared as centerpieces for the Hawthorne Ward Relief Society Birthday party in March 1965, and were jater featured in the Lomemaking aisplays at the Relief Society Annual General Conference. One of the unusually tovely arrangements is presented as an illustration on this page. He figurines are from the Royal Joulton collection belonging to Sister Blakemore A Way to Remember Family and Friends Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines received many greeting cards, bouquets, books, and mementos, on her ninety-sixth birthday, October 23, 1968. Each remembrance spoke of appreciation, friendship, love, companionship—and each one mentioned the maiay long and — years Ee a ome mother, grandthang +" smother, great-grandmother—loyal Church worker and Relief Society officer and teacher. She was born in Franklin, Idaho, and as a young woman she worked in the Frankling store and also learned dressmaking. At eighteen she became head cook at the State Industrial School in Ogden, Utah. In May 1898 she was married to Robert H. Daines and they became the parents of five children, and they now have a large posterity of grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Sister Daines loves Relief Society, and through her years of service she has learned the usefulness and the beauty of the Relief Society program. She served as counselor under two Relief Society presidents in Preston, Idaho, and was a visiting teacher for many years. Her special field' of compassionate service have been caring for the sick, visiting the homebound, cooking and taking meals to families in need, and teaching sewing and tailoring skills to many women and girls who have found the teachings useful in their homes. It is remembered that Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines taught her children loyalty, love, kindness, and concern for the welfare of others. 207 What A Lovely Thing To Do! Bouquets for the Chapel @ Each Sunday as one enters the chapel, eyes eagerly look for the unusually handsome flower arrangements—on the grand piano, on the secretary's table, in the entranceway. These are greetings especially for each member of the congregation, contribution to the Sabbath and to those she loves, and to the whole ward, from Bishop Lerwill Smith's wife Ruth, of the Portland, Oregon, Sixth Ward, Columbia River Stake. She is indeed a mother to the members. This is only one of her loving contributions to ward unity and joy. Her enchanting flower arrangements also beautify the homes of ward members and at special occasions. Some distinguishing marks of her bouquets are the drapes she often uses— satin, net, perhaps two-toned—twined through the flowers, fluffed around the base, with sometimes a figurine or two contributing to the effect. Always there is a thrilling harmony of color and design. She uses live flowers, artificial flowers, and mixtures of the two. 208 Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts She says anyone can learn to arrange flowers beautifully. Here is what is needed and what is to be done: 8. 9. 10. 11. Have suitable containers. Get styrofoam in large pieces and cut out chunks to fit containers. Have a spool of florist's wire to wire flowers and stvrofoam to containers, and to attach bows and drapes. Attach florist picks to droopy stems so they can be thrust into the styrofoam. Use "Oasis," instead of styrofoam, for live flowers; soak it with water, then, when not in use, dry out for future use. Use florist's 'tape to tape picks onto stems and to tape styrofoam to containers. Pick garder! Flowers in the cool of the day and wrap in wet newspapers and set in deep cans of water after removing lower leaves and sharpening stems, if flowers are not too tender. Separate flowers into groups of colors and sizes for easy selection. Begin with a two or three flower center, to be the tallest part of the bouquet. Build a shape, as the triangular, then fill the shape with the right flowers. Have different textures, but not too much difference in sizes of flowers. Grapes or fruits may be added. Easter was brightened by her generous bouquet of lilacs, pink tulips, and artificial lilies twined with an orchid satin drape, gracing an elegant brass compote. ALWAYS GREEN AND GROWING How extraordinary! Forsythia along The walk bursts bright and yellow in the spring; Its bell-shaped blossoms fling a jaunty song Denying grace to winter's lingering. Then, when the world is warmed beyond a frost And sweet with hyacinth or rose perfume, Forsythia turns to green, no beauty lost, And makes a blending backdrop for their bloom. How extraordinary—to fashion thought That wakes an era; that flashes brilliant light Upon a wondering, waiting world, fraught With promise, penetrating mental night; That, always green and growing, will enfold The blossoming of truth, centuries old. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 209 HOMEMAKING FAIR (Continued from page 192) we. A rae Detail of Designs for the "Sweet Village (Color picture on page 195; Description, page 191) Closeup of "Vegetable People' (Color picture on page 198; Description, page 192) 210 f MAKE YOUR HEIRLOOMS WITH DECOUPAGE (Continued from page 203) Other Supplies pictures (gathered from cards, magazines, art stores, etc.) plaques or boxes (buy at craft shops or have made at lumber stores) gold filigree, trims, borders, corners (at craft stores—made of paper or gold) antique glaze (many colors—medium brown is popular—in hobby shops) clear liquid plastic varnish in spray cans called "finish" (from the hobby shops) clear plastic varnish to be brushed on paint thinner water-base paints (from hobby shops) cooking oil Procedure 1. Pin the chosen picture flat on an old magazine, with the pins upright in the corners to keep the picture from curling. Then spray picture and desired gold filigree with "finish." This strengthens the picture. Let dry. 2. Sand the board or box with 221 sandpaper. Stain the board or box or paint with the desired color, using the small cans of water base paint; favorite colors are monde (earth green), ashen white, moss green, and butter yellow. Let dry. 3. Cut the background (all or part) from the picture very carefully and artistically. If pictures have print on the back, paint a thin layer of white water base paint over the print on the back of the picture. Let dry. Place the picture where desired on a board, box, or plaque, and outline it lightly with a pencil. Cover the back of the picture thinly with white glue. (The glue may be diluted with a little water to spread more easily.) Place the picture within the outline and press from the center to the edges. Then roll with the roller to remove all air. With a damp cloth wipe off all the glue from the article being made. 4. Apply varnish with brush over whole surface. Many coats are required to submerge the picture till it is even with the wood. Thirty to fifty coats will give a uniform finish with a beautiful surface. Allow each coat to dry thoroughly, six to twelve hours, depending on the temperature of the room and degree of moisture in the air. Test dryness by touching article with fingers. 5. When about twenty coats have been used, drop a few drops of water on the surface and then sand the surface lightly and evenly with No. 400 sandpaper, just to strike off the high spots. Sand thus after about every three to five coats of varnish. Much time may be saved by making a number of articles at one time and varnishing groups of articles at the same time. Then trim the edges and corners with gold filigree which has been sprayed. Glue into place and wipe away the excess glue with a damp cloth. 6. Apply antique glaze with brush, and wipe with cloth to get antique effect. Keep faces and hands in the picture clean of the antique glaze by keeping them wiped off with a cloth moistened with thinner, so they will not be darkened. Let dry. 7. Begin varnishing again, and varnish over entire surface. When imperfections show on surface, sand with 400 sandpaper, with three to five coats between sandings. Varnish will need straining through a nylon hose for the last third of the can and will need a little thinning toward the end. 8. Sand evenly and gently as directed, until there is no shine at all. Finish with 0000 steel wool. The more polishing, the better will be the finish. 9. Mix pumice with cooking oil to a paste. Apply with a piece of felt. Rub surface well and wipe away excess. Repeat, using rottenstone in place of pumice. Wipe the surface with paint thinner to remove any oil. Apply a wax-base furniture polish. If making wall plaques, apply felt on the backs and hang with a metal ring (from hobby store). Line the boxes with flocked paper or velveteen, or felt. Glue felt on base of boxes. Small hasps are available at craft stores. 211 Photograph of Capitol Hill Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake Stake, by J M. Heslop. Et gle we P x "s is & Py. ® This annual report, covering the period September 1, 1967, through August 31, 1968, reflects the growth and achievements of Relief Society throughout the world. There were 462 stakes, 74 missions, 328 mission districts, and 6,173 wards and branches that submitted annua! Reports from which the general board has compiled the information contained in this report. [During 1967-68 new stakes were organized in Perth, Australia; Auckland and Hamilton, New Zealand; Montevideo, Uruguay, and in many parts of the United States. New missions were created in Australia, Brazil, Japan, and Mexico. The report showed Relief Society organizations in 56 countries and in all of the States in the United States. ] 212 1967-68 Annual Report It is gratifying to note that, as of August 31, there were 311,871 women enrolled in Relief Society, an increase of 13,046 over the previous year. There were 3,065 Relief Society members who were not members of the Church, but who recognized the many opportunities for personal and spiritual development offered through membership in Relief Society. The report indicates not only growth in the number of women enrolled in Relief Society but also in the activities and achievements of the stake, mission, ward, and branch organizations. More than 207,550 members of Relief Society were given the opportunity to serve as officers and class leaders in the various organizations. Of this number 30,086 were appointed executive officers and directed the activities of the respective organizations; 12,839 served as organists, choristers, and Magazine representatives; 25,579 class leaders helped to build and strengthen the testimonies of the sisters attending the various departments. There were 139,047 visiting teachers who faithfully visited the 626,998 Latter-day Saint families and 9,032 non-Latter-day Saint families listed in the Visiting Teacher Record Books. These devoted visiting teachers made a total of 5,063,077 visits to these homes carrying with them spiritual messages and the spirit of sisterly love. During the year there were 201,217 regular weekly meetings held in the wards and branches. In these meetings members studied the doctrines of the Church and thereby received spiritual development and increased testimonies. They participated in homemaking activities which helped them to develop their skills and talents and to become better homemakers. Instruction was given in ways to improve family relations, and opportunity for developing a greater appreciation for literature, art, and music was offered through a study of these subjects. The blessings of the Relief Society Magazine, printed in English, were extended to 277,386 homes. The Magazine printed in Spanish blessed the homes of 5,458 of the Spanish-speaking sisters. In the homemaking meetings, 1,449,337 articles were completed by members for themselves and for bazaars and welfare purposes. These articles consisted of quilts, clothing for children, men, and women, and household articles. The music program of Relief Society was enhanced through the services of 51,496 Singing. Mothers who comprised the 3,612 Singing Mothers choruses organized in wards and branches in the Church. These choruses participated in concerts, stake conferences, and other functions and brought joy and happiness to those listening as well as cultural and spiritual development to those participating. The true spirit of Relief Society was manifested through the many hours of compassionate services rendered during the year. There were 25,738 eight-hour days spent in caring for the sick; 393,916 visits were made to the sick and homebound. Hours spent in other compassionate services amounted to 739,536. Relief Society members dressed 899 bodies for burial and assisted at 11,223 funerals, bringing comfort and solace to those bereaved. Under the direction of the priesthood, Relief Society continued to assist in the Church Welfare Program; 95,826 family visits and 93,915 other contacts were made by Relief Society presidents under the direction of the bishops to determine the needs of those being served through the welfare program. There were 60,546 Relief Society members who contributed 755,898 hours on welfare projects, such as canning foods and sewing needed clothing and other articles. The general board expresses grateful appreciation to Relief Society secretaries for the excellent recording of Relief Society activities that has made this report possible. General Secretary-Treasurer 213 214 Foreign Countries Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bermuda Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Denmark Ecuador EI Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong lran Ireland Italy Japan Korea Kwajalein Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Nieu Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Paraguay Peru Philippine Islands Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Singapore Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Thailand Tonga Union of South Africa Uruguay Vietnam Wales Totals In Stakes Organi- 54 1,891 8 231 46 1,774 372 13,866 1967-68 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF In Missions Organi- —— Members 56 1,648 33 645 15 427 14 226 1 8 4 55 69 1,264 93 1,834 44 633 2 25 4 56 1 8 17 524 5 62 12 221 148 2,461 1 ' wz 4 48 21 588 15 216 51 723 112 2,044 22 879 4 70 10 162 1 7 12 201 13 84 39 763 11 218 1 6 107 2,840 20 276 37 720 1 20 6 91 19 458 3 94 5 116 2 60 27 519 6 324 2 26 75 969 27 292 1 5 9 159 22 377 1 32 57 899 23 458 33 1,064 1 15 9 161 1,361 26,811 Grand Totals Organizations Members 2,080 2,536 zations 7 9 104 61 24 6 21 9 10 13 33 Members 432 453 5,227 1,476 732 354 618 244 147 287 727 RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS In Stakes In Missions Grand Totals Poe pa Organi Organi (0) i p 2 rgant- ~_ Members zations Memivers -~— meme Alabama 6 165 19 503 25 668 Alaska 9 345 9 156 18 501 Arizona 186| 12,522 12 179 198 12,701 Arkansas 3 50 16 263 19 313 California 610; 43,293 5 167 615 43,460 Colorado 77 4,171 5 119 82 4,290 Connecticut a 92 2 92 Delaware 2 117 2 117 Dist. Of Columbia 1 67 1 67 Florida 44 2,046 21 519 65 2,565 Georgia 24 816 15 337 39 1,153 Hawaii 29 1,904 22 784 51 2,688 Idaho 413] 29,246 413 29,246 Ilinois — 36 1,643 17 311 53 1,954 Indiana 22 1,051 9 279 31 1,330 lowa 8 294 13 328 21 622 Kansas 14 515 12 156 26 671 Kentucky 1 54 28 627 29 681 Louisiana 25 712 7 129 32 841 Maine 11 322 1 27 12 349 Maryland 16 846 3 50 19 896 Massachusetts 22 839 22 839 Michigan 28 1,237 3 34 31 1,271 Minnesota 11 561 15 220 26 781 Mississippi 23 683 23 683 Missouri 17 754 18 374 35 1,128 Montana 54 2,004 23 444 77 2,448 Nebraska 8 312 12 172 20 484. Nevada 91 5,624 91 5,624 New Hampshire 6 184 6 184 New Jersey 16 796 16 796 New Mexico 40 1,723 17 273 57 1,996 New York 27 1,166 23 644 50 1,810 North Carolina 44 1,568 12 215 56 1,783 North Dakota 9 162 9 162 Ohio 39 1,581 3 71 42 1,652 Oklahoma 32 954 32 954 Oregon 93 5,404 23 668 116 6,072 Pennsylvania i, 337 28 771 35 1,108 Rhode Island 2 87 2 87 South Carolina 25 827 6 136 31 963 South Dakota 22 321 22 321 Tennessee 4 201 26 663 30 864 Texas 96 3,555 28 494 124 4,049 Utah 1,427] 115,481 1,427 115,481 Vermont 8 187 8 187 Virginia 22 1,079 17 402 39 1,481 Washington 137 7,686 6 84 143 7,770 West Virginia 24 578 24 578 Wisconsin 10 451 12 185 22 636 Wyoming 70 3,778 1 19 71 3,797 Totals 3,884] 258,959} 556 12,235 4,440 | 271,194 Other Countries 372] 13,866] 1,361 26,811 1,733 40,677 Grand Totals 4,256] 272,825) 1,917 | 39,046 6,173 | 311,871 215 STATISTICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORT 1967-196, Total ORGANIZATIONS 7,037 Stakes, Missions, and Districts 864 Stakes 462 Missions 74 Mission Districts 328 Wards and Branches 6,173 In. Stakes 4,256 In Missions 1,917 MEMBERSHIP 311,871 In Stakes 272,825 In Missions 39,046 Non-LDS Members 3,065 LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in Society 207,551 Stake Officers 5,157 District and Mission Officers 1,601 Ward and Branch Executive Officers 23,328 Other Officers 12,839 Class Leaders 25,579 Visiting Teachers 139,047 MEETINGS Ward and Branch Meetings 274,914. Regular Meetings for Members 201,217 Visiting Teachers Meetings 41,041 Special Meetings 18,796 Other Functions 13,860 Stake and Mission Meetings 8,942 Stake and District Board Meetings 4,956 Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings 3,986 Relief Society General Conference 1 Relief Society Sessions at Regional Conferences 114 Total Meetings Held 283,971 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches 40,676 By Stake Officers 31,505 By Mission and District Officers 9,171 216 'September 1, 1967 to August 31, 1968 Total AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members 127,836 In Stakes 110,305 | In Missions 17,531 | Spiritual Living 133,498 Homemaking 129,741 Social Relations 123,128 Cultural Refinement 124,977 Visiting Teacher Meetings 71,696 Relief Society Leadership Meetings 31,032 LDS FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers 626,998 In Stakes 520,990 In Missions. - 106,008 NON-LDS FAMILIES | | Visited by Visiting Teachers 9,032 In Stakes 7,628 In Missions 1,404 VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers 139,047 Visiting Teacher Districts 75,095 Home 3,284,809 Not Home 1,778,268 Per Cent At Home 64.88% Communications in Lieu of Visits 177,019 SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses 3,612 In Stakes 2,894 In Missions 718 Approximate Number of Singers 51,496 In Stakes 43,920 In Missions 7,576; 217 Family Visits 5,063,077 March 1969 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Total Subscriptions English Edition Spanish Edition HOMEMAKING Articles Completed Sewed Articles Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles Sewing Machines Owned by Societies In Stakes In Missions COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick Visits to Sick-and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses In Stakes In Missions CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by Relief Society Members on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted On Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by Relief Society Members Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Relief Society Members Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families Total 282,844 277,386 5,458 1,449,337 841,209 32,475 84,466 88,977 3,982 333,355 297.954 608,128 6,524 5,555 969 25,738 393,916 739,536 899 11,223 4,219 3,479 740 95,826 93,195 755,898 60,546 216,618 5,351 218 1967-68 Annual Report Consolidated Financial Report For Stakes and Missions September 1, 1967 to August 31, 1968 Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand September 1, 1967 __ _ _ _$2,573,657.61 meeeipts _..._-_-__ eee 5,347,056.51 Me ee Le 7,920,714.12 Disbursements _____________________. 5,145,254.73 Cash Balance on Hand August 31, 1968 ______ 2,775,459.39 Assets Net Cash on Hand August 31, 1968 _________._2,775,459.39 Wheat Trust Fund __-_____.______________ 422,909.67 36,405.69 69,012.68 3,303,787.43 219 March 1969 A GIFT OF LOVE (Continued from page 189) Helen looked at me over the heads of our children. Neither of us could say more. Of course we didn't visit lots and lots. Helen was able to come when Timothy Bryan was born two years later. Her stay was not long enough. Katrina was a beautiful child, but by no means a model, just normal. I sensed a difference in Helen, though I couldn't pinpoint it. She was Helen, yet she seemed thoughtful, as if she had great matters of importance on her mind. After she went back East, years flew by as we wrote and exchanged many pictures. Katrina seemed never to hit an awkward stage as my five boys did. I guess she photographed well, and yet she just seemed to radiate from the snapshots. I knew she had Helen's outgoing spirit and strength, and Howard's sensitiveness and calmness. As for my boys—Eddie was gangling into teenage, Mickey lived up to his nickname, with red hair and freckles, Jimmy-Joe had finally quit breaking windows, at least ours, Davey Jones was beginning to love the ocean and ships, for some odd reason, and Timmy B. Seemed to be trying to surpass all his brothers. We had so much, Jeff and I, a moderate success, good health, and yet, sometimes, I wondered what was missing. I put it down as Helen, Howard, and Katrina. Just before Katrina's eighth birthday, Helen wrote and asked if we could come out for a special event, kind of make it a vacation trip; whatever it was, it was as important to her as when Ka- 220 trina was born, and she wanted to share both times with us. Our whole family was excited; we got permission for the boys to leave school, and were halfpacked when Timmy B. Came down with mumps. The last one left in our family to have them, but what a time to pick for mumps! Nor could he have them conveniently on both sides at once, making it possible for us to fly back East the last three days of our planned week. First the left and then the right! Both families felt sad and Helen still wouldn't explain what had happened so special. She said she wanted to see us face-to-face when she did. A month went by. Late one night the phone rang. Loud... Sharp... And Clear. It was Helen. A dull, lifeless voice—thousands of miles away, barely recognizable as our exuberant Helen. Howard was dead. Lost in his beloved sea. He had been caught in one of those Atlantic shoreline squalls. He and five boys in a small sailing yacht. He had trimmed the sails, got the boat going toward shore when a swell came, he slipped, and was gone. He had taught the boys well; they all made it in safely. We flew back for the services. Jeff helped wind up Howard's and Helen's affairs. I helped her pack. We all knew she and Katrina were coming home again. They were part of us. Katrina was a lost child. Davey Jones seemed to know just what to do and say to her, maybe because he was quiet and gentle like her father. I found I truly missed that quiet-in-the-background man. He had been so much more than I realized until he was gone. Helen was silent. Not quiet. Not cold. She talked, but... She was silent. Like a lovely warm home, closed for a season. On our last evening there I went to the basement for paper to wrap the dishes in, and I found Helen and our Davey Jones going through Howard's foot locker. "Aunt Helen, I wish I were really Davey Jones. I'd give you back your Howard." Close to tears Davey tried to fold Howard's Navy dress whites. "David John, oh, no, son, son, Davey Jones doesn't have my Howard. No, not as good a man as he. Why my Howard is in his glory. He has truly gone home Davey, to his Father in heaven. He's at peace and is happier than our fondest dreams. I grieve because I cannot see him for a time, and because Katrina must be reared without him, but someday Davey, if we are worthy, we can and will see him again, and all be together with Heavenly Father." Helen seemed almost her old self by the time we arrived home. Katrina was excited by flying, tired, and still a little confused. By the end of the week she seemed in much better spirits. In fact, both Helen and her daughter seemed excited on Friday evening when we all met in the family room as Helen had asked. We presumed it was to settle money arrangements and our living together as one family. Jeff was just starting to say something about all this to-do hardly being necessary, when Helen started to speak, not at the usual full-speed-ahead pace, but calmly, quietly. "A Gift of Love'' She and Howard had missed our family when they moved and had learned to appreciate the friendship we had all shared, but, especially, that shared by Helen and me. They kept trying to think of a gift suitable to show this appreciation. "But we couldn't," she said, "because we didn't have the gift ourselves yet, so of course we couldn't give it." Just then the doorbell rang. "T''ll get it," Helen called back over her shoulder, as she hurried out of the room. As I looked at my family I knew we were all trying to think of the gift one had to have oneself before one could give it to another. Katrina squirmed and tapped her foot, drummed her fingers, and smiled. "Here we are," came Helen's voice as two clean-looking young men came in the room, then Helen herself. She introduced us first, then said, "These young men are called Mormon elders. Missionaries of our Heavenly Father, like these two, gave Howard, Katrina and me the gift of the true gospel, a beautiful gift that we would like you to have also." She looked at me, "Once you said I kept your feet on the ground, now I want you to reach for heaven itself. Please listen to them." As the elders began to speak, my husband, our boys, and I looked at each other. Then I looked at Helen, my friend, and saw and heard again the scene back East in her basement. My heart seemed ready to open to the words to be given to us by the gift of love. 221 i ¢ aa é e Julia Archibald Godfrey, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah, has made many friends and relatives happy with the gift of a lovely quilt. She has spent many hours teaching the art of quilting to others and has donated countless quilts to Relief Society. In addition to her quilting, Sister Godfrey does beautiful embroidery work. She has made many pairs of pillowcases and doilies, and makes lovely temple aprons. This dear sister is the mother of eight children. There are thirty-four grandchildren and ninety-three great-grandchildren. Sister Godfrey is currently serving her sixty-fifth year as a visiting teacher, and has served as a counselor in Relief Society and in leadership positions in the other auxiliaries. X +4 « '. ~"% & ey ie ae as — Ethel Sewell West, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah, is an accomplished artist with a needle. She learned to quilt, embroider, crochet, and other crafts while very young. Many beautiful handmade articles grace her home and the homes of family and friends. She is very skillful at making elegant aprons and other articles of clothing. Sister West is the mother of four children. She has seventeen grandchildren, thirty-six great-grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren. This sister has served as a counselor in Relief Society, as Magazine representative, homemaking leader, and has been a visiting teacher for forty-five years. 222 Pore AS Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young girl of twenty-four, has been visiting friends in Houston. She has left behind Steve Rey, a young man to whom she is attracted. In Houston she meets handsome Jim Long who has devoted his attentions to her. The bishop of the ward is director of the | famous Texas Heart Center. Jennifer's mother is suffering from a serious heart ailment, and a famous doctor has performed a delicate operation on her. ™@ Mrs. Miles was pronounced well enough to return to Utah just five weeks after the surgery had been performed. It was a joyous day for all when Dr. Mayhew gave them the good news. Charles, Jennifer, and Elizabeth made plans to fly to Salt Lake City, where they would be met by a grateful and happy family. Jennifer's excitement at the prospect of returning home was not too severely dimmed by the necessity of bidding farewell to Jim, although she admitted that Welcome the Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Chapter 5 she would miss him, and the attentions he had paid. He was serious that night. "T'm glad your mother is better, Jenny, really I am. It is too bad she couldn't make it home for Christmas though." "Yes, but everyone is just overjoyed that she is all right now. It was a lonely Christmas for the boys. Dad was willing to fly them here, but Dr. Mayhew felt the excitement might be too much." "True. I personally am kind of glad you were here, however." He smiled down at her. Jennifer had become quite accustomed to his good looks by this time. She knew this goodbye was going to be difficult for both, however it was only for two months, then he would be in Utah. There might even be more problems then. 223 Br March 1969 "What are your plans?" he asked. "Well, if Mother doesn't need too much care, I'll resume classes in February, probably taking a light schedule so that I can be more helpful." "And at the end of February, you're reserving time for me, right?" "Of course, Jim, [ll see you. Mother has made it clear to you that you are welcome at the house." "Tl want to see you alone, too," he reminded her. She smiled at him. "Jim, you act as though we'll be apart forever. It is only two months; less than that, actually." "IT know," he said, "It's just that I hate to see you go. I've grown accustomed to having you around." "Now, Jim," she teased. "Let's not make this hard, please." "OK," he promised. "Just don't give your heart back to that fellow before I get there," he growled. Jennifer smiled. "My heart isn't going anywhere for awhile, Jim." She laughed. "Now you smile, and tell me goodbye. I've got an early plane to catch, and you've an early radio show. I promise to listen to you on the way to the airport." "And [ll play you a special song," he said, some of his old easy confidence beginning to come back. Bea would miss Jennifer, but she was already occupied with her tiny granddaughter who had been born in early November. "It's so good to have a baby in the family at last," she announced proudly. 224 Elizabeth Miles was overjoyed at the prospect of returning to her sons and home. Dr. Mayhew gave Jennifer careful and detailed instructions concerning her care, which Jennifer took down in shorthand and typed for certain accuracy. As the plane circled the Salt Lake airport, Jennifer thought about the day when she had taken off, more than six months ago. She had been glad to go, but nothing could equal her joy upon returning. She had missed her home more in that six months than she had the entire time she spent in England. Yet, she had had such golden experiences in Houston, she would never regret having gone. The first people she saw as she followed her parents down the ramp were her three brothers, who could hardly stand still m their anticipation of being together as a family again, and especially of seeing their mother. Directly behind Sam stood Steve. She knew how to greet her brothers, but what about him? In the excitement of coming home, she had given that no thought. Tears fell freely as mother and sons, brothers and sister, and her mother's parents all greeted one another—themoment they had all hoped for but had dared not anticipate too much. "Mother stayed behind to have a good meal ready," Steve explained, as he smiled down at her in that old familiar way, taking her hand, and holding it a trifle longer than necessary. "We brought two cars,' Dave said quietly. How he has grown, Jennifer thought. There was a maturity in his face and actions that had not been there when she left. His success in football had given him a new confidence, which her parents had prepared her for, but she was, nevertheless, surprised by his manly bearing and steady gaze. He broke: into a smile and kissed her gently on the cheek. "I'm awfully glad you're back, Sis,' he said. When she left, the last thing she would have expected from him was a show of affection of any kind. "T'm glad, too, Dave, terribly glad," she said, with tears playing at her eyelids. "Count mein," Steveremarked. It was decided that Jennifer and Elizabeth's parents would ride to Springville with Steve, while the three boys would go with their parents. "They'll probably never stop chattering," Jennifer's sweet grandmother remarked. "It has been so long for them." "We are all so thankful she came back to us," her grandfather said. "It has been quite a strain on everyone." He was a stake president, and spoke with a matter-of-fact calmness that reminded Jennifer of the way her mother had always been, taking things as they came, worrying, but never sharing the worry, lest others be affected by it. The next few months were busy ones for Jennifer, as she carried out Dr. Mayhew's instructions regarding the care of her mother, and attempted to manage the home. No more did she feel the pangs of dissatisfaction which had plagued her earlier. Welcome the Task She was happy at home. And she knew she was where she should be and doing the thing she ought to be doing. Steve was more attentive, and she was able to help him by typing his papers. He was competing for an important scholarship that would enable him to do graduate work at the university of his choice, and much of his time was occupied with this. Jennifer had come to accept him as he was, demanding nothing. She had a letter from Jim Long telling her that he would be seeing her in February. She was looking forward to this and the start of a new semester. She was confused by her feeling for Jim and for Steve, so she took the problem to her mother. "Tt is a perplexing problem, Jenny,' her mother told her. "But if you are faced with a decision between the two of them, you will know through prayer and your heart. Don't try to use logic in matters of the heart, for it's not always best. I'm not suggesting that you abandon your common sense, but don't get tangled up in it. You can't say, riow this one is better looking, but that one has more money, or this one shows more promise of being successful. They seem to be pretty much equal in most things that count, like manners, grooming, integrity, Church activity. But if the time comes, my dear, you'll know which one is right for you, and which one needs you by his side. There is a great deal more to love than the physical attraction, but don't discount that either." They had many talks on the 225 «March 1969 qualities of a good wife and mother, each of which left Jennifer grateful for the example she had to follow. "Now, consider Pete," her mother: told her during one of their talks. "He seems to be a pretty impetuous little fellow, _never thinking, or really caring what the consequences of his actions will be, yet he's the most thoughtful character around here. Someday, and you mark my words, he is going to get himself into a jam, and he'll start thinking before he acts. I don't try to fight his personality too much, for to force a change on him would not be right. We have to mold character around what there is to begin with." Mrcother time, she spoke of her eldest son. "Dave is growing up fast. One morning I discovered that he was becoming a man. It wasn't the smell of shaving lotion or the sudden quiet maturity, it was the over-all effect. He's a little like your grandfather, he doesn't say much, and it's hard to know what he is thinking. His biggest fault is that once he makes up his mind, it is very difficult to reason with him. Fortunately, he has learned well the difference between right and wrong. I suppose one of these days a girl will come along and he'll have to unbend a little. That is the beauty of life. We can't control them, but we can guide them in so many subtle ways." It seemed to Jennifer that the things her mother was saying were written indelibly on her mind. '"Sammy's the one who is most like your father," her mother 226 said one afternoon after Jennifer discovered that the youngster had dammed up the irrigation ditch in the field, causing a mild flood on the Miles property, and a great deal of indignation at the neighbor's. "You can be sure he wasn't in on it alone," her mother continued. "But, I am equally certain that he was the leader. Sammy needs discipline, but he also needs all the affection we can give him. I can't explain it, that self-confidence of his is a wondrous thing, but it has to be fed constantly. Do you understand what I mean?" "T think so," Jennifer replied, wondering if it would be possible to keep the boy out of mischief for even two hours at a time. He had been caught stealing apples from the neighbors again. "I only took the ones that fell on the ground on our side of the fence," he stubbornly insisted. "And how did you make them fall?" his father asked. Sam was made to apologize and help pick the apples without remuneration. "Perhaps that will keep him busy for just a little while anyway," Charles commented when Sam left the room. The Miles family had never been closer. Mrs. Miles spent a good many hours at the piano, and the family, all of whom had been blessed with good singing voices, joined her. They sang all of the old family favorites and the hymns from the hymn book. Steve and also his mother often joined them for quiet evenings of enjoyment. One afternoon in late January when Jennifer was visiting the campus with Steve, she met one of her former business instructors. "Jennifer, what a pleasant surprise. What are you doing with yourself these days?" Jennifer briefly explained to him what she had been doing. "You wouldn't happen to be interested in taking on some typing, on a rather permanent basis, would you?" he asked her. "Why, yes, Dr. Moran, I think I would enjoy that," she replied. "IT am running this thesis typing service," he _ explained, "and I need a couple of really good typists who know the forms. It really pays quite well." Jennifer was excited. She enjoyed thesis typing, for the opportunity of learning, in depth, about so many different and fascinating subjects. They made final arrangements, and Jennifer was once more gainfully employed. She had expected Jim Long to be rather shy at meeting the rest of her family. But the young man was full of confidence and impressed them all. He was excited and anxious to continue his law studies. She knew that he would make an excellent lawyer. "Do «ou really like living i the country?" he asked her one day in the springtime. "T love it," Jennifer told him as she leaned against the walnut tree. "Tt is really a great place to visit," he commented, "but me, I have to have paved walks and lots of people around." He turned over on his stomach and gazed up at her. "I thought you liked Houston." "Tt is a nice place for a visit," she answered, smiling. "Really Welcome the Task though, I am quite adaptable. There are advantages to both kinds of life, and I can be perfectly happy anywhere, if the circumstances are right." "That is what I call a welladjusted person," he said, squeezing her hand. She looked at the top of his dark head, such a contrast from Steve's blonde one. But that was the least of their differences, she thought. How was it possible for her to be attracted to both? After Jim left again, Steve was more attentive, but she suspected that was because he was leaving soon for California to complete a summer internship in journalism. He could afford to be attentive at times lke that. She knew him too well to expect him to be jealous over Jim. One afternoon, shortly before he was to leave, he came bounding across the lawn. She knew instantly that he had won the coveted scholarship. He hadn't mentioned where he would study. She knew that Columbia had a good journalism department, as did Stanford. Suddenly she didn't want him to go. 227 March 1969 She covered it up with a sincere display of interest and happiness. Perhaps it was best, she thought. He would leave for the summer, she was prepared for that, and she could work on forgetting him. Besides, Jim Long would return in September, she told herself. "Where will you go this fall Steve?" He looked serious for a moment, then grinned. "I will go to the Y, the same as if I hadn't received the scholarship." She was incredulous. "Why?" "It's where I want to go," he told her. "I like it there, and it is rising each year on the scale of excellence as a graduate school. I can get everything I need and want there, and be near everyone who counts, too." Wihroughont the summer, Jennifer worried a great deal about her mother. She seemed to have weakened considerably. In late July she contracted a cold, with a racking cough that left her weak and exhausted after each attack. By mid-August she was no better, in fact she seemed worse, and suffered a great deal of pain. Jennifer's fears grew, and she sensed them also in her father. Bea had written to announce that she would be in Utah in late August, and Jennifer made feverish plans for her arrival. She seemed driven to have the house in perfect order. Still, she found time for the additional serious talks with her mother. "Always welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself," her mother advised several times. 228 It was after visiting the doctor for a general check-up that it was suggested that Mrs. Miles enter the hospital. Jennifer could hardly bear the thought, for Elizabeth was so happy at home. But as the painful cough overtook her more and more frequently, Jennifer realized that only in the hospital could she receive the care and relief she needed so badly. On the eve of the day Bea was to arrive, Jennifer fell into bed exhausted. The house was in order, some advance meals prepared and in the freezer, and desserts readied. It had been hectic. Jennifer could not recall ever working so hard. Her mother had been in the hospital for a week, and that evening she had seemed somewhat better. "Goodbye, my darlings," she said softly as they prepared to leave. Each of the boys had been extra tender. Pete's goodbye had been most disturbing to Jennifer as she thought back over it. Each of them had kissed Mrs. Miles and said good night. Pete had leaned down and_ kissed her gently. "Goodbye, Mother," he said softly. Mrs. Miles responded with her "Goodbye, my darlings." Jennifer, though exhausted, lay awake for a long while. She had no idea how long she had been sleeping when the telephone downstairs sounded loudly in the dead silence of the night. Getting up quickly, she hurried downstairs just as her father was hanging up. ' He looked gray and frightened. "Jenny," he said, "I think we had better go to the hospital." (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities at tea ar a SOL eo B = \ 4 ~~ Oquirrh East Stake (Utah), Spencer Third Ward, Presents ''What's Cooking in Relief Society?" September 26, 1968 Left to right: Sylvia Sharp, homemaking discussion leader, Spencer Third Ward Relief Society; Leona Canfield, spiritual living class leader; Marjorie Pearson, Secretary-Treasurer; Connie Johns, First Counselor; Faye Thomas, President; Rulah Bryce, Second Counselor; Joyce Carsey, homemaking leader; Karen Reese, cultural refinement class leader; Barbara Jeppson, social relations class leader. Evalyn Olsen, President, Oquirrh East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Spencer Third Ward presented a social with the theme, 'What's Cooking in Relief Society?' An original skit written by Connie Johns was presented. It featured a gaily covered table with a large kettle and spoon. Various spices and cooking ingredients were on the table. Each member of the presidency and the class leaders wore white chef's hats. During the course of the program, each leader gave a preview of her course and added to the cooking pot her special ingredients or objectives. "It was a well-planned and successful event. There were fifty-eight present at the social. The ward has an enrollment of forty-six."' 229 March 1969 Gridley Stake (California), Chico Ward Holds ''Toyland"' Bazaar, June 26, 1968 Chico Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Sharon Sheldon, homemaking leader; Leona Turley, Education Counselor; Johanna Millet, President; Joyce Atkin, Homemaking Counselor. Marietta White, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Chico Ward held a most successful bazaar, with the theme, 'Toyland.' The main features of the bazaar were Raggedy Ann and Andy dolls and stuffed toys, made by the sisters. "It was a pleasant coincidence for President Millet to discover that she and both her counselors share the same birthdate, November 7. They have enjoyed the sisterhood they share through working in Relief Society, and this ward has progressed well under their leadership." Danish Mission, Jylland District Fall Social September 1968 Marva S. Christensen, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters in Jylland District planned a gala event for a fall social. It was under the direction of Sisters Meta Dybvang; Sonja Lind Jensen; Karna Petersen; and Ruth Petersen. "All the sisters in the district gathered in Aarhus, and the officers met in a leadership meeting. The doors to the new lessons for the coming year were opened, and a demonstration on handicraft was presented. "Following the meeting, the sisters and a member of the priesthood met for a lovely Danish meai. There were over 100 in attendance, who enjoyed the dinner and the entertainment provided by members of the local branch. The sisters had gathered heather from the hills and flowers from their gardens to make beautiful centerpieces for the tables." Kanab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Ward Officers and Writer at Fall Social and Leadership Meeting September 21, 1968 Left to right: Ila Mae Campbell, Homemaking Counselor, Kanab Stake Relief Society; Berle J. Heaton, Education Counselor; Annie C. Esplin; Cecil M. Fisher, President; Elizabeth H. Sorensen, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Fisher reports: '"'At our fall leadership and opening social we honored our ward officers and teachers for their faithful service. Each sister was given a lovely sego lily corsage. Each ward presented a portion of the program. 'Special honors were given to Sister Annie C. Esplin for her talents in writing which have brought so much joy to many people. Sister Esplin has had many articles published in The Relief Society Magazine. We are very proud of this wonderful sister and her dear spirit which adds so much to our meetings." 230 March 1969 Nampa Stake (idaho) Holds Fall Social And Style Show September 20, 1968 Ginger Fuhriman, Magazine representative, Nampa Stake Relief Society, modeling her lovely outfit. Ruth Davis, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our fall social took the form of a style show, with many lovely outfits modeled by the sisters who made them. As each outfit was modeled, violin music and a piano played background music for a brief narration describing the material and style. "The stage was beautifully decorated with bright colored flowers and a picket fence. It was a successful social.'' American Fork Stake (Utah) 'Friendship Builds Membership" Luncheon Honors Ward Presidencies, August 21, 1968 Seated at the head of the table, left to right: Letha Durfey, First Counselor, American Fork Stake Relief Society; Alice Wilkinson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ethel M. Mecham, President, American Fork Stake Relief Society; Thorma Beer, Second Counselor. Members of the stake board are seated among the guests. Sister Mecham reports: ''A delightful luncheon, introducing the theme of our Relief Society for the coming year, 'Friendship Builds Membership,' honored our ward presidencies, with the stake board acting as hostesses. "The sisters received the message of the theme with great enthusiasm, and have taken back to their own wards posters, messages, skits, and songs. Each year we choose a theme to emphasize at leadership meetings, which helps us build the effectiveness of our Relief Society. "A most inspirational talk relevant to the theme was given by Sister Alice Wilkinson of the General Board."' Butte Stake (Montana), Philipsburg Branch Relief Society Completes 125-Year Old Quilt Front row, left to right: Viola Umphrey; Eva King, owner of the quilt; Carol Winninghoff, First Counselor, Philipsburg Branch Relief Society; Winnie Cloward, Second Counselor; Vera Measom, Secretary-Treasurer; Linda Yardley; Inez Ziegler. Back row, left to right: Renee Bloom; Helen Kesler; Helen Cassidy; Virginia Hansen, President; Ginger Yardley; Utahna Kennedy; Lena Northrup. Lillith W. Jones, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Sister Eva King asked members of the Philipsburg Branch Relief Society to quilt a top which had been in her family for 125 years and never completed. "These sisters were able to meet the request, as they have quilted many lovely quilts in the years they have been organized since 1957." | March 1969 South African Mission Relief Society Conference And Bazaar (Johannesburg, South Africa), August 31, 1968 Front row, left to right: Ida J. Romney; Eleanor A. Badger, Supervisor, South African Mission Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Eunice Fountain, Secretary; Barbara Chater, Magazine representative; Ivy Clark, President; Elder Marion G. Romney, Council of the Twelve; Howard C. Badger, President, South African Mission; Jean Wright, Second Counselor, Relief Society; Lilian Brummer, First Counselor. Sister Badger reports: ''We were honored to have Elder and Sister Romney present for our mission-wide Relief Society conference and bazaar. We had some members come from as far north as 780 miles and from as far south as 900 miles to Johannesburg. The conference was spiritually enlightening for all who attended, and the bazaar was successful from all angles. Work in Relief Society in the mission has been growing more and more successful each day." Houston and Houston East. Stakes (Texas) Singing Mothers Present Inspiring Concert, August 10, 1968 Kathryn G. Pratt, President, Houston. Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The newly divided Houston and Houston East Stakes united to present an inspiring concert. The sisters, under the direction of Joyce Caldwell, and accompanied by Nancy Brownlee, entertained with the songs presented the previous week at the ''Hemisfair'' concerts, where 375 Singing Mothers from Texas, Louisiana, and Oklahoma performed. '"'Laura Brunson is President of the Houston East Stake Relief Society. Glen Bleak is chorister."' Buenos Aires Stake (Argentina) Presents ''The Gift' October 1967 Front row, left to right: Betty Malvestio (as Elizabeth Ann Whitney); Justina de Michalek (as Emma Smith); Raquel de Abajian (as Sarah M. Cleveland); Maria Elena de Lasceiras; Martha de Milan; Antonia De Vergelli; Elizabeth Karina Michalek (as the child). Back row, left to right: Angela Maria Stiros, narrator; Maria Luisa de Di Desidero; Pura de Losinne; Graciela Alvarez; Maria Christina Verdier de Michalek; Edith Alvarez, chorister; Dina Alvarez, organist; Idelmo Guido Ceschiara (voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith). Angela F. De Guiliani, President, Buenos Aires Stake Relief Society, reports: ''All of the wards in our stake presented the play, 'The Gift,' by Luacine C. Fox. The particular picture is of the Buenos Aires Second Ward. Husbands and neighbors were invited. "We are very proud of the wards in our stake for their efforts in presenting this play, as all the presentations were very successful."' 234 OE ALLL LLL LL a vate &@\yCBI nn ec ormccrnnnn ~ ~Y ew, "@uHillside Stake (Utah) Presents Visiting Teacher Convention, "You And Your Light," June 17, 1968 Front row, left to right, sisters who were honored for long service and 100 per cent visiting teaching: Chrissy Slagle, forty-five years; Pearl Parkinson, forty-five years; Elzada P. Laver, forty-four years; Bordghild Poulson, forty-three years; Mary Jarvis, forty-three years; Laura Cook, fifty-eight years; Cornelia Van De Ende, fifty-three years. Back row, left to right, members of the Hillside Stake Board: Elda J. Bergeson, First Counselor; Leah C. Wood, President; Marion R. Johnson, Second Counselor; Helene J. Oman, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Grover, chorister; Barbara B. Smith, spiritual living class leader; Evelyn Broschinsky, homemaking leader; Dora England, social relations class leader; Sarah D. Summerhays, cultural refinement class leader; Mona C. Young, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Wood reports: ''During the past five years, the visiting teachers in our stake have achieved a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching. They were honored at a convention with the theme, 'You and Your Light,' and we honored those who had served in this capacity for over forty years. "The sisters were seated in the chapel according to their length of service as visiting teachers. The Singing Mothers presented beautiful music for this event. "Among the inspirational speakers was former President Howard S. McDonald of the Salt Laké Temple. It was a successful and inspirational event.'' 236 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 9—Outside Housekeeping Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how, by becoming aware of the necessity of outside as well as inside housekeeping, we can appraise our homes and determine any necessary improvements. INTRODUCTION One of our common human frailties is our inability to evaluate ourselves and our possessions honestly and objectively. There may be those who are able to make a fairly honest and moderate appraisal of themselves, but many of us tend to move from moderation in our _ self-evaluations toward one extreme or the other. Either we look with "a jaundiced eye" and nothing is commendable, or we go to the other extreme and fail to see any sign of blemish or fault in ourselves or in things which pertain to us personally. In either position we get a distorted view. The poet Robert Burns, recognizing this tendency in men and women, says, "O wad some power and gifti gie us, To see ourselves as others see us?" It is a wholesome practice to examine our lives occasionally and make an honest appraisal of ourselves and our surroundings. It might well be that we would find a new outlook—a motive and an incentive to take pride in our 237 March 1969 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours: * California Holiday July 5th-16th * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th % Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 1 8th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 'Total Glectric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 238 positive assets and to make adjustments toward improvement where the need is indicated. Since our external environment has much to do with our physical, mental, and spiritual makeup and development; and since our homes are actually, outside as well as inside, a reflection of ourselves, we need to become aware of this part of our life and living. This discussion will emphasize the importance of keeping the outside of our homes in good order by making an appraisal of the exteriors of the homes we live in and thereby determining the needed improvements. HOW SHALL WE APPROACH THE PROBLEM? Shall we take a walk around the block or area on which our home is located? As we look at the various houses we may be impressed by the well-kept appearance of each one in turn and be filled with a feeling of pride in belonging to such a neighborhood. Then we may ask ourselves, "What makes these places so attractive? What distinguishing features are characteristic of the exterior of a well-kept home? We will probably come to the conclusion that there are specific requirements in maintaining a satisfactory home exterior. WHAT DISTINGUISHES A WELL-KEPT EXTERIOR? 1. All wood surfaces should be kept painted or stained. (A coat of fresh paint or of varnish or wood stain can make a world of difference in the appearance of a house.) 2. Windows should be kept clean and shining. (The evidence of clean, fresh curtains or drapes adds considerable to the outside appearance of the home.) 3. Porches, entrances, and steps should be kept clean and uncluttered. 4. Gates, doors, and garage entrances should be clean and free from fingerprints, grime, and other disfigurements. 5. Awnings and shades should be kept in good repair—no sagging, ragged edges, faded and dingy colors, etc. 6. Garbage cans should be kept out of sight or inconspicuously placed. 7. Mail boxes should be appropriate to the surroundings and accessible. HOW DOES OUR OWN HOME COMPARE? As we come back to our own homes and examine them with a critical eye, are we pleased with what we see? Does the appearance of our home fill us with a well-deserved pride of possession, or do we look at it and feel that there are many improvements which could and should be made? Most of these requirements are not outside the financial limits of the least affluent of us. Lesson Department Cleneper; ' feesley BBBOLBEY MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers'' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos _—_ Instruments And Supplies Order Your Easter Music Now Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- '65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 THe — compLete G— printer * Art and Design * Hot Metal Typesetting ¢ Fototronic Typesetting * Color Processing ¢ Letterpress * Sheet Offset * Web Offset * Perfect Binding * Saddle Stitch Binding * Automatic Case Binding * Shrink Packaging * Shipping and Mailing a PESERET [REws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by awner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED... TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service 239 101 100 99 98 97 95 94 240 Mrs. Eva Christine Ottensen Evans Hayward, California 93 Mrs. Mary Margaret Clarkston Morgan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Stewart Calgary, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driner San Diego, California Mrs. Mary Ann Harris Young Manti, Utah Mrs. Clara Wakely Bloxham Downey, Idaho Mrs. Victoria Williams Davis Malad City, Idaho Mrs. Ruth R. Woods St. George, Utah Mrs. Alta S. Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Nellie Crane Salina, Utah Mrs. Amanda Garn Meadows American Falls, Idaho Mrs. Naomi Taylor Coon Magna, Utah Mrs. Eliza Priscilla Merrill Taylor Boise, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Quibell Cheetam Lincoin, England Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susanna McKnight Roberts Caldwell, idaho 92 91 90 g +(& rd é 9 SF BB + is fF VY 2 et > of TAS e iif sd Ff is ff Pf) 7 CAPT CACMNMAAMALYW ST OG q Uv Mrs. Eliza Burgener Carlisle Midway, Utah Mrs. Amabel Rowell Clark Lindfield, N. S. W., Australia Mrs. Sarah Jensen Fenton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nada Kay Mona, Utah Mrs. Euphemia McKenzie McGregor Morgan Sandy, Utah Mrs. Rosina Sophia Spiers Douch Hesperia, California Mrs. Euphemia Jacobson Mozley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bell Allred Sorenson Salina, Utah Mrs. Alice F. Hill Payson, Utah Mrs. Emma Hatch Wheritt Heber City, Utah Mrs. Louise Elizabeth Johnson Coleman Provo, Utah Mrs. Cora Fuller Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marion Evans Johnson Yuma, Arizona Mrs. Madiain Bus Keyes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Amanda Price Pryor Norder Minersville, Utah Mrs. Julia Webber Balls Logan, Utah Mrs. Beatrice Rowland Powell Toll Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Blanche Glazier Tomaskovitch San Mateo, California Mrs. Elizabeth Knoth Uhl Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane Ann Morely Vest Roy, Utah i Mormon Challenge 1909- y. 2 V ym 1 4 a Know Your History TOHITLI ore: by Gordon B. Hinckley Paperback JUST 35¢ Hardbound $1.25 At Stake Conferences throughout the first half of the year, members will be challenged to learn their history. The book, ''Truth Restored'', will be recommended as an inexpensive, quick way to do it. Without lengthy detail this short version tells the history of The Church with a sequence of short, but related stories. The 154 page, pocket size book begins MEET THE MORMONS by Doyle L. And Randall L. Green Softbound $1.50 Hardbound editions: English $2.95 Spanish $3.95 German $4.50 Meet the Mormons is an excellent companion work to ''Truth Restored"' and an effective missionary tool. A colorful and profusely illustrated book introducing beliefs and present practices of The Church. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me............ Copies of TRUTH RESTORED [1 Paper. [ Hard. A... En copies of MEET THE MORMONS 1 Soft. (9 Hard.: J] Eng. []Span. [] Germ. Total Cost $0000.00.| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 32% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Mar. R. S. Mag. 69 Truth Restored 1 snot HSI es gy Sant rnescmurn of Fe Oe eee DESERET BOOK COMPANY with the first vision and follows through the exodus and early growth of The Church in the Salt Lake Valley. Book Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: LET ME BE FREE Let me be free! For there are stars to lean upon Long have | companied the world and hungered, Thinking to find them in earth's fostering. Let me be free! For there are ways untrammeled, As there are lilies with their petals still unblown; And always thoughts like heartbeats calling. Write, write, for we are yet unknown. Let me be free! With words like rainswept meadows, Performing truth, unalterable, sublime; Unwritten, save in hearts of heroes; Let me be free to manifest in rhyme! —Linnie F. Robinson Transparency by Came Lithographed in Full Cofe Calla Lilies % Photograph by Don Knigti Dick Scopes Mary Scopes De seret News Press " Matterhorn and Riffelse And newer worlds with lovelier songs to sing. Matt, Switzerland Speaking aS a nonmember of the Church,! Would like to pay tribute to The Relief Society Magazine. It certainly meets the spiritual and inspirational needs of women the world over. May | tell you as @ wife and mother | have grown in skills and knowl edge. Most important, with a humble heart, | can bear testimony that every issue bears witness of 'By their fruits ye shall know them." Marian Pappas, Binghamton, New York | have been 4 subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since | can't remember when, and | read it during MY growing-UP years. Y mother, 4 widow with nine children to support, still found enough money to subscribe for the Magazine. | read the Magazine almost through before | put it down. | especially love the poetry. | took nurse training before MY marriage, and the lessons on nursing have helped me to review my training SO that | can better care for my children Each year | have become more thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. In the January 1969 issue, the article on the Giant System in genealogical research is greatly appreciated. | have been privileged to work as an officer and teacher in t Relief Society at various times, as well as 'n callings In genealogical work. There is a great need for Relief Society sisters to be more mindful of their "iving" dead. Often this work is set aside for 4 future day which does not arrive L May | express my appreciation for the lovely Relief Society Magazine. The stories and articles, aS well as the lessons, are an inspiration to me. | read the entire Magazi from cover to cover. Lucille Tilton, St. David, Arizon {am not 4 member of your Church, and yet | receive The Relief Society Magazine. \t was a gift to me from one of your nicest members—Marilyo Grant. She is a delightful person, warmhearted, devout, honest, and kind. When, out of her kindness, Marilyn made me a present of a subscription, found the Magazine to represent much t same values and qualities my friend has. As \ read the Magazine and put it away, it two years and will be for two more—for her husband's work has taken the family to Holland. However, each month when | receive MY Magazine, it is almost as if Marilyn had returned for 4 visit. Thank you for this publication. Carolyn Orr, Campbell, California it is hard to find a Magazine with the good in it that The Relief Society Magazine has. | belong to the Lutheran Church, but am happy to read material of such high quality. And | will pass the Magazine along to be read by others. Miss Alice Tribham, Galesburé, Illinois j am one of your long-time readers, aS well as a member of Relief Society for more than fifty years 1 enjoy the Magazine in my leisure hours, which are many now. Think the Magazine does a great service for women, and | send wishes for many more years of service. Magdalene Cc. Stephens, Salt Lake City, Utah \ greatly enjoyed the story in the February Magazine "ph Day for Diddle Da by Alice Morrey Bailey. There is naturalness and reality In this story and representation of characters. Love to you, Alice, and all your «giddlefriends. Rosa Lee Lloyd, Salt Lake City, The ReiIicf SOociIcty Magazine volume 56 April 1969 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 244 Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure Spencer W. Kimball 248 Award Winners—Relief Society Poem Contest 249 Award Winners—Relief Society Short Story Contest 250 Pisgah—First Prize Poem Ina J. Hobson 252 Of Ephraim—Second Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 254 Woman Remembered—Third Prize Poem Pearle M. Olsen 256 A Horse and Buggy Romance—First Prize Story fris W. Schow 263 Mama and the Teddy Bear—Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke 270 _—sw The Silver Pitcher—Third Prize Story Grace M. Pratt 278 Research, Education, Service The American Cancer Society 292 Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 286 Welcome the Task—Chapter 6 Michele Bartmess General Features 242 From Near and Far 276 _—_Editorial—Truth Abideth Forever Marianne C. Sharp 279 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 300 _ ~=—s— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 281 Project Housecleaning Edythe K. Watson 283 Recipes From New Zealand Anna Molenaar 284 Black Satin and Love Ada Stonely Yates 285 Hobby Features—Annie N. Morrill and Mary Ann M. Allred Lesson Department 313. Homemaking—Gardening Appearance Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 241 Let Me Be Free Linnie F. Robinson Thankfulness, Grace B. Wilson 247; Easter, Bertha A. Kleinman 269; Trust, Gay N. Blanchard 280; Song of a Happy Housewife, Evelyn M. Sandberg 316. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be rétained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 243 ss Hope and Encouragement for a= pe CANCER CURE Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at a meeting of the Utah Division of the American Cancer Society, April 13, 1968] mg Tonight, we meet to unite our forces and our interests in raising funds with which to combat the destructive forces which each year cause such monumental havoc in loss of life, suffering, pain, and misery. Recently in an issue of the Reader's Digest in the advertisement section appeared the following: SPEAKING OF THE BROAD SPECTRUM—ANTIBIOTICS... Those universal germ killers made possible the practical control of more than 100 varieties of infections including those responsible for: CHOLERA CERTAIN PNEUMONIAS WHOOPING COUGH ROCKY MOUNTAIN FEVER DEADLY PARROT FEVER SPOTTED FEVER TYPHOID FEVER AS WELL AS TYPHUS* The article said the span of man's life had been extended fifteen years since 1900. As I read this, I was almost overwhelmed with gratitude to the researchers who discovered these precious medicines which made possible the cure of these dread diseases, and to the many people who contributed funds for such rewarding research. There came _ rushing back through my memory a sixty-one year old picture of anguish, terror, fear, hopelessness. There we were, eight of our mother's "Advertisement, Reader's Digest, February 1968, Reprinted by permission of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. 244 eleven, in our parents' bedroom. Our mother was dead. Our father was away. Our older brother Gordon sat in the chair holding our littlest sister while she died, with all of us youngsters around the chair frightened and praying and weeping. The doctor was miles away. His horse and buggy could not possibly have brought him there soon enough, and what could he do if he arrived? It seemed to be a combination of diphtheria and membraneous croup, and little Poche was literally choking to death. In terror, we watched the little body fight valiantly for air and life, then suddenly relax completely. The hard-fought battle was over. She had lost. Our older brother seemed to be reluctant to admit it was over. He held her for awhile, hoping hopelessly. And while we children convulsively held to each other in this traumatic experience, he tenderly carried the little lifeless body to the bed and covered it with a sheet, and there welled up in our hearts an almost uncontrollable anguish and a dark void and deep emptiness. As we tried vainly to comfort each other, we had no idea that some day in our own time, nv more little two-year-olds would die from these afflictions, but that intelligent, determined men of science would find the preventative and cure. And, then, my memory took me back over half a century when I was a teenager. One day all the symptoms of typhoid fever enveloped me, and a deep dizziness sent me to the bed holding to the sides of it with both hands. I knew in those pioneer days in a Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure new world nearly every family had its share of typhoid. Contaminated water, littlesanitation, -no hospitals, nor nurses, nor preventative medicine, those loving parents just lived on and hoped. Double and triple funerals were common, even in this' small country town. The cemetery expanded unmercifully fast. I had never dreamed that I, too, would be its victim. My country doctor was devoted and attentive, but he had few facilities and possibly was limited in knowledge. Well do I remember the long starvation period, and the pain, agonies, and distresses of those many weeks which would seemingly never end. But, I was one of the fortunate ones—I lived. And as I lay helpless. And near hopeless in my agonies, little did I dream that some day I would have a direct posterity of more than thirty-one souls, and not one of them would ever have typhoid fever—thanks to the diligent, faithful researchers and those who helped finance the studies. My memory again took me back a half century, when as young newlyweds, we were to be plagued with the dread disease of smallpox. There was an epidemic in the little town—everybody was exposed—many were to suffer as did I, and some were to lose their lives to this merciless monster killer. I had the kindest, sweetest nurse in the world and through her tender care, the fever finally subsided, the distress phased out, and even the pox marks cleared up. As we sat waiting and suffering and watching day after day, little did we know then that we 245 April 1969 would some day travel the world around into far corners of numerous countries where this disease still ravages communities, and that we would never be inconvenienced nor suffer again from this killer—smallpox. The vaccination operation is simple and takes but a minute, and there is real protection, thanks again to the noble, relentless medical searchers for cures. And then memory took me back again to the time when our youngest became paralyzed with the dreaded infantile paralysis which was so rampant in the thirties. The family doctor did not recognize the symptoms, and our little three-year-old lay for days as we suffered with him. Finally, impatiently, we took little Eddie to another doctor who, on the second visit, got out his big book and compared the symptoms with the little fellow's aches and pains and fevers, and said: "You know, I am afraid this is poliomyelitis." This had always been a torture word to us. Eddie's granduncle had been on _ crutches nearly his whole life. Never had he been able to use one of his legs. And I had _ frequently walked to school in my childhood days with William, a boy a little older than myself. I assume his crippled body was the result of this torturing malady. With a cane, he struggled his way the two blocks to school. How I ached for him when I had such strong straight legs, and he, with bent and crippled ones, gave such great exertion to cover the distance. He spent his later years in a wheel chair. With all this in mind, the prospect of our 246 little son being a polio victim was devastating. In only hours, we were traveling through the night across the deserts of Arizona and California to take him to recognized specialists. Our little one was taken from our arms, placed on a hospital truck, and whisked away to a fourth-story quarantine area. The suffering of our little fellow, his loneliness, his mother's telling him stories by the hour through the crack in the door, our huddling down under his window and agonizing as he cried in his fear and loneliness, is another story, as is also the many years of commuting to Los Angeles, the numerous operations, the therapy by his devoted mother, the metal braces from neck to toe, the casts, and the crutches, the canes—all this cannot be told when time is now so crowded. There were the dime marches, the crusades for funds, the amassing of scientists and the accelerating of research. Among the numerous other victims of polio at that time was Franklin D. Roosevelt who later became the President of the United States. As we agonized through those years and hoped and _ prayed, little did we dream that vaccines would be discovered which would largely eradicate this menace of polio from the torture chambers, and again, though it was late for us, we thanked the Lord and the scientists and the contributors for their untiring zeal and contributions to rid the world of this dread enemy which maimed and crippled so many. And then, cancer came into the family. At this time, there no certain 1 nor death. We saw mother of seven children, for her life through endless months. All assistance was prought to save her, but the face. This experience and its sweet out a voice especially in my work! ] remembered in the scripture where Joel, the prophet, sal multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord ls near in the valley of Hope and Fncouragement for Cancer Cure was near Jost in my own valley thful local specialist New York part of one vocal cord was spare the knife. And thanks to a great throat specialist and the kind and loving grace of through the numerous when the fiend cancer place in the cemetery of diseases, along with the other ones already ay that this may soon be the great blessing of a eople 1 -- our precious which to do my sacred wor 1 | Holy Name. Amen THANKFULNESS There are SO many things "m thankful for: The brightness of the early morning climb Ot sun when day begins, and brighter still The west when sunset heralds evening time. The warmth and comfort And all the friends who often stop to cheer What otherwise might be far-off family most dear. And then my For length of years, In bringing For health and strength My calm assurance, and talent lent to serve bits of joy to humankind; all through d my peace of an —Grace B. Wilson the many years, mind. Living death without a voice with lobal village, 10 the cause of his = award winners > Relief Society Poem, Contest oe Mogg er? Bw The Relief Society General Board is happy to announce the names of the three winners in the 1968 Relief Society Poem Contest. The first prize ot forty dollars is awarded to Ina Jespersen Hobson, El Cajon, California, for her poem "Pisgah." Second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Of Ephraim." Twenty dollars is awarded to the third place winner, Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Woman Remembered." The poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except by written permission from the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication according to the regular Magazine rates. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Mrs. Hobson is a first-time winner in the contest and a first-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is well-known to readers of the Magazine, having placed seven times in the poem contest and four times in the short story contest, as well as being represented in the Magazine many times with serials, short stories, and poems. Mrs. Olsen has placed in the poetry contest three times, and many of her poems have been published in the Magazine. Four hundred sixty-nine poems were entered in the 1968 contest, repre senting forty-one States, including Hawaii, as well as Canada, Australia, England, Scotland, Northern \reland, Venezuela, New Zealand, the Tongan Islands, and Guam. The largest number of entries was received from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, Colorado, New Mexico, Michigan, New York, and Montana, in that order. Ten entries came from Australia, nine from Canada, and seven from England. The winners are to be congratulated by the General Board and appreciation is expressed to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The services of the judges and members of the General Board who served on the contest committee are also appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief sketches of the prize winners, are published in this issue. 248 Ss - 1968 award winners: © Relief Society Short Story a Contest Pia @ The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the winners in the 1968 Relief Society Short Story Contest. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Iris Schow, Brigham City, Utah, for her story ''A Horse and Buggy Romance."' Second prize winner is Lael J. Littke, Pasadena, California, for her story ''Mama and the Teddy Bear.' Her prize is sixty dollars. Grace Madsen Pratt, Merced, California, is winner of the third prize of fifty dollars for the story, ''The Silver Pitcher."' The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are published in this issue of the Magazine, with accompanying photographs and brief biographical sketches of the authors. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction, and they are encouraged to read and study short stories and fiction techniques in order to improve their skills in writing and their appreciation of short stories. The General Board feels that the response to the contest continues to increase the literary quality of the Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their talents in creative writing. Eighty-six stories were submitted in 1968, being the largest number ever entered in the contest. Nearly all of the States in the United States were represented by the entries, and submissions came also from Canada, England, Finland, and Australia. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except with the written permission of the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any story submitted to the contest, paying upon publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first prize for two years consecutively must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. Gratitude is extended to members of the General Board and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries. The winners are to be congratulated on the quality of the writing and the interesting development of their stories. 249 FIRST PRIZE POEM 250 PISGAH Ina J. Hobson ''Here, take my hand,"' | said but yesterday, and now you stand so tall, The need has passed, and you walk on alone. The promised land of all your life's tomorrows— Where | may not go—. Ls beckoning in the golden distance now, and lies, Bright as a Midas kingdom, in the shimmering air. It seems to your enchanted gaze a land Of milk and honey Flowing from rich reservoir of ages past. And so, in truth, it is. But know this, too: Beyond the river's leafy, sunlit edge The world's dark wisdom waits. The hills and valleys seen so fair will soon Or later make demand of all your powers. Hear, dear child of light: obedience and sacrifice Are still the law As anciently they were. And God will have The broken heart and contrite spirit now as then. Give me your hand once more; | go out Lonely upon the hills to escape your going. Ina Jespersen Hobson, El Cajon, California, winner of the first prize in the poem contest, appears for the first time in the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. She is "delighted and honored to receive the award. Writing and reading poetry is an intellectual and spiritual experience, and finding listening ears and hearts heightens the experience. "My husband David and | are transplanted Arizonians, but our children are all natives of California: our son David who lives with his wife Donna in Los Angeles, where he attends dental school; Don, who will be in college next year; and Ann, who is still in high school. '| have written little since my college years when, as a senior at the University of Arizona, | won the Jennie Fowler Memorial Poetry Award. | am represented in an anthology of Arizona women poets. In the intervening years, pleasure in the written word has been richly fed by teaching assignments in Relief Society, principally in the cultural refinement department." 251 SECOND PRIZE POEM OF EPHRAIM Alice Morrey Bailey ~ The patriarchal hands burn on my head. Of Ephraim! That noble Joseph's son, Whose coat of many colors warms my blood— And Ephraim's restless feet have led me here To far-off lands beyond my fathers' home To this blessed place, this promised boon of earth. But how? And why? What workings of the hand Of providence preserved me thus? What chance? When eye meets eye and leaping pulse meets pulse To crimson lines of parents back to him? My fingers trace the ancient books to learn The straight ancestral path, the tortuous trail Of wanderings, the way this lineage folds To heal its wounds from wars and pestilence, The way it shifts to leadership's high place, But drops the wicked at the founts of life, The way it seeks the waterways, or climbs The mountain heights or leaps the ocean's depths, For Ephraim ever fled oppression's heel And sought for freedom's land to worship God. Of Israel's countless sands, | am his part Through thousand-arteried hallways to his heart. 252 Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, second prize winner in the poem contest, Is well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. She is a seven-times winner in the poem contest and has received an award four times in the short story contest, as well as placing many poems, stories, and articles in the Magazine. She grew up in a large family in a small town (Joseph, Utah). Her husband is DeWitt Bailey, and she has three children, fourteen grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Mrs. Bailey is multiple gifted and versatile in her achievements. ''I am now retired," she tells us, 'after working twenty years as a graduate Relief Society nurse-aid, six years for the United States Department of Agriculture (as draftsman), and twenty years as secretary-draftsman at the University of Utah. | continue with free-lance writing and sculpture in my home, and am very much involved in genealogy work. I have published one book of family history and am working on another one. | have taught all classes in Relief Society and have served as organist. | am an honorary Golden Gleaner and have served as a stake missionary."' She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Utah State Poetry Society, the Sonneteers (a workshop group), and has belonged to the American Penwomen. She is a memberof the Associated Utah Artists and is listed in Who's Who in the West and the Royal Blue Book, London, Engiand. Her stories and poems have won numerous prizes and many of them have been published both locally and in national periodicals. 253 Pearle M. Olsen, Sait Lake City, Utah, a third-time winner in the poetry contest, was born and grew up in Mt. Pleasant, Utah. Her father was John K. Madsen, a rancher famous in the Rambouillet sheep business. She served as a missionary in California, and has held many executive and teaching positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. She is an honorary Golden Gleaner and served six years as president of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society. She is a former member of the General Board of Relief Society. She is a talented musician and devoted genealogist. Her husband is W. C. Olsen, and there are three children: John K. M. Olsen, Billye O. Jenkins, Carlyle O. Morris, and fifteen grandchildren. Sister Olsen believes that contests are stimulating and challenging. ''Writers do well to avail themselves of the opportunities offered by competition. | am writing and studying writing techniques, after a two-year pause to edit a large family book. | have found help through creative writing classes and organizations. | hold membership in the Utah State Poetry Society, and serve as its corresponding secretary. | am a member of Penwomen, and of Sonneteers. The first writing group with which | affiliated was the League of Utah Writers." 255 mw You wonder why Uncle Eli Mallory's younger children call me Aunt Emma, and yet I speak of his older children as my cousins? And how Uncle Eli can be Daddy's brother-in-law, and mine, even though he's our uncle? Well, it does sound like a complicated situation. It all grew out of a comical adventure, which might be called a horse and buggy romance. The summer I was eighteen Father sold his wheat farm out north of the temple and bought the fruit farm over in the valley below Verona, to return to his boyhood community. I certainly didn't want to move; two young men were showing me a good time that summer. Ben played both guitar and mandolin, and when we had group singing I could make the old parlor organ sound pretty lively. Henry, a brilliant college student, owned a new single buggy in which we could ride, just the two of us. Or another couple could go along, if the girl sat on the fellow's lap. Father didn't approve of either situation, but times like the afternoon of the circus or the Fourth of July, he did let me go. Father disapproved of the occasional drinks Henry took with the fellows, and so did I. But he worried, too, because Ben didn't _ have a steady job. Uncle Eli was there helping Father put up hay, but he was going home to market his own peach crop. His four motherless children were in Grandma Mallory's care, as they often were since Aunt Maria's death five years before. Father was worrying because the new owner wasn't taking over the wheat farm be- 256 FIRST PRIZE STORY A Horse and Buddy Romance Iris W. Schow fore the harvest, and with Nephi away on a mission, how could we get the peach crop over on the new farm marketed? Then, with that twinkly squint in his blue eyes, Uncle Eli suggested that I ride home with him, stay with Grandma Mallory, and market the crop. Of course, he would round up some fruit pickers and supervise everything. Everyone thought this was a grand plan, except me. When I complained to Mother that I would lose my good times with both Henry and Ben—I didn't know which I liked better —she said, 'Now stop thinking only of yourself, Emma. If either Ben or Henry is the right one for you—which I doubt—the way will be opened up, and he will get over there to court you. But I think the right one is over there, where Father found me, and Uncle Eli found his Maria." Protesting was useless. When the afternoon came, I packed everything I owned, for I decided to do my own moving and get it done right. What two suitcases wouldn't hold, I put into a good stout box, tied tightly with the old rope that used to tether my pet lamb. I marked it Emma Mallory in black crayon and left it in the bedroom I had shared with my younger sisters. I dressed in a somewhat faded pink frock trimmed with black ribbons threaded through lace beading. There was no point in fixing up just to ride through the mountains with Uncle Eli. We would reach Grandma's about dark, and I didn't know the young people over there, anyway. But there was my best hat, a ~widebrimmed white leghorn with pink satin ribbons and darling little blue forget-me-nots. How to move that? I set it on my head, pinned it to my firmly done-up blonde hair, and smiled into the mirror. The girl with the shining brown eyes and pretty nose smiled back. Perhaps her smile was a little too broad, making the even teeth appear small by comparison. Yet, on the whole, I was A Horse and Buggy Romance quite pretty, even in the faded dress. And I had devised the perfect way to move a hat. "Why the Sunday hat with the old dress?" asked Father, firmly. Cheery even in farewell. Uncle Eh, taller even than his older brother, gave my cheek a little pinch in the annoying way he reserved for children. "There's no point in fixing up for a ride over the mountains," I said, "but this is the safest way to move a lady's best hat." Everyone laughed, and Uncle Eli, wearing his second best suit, which he had felt sufficed for one Sunday School and sacrament meeting away from home, set his own stiff straw hat firmly on his head. Then off we went in the single buggy he had driven while courting Aunt Maria thirteen years before. Of course, at eighteen, I regarded Uncle Eli as an old fuddyduddy, and I hadn't much to say to him. He was around thirtyseven, and his four children ranged in age from five to eleven. He sometimes remarked that he was trying to be both father and mother to them, although certainly nobody could hope actually to replace Maria. Everyone thought that after five years of this, Uncle Eli certainly should undertake finding some really sweet girl to be their stepmother. But if Grandma or Father even mentioned that to him, he just said that nobody could ever take Maria's place with either him or the children. We were past all the farms and into the hills before we talked much, probably because we both had plenty to think about. And then somehow we 25%) April 1969 moved from brief remarks about marketing the peaches to discussing our own personal problems. I mentioned my disappointment over giving up the fun singing while Ben played the mandolin or guitar, and Uncle Eli told me how he and Aunt Maria used to visit all the wards together when he was the stake Sunday School chorister, while she was stake organist. "But I couldn't go on singing in public, when she was gone," he said. "Not merely because it wouldn't be showing a proper respect for her, but because I just couldn't stand to have someone else sitting there playing the organ..." When Uncle Eli's voice broke, I hastily began telling him how I would miss riding in Henry's shiny new buggy. Then he began telling me how nice his own buggy had been when it was new, and how pretty Maria's curly black hair had been, and how her big brown eyes had sparkled when he took her driving. "Some people said Maria was a trifle too heavy. But I didn't think she was too plump. To me Maria was always right as rain in every respect. Yes, sir, girl, right as rain!" Uncle Eli's eyes filled with tears. He looked straight ahead again. Riding here alone with him, I sensed for the first time something of the depth and meaning of his sincere sorrow. "Speaking of rain," he said presently in his natural tone, "those clouds in the west look black, don't they? I'd hate to be caught in a summer shower up here. Late August is pretty un- 258 dependable. What do you think, girl?" Knowing nothing about it, I told him how I would miss being Sunday School organist, and he said he had been on the high council almost from the hour he had been released as stake chorister, so he visited a ward each month. And he might drop a hint at our new ward that I played the organ. Just then came a flash of lightning and a clap of thunder, and we realized that it looked very much indeed like rain. It was rain. It became dark as twilight. The dirt road grew muddy and slippery. I pulled the lap robe up to my shoulders, and Uncle Eli did have his suit coat. The buggy top protected us pretty well. The storm grew fiercer and fiercer. When it rains like that in the canyon, the lightning dances on the road in front of you. So in a sense we could see the road very well:-Dolly, the mare, was very steady. But the road was narrow then. At the second bend above Verona the back wheel slid from the road's edge, something broke on the buggy, and we landed in the gully, suitcases, buggy, mare, and all, in the slippery mud of that terrible storm. Uncle Eli got me out. Then he extricated Dolly, and finally his straw hat and the suitcases. He tried to see if he could get the buggy out, and then when he couldn't, he tried to see what it would take to fix the broken part. We were drenched in no time. Uncle Eli was sure there was not a dry thread on him. By the time he decided to carry the suitcases and have me lead Dolly into Verona, it was getting really dark. He fastened his own small bag of soiled work clothes somewhere on Dolly's harness, and we proceeded, the lightning helping us stay on the road. "You never realize it's so far to the outskirts of Verona, when youre dashing along in the buggy behind a spirited horse," commented Uncle Eli. "But we'll stop at the first lighted house. Are you moving the flatirons in these suitcases, Emma?" "No," I said, "but about everything I own is in them." The storm was less wild now, but it certainly had not stopped raining. I felt sorry for us both. When at last a lighted house appeared, Uncle Eli said assuringly, know just 4 who will open ™ the door when I knock. But we are all brothers in the gospel, and I do know it will be someone I've seen at the Verona meetinghouse, for almost everyone in this little valley belongs to the Church." He never did knock on the door, however, for the moment he A Horse and Buggy Romance touched the yard gate, the dogs barked furiously, charging out, circling back, and charging out again. When the door opened, the dogs reluctantly subsided, and there in the beam of lamplight Uncle Eli lifted his dripping straw hat. The middle-aged lady, recognizing the high councilman, exclaimed, "Why, Brother Mallory!" in tones of disbelieving, dismayed sympathy. Then many family members clustered behind her. Uncle Eli hurried toward her, exclaiming, "Sister Renstrom!" and began to explain our situation. Meantime I led Dolly into the yard and toward the light, pausing when I was as near to the house as one sn ought to bring ET "" kept coming up and sniffing at Dolly, which made both her and me nervous. "Jim! Ted!" called Sister Renstrom. "Go and help Brother -Mallory.". A sturdy young man emerged, followed by his younger brother. Both were donning 259 April 1969 denim' jumpers over their blue work shirts and overalls. "This is my brother's daughter, "You look very pretty in it, Miss Mallory, I assure you, very pretty," said Jim, still grinning as he led Dolly away. Supper. Tillie, take Miss Mallory up to Rena's room where she can ' get into some dry _ clothes. Father," she added, addressing Brother Renstrom, "you'd better find something Brother Mallory Won, can wear." Wei Everyone became very busy. The somewhat plump woman addressed as Rena—she must have been approaching thirty— was already demonstrating that when her mother asked for beaten biscuits she meant just that. Rena had arched black eyebrows, black hair scooped back ry -'. Ie le 7 an 4 Bg 7 f ny,' yy, us bh Oh... This was what came | ie ey of everybody's always putting lea } ~. Wes things like the peach crop ahead ih ¢ x; JY \ i i iw Ns h | q y 4 1 WN q | 1 ANI ny Al: MYA! "4 1 ' \ i i |: YH nw 4 AM ith ' At iy 1 ' ff { \ | \ 4 \| m. Wh Ww i Ler \ Emma Mallory," said Uncle Eli. "She's moving to our city." The older, taller, more handsome young man gave me an amused glance, and Uncle Eli, noticing my hat, remarked, "Emma is demonstrating that the safest way to move a lady's Sunday hat is just to wear it." I had completely forgotten my hat during our distress, but now I realized that it sagged on the sides like a pair of horse's blinkers. And I had thought that Uncle Eli cut a ridiculous figure before these people! "This is not my best hat!" I said. "In fact, I don't even have a Sunday hat, right now." 260 and piled high, soft, delicately pink cheeks, and a chin that, in spite of the roundness of her pretty face, somehow came to a sort of pointed effect. She seemed to concentrate utterly on the work at hand, there in the warm kitchen. Then Brother Renstrom marched upstairs with my suitcases, followed by Uncle Eli with his miserably wet little canvas bag of laundry. Ham was already frying, and Sister Renstrom was setting the table, before the daughter Tillie and I mounted the stairs. My suitcases contained plenty of clothes to choose from, but I knew that Uncle Eli had practically nothing of his own to put "A | » Vp ify pe aft oe: 'fy a 2. Y, of everything else, I thought. /, dl / _ "Ted, fetch Jim a lantern," / «4, directed Sister Renstrom. "Come fp de 4 in, folks. Rena, beat up some _/ gy, more biscuits like we had for on. Glancing in the mirror as I removed the ruined hat, I observed how the black ribbon had streaked the white beading and faded old dress. I'd choose nothing that suggested pink, to remind anyone of this bedraggled dress with its muddy dust ruffle. I selected an Alice blue cotton with no trimming except wide ruffles of the goods, around the shoulders, yoke, and hem. What a supper was waiting when I returned to the warm kitchen! Rena kept urging second helpings on Uncle Eli and me. When Ted had lit a fire in the parlor, he and Jim joined us for the dessert. Well, as the group became better acquainted, we learned that Jim was the Sunday School chorister. Although Rena was Sunday School secretary, she was also organist for the ward choir. And since Jim was not right sure how the new practice song should be sung, and he could remember Uncle Eh as_ stake chorister, naturally he asked for Uncle Eli's opinion. Next thing we knew, we were in the parlor, and Rena was playing the organ, while Jim and Uncle Eli sang, first softly, and then a little louder. Finally Jim had little Tillie and me singing soprano, while Sister Renstrom and Rena took the alto, and Brother Renstrom and Ted supplied the bass. It was interesting to see Uncle Eli maintaining his dignity in a white shirt and some cotton wash trousers of Jim's, with both shirt sleeves and trouser legs a trifle too short. And how sweetly Rena looked up inquiringly at him to be clued as to the way he wanted the music played, and, A Horse and Buggy Romance suddenly, you saw that her eyes weren't brown, but a beautiful cornflower blue. It was her long black eyelashes that made _ her eyes seem brown. Then I played the organ while we sang other Sunday School songs, and presently some popular songs of the day were suggested. Jim got his guitar, and Rena took to the organ again. Rena not only read notes, she played by ear, too, which meant that any tune she had heard, she could play right off, whereas I had to keep my eyes on the music book. Still, I had held my own pretty well. Uncle Eli had hardly been fair to make it known at home that he was not singing and harmonizing without Aunt Maria. For now here he was gaily singing, not just the hymns of the gospel, but some of the gayhearted songs of recent years, as well. Once his hand unconsciously nearly alighted on Rena's shoulder, and then as quickly dropped to his side. Next morning after a wonderful breakfast, which included the best omelette I had ever tasted, the men went up to get the buggy. Soon Uncle Eli and I reported to our respective duties in town, and the summer proceeded according to plan. It was not exactly love at first sight with Uncle Eli and Rena. But Uncle Eli arranged for a series of second sights. When he visited Verona in his capacity as high councilman, naturally he inspected the Sunday School records to see that Rena kept them properly. In the afternoon he found occasion to discuss the organ music with Rena _ before 261 April } 969 or after Meeting. And the brother Way being Opened y who accompanied Uncle Eli on right one to Manage t land lay, and Suggested that freIf you do What's best quent visits to the Verona Ward One else, jt usually turns out to by Brother Mallory Were desirbe what's really best for yourself Eli had won a bride and a and at your father. |; wo whitetop buggies and a As for Jim and me, after his Single buggy Went through the Since Jim was the right one, he took two Whitetops and dry farm he was Paying for. Him. When Father arrived, he Was Father Said Perhaps we Should perfectly willing for me to ride have Just Stayed on the dry With Jim in his Single bugg »and, farm, 'to be near the temple. Iris w, Schow, Brigham City, Utah, winner of the first Prize in the short Story contest, is talenteg iN both Prose and Poetry Writing. Her interpretations of regional writing Cognized j ] f Instructor and was awarded a SPecial prize. This early encouragement and continued recognition by the Church Publications have been 8reatly 4ppreciateg. She has Placed in the Relief Society Poem Contest, and her Stories and poems, Showing remarkable versatility and craftsmanship, have 4Ppeared jn Many issues of 4 degree jn elementary education, with a Minor in English. Her Church work has included Stake ang Ward POSitions in Sunday School. SECOND PRIZE STORY Mamma and the Teddy Bear Lael J. Littke @ Bishop Carlson always said that if all the members of our ward magnified their callings the way Mama did hers as Relief Society president, we wouldn't even need him. He said Mama was a person who would always walk the second mile with you. Papa said she not only walked the second mile, she went all the way home with you, cooked your dinner, served it to you, and then while you ate she got up and patched your roof. Which was exactly what she was doing the day she broke her leg. Patching a roof, I mean. Linda and I had just arrived home from a swimming lesson that summer day when little Billy Sharp came pounding at our door. His eyes were enormous in his pale face. "Come quick," he _ gasped. "Your Mama fell off Grandma Winkle's roof and she's broke. She wants you to come." It was four blocks to Grandma Winkle's little house, but I think Linda and I were there practically before Billy finished speaking. Mama, surrounded by several of Grandma Winkle's neighbors, was lying on the grass propped up on sofa pillows. She was, as usual, in complete charge of the situation and we wouldn't have known she was "broke" except that the smile she gave us was rather pinched, as if she were pasting it over a cry of pain. Our little sister, Cissie, was sitting by her head clutching her ever-present stuffed bear, Mrs. Teddy, and sobbing. "Mama," Linda and I said together as we knelt by her side. Linda is fourteen and I'm twelve, but we started crying like babies. "It's all right," Mama said briskly. "I have just had a little accident. I think my leg is broken, but don't worry about it." "She fell off the ceiling," wept Cissie. "The roof,' Mama corrected. "I was fixing a leak. The ladder slipped." A few blocks away we heard the wail of an ambulance siren. 263 April 1969 "There it comes," said old Mr. Dawson, who had only been hobbling around looking for some way to help. "Do you want I should phone your husband, Mrs. Hastings?" "Thank you, Mr. Dawson," Mama said, "but my daughters will do that." "Won't let me do anything," grumbled Mr. Dawson. "Would have called the ambulance hersélf if she could have stood up." Grandma Winkle hovered nearby, wringing her hands and saying she shouldn't have let Mama go upon the roof. "But don't you worry about your family while you're gone," she said. "I'll go over and see that they're fed." The ambulance was. Coming down Grandma Winkle's street, and Mama almost had to shout to be heard. 'No,' she said, "your arthritis is too bad for you to be gallivanting around like that. My girls can take care of everything." Other people were crowding around offering to do things, but Mama pulled. Linda and me close. "T want you to run right home and clean up the house," she_ whispered. "The Relief Society ladies will probably come by a little later and I went off and left the dishes in the sink after lunch. You get things cleaned up and then tell them you can get along just fine. They've all got enough to do without bothering. About what you girls are perfectly capable of doing." Before Linda and I had time to comment, the ambulance had parked and two white-coated men 264 jumped out, examined Mama briefly, and lifted her onto a stretcher which they put inside. While one man asked a few questions, the other got in and started the motor. Cissie pounded on the glass window of the ambulance and held up her bear, but all Mama could do was smile at her. "I wanted Mama to have Mrs. Teddy," Cissie cried as the long white vehicle shrieked away. Sister Feeney, Mama's first counselor, arrived just in time to see it disappear down the street. "I came as soon as I heard," she puffed. 'Come along, we'd better go call your father. I'll go home with you and _ stay until he comes." "No, you don't need to," Linda said in a voice that sounded almost like Mama's. "We'll take care of everything. We don't want to bother anyone." "Fiddle-dee-dee," said Sister Feeney. "Sure, it's little enough chance any of us get to do anything for your mother. Come along now. I'm in charge." "Yes, ma'am," Linda said meekly, and I could tell she was glad to let Sister Feeney take over.. By the time Papa came home several hours later and told us Mama was doing fine in spite of her broken leg, Sister Feeney had a whole list of ladies who had offered to cook dinner and clean house for us until Mama got well. When Papa looked at it, he said, "I can't tell you how much I appreciate this. Anne will probably be able to come home from the hospital tomorrow afternoon since the doctor says the break isn't a bad one." He looked at Sister Feeney and hesitated a little. "She'll have to take things pretty easy for a while, but I just don't know what she will Say about this," he said, indicating the list. "You know how she is." "Well," Sister Feeney said firmly, "we just won't let her Say anything." But it's practically impossible not to let Mama Say anything. Papa brought her home the next afternoon with her leg all encased in plaster, and she had no sooner got inside the house than she started telling us what to do. She had _Papa pull out the sofa bed in the living room even though he said she would be able to rest better in her own bed upstairs. "Why, I wouldn't know what was going on if I was stuck way up there," she said. She looked up at Linda, Cissie, and me clustered around the sofa, our eyes enormous with concern. "Why so serious?" she laughed. "I've always wanted a career on the stage, and now I have a part in a cast." It takes more than a broken leg to get Mama down. It wasn't long until she started thinking about dinner. We told her then about Sister Feeney's list and how the Relief Society ladies were going to come in and do things for us. "Sister Frandsen is bringing our dinner tonight," Linda said, "and Grandma Winkle tomorrow night." "Nonsense," Mama said. "Sister Frandsen is busy enough with her six children and her husband sick the way he is. And Grandma Winkle can't get around well] Mamma and the Teddy Bear enough to be trotting over here." She asked Papa to bring her the telephone. "I'm going to call Sister Feeney right now and tell her it isn't necessary, not when I have two big girls to help me." She smiled at Linda and me. Cissie was leaning against the sofa clutching Mrs. Teddy and touching Mama now and then to make sure she really was all right. "Mama," she said, "what can I do for you?" Mama put an arm around her and gave her a little squeeze. "Just be my good little girl, honey," she said, taking the telephone Papa handed her. Cissie pulled away and walked over to the window where she stood sucking one of Mrs. Teddy's ears and staring out of the window, but Mama didn't notice because she was dialing Sister Feeney's number. April 1969 When Mama talked to Sister Feeney, it was like the irresistible force meeting the immovable object that my sixth grade teacher told us about. But not even an immovable object can hold out against Mama. She was very tactful about it, of course. The way she put it, Linda and my chances of becoming good future homemakers would be ruined if we didn't take this opportunity to learn what it was all about. Evidently she convinced Sister Feeney because when she hung up she said, "All right now, girls, get the leftover roast out of the refrigerator and Ill tell you what to do with it." Even though Mama wouldn't let the Relief Society ladies provide our meals, people started coming over the next day and a lot of them brought food. Mama always thanked them, but then she would suggest that they take it to some family in our ward who really needed it. She did it so sweetly that the people went off to deliver their offerings elsewhere, feeling as if that had been their idea in the first place. Some of the people didn't bring food and Sister Frandsen came saying she didn't have anything but herself to bring, but that she wanted to help out by washing dishes or doing some ironing or something. Mama assured her that the dishes were all washed and that I was the best little ironer she had ever seen, which made me so proud that it was several minutes before I realized I just hated to iron. Sister Frandsen rubbed her hands together as if she wanted to do something with them and 266 said, "But you've done so much for Bud and me and the kids." "Now,. That's all right," Mama said. "I enjoyed every minute of it. You have such a lovely family." Sister Frandsen's tired face lit up, but as she left she looked around to see if there was something she could do. Lots of other people came wanting to do things. When old Mr. Dawson, who isn't even a member of our Church, came over he wanted to cultivate Mama's flower beds, but Mama assured him that Papa needed the exercise. Old Mr. Dawson stood there in his shabby clothes fumbling with his hat. "I sure would like to do something for you," he said softly. '"You're always inviting me to dinner and bringing me cakes and all. You're always giving me so much." Mama reached out for his hand. '"That's all right, Mr. Dawson," she said. "It's more blessed to give than to receive, you know." Mr. Dawson nodded as_ he shuffled toward the door. ''Yeah," he mumbled, "I know." He looked so forlorn that I wanted to do something for him, but I didn't know what. I guess Linda felt the same way because after he left, she said, "Mama, maybe you should have let him do what he wanted." "Oh, no," Mama said. "That poor man has so little strength that I surely don't want him using it all digging my flower beds. And now, girls, I think you'd better run to the market and get the list of things I wrote out." Cissie, who had been playing quietly in a corner with Mrs. Teddy, got up and ran to Mama's side. "I'll take care of you while they're gone," she said. "I'd read a story to you if I knew how." "That's sweet of you, darling," Mama said, "but why don't you ask Linda to comb your hair and then they can drop you off to play with Lori when they go to the store." Cissie's bright little face crumpled as she clutched Mrs. Teddy tighter and turned to go with us, but she didn't say anything. In fact, she hardly said a word the rest of the day. It wasn't until we were all gathered around Mama's sofa bed after family prayer that her face suddenly lost its gloom. "Mama," she said, as if an idea had struck her, "don't you get awful lonesome sleeping downstairs alone?" "Yes, Ido," said Mama. "That's why I'm so glad when morning comes and you all come down to keep me company." Mamma and the Teddy Bear Cissie smiled broadly. "You don't need to be lonesome tonight. I'm going to let you have Mrs. Teddy to sleep with you. She can't do anything; she can't even say anything. Here." But she can be "Why, "how thoughtful of you. Mrs. Teddy would be unhappy away from you. You keep her." Cissie stood looking at Mama for a long moment, her eyes Mama. Said, But Cissie," slowly filling with tears. Surprised, Mama held out her arms, but Cissie turned and ran up the stairs so fast that she stumbled on her long nightgown. Weall watched her go. Nobody spoke until Mama said, "I have a feeling I've done something wrong. I should have let her do something for me." Papa nodded, and we all waited. Mama made a little gesture with her hand. "It's just that I'm so used to doing everything 267 April 1969 for her that I guess I didn't consider she might really want to do something." Papa cleared his throat and said softly, "Perhaps those for whom we do the most have the greatest need to do something in return." Mama thought about that. "You mean like Sister Frandsen and Mr. Dawson and all the rest?" Papa nodded again. Mama looked at her cumbersome cast. "I guess I'm like a surgeon who doesn't know what his patients go through until he has an operation," she said. "T've had such a good life and have been so healthy that I've never realized what it's like to have to be on the receiving end." She smiled at Papa, Linda, and me. "Now, I want all of you to go to bed so that this old dog can lie here and think about learning some new tricks." The first thing Mama did the next morning was ask Cissie if Mrs. Teddy could spend the day on the sofa with her. "And why don't you paint some pictures on my cast?" she said. "Then I can have something pretty to look at." Cissie glowed with satisfaction as she gave up her beloved bear and went for her crayons. Mrs. Frandsen came over before we had even finished breakfast, saying that she was going to do the dishes that morning or know the reason why. Mama said she certainly appreciated her doing that, and if she had just a moment maybe she could whip up one of her delicious chocolate cakes. Sister Frandsen said she would 268 be delighted, and furthermore she intended to stay and do our washing since Brother Frandsen was well enough to watch the children for awhile. Old Mr. Dawson was the next to come, bringing with him a small pail of parsnips. "Grew them myself," he said. "Thought you might like to taste them." "Why, Mr. Dawson," Mama said. "I haven't tasted parsnips in years. I'll ask Sister Frandsen if she'll put them in the oven with some spareribs that we have in the freezer, and we'll have them this very day." Mr. Dawson looked pleased. "Grew them myself,' he said again. "Can't always find them in the stores nowadays." "You always were the best gardener around," Mama said. "By the way, I wonder if I could get you to trim my rosebushes while you're here. They need doing, and my husband isn't too good at it." "You betcha," Mr. Dawson said happily, "Ill fix them up for you." He whistled as he went out into our yard. We were proud of Mama that day. She just lay there on the sofa bed with her gaily colored cast propped up and Mrs. Teddy by her side, accepting graciously whatever favor anyone wanted to do for her. When Papa came home from work she told him all about it, and then said, "You know, I never thought about it before, but in order for someone to be blessed by giving, someone else has to receive." She laughed a little. "People have been doing so much for us that Linda and Darlene aren't getting any homemaking practice at all." Papa grinned. "Perhaps they're learning a more valuable lesson," he said. "Well, I've certainly learned one," Mama said, "and it's that compassion hasmany facets." She looked at Cissie. "And you know what? It was Mrs. Teddy who taught me." Cissie's little face was proud. Mamma and the Teddy Bear "Mrs. Teddy learned a _ lesson, too," she piped, "and it's that she isn't nearly as useless as she thought she was." "You're absolutely right," Mamasaid, picking up Mrs. Teddy and kissing her right on her battered nose. Papa and Linda, Cissie and I laughed, and Mama joined in, but I wondered why there were tears in her eyes. Lael J. Littke, Pasadena, California, winner of the second prize in the short story contest, expresses appreciation for the Relief Society literary contests: ''Thank you again for awarding this honor to me and thank you for sponsoring the annual literary contests which motivate and encourage the women writers of the Church. Although | began writing in my early teens, | didn't sell anything until seven years ago when | sold a story to The Relief Society Magazine, a dear friend indeed. Since then | have sold additional stories to the Magazine and to The Improvement Era, American Girl Magazine, and other publications. Last year | sold my first children's book to Western Publishing Company. Last year, also, my first full-length musical drama ''Blossoms in the Wilderness,'' with music by Gillian Cochrane, was performed by the East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, on whose board | served as cultural refinement class leader until we moved to Pasadena. My other literary activities include membership in the California Writers Guild, and a writing class at Pasadena City College, taught by our own Helen Hinckley Jones (who appears regularly in The Relief Society Magazine), one of the finest teachers | have ever known. "My family encourages me in my writing. Daughter Lori is now eight years old and my most devoted fan. My husband George, who teaches at California State College, Los Angeles, is my best and most respected critic." EASTER Shall my Maker glorify plain and hill, With the lilies of yesteryear, Shall the wind and the wave obey his will, That the harvest shall reappear? Shall the Easter miracle wake the sod In the hush of the holy dawn, And shall | who am imaged after God, Through the ages of time sleep on? Nay, | who have walked and talked with him 'In his gardens at eventide, Shall hearken his voice in the twilight dim, When he calls at the Great Divide. And | shall adore at his throne above, When the portals ajar swing wide, To behold the miracle of his love, When he calls me at Eastertide. —Bertha A. Kleinman 269 @ This story is not about a woman. It is about a man—me, Ross Anderson—and how I— well, came to "hate the bomb and learn to love people." Speaking as a scientist I must say that it is almost impossible to say at just what point an action begins or ends. So many causes precede, and who knows how many results follow. It may be, therefore, as good a place as any to begin my story at the close of my last day as Assistant Director of Crissin Enterprises, in the Management and Marketing Division. The front door of our home closed behind me, and my wife appeared in the front hall almost simultaneously, as she had done nearly every working. Day for years. "Hello, dear," Marion's usual bright greeting and kiss went unheeded today. Loose wrappings fell away from the bundle I plunked down on the hall table. "Look at that," I said bitterly, disgustedly. Marion moved the tissue paper and picked up the silver pitcher, running her fingers along the beaded edges. She turned the pitcher and, seeing the inscription, spoke the words aloud as she read: "Jo Ross Anderson —1954-1968—With Best Wishes —From his friends in the office." "TIsn't it beautiful?" she purred in admiration, completely missing my implication. "It will be just lovely with the tray the children gave us for our anniversary, won't it? Did they have a farewell party for you, too? Oh, Ross, how thoughtful this is." She held the pitcher out in 270 THIRD PRIZE STORY AE SILVER PITCHER Grace M. Pratt both her hands, turning it and stroking its shining curves. Then, setting it down, she turned to give me another swift kiss, saying, "They're going to miss you down there, Mr. Anderson." She was apparently oblivious to the fact that I had not added a word to our conversation after my single statement, and that I was stiff and unresponsive in her embrace. I was disappointed in Marion. She is not an unfeeling person; quite the contrary. Usually, she is aware of, and in tune with, my too quick changes of mood. Muttering something about packing my equipment I jerked away and nearly fell over one of the packing crates. I muttered something else then and gave it a kick as I went by. Marion went off to the kitchen. If she didn't remember I had promised to help her take down the things from the high kitchen cupboards, I was not going to mention it now, either. At dinner Marion chatted on about the newspapers and milk, bills paid and yet to pay, and what time the movers were coming. I hardly heard any of it. My whole being was still seething with the let-down of being beaten out of the directorship of Crissin by that glad-hander, Phil Archer. I wondered vaguely how Marion could take it so calmly. She must know it had been my dream, and, yes, my expectation, one day to have a go at running the company my own way. Besides, I knew she and the children loved this town, this house. They had grown up here; this was their home town. I told myself Phil Archer had most likely been underhanded, getting in ahead of me. He always played up to the board members, was on first names basis with some of them. And _ he'd been farsighted enough, I told myself, viciously, to marry the founder's daughter. True, the old man had sold his interests years before that, but even so—I went on until I began to be ashamed The Silver Pitcher of myself and that only added to my fury and self-pity. Getting back again into a lab turned out to be a joy I had almost forgotten. Under normal circumstances I would have lost myself in the work I was doing, developing new products, improving old ones. But I fed my bitterness, instead. One day, at the end of our first year at the lab, I walked home slowly, turning over in my mind things that had come up in the meetings we had been having with a company team visiting us that week—and with things that had not come up, too. The team's show of confidence in my direction of the lab didn't quite cover an undercurrent of questioning.... Turning into our driveway I paused, as I often did, to enjoy and appraise the lawns and front garden. The thought came to me, anyway, here's one area of unqualified improvement and progress. It startled me, that thought. It was a tacit admission that, as Director of Crissin Laboratories, I had not lived up to expectations—my own or the company's. My hand reached out to touch a last, late rose, my eyes wandered over dazzles of chrysanthemums and other autumn flowers, presided over by lilac, willow, olive trees, all in perfect health and order, pruned and clipped precisely. My garden displayed a year's work and devotion— devotion? Or escape? Had the inquiring mind really spent itself on this perfection? "Admit it, Ross," I growled to myself, "you never did enjoy gardening." Was the garden just an excuse, then? The visitors 271 April 1969 at the lab—the ones who knew me—flatly disbelieved I had not used the courtesy golf club membership presented on my arrival in this town. And I had to admit there had been a tone of surprise and criticism on my absence of any work in community service organizations. "I suppose you ve taken on a lot of your Church work," someone _ had commented and I had grunted what I hoped was an unintelligible negative. Like the chrysanthemums tumbling out of their bounds onto the lawns, the whole of the past year flooded through my mind in a flash-back of incriminating incidents: my crisp, curt manner with the trainees, outbursts of temper over mistakes, my unapproachableness as the director and neglect of personnel problems. I squirmed inside, recollecting my brusque excuses in response to social invitations, and then the latest rudeness, assigning a junior to conduct the visiting team this past week on the flimsy excuse of having urgent experiments I couldn't leave. The front door of the now familiar home closed behind me and Marion appeared to greet me. I thought she was going to help me take off my coat, but instead her arms slid around me in a tight hug as she said, "Hello, Dear." Then she kissed me twice in succession and said, '"How's my handsome husband today?" I got the message and responded with the next step in this private ritual we had, to sort of warn each other of rough sailing ahead. I gave her back her kisses and said, "Madam, your husband is quite well and hopes 272 you are the same." Then, as I slid my coat over the hanger she held, I went on to the next cue: "Have a good day? What's new?" "Oh, nothing much," she replied, too casually. "After Relief Society I stayed in town to shop." "Buy anything for me, Mummy?" I mimicked the children. "Not this time, darling, but I will next time if you're a good boy," she rattled off automatically. Then, slowly, "Actually, I didn't get much shopping done.... I had lunch at the Crescent and didn't leave for hours, I guess." My mind reacted sharply to that and I said, hesitantly, "You had lunch at the Crescent Motel dining room and you are telling me you saw Phil Archer there?" "No, Dear, Pat Archer. You'd forgotten to mention she and Phil were in town, but I passed it off all right, I think." "Phil didn't tell me Pat was with him," I said, lamely, not adding that I had avoided any personal talk with Phil. "I guess if some of the wives came I ought to have them, and you, invited to the luncheon tomorrow." I was ashamed and embarrassed at my lack of hospitality to my old friend, now that it came to light. "Well, it's all right, Ross. They're leaving tomorrow night, of course, but, fortunately they are free tonight. They're coming to dinner." "Oh, that's... Fine,' I managed. "What time will they be here?" "Not till a little after seven. They have a distant relative out beyond here a few miles and haven't been able to get a visit until today," Marion replied, trying, I could see, to watch me unobtrusively. "They'll go out there as soon as Phil gets through at the lab and come back here after their visit. You've time to relax with your paper for awhile." "All right," I said, heavily. "Call me if there's anything I can do to help you." "Thanks, all under control." She smiled, and went off to shower and dress. It was a lucky thing the Archers had that relative to visit. If they had come any earlier we never could have made it till] dinnertime. As it was, Pat and Marion carried the conversation, chattering away at woman talk. They always did get on well. After a bit there was a silence and Pat said, "Imagine these two old things being together and not talking shop. We used to never get them to stop." Marion jumped up and said, The Silver Pitcher You can imagine, then, my surprise and chagrin when Marion served, as the main course, not one of her exotic specialties, but a plain, everyday thing like pot roast. True, pot roast as only Marion cooks it, richly brown and fragrant with herbs, surrounded by mounds of steaming vegetables in almost natural color; pearly onions, pan browned potatoes, silvery chunks of cabbage, accents of orange and green carrots and peas. But in my present state of mind I could only wonder if she were deliberately.... Phil's exclamation cut into my thoughts. "Marion, you doll, you absolute darling," he carolled, "think of her remembering old Phil's weakness. Isn't she marvelous, Pat?" "I think we can eat now. Ross, '*--- 3 will you put some records on? Pat, Phil, just down the hall if you want to freshen up." Marion likes a separate dining room. She comes of an old world family that looks on eating as a special event requiring good food in the right setting. And she loves having guests for meals, a thing she had pretty much had to forego lately. As usual, the dining room was a picture of warmth and homeyness. Soft light glowed from wall Sconces and candles, gleaming over the silver, china, and glassware on the perfectly set table centered with a low bowl of our finest mums. He got up from his chair and came around the table. Taking the platter from her, he set it ceremoniously in place on the table and gallantly held her chair. "T've often said," Pat laughed, "that it's a good thing Phil met 273 April 1969 me before he met Marion's pot roast. I wouldn't have had a chance." "Ah, but I did meet the pot roast first, my love, only Ross here was ahead of me then, too. Remember that time, Ross? My first day at Crissin, young man on his first real job, scared, lonely, so you took me home to supper. I was so sick of bachelor cooking—and so broke—I didn't care what the guy's wife would think. But I will never forget the aroma as that pot roast was served—ah, heavenly. What a feast I had." He sat back smiling at the memory and then went on, "What is more, I can recall every detail of the four—no, five—times I have enjoyed Marion's pot roast since." The restraint of the evening vanished as Phil accompanied our eating with his hilarious way of telling a story. We heard every detail, all right, and what had led up to, away from, and from side to side of those particular events. This was more like the breezy Phil Archer of old, taking over every occasion in his own jovial way. And yet I had this feeling he was like a 274 boy let out for recess, whooping and hollering as much as he could before he'd have to go inside again. We ate up all the hot rolls and Marion and I pushed back our chairs at the same time to get more. She took the basket, saying to me, "Would you refill the glasses while I get the rolls? There's ice water ready in the frig." I opened the refrigerator and reached in for—there was the silver pitcher, filled with water, ready for use. I wasn't prepared for that. Once again I wondered at Marion's choice. If she hadn't been right there, I could have pretended to make a mistake and use our old glass pitcher. I had to use the silver pitcher, but I practically covered it with a napkin to catch drips. Then I filled Pat's glass under cover of conversation. But when I reached past Phil's shoulder he noticed the pitcher at once. "The silver pitcher," he said, musingly, taking it from my hand, "the farewell gift to Mr. Ross Anderson." An odd, waiting silence fell as he ran his finger along the lettering, reading it aloud as Marion had that first day. The room was stifling with a sudden kind of apprehension I was aware the rest of us felt. We waited for what was to come. There was something in Phil's tone that made you know a dam _ was about to burst. "Green with envy," Phil murmured to himself, then, "did you know that, old friend? That I was green with envy of you that day? Ross Anderson, the successful man... The one expected to take over, well-liked, established.... I knew I could never reach your heights. And then," he went on as if something forced it out of him, "to have you get the post I wanted.... I guess I had some kind of a kid dream of being the mysterious, fascinating scientist, hovering over bubbling retorts, bringing forth earth-shaking discoveries and life-saving inventions. Don't laugh. I realized I wasn't the type after I got into the swing of the marketing end of it. I've loved that. It's where I belong, where I'm pretty darn good... Or could be.... Somehow, lately I've had the feeling the board is taking a long hard look at my division. I was hoping we would find something in this lab tour... Something new to give us a lift.... I have some ideas I've been saving for just the right product, the right time. If only.. 'His voice nen trailed off. I glanced uneasily at Marion, standing there with the basket of rolls cooling in her hand. On her lips and in her eyes was a small smile that husbands see sometimes, an asking-telling-waiting look. In that glance I saw that she had known all along how I'd The Silver Pitcher felt about the job and that Pat had told her about Phil. I felt as if my skin had shrunk until I was being constricted by the small man I had become. I wanted to get out of that little man. He was making me old and sick. I clasped my hand over Phil's on the handle of the silver pitcher and gently lifted it away to fill his glass. I was glad, in a way, to have them see my hand was a bit shaky. "Can you get down to the lab early tomorrow morning, Phil?" I asked. "I've been working on something that might be what you are looking for. With both of us putting our great brains to work on it, we ought to come up with something pretty good." I saw the look that flashed between Pat and Marion. "And after the luncheon," I went on, "let's you and I knock off work, get out of the lab, and find out what kind of golf course they have in this town." The little man split open and I stepped out, finding the world interesting and full of promise, after all. The look I saw then in Marion's eyes was for myself alone. Grace Madsen Pratt, Merced, California, winner of the third prize in the story contest, is an author new to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. By way of introduction, she writes: "My literary history is less fact than fancy. My father was known as a great campfire storyteller, and my mother, Abbie R. Madsen, wrote reams of poems, many of them published in The Relief Society Magazine. Mother urged me to write, and | jotted down bits and pieces as our six children grew up. | really learned the anatomy of a story in a class under a Mrs. White, in Perth, Australia, and have written three stories: ''The Silver Pitcher,'' ''The Little White Birds of Olotele,"' for The Children's Friend, and one other children's story, now out looking for a publisher. "One day | was casting about for a story idea, and while polishing a silver pitcher, inscribed to our landlord, my mind began to work on the idea of the inscription and the pitcher. The day before we moved from Melbourne, | worked over and retyped my story." 275 EDITORIAL Truth Abideth MAs One reads 4nd conte he lived in ante €luvian exhortation | Forever © People jn the Provide not for his n e Scriptures., nlightenme Progresses through lif ferent tim trial to © searched the Scriptures but dig Ot fing COMPparable Situation 8ive h Sati fying answer t¢ Buide or ¢ fort her Ortly ther. After sh S st Nding a & some rch leaders Waiting to 80 into a g uring th cConversat nN, One leader an apostle, appened relate Xperience aNd itso come, Which Was the Swer t+ is ther's Silent aN8uished question This truth Came not from the Printed Page of truth but from the lips of a living Prophet. "Search and ye Shall find." Her anguish WaS given a Man. Th yearning of Hannah for a ch Id is €choed t €arts of Married Men toda The sSwor h Pierced th Soul of Mar MUSt have brought ap esagement Of forebo Ing t throughout the life Of h 1, which Mirrored; th Carts of thers today OSE sons leave for ab ttlegroy d Joy comes to women who seek a Words of truth to uplift, Comfort, 'NSpire the ord n exp ences of Mankind fro h eginni —Words of truth th ever Change "Come UNto me, all ye tha labour and are €avy aden, a! Will Eve you rest Take MY Yoke Upon y and lear of if meek and lowly IN heart and Shall f res YOur souls » (Matt. 1 28 29.) 0) f, Fora woman who S€arches Out truth jn INSpired Writings aNd spoken Words, her Way will be lighted and her burdens become lightened. —M. C. S. Anna B art Afton w Hunt Belva B Ashton Alice C Smith Edith s Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J McGhie Lucile p Pi terson Florence J adsen anny S Kienitz Oa J annon Elaine B Curtis €one G ayton lizabeth B. Winters Lila B Walch Zelma West lanche B Stoddarg ennie R Scott Lenore Cc dersen Leanor J Brown Alein ung Alice L Wilkinson arjorie C Ingree Reba c Aldous Alberta H Christensen rene Buehner 'arlene Dedeking Luelig Ww. Finlinson ildreg ring Irene c oyd dythe k atson orma B. A Aton Edith p. Bac man Hazel s Love Ellen N. Barnes ayola R Miltenberger Winnietred §. Manwaring Fawn H. Sharp Kathryn s Gilbert Maurine mw. Haycock EIna Pp. Haymong Celestia J. Taylor Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhi} Myrtle R. Olson 277 The American Cancer Society Inc. Research Hf Education MH Service There will be 600,000 new cases of cancer in the United States this year, and half of them can be cured by early diagnosis and proper treatment. According to the American Cancer Society, only about 200,000 of these will be saved. To help more—give more. Help yourself with a check-up and help others with a check. The Society needs the help of all Americans in its continuing war against cancer. It has three great shining swords to fight cancer: RESEARCH * EDUCATION * SERVICE.* New drugs have brought added months and years to leukemia patients. Cancer of the colon and rectum is the most frequent internal cancer among both men and women in the United States. Nearly three out of four patients might be saved from this cancer with early diagnosis and proper treatment. Safeguards against this type of cancer are an annual ''procto'' examination, especially for people over forty, and a knowledge of cancer's warning signals. In America 25,000 people have lost their voices to larynx cancer, and must breathe through a permanent opening in the throat. Early detection could have prevented much of this tragedy. The Pap test can detect uterine cancer when it is practically 100 per cent curable. A Pap test is a lifesaver. Research has helped raise the cancer survival rate from one in five thirty years ago to the present rate of one in three. Have an annual check-up and watch for the seven warning signals: Unusual bleeding or discharge A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere A sore that does not heal Change in bowel or bladder habits Hoarseness or cough Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing Change in size or color of a wart or mole. HELP THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY'S PROGRAMS OF RESEARCH! THE LIFE YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN. NOOR WN 278 BN Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, also President, National Council of Women of the United States, was honored in Washington, D. C. In January 1969 by © Mrs. Robert Law Bacon, a prominent Washingtonian. Wives of Cabinet members, wives of several members of Congress, women newly appointed to high governmental posts, wives of many foreign ambassadors, women community and social leaders, representatives of the International Council of Women both from foreign countries and the United States, were invited to Mrs. Bacon's home to meet Mrs. Spafford who assumed her post as President of the National Council of Women of the United States in October. Two Latter-day Saint women are wives of members of President Richard M. Nixon's cabinet: Lenora Bingham Kennedy, wife of David M. Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury, and Lenore La Fount Romney, wife of George Romney, former governor of Michigan and now Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mrs. Kennedy, born in Ogden, grew up there with her future husband. Mother of four daughters, she moved to Illinois, with her family in 1946, where she became a member of the Women's Board of the University of Chicago. She has been very active in genealogical research, also in both the Relief Society and the Mutual improvement Association programs. Mrs. Romney, born in Salt Lake City, attended George Washington University while her father was a member of the National Radio Commission (Predecessor of the Federal Communications Commission), then was a student at the American Laboratory School of the Theater in New York City. For a time she was a moving picture actress with Metro-Goldwin-Mayer. Married in 1931, she is the mother of two sons and two daughters. She has been an active campaigner with her husband in his political life, and was highly praised as a speaker by the national press. She has been a very active and capable worker in the Church. Mrs. Patricia Nixon looked very earnest as she held two family Bibles, one atop the other, upon which her husband, Richard M. Nixon, swore the inaugural oath of office as President of the United States on January 20, 1969. Anna Moffo, Metropolitan Opera and La Scala coloratura soprano, was soloist at the Inaugural Concert, held at Constitution Hall, January 19, at which the Tabernacle Choir performed. Miss Moffo sang three numbers from Broadway American musicals. Peggy Fleming, the exquisite figure-skating champion who was the only United States gold medal winner at the Winter Olympics in 1968, was named Female Athlete of the year on January 24 by the annual Associated Press Poll. A very close runner-up was swimming champion, Debbie Meyer. Debbie Meyer, Sixteen-year-old triple gold medal winner for swimming at the Summer Olympics 1968, last January became the fourth female in thirty-nine years to win the Sullivan Award, given annually by the Amateur Athletic Union to the outstanding amateur athlete in the United States. She came out barely ahead of two famous men athletes. Voting were sports writers, broadcasters, amateur athletic union officials, and amateur sportsmen. 279 TRUST Trust. Is tragiie W £o¥ mortals And passion 4 brill to crack it on But love, true jove rs the velvet gsiove sie tru ant stone ° Tinat calc? 2 i*3 nefore sone —Gay N. Blane 3rd OWN special 8esStion seal house. S may assist hey ~ 281 April 1969 C. Have all needed equipment available and in good working order. Use proper equipment. Don't endanger your life or limbs by standing on a chair or a table when a stepladder should be used. Long-handled brushes are available which can help avoid excessive stretching, straining, reaching or bending. D. Keep your cleaning material together in a carry-all container, as illustrated. These are available at some dairies and markets for a nominal fee. They may be covered with contact paper, leftover walltex, or painted. If these cartons are not available, a basket with a handle will serve just as well. Provide the carryall with: i. Window cleaner. Fill a squirt bottle Y, full of sudsy ammonia, fill remainder with water. Excellent for cleaning windows. Badly soiled outside windows should be washed first with detergent, then use the ammonia solution. Dry with soft lintless cloth (a piece of old sheet is excellent), crumpled newspapers work well, or a damp chamois. 2. Squirt bottle containing cleaning solution and water. 3. Brushes of different varieties. Stiff toothbrushes are excellent for small areas and hard to reach crevices (around wash basin, sinks, etc.). 4, Wax and polish. 5. Cleaning agents: For brass, bathroom fixtures, doorknobs, tile, or linoleum. (Children's old white socks, slit up one side to provide a larger cleaning area, are good for applying wax and polish. Plenty of clean, absorbent soft cloths may be accumulated throughout the year for special uses.) E. Carefully follow the instructions on all cleaning agents. Manufacturer research provides the best methods for use. Don't use more than the directions specify or you may damage your woodwork, walls, carpets, or upholstery. Be careful about combining products, as some combinations can be dangerous. F. Change cleaning water frequently, and wash lower part of walls first, so that rivulets of water running down walls will pass through clean areas and not leave streaks. G. Take time to rest occasionally. Housecleaning can be very tiring. You can accomplish more if you do not let fatigue overtake you. Sit down on the floor, don't bend, when cleaning low cupboards or polishing furniture legs, etc. H. Many of the best housekeepers I know find it much easier to include, as part of their weekly cleaning, tasks which would generally be included in general housecleaning; such as cleaning and rearranging cupboards, drawers, etc. A stormy day when one is confined to the home is a perfect time for doing such jobs. This eliminates time-consuming small tasks at housecleaning time. I. Check your home for any needed repairs that might prove dangerous— frayed rugs, damaged light cords, protruding nails, etc. J. Use rubber gloves whenever possible. Strong cleaning agents can play havoc with hand skin. Keep a good hand lotion or cream in readiness at all times. The following is an excellent home recipe for hand lotion and will help to remove chap and soreness: 2 tbsp. Flax seeds J Boil flax seeds and water down to one pint and strain 1 qt. Water | through a fine sieve. Let cool. Add glycerine, bay rum, and 4 oz. Pure glycerine | pure rose water and beat with an egg beater until thoroughly 3 0z. Bay rum | combined. Makes one quart. Put in bottles and store in 3 OZ. Pure rose water I cool place. What is so inviting as a sparkling clean house where even the air seems fresh, clean, and invigorating! Home can indeed become the best loved place of all, when the project—housecleaning—is completed and all is bright, shiny, and clean, with a place for everything and everything once again in its place. 282 RECIPES from NEW ZEALAND Anna Molenaar Napier, New Zealand a Py -! LEMON MERINGUE PIE 3 tbsp. Cornflour (corn starch) 1 tbsp. Butter 2 or 3 egg yolks 2%, c. Water Y, c. Sugar grated rind and juice of 2 lemons Bring water, sugar, lemon rind, and butter to a boil. Blend cornflour with cold water and boil together 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cool, and add lemon juice and beaten egg yolks. Bake flaky pastry shell at 350° for Y, hour. Pour in lemon mix and pile meringue on top. Meringue: Beat whites of 2 or 3 eggs until stiff and add 4 tbsp. Sugar and 2 tbsp. Coconut. Place pie back in oven at low heat and leave until golden brown. PAVLOVA CAKE 1 tsp. Vinegar 3 tbsp. Cold water pinch of salt Beat whites very stiff and add water. Add sugar, beating gradually but well. Mix or fold in cornflour, salt, vanilla, and vinegar. Pile onto a waxed paper wax side up and bake at 250° for 1% hours. Turn onto a Pavlova dish or large round platter, fill with whipped cream, and top with drained peaches, jelly, or any type of fruit. SNOW PUDDING 1 tbsp. Gelatin 3 egg whites 2 tbsp. Sugar Dissolve gelatin in boiling water, add cold water, sugar, and stiffly beaten egg whites, and vanilla. Beat until mixture begins to set. Pour onto wax paper, wax side up. Decorate as for Pavalova. 283 4 to 5 egg whites 1', c. Caster sugar (fine) Y, c. Boiling water ¥, c. Cold water vanilla essence 2 tsp. Cornflour (corn starch) rind and juice of one lemon Y, tsp. Vanilla m@ The day was warm and sultry. I was sitting in my bedroom, tired, angry, and frustrated. All day I had worked so hard—sweeping, dusting, cooking, preparing for the visit of my two daughters and grandchildren. My eighty-year-old father had followed my every step, like a little child. He had lived with me since my dear husband, John, had passed away. He had spilled milk on my clean rug, tracked dirt from outdoors on the polished floor, "He never wipes his feet," I had fumed. He turned on the TV so loud that my ears rang, and the last straw—he answered the telephone and said, "She is too busy to talk now!" I can't stand any more of this, I thought. He must live somewhere else. I will tell him so... After I rest. Drowsing, half sleeping, my thoughts went back many years. My first red-haired baby girl was three weeks old. She was a colicky baby, crying almost constantly. John and I got very little sleep; the birth took all of our savings, and none of my dresses fit! I had taken my little one in my arms in the rocking chair and we both had wept together. A little knock had come at the door and in had walked Father. He looked at the weeping twosome, said not a word, telephoned Mother to babysit, took me to the best store in town and said, "Pick out a dress—and don't look at the price!" There it was—the perfect dress! Black satin, a little high collar, piped in red, and a circular skirt that swung as I circled it in delight. It was mine! Returning home, I cradled my little one, and she, sensing my happiness, actually slept! And from that day on she was a happier baby. I proudly wore my new dress when she was blessed. I went to Father—napping in front of the blaring TV and kissed him. "What was that for!" he asked. "For a black satin dress," I answered. He didn't remember, but Ill never forget. Hundreds of dresses I have worn since that day long ago. I don't remember their style or color, but I'll never forget a kind father who had enough intuition to know what would make a young wife and mother happy. He can live with me as long as he wishes. Thank you my father for all your many acts of kindness to your impatient daughter, and, especially, for the black satin dress, piped in red, with the swirling skirt. 284 Annie Naef Merrill, Franklin Stake, Preston, Idaho, has made many lovely quilts andpieces of handwork that have brightened the lives of her many friends, her three children, ten grandchildren, thirty-two great-grandchildren, and eight great-great-grandchildren. She has spent countless hours caring for the sick and needy. In addition to her unselfish She has spend countless hours caring for the sick and needy. In addition to her unselfish service, and lovely handwork, she enjoys caring for her vegetable garden, and has flowers in her yard. She is also an excellent cook. Sister Merrill enjoys doing temple work, and her life is an inspiration to all who know her. In Relief Society she has been a faithful visiting teacher for sixty-eight years, served as a counselor for ten years, and is still a Singing Mother. She has also served in important positions in the other auxiliaries. Ca Mary Ann McElprang Cook Allred, Emery Stake, Huntington, Utah, has created countless numbers and varieties of handwork for her many friends and her family of seven children, twenty-four grandchildren, and twenty-nine great-grandchildren. She has enjoyed doing temple work and has done endowment work, for 2540 women. She has served in many positions in Relief Society. For thirty years she served as a visiting teacher, and has served as a class leader and secretary. In the other auxiliaries she has held high and important callings, and has done missionary work. Sister Allred has always been known for the efficiency with which she accomplishes the tasks set before her, and her life has been inspirational to all who know her. 285 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles has returned from Houston, where she stayed until her mother underwent successful heart surgery. She returns home to assist in caring for her mother and the three Miles sons, ages seventeen, fifteen, and twelve. She is attracted to Steve Rey, the son of her mother's close friend, but Jim Long, whom she met in Houston, is competing for her attentions. A phone call in the dead of the night summons the family to the hospital where her mother has been put due to complications. W After the first tears at the shock of losing her mother, Jennifer's composure was marvelous, and beneficial to the rest of the family. She set about the tasks before her with serenity and a calmness that, at times, amazed even herself. She had been grateful to have Bea there for those first difficult weeks. The older woman's quiet, unobtrusive assistance and compassionate understanding were 286 Chapter 6 most welcome, and aided Jennifer in getting her bearings for the months ahead. By the time Bea returned to Houston, Jennifer was in firm control. It was a bright day in late September. Jennifer stepped outside for a breath of air. It was autumn. That had been her mother's favorite time of year. The valley lay clothed in colorful beauty, and harvest time was near. The air was no _ longer heavy with the stifling heat of summer, nor had the nip of winter begun to appear. It was a pleasant time. For more than a month, Jennifer had been manager of the household. She was so grateful that her mother had seen fit to prepare her for this, even though, at the time, she had not known the preparation process was taking place gradually and surely. She was glad that she remembered so many of the talks she had had with her mother during those last months. She could better understand the personalities and needs of her father and the boys, because her mother had given her so much insight and meaningful advice on how to cope with certain situations. She had always said to welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself, and now Jennifer knew that this was such a task. She sighed very deeply. The set of her jaw was solid. There was a job that must be done, and it was her responsibility. The decisions she made now, and the methods she used in handling the situations that were bound to arise, would have a profound effect on her three _ brothers, even upon their eternal progression. She knew that it was only a matter of time before the deep shock of their mother's death wore off, and that their reverence would be replaced by normalcy, that her authority would be challenged. Common sense told her that each of them had a mind of his own, and none of them was perfect. Fortunately, they had been well brought up, but the removal of their mother's influence from their lives would leave a void, and they would try their wings, and there would be problems to solve for life was full of challenges, anyway, she thought. In her new role as homemaker for the family, Jennifer had little time to ponder her own future. She had a responsibility to fulfill, and she knew that she had been guided toward this. Welcome the Task There was little romance in her relationship with Steve at this time, but he had been a tremendous help to her. The thing which disturbed Jennifer most was that her father seemed lost and totally disinterested in what was going on about him. He barely noticed that the meals she prepared were nutritious and attractively presented, or that the house was as spotless and beautiful as it had ever been. But far more serious was the fact that he took no interest in the boys, who needed him now more than ever. This was Dave's important senior year, and as captain of the football team, he was an important man about the school, and as small towns go, he was somewhat of a hero to many people. He was beginning to take a real interest in girls, and needed a man's advice and encouragement. Jennifer was unable to fill the role of both mother and father. It was at this point Steve came to her rescue. Jennifer was sitting on the front porch trying to plan the coming week's menu, but lost in her own thoughts. "Why so solemn, Jenny?" he asked, seating himself on the step beside her. "Oh, Steve," she said, "I just don't know what to do. Dad doesn't seem to take any interest in what's going on around here, and the boys need him. I can't seem to reach him at all." "He's really lost without your mother, isn't he?" "Yes, and I knew he would be, but I can't bear to see the boys suffer this way, too. I can under- 287 April 1969 stand how it is for Dad, but I don't think I can explain it to them, for they've lost their mother, who gave them every ounce of love she had, and it can't be replaced." "Ts there a specific problem right now?" Steve asked. "Well, nothing has been said, but I can sense that Dave feels as though he may as well not even try. It was Dad who interested him in football. I know something about the game, but not enough to be anything but enthusiastic. He wants to discuss plays and such, and Pete and Sam just don't know enough about it, and all Dad gives him is vague attention." "There I can be of some help," Steve said rising. "Is he in the house?" Jennifer nodded and watched him disappear. She hated to burden Steve with all her problems, but he was always helpful. With Jim, she could relax and enjoy an evening and forget about the pressures at home, but Steve always took action, and she always felt free to tell him about the latest uproar in the family. She wondered about her feelings for the two young men. She depended heavily upon Steve, and his coming over several times a week, if only briefly, to be of help or keep her company. Occasionally, they would go someplace. If he knew about Jim, he said nothing, although he had been over several times when she was out with Jim. Jim had the uncanny knack for making her laugh. He was briliant both in his studies and his handling of people. He would make a fine lawyer, she thought. 288 Nothing would stand in the way of his success, and he had his future mapped out nearly to the finest detail. Several times he had hinted that Jennifer could share in that future, but she had not encouraged such conversation, for her father and her brothers were her major concern for the time being. She thought about the night of his fraternity party. It had been a costume affair, and Jim had suggested they go as Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy. In the little spare time she could muster between the study load she was carrying, the housework, and her Church obligations, she had made them costumes that had turned out, even she admitted, extremely well. She had been somewhat hesitant when Jim suggested in the middle of the party that they go to the student union center to go bowling. She had told him how embarrassing it would be to have people staring at them. "Nonsense," he insisted. "It's Halloween night, what could be more perfect? We could go trick or treating, if you would rather." Another couple had joined in, and they had indeed gone trick or treating around the other sorority and fraternity houses. Even Jennifer admitted that it had been fun. However, Jim still insisted that they go bowling afterwards, and the other couple joined them. After a while Jennifer forgot everything but the good time she was having. She could momentarily forget that Dave's homecoming game was to be soon, and that his father might not attend. She could forget about the test that she must take Monday, and must pass well above average to qualify for student teaching. There were many things she could forget in that moment of merriment. On the way home they were still in a gay mood. Jim glanced at her and commented, "Jenny, you need to laugh like this more often, you let things bother you too much." "What do you mean, Jim?" "You worry too much about your brothers and your father, you've got to think of yourself, too, you know." "Oh, Jim," she insisted, "I do. And I'm finishing school as I have always wanted to. They are all wonderful about helping me." "T still think you work too hard. I wish I could think of a way to make it easier. You stick with me, honey, and you'll never want for anything. As soon as I get my degree, I'l] have it made." Jennifer didn't like talk like this. For several weeks he had been putting on gentle pressure, and dropping little hints she wasn't ready for. Whenever Steve was around the house when Jim came, he started out the evening just a little sullen, yet he had known better than to demand that she not allow Steve to come. For this she was grateful, for she did enjoy Jim's company, but she enjoyed Steve's help and companionship also. "Look Jim, a shooting star." "Make a wish, Jenny." "T wish I didn't have to study for a test tomorrow, and that you would turn up the radio just a little, I love that song." A flash of lightning interrupted her reminiscing. She so hoped Welcome the Task that it wouldn't rain for Dave's game tomorrow. Her father wouldn't be home but Steve was taking his mother, Jennifer, Pete, and Sam over to Provo. It could be the deciding factor in the State championship. ' Jennifer sighed and went back to her menu planning. It was hard to plan around the likes and dislikes of the three boys, especially Sam. She knew that her mother made them eat what was placed before them, and measured dessert portions by the size of vegetable portions, but she had tried to avoid confrontations by cooking what everyone liked. She knew that sooner or later, however, an issue was bound to come up. She had attempted to discuss household budgeting with her father, but he had merely told her to use what she needed, for there was plenty. Jennifer, frugal by nature, had put herself on a budget that would challenge her creativity somewhat. Just as she finished the shopping list, Steve returned. "I think I helped a little, Jenny. But you're right. He has college and a mission facing him very soon, and he needs to share his success and failures with someone." "T guess I am just going to have to try harder," she sighed wearily. "You try too hard already, Jenny," Steve said, gently placing an arm about her shoulder. "I wish I could help you more." "You've helped me more than you'll ever know, Steve, and I appreciate it so much." She was amazed to find tears very near the surface. 289 April 1969 Steve sensed this and pulled her closer, his jaw tightening noticeably. He said nothing as Jennifer shed the tears that had been locked away for so long. Wordlessly he handed her a handkerchief. When, at last, she had regained her self-control, she looked up at him. His eyes were a steely gray and there was a faraway look in them. "I'm sorry, Steve, I guess I'm just tired." "Don't be sorry, Jenny," he said tenderly. "Don't ever be sorry for that." He kissed her gently and bade her farewell, turning to wave as he closed the gate. "See you tomorrow," he called softly. Jennifer found the days becoming increasingly more difficult. She continued with the typing for Dr. Moran, although at times it was a toilsome task to keep up with the housework, schoolwork, and the typing. "T declare," she told Nyta Rey one afternoon over a glass of tart lemonade, "I didn't realize those boys owned so many shirts and trousers." "You really should let me help you, Jenny, I don't keep too busy with just Steve and myself." Jennifer smiled. '"You've helped in so many ways as it is. No, I can handle this ironing. It was never one of my favorite tasks, but I'm learning to like it more and more. I'm just glad they aren't girls." "Well, just this little piece of advice then. You make certain that those boys can at least iron a shirt passably before you send them out to the mission field." "Oh, I will Sister Rey." | Nyta was about to leave. 290 "Don't you think it is time you called me _ something _ besides Sister Rey?" she asked. "T'll try to remember, it's hard after so long," Jennifer smiled, liking Steve's mother more each day. "Well, call me Nyta, anyway. Although I would like it to be Mom someday." Jennifer picked up the meaning of this pointed remark and blushed. She wondered if any remarks like that were made to Steve, and what his reactions were, probably a loving brush-off, she guessed. She wished she didn't blush so much when someone suggested that she might like to become Mrs. Rey. It never embarrassed her when Pete asked if she was really going to marry that "Long fellow," but when he reminded her that Steve was a pretty terrific fellow, she could feel the redness creep into her cheeks. Then Sam would call everyone's attention to the fact that Jennifer was blushing, and she would turn redder and redder. She wouldn't be surprised if the entire neighborhood knew the goings on of the Miles household, at least when Sam commented upon anything. She was surprised one evening when Dave came in to give a helping hand with the dishes. "Why thank you," she said, genuinely pleased. He had been so quiet lately that she was worried about him. He began somewhat awkwardly. "I know Dad will be out of town again next week, but on Thursday we're having this play at school, and I have this date / Mes with Kathy—you don't know her," he added hastily. Jennifer was interested. "And you need some money or my car?" "Qh, no, it's not that. I still have plenty of the money I saved from my job for spending, and as soon as football season is over I'll be working Saturdays again." Jennifer looked at his handsome face. It was flushed. She was very certain that he was going to ask a favor of her, but what, she had no idea. "Well, uh," he began again. "T__well, I was wondering if you would mind if she came over to dinner that night. I want you to meet her and all," he rushed on. "Why, Dave, I would be delighted to have her come. We all would," she added. "It's nice that you want us to meet her. I'm only sorry Dad can't be here." Dave ducked his head and mumbled, "Don't be, it doesn't matter to him anyway." Jennifer knew that this could not go on. She vowed that she Welcome the Task was going to have a talk with her father. It had been more than three months now, and his sons needed him, and so did she. Her angry thoughts were interrupted by Dave. "Another thing. Do you think you could invite Steve, or that other fellow if you'd rather, then it wouldn't look like she was on display or something?" ' Jennifer smiled. "Of course.! And how about if we invite Nyta that night. It might be nice to have an adult around." Jennifer began mentally to plan what she would serve. Once more Dave interrupted. "Would you talk to Sam and keep him from making comments?" Jennifer promised, resisting the temptation to remind him of the many times he had embarrassed her in front of a young man. She didn't wish to run the risk of having him cut himself off again, now that an opening had been made. Jennifer was pleasantly surprised to find her father willing to listen and most cooperative as she approached him nervously about the family problem of which he was so much a part. When she told him about the dinner, he offered to cut the trip short and be home that evening. He would indeed put forth more effort on behalf of his family, he promised. Jennifer wished that she had approached him earlier, he was so cooperative. It made her heart lighter to think that things were really improving around the house. It was a good feeling. (To be continued) 291 292 - i A Les lLes~ yoo 1968 ye ' iN ¥ Magazine Honor Rol R Ly Counselor Marianne C. Sharp ji! - PR aennany recipes, and Many express th articles. Others tell of their de The Genera! Board 'S doing alj in its Power to Maintain the Subscription Price at $2 which has been in effect since November 1957. In Subscription Price, and Since the advertisments are held to a minimum, it is essential that the increase in Subscriptions continue Satisfactorily, The Calling Ofa Magazine representative is therefore One of importance, needing April 1969 293 Honors for Highest Rating STAKE Magazine Representative—Dona Osborn 192 South Los Angeles _ ~~. Dona Osborn 181 Huntington Park ~__-_-_ Joy B. Snell 141 East Rigby _-_____-_-~Norma Rounds 139 Inglewood ______-- Edith Pew WARD Athens Ward, Atlanta Stake (Georgia) 257% 139 Long Beach ______-Erma Halls 134 Glendale..______~-Dorotha M. Beers 134 Mojave __.--.-----Doris J. McDaniel 133. Los Angeles _._..--Nola Whipple 132 San Fernando __-_-_-~-Betty M. Read Western States—121% MISSION Magazine Representative—Arline M. Scott ELEVEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN MISSIONS 121 Western States __.-_-Arline M. Scott 113 North Central States.. Marguerite J. Satterfield -.. | = 110 Alaskan-Canadian _ _. — Erma T. Hinckley 105 Cumorah __..-_----~-Mary S. Bankhead 101 Southern Australian... Kariyne C. Russon 100 New England___-_--~-Jeanne Dunn 100 ~Florida -~________~-Marva S. Rudd MISSION BRANCH Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 South Los Angeles (California) 192% Magazine Representative—Margot N. Johnson MISSION DISTRICT Magazine Representative—Lucille Renfro Hopkinsville Branch, Kentucky West District East Central States Mission 409% Magazine Representative—Shirley Bromley TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN STAKES 139 Phoenix West ____--Rae D. Levie Kentucky West District, East Central States Mission 204% «199 alifornia._.__..._. Ardella Davey 106 West Central States _. _ Nancy L. Jenkins 98 Central States _._._-Lola R. West 98 Northern States ___—_Artemisia H. Henderson *Limited Representation (One district only) 294 i ate est—---.- PinilliseRenjg) TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1456 1366 1307 1249 1201 Glendale Mesa South Los Angeles Huntington Park. Timpanogos 1174 1143 1134 1124 1110 Rigby Ensign East Cache San Fernando Bonneville 1504 916 758 749 722 Florida East Central States Eastern Atlantic Statés North Central States Alaskan-Canadian April 1969 TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 631 604 581 561 550 Central States Northwestern States Northern States New England West Central States STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER = we... 4Eloise M. Wyrouck Ammon ___...-.--Ruth T. Milton Ashley....--.---Alice T. Wall Bannock........ Clara C. Christensen Bear River __.._ --Melba J. Capener Boise _...._-----Genevieve Creswell Bonneville._._---June W. Kasteler Bountiful South _ - - ~ Colleen Poulsen Box Eider _._.. --Cleo N. Dixon Brigham City -.. ~~ -Hilda R. Forrest Burbank _.._--_--Virginia W. Starke Burley _......---Ruth S. Lyons Canoga Park _ -... Dorotha Means Cedar West _____--Hazel B. Davies Covina _~___.—--- Colleen C. Boman FeeEdith Pew Kolob _____-----Verla B. Roundy Las Vegas ____---Fannie H. Bloxham Las Vegas Central.. - Lily M. Childers Las Vegas North. - - - Vaun S. Klingonsmith Long Beach ___---Erma Halls Malad ____..----Gloria R. Gleed eeMary Jewel Vollentine a. -_Ethelyn J. Madsen aMartha J. H. Matern neGladys V. Broadhead Modesto __------Gaylene Beier Mojave __-------Doris J. McDaniel Monument Park _. — - Ruth B. Parkinson Mount Logan - _. - - - Elaine D. Passey Mount Ogden ——Fern H. Ewer Mesa Mill Creek Minidoka Pocatello...-.-.-Alice Brandt Pomona__.------Nora R. Perdue Provo _____.~-_--LaRue B. Davies Redding....-..--Amelia Daniels Reseda.__.__---Bonnie Parry Rexburg......-.-..-Mary K. Welker Riverdale _____..-Perneica D. Fiet Roy ______-----Dorothy F. Oleson Roy North __...--Afton A. Johnson St. Joseph _____--Genevieve Woods San Diego East __-~.-— Pearl McCaleb San Diego South ~~ - Isabell Allphin San Fernando __-_--Betty M. Read Santa Rosa_..-...-Jean Porter Seattle...-....--Virginia D. Miller Sevier _.-..-.---Manetta 295 East Idaho Falls. - - - East Jordan _.__--Etta M. Whittaker East Los Angeles - -. Thora B. Rogers East Phoenix._—-- - East Rigby _-_____-Norma Rounds Ensign.~.....---Mildred O. Sloan Fullerton...-._--Juanita Barfuss Grand Coulee - - - - -Lula Gilbert Granger.....-.--Viola G. Johnson Granite _-....----Bertha K. Cundick Grant _-_-...--.__-lreta T. Stevens Hayward ___.-__-Marjorie £. Marshall Holladay._.___-. Lillian B. Carroll Huntington Park ~~~ Joy B. Snell 192 South Los Angeles 128 181° Huntington Park 128 141 East Rigby 128 139 Inglewood 127 139 Long Beach 127 139. Phoenix West 127 134 Glendale 127 134 Mojave 126 133 Los Angeles 126 132 San Fernando 125 131 Canoga Park 125 130 San Diego East 125 129 Rexburg 125 128 Kansas City 125 128 North Box Elder 125 128 Modesto 125 Chicago Burley Concord Bannock Boise Palomar Grant Mesa El Monte Marin Seattle North Box Elder.. _ North Davis ~.__-- North Idaho Falls _ _ — North Pocatello ___ North Rexburg _ _ — - - North Tooele ___-_ - Oquirrh East ____.- Palmyra... -..- Palomar LaVaun Allen Lila Y. Rader Ardell T. Stoker Maurine N. Grimmett Sara Anna Fisher Maurine R. Pocock Ann Russell Evelyn Bridges Eleanor D. Olsen Amaretta H. Graves June T. Allen South Idaho Falls _ __ Esther R. Hales South Los Angeles -_- Dona Osborn South Salt Lake _ -. _ Hannah M. Dietrich Sunset ___...-_-Kathryn S. Shelton Uintah _~__-._____Stella Richards Uteh Se eeFaye Christensen West Pocatello _ _. _ _Zola M. Jacobs West Utah _______ Beth W. Baker Whittier... 22. Beulah D. Mickel Wilford __.___.- _-Mary W. Coons Las Vegas Parleys...------- aePearl T. Jacobson —_—-Rae D. Levie Phoenix North Phoenix West Honor Roll 124 East Los Angeles 124 Santa Rosa South Idaho Falls 123 124 123 123 123 123 123 122 122 121 121 San Jose South 121 121 120 Phoenix North Rigby Southern Arizona Huntington Beach Ensign Oakland-Berkeley Sydney Milwaukee Las Vegas Central Antelope Valley Wayne Minidoka St. Joseph Walnut Creek Norwalk West Pocatello 120 120 120 120 120 120 120 119 119 119 118 118 118 118 118 118 Stakes by Percentages—1968 Burbank Anaheim Cheyenne Redding East Phoenix Covina Las Vegas North Cassia Pomona Utah Sunset East Long Beach Great Falls Shelley Long Island Phoenix 118 118 117 117 117 117 117 116 116 116 116 116 116 116 116 116 East Idaho Falls Lewiston South Salt Lake Roy North Provo Moapa Hayward Ashley Alameda Monument Park Grand Coulee Brigham City Cedar West El Paso West Utah San Diego South Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 296 115 115 115 115 115 115 115 115 115 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 112 112 112 112 Edmonton Taylor North Tooele Denver West Napa Virginia Reseda Cumorah Redondo Granite Scottsdale New Jersey Whittier Mount Ogden Oquirrh East Nyssa Fullerton San Luis Obispo East Jordan Taylorsville West Idaho Falls Pocatello North Seattle San Jose St. Johns Holladay Puget Sound Santa Barbara Denver Sharon Boston, Mill Creek St. Louis Duchesne 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 Philadelphia Twin Falls Box Elder Snowflake Corvallis Maricopa Pasadena North Davis North Idaho Falls Roy West Covina Cedar Rapids Grand Junction Simi New York North Rexburg South Cottonwood Ammon Granger Toronto Olympus Springville Sevier Fort Worth South Box Elder East Mesa Kolob Palm Springs Billings Calgary Albuquerque Lake View East Cache Nampa 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 (Continued) Sugar House Farr West Grand Coulee North Portland San Juan San Leandro Columbia River Millard Detroit San Jose West North Carbon Corpus Christi Chicago South Parowan Teton Alberta South Blackfoot Liberty Uvada Nebo Spanish Fork Tooele San Joaquin. South Summit Fresno Portneuf Raft River Casper Canyon Rim East Ogden Oklahoma Rialto Weber Heights Lansing Yellowstone Tacoma Garden Grove Kearns North University West South Davis Washington Terrace Carbon Bountiful East Mill Creek Valley View Gunnison Palo Alto Taylorsville Orem West Blaine Bear Lake Butte American River Clearfield Lethbridge Missoula Medford Benson Davis Lehi Vancouver Sandy Calgary North Smithfield New Jersey Central Cottonwood April 1969 Willamette Yakima Wind River Greensboro Orlando Pioneer Richland Tulsa Hillside Kearns New Orleans Grantsville North Weber Fort Wayne Butler Alaska South Carolina Hunter Hartford Lake Mead Brisbane Ben Lomond South Olympia South Sanpete Layton North Sacramento Denver South Houston Summit: Albuquerque East Minnesota Macon Butler West 297 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 112 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 Santa Monica Florida Palmyra Mount Logan Portland West Raleigh Redwood Riverdale Boise North Juab West Sharon San Mateo Taber Potomac Malad Santa Ana Woodruff Bountiful South American Fails — Bear River Uintah Las Vegas East Wilford Klamath West Boise Seattle East Zion Park East Sharon Hamilton Mesa South Mount Rubidoux San Diego Oneida Timpanogos Washington Big Horn Bonneville 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 Fremont Roosevelt Young Cannon Newport Beach Star Valley North Pocatello Oquirrh. Reno Granite Park Deseret Houston East Lost River Emigration St. George Highland Parleys St. George East Wells Blackfoot Weber Franklin North Columbia River Granger North Mount Olympus Murray Monument Park West Mount Jordan Cedar Dallas Panguitch East Provo Holladay South Tucson Logan Santa Maria South Bear River Reno North Santaquin-Tintic San Francisco Riverton Ogden Melbourne North Sanpete Union Alpine Gooding Spokane Mount Graham Rose Park Beaver Manchester Juarez Wichita Idaho San Luis Temple View Park San Antonio Tempe Humboldt Montpelier Rose Park North South Carolina West East Pocatello Hyrum Perth Salt Lake Monterey Bay Torrance Yuma Fair Oaks Arlington Craig Pasco Wasatch Bountiful East Weiser Sacramento San Bernardino Cache Flagstaff Salem Orem - Atlanta Gridley Moroni Lorin Farr American Fork Lyman South Sevier Pikes Peak Sydney South Bakersfield 'Fresno East Salmon River West Jordan Columbus Ben Lomond North Jordan Kaysville Garfield Winder Norfolk Nevada North Sevier Shreveport Coeur d'Alene Illinois Hattiesburg Indianapolis North Carolina Winter Quarters Bountiful North Cascade South Ogden Morgan Midvale Adelaide Emery South Carolina East Honolulu Auckland South Memphis Cleveland Miami Beaumont Sandy East Alabama Cincinnati Leicester Tampa Layton East London East Midvale Leeds Jackson Glasgow Oahu Pear| Harbor Hamilton South Wellington Sunderland Hawkes Bay Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 298 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Stakes on Honor Roll—196 Magazine Representative Relief Society Oo 'ae ww Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. April 1969 Magazine Representative Adelaide Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Albuquerque East Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Antelope Valley Arlington Ashley Atlanta Auckland Auckland South Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn 243 536 361 780 362 342 770 415 654 523 606 662 367 406 634 425 385 207 686 356 501 547 305 565 937 626 668 838 —— | rT 192 624 311 797 388 282 759 459 592 493 657 793 448 392 738 386 314 161 617 450 473 605 231 555 838 525 626 921 427 79 116 86 102 107 82 99 111 91 94 108 120 122 97 116 91 82 78 90 126 94 111 76 98 89 84 94 110 108 Ronda L. Serle Eloise M. Wyrouck Cecil Olsen Marion Law Vera K. Hamilton Margaret B. Wollsieffer Eloise C. Ferguson Verna Larson Mayme J. Baker Joan Eagle Ruth T. Milton Esther Pomeroy Lyla Sather Tula Berry Alice T. Wall Claudia D, Fleming Colleen P. Main Pareaute Paniora Verda C. Dallon Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Melba J. Capener Hattie Moss Daisy Gillins S. Elaine Wade Martha S. Dillon Meredith B. Hall LeNore B. Lewis Coeur d'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corpus Christie Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas Davis Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello 342 670 382 599 144 257 643 638 289 479 499 815 442 491 645 714 664 415 1097 670 619 791 805 697 712 lie DEMOT? CmmetsErOvo O86 301 692 342 760 148 281 596 763 267 549 523 764 498 410 743 759 684 466 1174 788 705 936 1031 751 678 839 699 624 718 Dorothy L. Bennett Ava R. Hill Opal V. Six M. Nadine Smith Lorene Ricker Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Colleen C. Boman Ida L. Bair Margaret G. Stoner Elsa B. Neil Marie S. Lloyd Ada Bell Norman Virginia L. Potter Phyllis Benfell Erma E. Cropper Mattie R. Tuft Thelda M. Halstead Rachel Blaser Connie Dee Kane Etta M. Whittaker Nadine Ellis Thora B. Rogers Mary L. Adams Lola Condie Katherine W. Eckenbrecht LaVerne Marley Arlean M. Is 321 299 Boise Boise North Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butler West Butte Cache Calgary Calgary North Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar Rapids Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Clearfield Cleveland 575 605 1011 464 857 733 816 902 486 563 279 749 827 423 522 665 686 350 396 639 448 979 730 463 264 417 503 251 582 461 393 487 759 485 821 304 723 675 1110 521 817 672 660 999 532 652 236 898 1053 365 426 627 629 376 369 682 589 984 696 374 266 497 528 273 674 552 504 500 715 372 107 107 131 101 101 119 105 109 116 120 128 103 94 77 Genevieve Creswell Anna T. Scott June W. Kasteler Shirley J. Blomberg Merle L. Moss Janice G. Stewart Margene D. Peterson Colleen Poulsen Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest E. E. Orth Virginia W. Starke Ruth S. Lyons Gladys R. Loveless Vera E. Cowley Jeannette P. Bradfield Norma J. Thompson Pearl Galleys Theodora Stevenson Elsie Duehlmeier Dorotha Means Anne L. Halverson Lorraine Stevens Hazel J. Tavis Jean Oakley Emma C. Payne Nettie K. Morris Constance Bennion Hazel B. Davies Deanna J. Hoyt Vilda Page Violet Coffing Thelma M. Haslam Eleanor R. Williams Edmonton El Monte El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Fair Oaks Farr West Flagstaff Florida Fort Wayne Fort Worth Franklin Fremont Fresno Fresno East Fullerton Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Coulee North Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Gunnison 665 976 461 450 511 685 610 914 404 770 603 723 358 355 811 419 496 507 544 449 287 1089 695 420 304 547 635 681 608 667 799 606 377 384 958 443 940 1076 532 561 591 542 647 1124 391 799 552 810 309 383 854 448 502 456 620 430 256 1456 685 487 SIS 595 688 716 696 710 998 526 446 336 869 421 141 110 115 125 116 79 106 123 97 104 92 112 86 108 105 107 101 90 114 96 89 134 99 116 104 109 108 105 114 106 125 87 118 88 91 95 Elsie H. Shields Voile E. Mason Maud T. Bentley Ella Maxfield Reva B. Holt Mildred O. Sloan Carla S. Everts Nora K. Poulsen Lula E. Orter Vera M. Williams Alice Green Clara E. Wilson Edna P. Lemmon Ruth Hunt Myrla Stidham Betty J. Wright Juanita Barfuss Beverly Anderson Melba Gates Dorotha M. Beers Hazel Gines Lula Gilbert Mary H. Anthon Arda Luster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Bertha K. Cundick Lythia J. Street lreta T. Stevens Olive T. Western Wilma |. Miles Ruth M. Brewer Vera Allred Amy L. Thompson Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 Stakes on Honor Roll—1968 (Continued) 300 April 1969 EnrollSubscriptions EnrollSubscriptions Relief Society ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Relief Society ment No. Pct. Magazine Representative Hamilton 175 193 110 A. Merle Jones Minidoka 787 956 121 Gladys V. Broadhead Hartford 318 272 86 Ella Kohler Minnesota 544 447 82 Arthella M. Basinger Hattiesburg 275 224 81 Missoula 526 496 94 Pearl Dunlap Hayward 468 546 117 Marjorie E. Marshail Moapa 337 3904 117 Vera W. Hardy Highland 644 683 106 Elizabeth H. Kartchner Modesto 519 666 128 Gaylene Beier Hillside 1082 940 87 Ella N. Christensen Mojave 397. 531 134 Doris J. McDaniel Holladay Beil 621 113 Lillian B. Carroll Monterey Bay 321 311 97 Anna Jensen Holladay South 490 512 105 Blanche D. Garff Montpelier 877 856 98 Jean C. Keetch Honolulu. 641 503 78 Lois G. Weggeland Monument Park 668 777. 116 Ruth B. Parkinson Houston _ 335 280 84 Mary E. Mills Monument Park West 713 749 105 Florence Carter Houston East 306 325 106 Lucille Krumnow Morgan 457 365 80 Glenna Porter Humboldt 293 286 98 Elaine Dicks Moroni 383 374 91 Betty A. Cook Hunter 643 551 86 Norma M. Scott Mount Graham 7382 770 98 Mae Mulleneaux Huntington Beach 366 451 123 Pearl C. Watson Mount Jordan 670 704 105 Ruth C. Gull Huntington Park 689 1249 181 Joy B. Snell Mount Logan 891 997 112 Elaine D. Passey Hyrum 847 826 98 Arlene B. Hall Mount Ogden 718 820 114 Fern H. Ewer Idaho 520. 509 98 Hazel Osburn Mount Olympus 620 652 105 °#£ForaH. Lerch Idaho Falls 664 753 113 June Keller Mount Rubidoux 430 474 110 Barbara J. Taylor Wlinois 408 359 88 Shauna S. Larsen Murray 662 697. 105 Liesel Barthel indianapolis 645 525 81 Belva O. Wheeler Murray South 1057. 1057 100 _ # Anne €E. Sanders Inglewood 656 914 139 Edith Pew Nampa 1017. 1089 107 Louise S. Tobler Juab 562 627 112 Rita S. Andrews Napa 650 748 115 LaVaun Allen Juarez 103 101 98 Rhoda C. Taylor Nebo 718 729 102 Grace Wightman Kanab * 545 505 93 Esther B. Tait Nevada 495 438 88 Lu Atkin Kansas City 650 835 128 Venna T. Witbeck New Jersey 313 358 114 Ella H. Farnsworth Kaysville 884 789 89 Marie K. Taylor New Jersey Central 320 297 93 Anita Scotto Kearns 518 450 87 LolitaC. Hendrix — New Orleans 435 378 87 RaeC. Lenthner Kearns North 626 599 359 390 109 Gellium S. Botfield | Klamath 229 2853 381407107 luli ae 301 Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas Central Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Layton Lehi — Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Long Island Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Macon Maine Malad Manchester Maricopa Marin Medford Melbourne Memphis Mesa Mesa South Miami Midvale Millard Mill Creek Millwaukee 513 619 805 444 538 558 626 744 719 316 698 651 633 310 861 462 302 572 284 333 572 215 799 312 500 508 298 1095 675 464 637 623 684 380 549 599 1020 544 595 667 524 697 678 371 711 677 881 366 780 616 321 518 233 272 634 211 874 388 469 502 231 1365 744 353 503 643 769 466 lsora Olmstead Maralin P. Bennett Fannie H. Bloxham Lily M. Childers Christine Harvey Vaun S. Klingonsmith Carr! O. Preece Rosa M. Ashton Buelah Manser Effie W. Felsted Luella L. Birrell Luana J. Mortensen Erma Halls Gladys Edic Hazel G. James Nola Whipple Yvonne H. Johnson Barbara H. Slagowski Margaret A. Duff Lois J. Lackey Gloria R. Gleed Edna Hargreaves Olive Wallace Mary J. Vollentine Barbara Shepherd Grace Matthews Daisy Brooks Ethelyn J. Madsen Rae Lemmon Maggie Tolbert Zina Olson Maxine Robins Martha J. H. Matern Luin High North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis North 'Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympia Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Orem Orem West Orlando Palm Springs Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys 357 489 605 445 391 584 880 849 351 729 815 679 617 450 481 678 648 508 768 738 430 400 633 667 480 292 887 811 491 302 731 793 510 463 741 592 318 628 623 362 412 636 958 758 374 792 682 671 698 397 555 586 781 580 944 731 432 335 686 735 511 333 807 770 429 325 819 753 639 485 724 626 Lue Tweddell Katherine L. Bailey Sarah M. Williams Ardell T. Stoker Maurine N. Grimmett Virginia B. Latimer Sara Anna Fisher Maurine R. Pocock Mary E. Anglesey Connie Ames Dorothy W. Marlowe LaVerde S. Gurney Ann Russell Marvel W. Barrow Lois G. Sundberg Ethel Stoker Helene B. Christensen Jewel V. Avondet Geneva A. McCallister Minnie Grant Alfarette S. Liddle Jessie Swan Gevenevere M. Hickman Evelyn Bridges Virginia S. Lewis Marlene L. Harms Leone R. Johnson Beatrice M. Nielsen Eleanor D. Olsen Elaine H. Tuttle Amaretta H. Graves Theora B. Heap Pearl E. Rohde June T. Allen a:. Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 Stakes on Honor Roll— (Continued) 1968 303 Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Rose Park North Roy Roy North Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose South San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana lona N. Whiehead LeVon L. Usher Roberta Jones Doris B. Hensler Patsy R. Pearce Dorothy F. Oleson Afton A. Johnson Amanda E. Hurst Blanch G. Wright Ruby iverson Ivamarie S. Crosby Genevieve Woods Vasca Beal Ann Harris Shaunne Wetherington Idonna A. Tonne Carmen S. Martinez Mildred G. Simpson Mariellen D. Greer Pearl McCaleb Isabell Allphin Louise R. Neff Betty M. Read Beth Olsen Ronella M. Brough Joanne Slama Frances L. Blaisdell Vuiican L. Webb Merle J. McDonald lreta Wheeler Irene Mott Nellie C. Johnson Dorothy L. Nelson Abigail S. Millett Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Sunset Sydney Sydney South Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Tempe Temple View Teton Texas North Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek 755 645 815 752 901 424 358 231 269 399 716 685 571 412 474 573 560 229 1090 588 648 706 768 395 984 500 647 694 544 330 850 390 350 558 102 99 108 107 104 83 118 123 90 111 97 115 95 114 98 98 103 93 110 102 108 97 105 87 110 111 99 96 119 102 95 93 115 121 Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippetts Leta W. Coffman Anne W. Dean Ina G. Blonquist Kathryn S. Shelton Elsie Parton Mary Proctor Evelyn G. Johnson Margaret A. Avery Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Marjorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Kathleen V. Perschon Ruby Hogan Oma J. Patterson Velma Gillman Bertha J. Hogan Barbara Fitzgerald Mary Ann Stratford Elizabeth G. Martin Nona Moffat LaVella Pace Stella Richards Mar Jean Westerfield Margaret D. Scott Faye Christensen Ivy L. Edwards Lorna O. Mouser Carolyn Wotherspoon Ethel T. Sweet Mary J. Whitehead Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 304 EnrollSubscriptions No. Pct. Stakes on Honor Roll (Continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enroliment Subscriptions No. Rate Magazine Representative 766 856 431 419 714 803 601 1007 605 459 741 752 758 935 Emily B. Conrad Joyce Hoggan Edna B. Goodliffe Vonda Williams Glonda De Boer Verna K. Taylor Pearl M. Meacham Gertrude S. Fullmer lla Mae F. Dahl Gayle L. Brackner Evelyn Schmidt Zola M. Jacobs Marie W. Smith Beth W. Baker Mission Honor Whittier Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Roll—1968 591 262 697 603 227 754 359 776 360 902 722 427 427 676 257 770 529 199 672 292 860 316 873 772 413 471 114 98 111 88 88 89 81 111 88 97 107 97 110 April 1969 Beulah D. Mickel Thelma M. Spackman Mary W. Coons Myrtle Powell Artie W. Farthing Clara W. Cameron Dorothy M. Clark Orrie C. Muir LaRene Hall Leola Beddes Faye J. Flack Effie Nowland Arva Jepson Central Atlantic States 594 Eastern Atlantic States 979 OO 110 109 105 100 Erma T. Hinckley Marie B. Rasmussen Ardella Davey Janice J. Anderson Lola R. West Mary S. Bankhead Erma T. Eldredge Donna J. Bowen Marva S. Rudd Audrey Roberts Oma Wagstaff New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States South African Southern Australian Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States 100 Jeanne Dunn Marguerite J. Satterfield Artemisia H. Henderson Virginia P. Backman Eleanor A. Badger Karlyn C. Russon Maralyne H. Howe Nancy L. Jenkins LaNore D. Espenschied Arline M. Scott Relief Society Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central States Cumorah East Central States Florida Great Lakes Gulf States ment 830 778 451 343 677 801 656 953 548 422 825 625 680 809 659 91 638 643 489 1733 758 216 329 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities SOUTHEAST MEXICAN MISSION HOLDS ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, August 31, 1968 Seated, left to right, officers of the Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society: Angela Garcia D., Chorister; Orfa Solis Gonzales, visiting teacher message leader; Ernestina Mendoza de Fernandez, social relations class leader; Antonia David de Castillo, First Counselor; Ruth C. Romney, Supervisor; Bertha Morales E., President; ' Alicia G. De Llitheras, Second Counselor; Paula Jacome de Lépez, spiritual living class leader; Adelina Caraveo, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Romney reports: 'Our annual Relief Society Conference was held in Veracruz, Mexico. We were privileged to have Sister Franklin D. Richards in attendance at the opening session. 'In each of the departments, instructions were given for carrying out the programs. Each district brought its most unusual and beautiful articles and gave demonstrations on how they were made, and these were displayed in the cultural hall. "An original play, pointing out the importance of visiting teaching, was presented. Small gold painted keys were given to each sister pointing out the theme of the conference, 'Relief Society is the key that opens the door to knowledge and truth.' " 305 April 1969 WASATCH STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS WARD MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES, August 15, 1968 Left to right, front row: Dee Esta Jordan, First Counselor, Wasatch Stake Relief Society; Minnie McKenzie; Atha Montgomery, Second Counselor; Lacy Moulton; Nellie North; Gladys Duke; Ethel Broadbent, President. Back row, left to right: Emily Conrad, stake Magazine representative; Eva Kohler; Reba Davis; Gladys Lawton; Georgia Gardner; Melva Graham; Zenda Edwards. Sister Broadbent reports: ''Members of the stake board prepared and served a luncheon honoring the ward Magazine representatives. There were 250 sisters present to hear an inspiring report by Sister Ruth McClellan, of the eleven years she spent in Mexico while her husband served first on a building mission, then as a mission president. She told of what a great missionary tool the Magazine is."' ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), HIGHLAND WARD HONORS PAST RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, September 24, 1968 Front row, left to right: Maud Greenland; Vera Larson; Miriam Park; Esma Strassburg; Gertrude West. Back row, left to right: Anna Adams, present President; Melba Strassburg; Helga Sweat; Verda Jepperson; Thelma Chidester; Glenna Fae Buhler; Dora Bringhurst; Beth Hyde. Erma Burgess, President, Alpine Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For a fall social, the Highland Ward of our stake held a luncheon honoring the past presidents of the ward Relief Society. The tables were decorated in an autumn motif. Anna Adams narrated the tribute to the past presidents. Each was presented with a corsage, and gave a personal experience recalled from her time of service. "The ward was organized in 1915 and there have been twenty-four Relief Society presidents." COLLEGE OF SOUTHERN UTAH STAKE, SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HAS LARGE ATTENDANCE Officers of the Second Ward Relief Society, left to right: Jeanean Tullis, Counselor; Karen Aubrey, President; Marlene Savage, Counselor; Gwen McKane; Lara Halladay; Sandra Barton; Alene Wasden; Katharine Day; Pat Hollinger; Alice Heaton; Roberta Beagley; Ruth Busk. Wilma S. Petty, President, College of Southern Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Second Ward of our stake has a large attendance at each meeting. At the fall social, there were eighty-four present, and the attendance has averaged in the high seventies since then. The ward consists of students and wives of students. There are 100 babies in the ward under one year old. "The officers of the ward work hard to make Relief Society a success and enjoy the Magazine very much." 306 1 April 1969 SYDNEY SOUTH STAKE (AUSTRALIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS MAKE AFGHANS Pictured with their afghans, left to right: Laura Mapstone, South Harbour Ward; Joyce Barnett, Woolongong Ward; Pauline McMaugh, Hurtsville Ward; Doris Moore, Cabramatta Ward; Edna Waddell, Woolongong Second Ward; Germana Bosman, Sutherland Ward; Marie Lawrence, Fairfield Ward; Diane McGuigan, Bankstown Ward. Mavis E. Draper, President, Sydney South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Many of the sisters have learned to crochet at Relief Society meetings, and have created some very Jovely afghans." RICHLAND STAKE (WASHINGTON), KENNEWICK WARD HOLDS "BACK TO RELIEF SOCIETY'' FALL SOCIAL September 27, 1968 'Left to right: Sarah Bailey, spiritual living class leader, Kennewick Ward Relief - Society; Elaine Mansius, cultural refinement class leader. Evelyn N. Binns, President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Kennewick Ward held a very successful fall social, 'Back to Relief Society,' in keeping with the back to school theme of the season. Miniature slates were given to the sisters attend-. Ing, inviting them to join in the Relief Society program, and the decorations were centered around a red brick schoolhouse. "An original skit, musical numbers, readings, and tributes comprised the program, and lovely refreshments were served. The ward officers report that attendance at Relief Society has doubled since the social." a = ———— a CS WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES HONORED AT LUNCHEON September 13, 1968 Magazine representatives of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, left to right: Jacquelyn Harmon, Twenty-ninth Ward; Vilet Zundel, Ninth Ward; Faye Doman, Twenty-second Ward; LaVerne Gardner, Sixteenth Ward; Eliza Bevan, Twenty-sixth Ward; Eleanor Packer, Fifth Ward; Virginia Butterfield, Thirty-first Ward. Elma Winn, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A new subscription drive was organized under the direction of Zola Jacobs, stake Magazine representative. The ward selling the most new subscriptions was awarded a beautiful sego lily arrangement. "On September 13, 1968, a luncheon and program were given, honoring the ward Magazine representatives. The theme was 'Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine.' The Fifth Ward was presented the sego lily arrangement. "Each of the Magazine representatives who achieved over 100 per cent subscriptions in her ward was presented with a grape cluster arrangement."' 308 es eae - @ 9. 8< J 7° Qe 2-2 & | Dnt ae C3 5 } April 1969 UVADA STAKE (UTAH), ENTERPRISE SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE OUTSTANDING SUCCESS Officers of the Enterprise Second Ward, Uvada Stake, beginning second row, fifth from left: Rosella Jones, First Counselor; Thelma Staheli, President; Madge Hunt, Second Counselor; Deseret Bauer, Secretary-Treasurer. Bernice Phillips, President, Uvada Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'We are very proud of the visiting teachers in this ward. They have achieved five consecutive years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching, and are an inspiration to us all.'' TEXAS SOUTH MISSION, CRYSTAL CITY BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLES ''TEXAS MOSQUITOES" Front row, left to right: Sofia Nolasco; Miranda Stringham, missionary; Eleanor Castillo, First Counselor, Crystal City Branch Relief Society; Linda Stinebough. Back row, left to right: Aletha Tolman, President; Adelia Campos; Barbra Klopp; Mary Stinebough, Second Counselor; Blanca Campos. ° Geneal J. Larsen, Supervisor, Texas South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The sisters of the Crystal City Branch of the Southwest District of the mission have contributed heavily to their building fund by assembling 'Mr. And Mrs. Texas Mosquito.' The mosquitoes are made from the pod of a seed called 'Devil's Claws.' The project was started in 1963 and has been most successful. "The pods are scraped, painted, and dressed in felt clothing, complete with Texas hats. Requests for the mosquitoes have come from all over the country, and it has been said, 'Yes, the Texas Mosquito has become famous, and its beauty is greater than its bite'."' STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING), AFTON FIRST WARD PRESENTS ANNUAL STYLE REVIEW August, 1968 Models, left to right: Milinda Parks; Mary Ann Roberts; Jan Sorensen; Sharon Stauffer; Jane Anderson; Katie Thomas; Karen Thomas. Clarissa Merritt, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Afton First Ward of our stake presented their annual style review, which culminated a summer of sewing projects. All of the lovely articles worn by the models are homemade and very pretty. "The sisters look forward to this style review each year, and there were fortyeight entries. Sarah Walker is President of the Afton First Ward Relief Society." 310 "S~—_ ~"IH Ul]: am es i - ll sa. Qj | —_— 'va pb i i _- KEARNS NORTH STAKE (UTAH), KEARNS SEVENTEENTH WARD PRESENTS SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR September 20, 1968 Helen M. Dall, President, Kearns North Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held a successful bazaar, with the theme, 'Carnival Time.' There was a great emphasis on the children, who enjoyed the bazaar almost as much as their parents. "Food was in all forms, but the tacos and root beer were the large sellers. There was a beauty shop where the little girls could get their hair fixed and a ribbon put in it all for ten cents. "The display pictured is the 'Family Home Evening Booth,' and here helps were sold, ranging from various charts to activity sheets. "The booths which sold handmade articles were popular and stocked with very lovely articles made by the sisters. There was a dress shop which sold clothing made by the best seamstresses in the ward from material bought and distributed by the Relief Society. "All in all, this is one of the most successful bazaars ever held in the stake, and a family treat." 312 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 10—Gardening Appearance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1969 Southern Hemisphere: December 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how the appearance of the immediate outside areas contributes to a desired home environment. INTRODUCTION Traditionally, the Persian found in his garden a paradise on earth, with water to provide irrigation and serenity, grass and trees to give coolness and shelter, flowers to furnish color and fragrance, and the soothing sound of Singing birds to delight the ear. A love of gardens is not confined to the Persians. Everyone delights in a garden. Today, the world over, the lawns and gardens are considered to be a part of the home itself. If there is a rich, warm, glowing home life, the surroundings will reflect and partake of the same qualities. If there is friendliness and _ hospitality in the home, there will be an inviting and welcoming atmosphere in the garden also. We have learned that gardens are to be lived in and enjoyed and that they are an integral part of our household. There is no cottage nor humble abode of any kind which cannot be enhanced and made more inviting by the appearance of a well-kept garden and surroundings. WHAT ARE THE CHARACTERISTICS OF A DESIRED HOME ENVIRONMENT? 1. Well-cared-for lawns and curbings. The lawns are kept well watered, weeded, and trimmed. (Many lawns which are green and cut look ragged and even unsightly because of untrimmed edges.) Francis Bacon wrote in his essay on gardening, 'Nothing is more pleasing to the eye than green grass finely shorn." 2. A yard free from all unnecessary clutter 313 April 1969 3. Walks and entrances well swept and free from dirt, ice, or excess moisture. 4. Hose and other gardening equipment inconspicuously placed or housed. Trees and shrubs pruned and trimmed. 6. Garden plots and_ shrubbery kept free from weeds and undergrowth. Outdoor living space made pleasant to look at in all seasons, with appropriate planting, arbors, fences, and other such features. (A well-kept patio adds to outside enjoyment.) 8. Fences, gates, and walls kept neat and in good repair. 9. Garden furniture, urns, flower boxes, and other embellishments in good repair and_ properly placed and arranged. (A garden or grounds should never be crowded with bric-a-brac. Garden furnishings should be adequate and functional and should add to, not detract from, its overall appearance.) on "I HOW CAN WE ACHIEVE BEAUTY IN OUR GARDENS AND GROUNDS? Like any worthwhile project, a successful garden requires time and effort on the part of those who would achieve this goal. Many people, even when they can afford to consult a professional landscape architect or to hire a gardener, want the satisfaction which comes from doing their own gardening and experiencing the excitement which follows. Homes with small plots of ground hold opportunities for development as interesting and as beautiful as the larger places, and certainly the rewards are just as great. It is surprising how many useful and _ attractive features can be worked into the comparatively small home grounds if planned for carefully. 314 Nottingham Lace Calilecloths Famous throughout the world. Cotton lace 55"x70" $6.50 70''x90" 7.50 108''x90"' 8.50 Terylene 70"'x90" 9.50 All Post Charges Paid. Leach and Tooley 65 Mill Road Newthorpe Nottingham, England New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _- 55 Zone5 -_-_--..75) Zone3 _~_....60 Zone6 __---.85 Zone4 _~_-_-_..65 Zone7.~-_-.-.95 Zone8___~ - -1.05 fi = OESERET FREwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Continental Trailways Escorted Tours HISTORIC EAST 19 Days from Salt Lake City 6 Departures during July Famous places of historic interest to members of the L. D. S. Church as well as the standard scenic attractions of the areas visited. You'll travel via: e CHICAGO © NIAGARA FALLS e PALMYRA PAGEANT @ NEW YORK CITY © WASHINGON D. C. E RICHMOND e ST. LOUIS CANADIAN ROCKIES 15 Days from Salt Lake City Departure Date: August 15 e BANFF e LAKE LOUISE. E JASPER NAT'L. PARK AND ICEFIELDS « VANCOUVER e VICTORIA © SEATTLE These are just a few of many scenic attractions you'll visit on these escorted tours. All transportation on air-conditioned, rest room equipped Silver Eagle® motorcoaches; deluxe hotel accommodations; many sightseeing excursions as well as the services of a guide-escort on each tour. For detailed brochures, contact your travel agent, local Continental Trailways agent or: 77 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84101 328-8121 Continental a ne Trailways GOUPS wn Lesson Department These include facilities for lounging, cooking, dining, working, playing, and even sleeping— not to mention herb and vegetable plots or compost heaps. The following suggestions might be helpful whatever the situation. Whether we are just beginning our home planting or whether we are simply improving existing home surroundings we should carefully plan and then carry out the development in a gradual, orderly way that will not be too costly at any one time. Existing trees suggest where to establish the flower beds, terrace, lawn, and service features of the property. The city garden, regardless of its type, needs enclosure to insure privacy. In situations where it is impractical to have growing garden plots and lawns, plants may be grown in containers or in soil pockets made in the paving. Hedges, shrubbery borders, fences, and garden walls are used to extend the privacy of the house to the property lines. A kitchen garden of salad vegetables and culinary herbs can be a delightful and practical addition somewhere near the kitchen entrance. (Sometimes these useful plants can be attractively interspersed in the gardens themselves.) Cooperation with neighbors and friends can result in exchange of plants and flowers. (Many a magnificent rose garden has resulted from slips from the stems of gift roses or of those from a friend's garden.) Seeds which will supply a complete flower garden can be obtained at small cost. (Early planting of seeds indoors will supply bedding plants.) Seed-bearing plants will yield seed which can be planted to produce beds. Ground covers which spread rapidly can be obtained for little or no cost Family cooperation can result in garden projects to beautify and improve the grounds. CONCLUSION Our gardens and_ grounds, however, large or small, not only form the setting for our homes; SUS April 1969 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED... TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service Cheneper ' fesley MUSIC COMPANY ''Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music —— Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments 316 they are also an essential part of them. In addition to these important functions, they serve in other ways to enhance our daily living. They bring beauty and repose from the burdens of the day; they provide nourishment for the soul as well as for the body; they are a source of hospitality to our families and our friends. If we, like the Persians of old, cherish our gardens and take pride in their. Care and appearance, we, also, will find in them a paradise on earth. K SONG OF A HAPPY HOUSEWIFE This is not a house I'nv keeping; and this laundry, sweet and clean,. Does not speak of work with grudging, or of tasks that can demean. This one day of simple service (Was | meant for better things?) by itself can count as nothing; yet, a certitude it brings that this day of willing service, multiplied a hundredfold in the tender care of others, and repeated till I'm old, does not count as one day given in the holy courts above; This is not a house I'm keeping— it's my monument to love. —Evalyn M. Sandberg *K NOTE TO THE FIELD New Prices for Binding The Relief Society Magazine The new prices for binding the year's copies of The Retief Society Magazine at the Deseret News Press are as follows: Cloth Cover $3.50 Leather Cover $5.50 For address and postage rates, see the Deseret News Press advertisement on page 314 . We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY Ws eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 The Holy City Praise Be to Thee More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 317 The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord | Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide April 1969 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July 5th-16th * Hill Cumorah Pageant Stone { leaving July 26th * Ground 3. Canadian Rockies and Flour Mill lle a "ee August 18th-31st For full ny § roma a a _—— ee Hawaiian Aloha Week. October 12th-25th write Dept. R. S. * Call or Write for itineraries P.0. Box 115 James Travel Tours Phone: 466-8723 Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * What would you give for an easy way to teach your child the GOSPEL? Here's a Bargain for only Simple, easy to learn songs a ) 50 in a medium range for children 3 to 9. Ideal for mothers, teachers, and family home evenings to teach the gospel to children. Songs like ''Easter is a Happy Time of Year,'' ''Faitn,'' ''Someday I'll Be a Missionary,'' ''Why Do | Say My Prayers."' Available at your local bookstore or write: Singing with Joy 965 North 8th West a 318 All Grain j Tremonton, Utah 84337 Salt Lake City, Utah 84116 16 days and 23 days 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 "Add 15¢ postage and 8¢ tax. BERNINA MADE IN SWITZERLAND o_o —— "a ¥ Precision engineered to give trouble-free convenience for all your sewing needs. Now you can Blind Hem Stitch, Stretch Stitch, Baste Stitch, Tailor Tack, Buttonhole, Darn, Fancy ZigZag Stitch, Applique without cam changing! Plus Bernina gives you many more convenience features THERE'S A BERNINA JUST RIGHT FOR YOUR SEWING NEEDS... ATA PRICE JUST RIGHT FOR YOUR FAMILY BUDGET! * No tension adjustment required to sew on all types of material, regardless of weight. ¢ CB Shuttle eliminates thread jamming — a Bernina exclusive for greatest sewing convenience. Patented snap-on feet makes needle changing quick and easy... With a simple twist. * True stretch stitching. ¢ Plus many, many, other Bernina features! A free copy of the 50 picture. Full color brochure joo nr ree ee { BROCHURE BERNINA IMPORTERS RS 4/69 1 7O South Orchard Drive \ | North Salt Lake, Utah 84054 ' | | l MINNA WAG ee eee ee ee | ] 1 ADDRESS... Ee _ seo uecee [| | 1, CITY STATE ZIP | t | Check here if interested in becoming an authorized Bernina demonstrator [_] 319 FREE FULL COLOR Send the coupon below to the address shown for that gives you the full story on the Bernina Sewing Machine No obligation. Of course! * van 5 a of, s ad 4. Te 5 S ye Coongralulaltonas Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 Mrs. Albertha Fransiska Nielson Hatch, Riverton, Wyoming 97 Mrs. Margaret Roth Anderegg, Lubbock, Texas; Mrs. Lois Ann Stephens Tanner Brady, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin, Menan, Idaho; Mrs. Mary Ann Chapman Richey, Tucson, Arizona; Mrs. Elizabeth Adelaide Wakefield Wortley, Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada 96 Mrs. Alta Spence Anderson, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Minnie E. Bedell Banta, Sacramento, California. 95 Mrs. David R. Langlois, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Mary Catherine Lewis Markham Provo, Utah 94 Mrs. Ella Ball, Santa Clara, California; Mrs. Alice Wight Haws, Salt Lake City, Utah 84103; Mrs. Cynthia Ann Keele Larsen, Arcadia, Utah; Mrs. Lina Bergner Lehmann, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Dora Glover Moreland, Ashland, Kentucky 93 Mrs. Damaris Hayes Bradley, Rosemead, California; Mrs. Frances Jane Budge Duffin, Jerome, Idaho; Mrs. Lettie May Saunders Taylor Ferrin, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Maren Christinsen Jensen, Orem, Utah; Mrs. Annie Naef Merrill, Preston, idaho; Mrs. Annie Scarborough Milward, Grantsville, Utah; Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts, Vernal, Utah 92 Mrs. Emma Stoker Greenwell, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. La Nora F. Moeller Griffin, Turlock, California; Mrs. Emma Torey Page Neilson, Syracuse, Utah; Mrs. Maggie Tolman Porter, Basin, Wyoming; Mrs. Josephine Lee Thompson, Mesa, Arizona; 91 Mrs. Belle Watson Anderson, Kamas, Utah; Mrs. Mary Jane (Jennie) McBride Cunningham, American Fork, Utah; Mrs. Alice Finlayson Hill, Payson, Utah; Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Hargraves Huber, Rigby, |daho; Mrs. Jennie Linda Fjeldsted Myrup, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Clara Fortheringham Whitaker, Midway, Utah 90 Mrs. Abby Eveline Estella Clemments Bagley, Sacramento, California; Mrs. Nellie N. Bennion, Taylorsville, Utah; Mrs. Anna Bruin Strooy Vellinga de Boer, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Ada Coleman Bacheldor, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Laura Guymon Brown, Huntington, Utah; Mrs. Amanda Jane Gwynn Burtenshaw, North Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Elnore Spencer Dagle, Longmont, Colorado; Mrs. Clara Ann Dittman, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. JoHannah Nielson Faux, Provo, Utah; Mrs. Martha Margaret Finch, San Bernardino, California; Mrs. Cora Coffee Fuller, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Karen Annette Gregerson, Gunnison, Utah; Mrs. Erma Perry Hendrickson, Eugene, Oregon; Mrs. Estella Nixon Herrick, Long Beach, California; Mrs. Josephine Nicoline Larsen Hunter, American Fork, Utah; Mrs. Viola Jackson Kent, Lewiston, Utah; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Biddle Lawson, Henderson, Nevada; Mrs. Emma Tovey Nielsen, West Bountiful, Utah; Mrs. Frances Wayne Nielsen, Provo, Utah; Mrs. Emma Winkelnan Rasmussen, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Hannah Olsen Reeves, Idaho Falls, Idaho; Mrs. Eliza Larson White, Ogden, Utah; Mrs. Maria Ann Bennett Seamons, Hyde Park, Utah 320 Creative PlaythingsThis 3 year old (on the left) is fascinated with the problem of lining up holes with the pegs of the NUMBER SORTER which is designed for children 2-5. The MATCH MATE set by her side provides number experience by matching jig-saw pieces. Every ward Relief Society nursery needs toys. NOW... Deseret Book is proud to announce that their "Creative Playthings Department" can supply this need. Creative Playthings are hardwood toys durable enough to withstand heavy duty use. They are age classified... And have been selected by educators in over 45,000 schools as toys to stimulate a joyful for Ward (R. S.) Nurseries The baby is learning to grasp and feel the difference in shapes and texture with the two HEDGEHOGS and CLUTCH BALL. The boys, ages 2 and 3% are playing with just two of many instructional transportation toys designed with moving parts for ages 2-8. Interest in learning from infancy to early adolescence in music... Transportation... Drama... Doll play... Science and building blocks of all sizes and shapes. Send for our free catalog, 'Creative Playthings, Guide to Toy Selection"... NOW! Or see them at Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple when you attend April conference. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me items circled 123 4 5 6 Total Cost $..0000000| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account (] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 32% sales tax residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Apr. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah o £ N o o) o = ' The -Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: NO WORDS LEARNED The world was exceedingly small that day From cabin to river and orchard-wide And only as tall as the tallest tree, But filtered with light through the petals of May, An arm of fence and a well beside, And empty of all but a girl of three With no past history remembered long And few words learned for her baby song. Oh, there was a little girl And she had flowers in her hair And on her dress And in her shoes.... The world has grown great-grandmother old And as tall as an answered prayer. (The river still runs, but is no longer young And the withered old orchard has long been sold.) Horizons have widened from joy to despair And words have been learned for a voluble tongue Since that memoried day many Mays ago But none yet for blossoms repeated in snow. —Alice Morrey Bailey Trees That Lean Over Water, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Springtime Flowers Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Model Wendy Anderson Dick Scopes Mary Scopes | am writing this letter for the sole purpose of congratulating and thanking you for the beautiful Magazine, which is the strength of Relief Society. When | read the October 1968 Magazine, | found the message of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve. It made me feel very grateful and proud to belong to a Church which speaks of the gospel in its fulness. | know that you concern yourselves with the problems of the young women of the Church. In my ward | have read Elder Lee's article as many times as | have had the opportunity, and each time | read it | feel more joy for this message has helped me to bring into activity serveral women who were not attending Relief Society. Adela Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico. In reading the fine issue—the February Magazine—this morning, | am moved by the fine writing in the article ''"Show and Tell Your Child Who He Is," by Margery S. Cannon. | also think the poem ''Silence,'' by Christie Lund Coles is a fine one. Bernice Ames, Los Angeles, California | wish to express my appreciation of The Relief Society Magazine. | have been Magazine representative for two and a half years. The sisters in the ward are happy to receive their copies and read the serials and the lessons. There are five subscribers not of our faith, and they all tell me how much they enjoy trying out the recipes and making things from time to time. To me the Magazine is a book that is a help at all times, and especially when | feel lonely or depressed, | pick up the Magazine and it certainly gives me a lift. Edith Irene Houghton, Geelong, North Victoria, Australia | loved the beautiful February frontispiece poem 'Silence' by Christie Lund Coles, also Pearle Olsen's '| Think of Beaches," so attractively set up. Beulah H. Sadleir, Salt Lake City, Utah | think | have read the Magazine since it was. First published and | have always been anxious for each copy to come. | enjoy the comments and letters in the From Near and Far department. | noticed one letter from a woman in Indiana whom | knew when she was not a member of the Church, and who is now a member, and a dear former neighbor with the birthdays—Bertha A. Kleinman, ninety-one. Many readers of the Magazine will recall her poetry and writings for many years back. _Emeline L. Lynds, Fontana, California | especially enjoy the pictures in the Magazine and the Notes From the Field. In the February issue when | saw the Note from Juab Stake, there was a picture that seemed to jump right off the page to greet me. At the time when | was growing up in Nephi, Utah, Sister Cazier was president of the stake Relief Society, and we were her neighbors. The first thing | read in the Magazine was the story ''A Day for Diddle-Daddling,'' by Alice Morrey Bailey. It seemed just like a visit with my dear departed mother. Callie's mother sounded just like my own. Florence S. Anderson, Kearns, Utah It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually | am a long way from our home ward as we move so often. | especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief Society organizations | visit, for | never feel alone or as a stranger. Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona | was so interested in the article '"'Who Will Show Her How?" (about handicrafts) by Dorothy F. Condry in the January Magazine. | feel that | am a kindred spirit. | like the poetry of Gladys Hesser Burnham very much. She was a schoolmate of mine. Mrs. Myron Hansen, Coilinston, Utah 322 The Relief SOocicky Magazine Volume 56 May 1969 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 324 "With Singleness of Heart' Mayola R. Miltenberger 330 ~—sIs Discipline a Problem? Frances B. Barlow 334 The Carlyies: Thomas and Jane and Their Philosophy About Work Mabel Jones Gabbott Fiction 338 A Piteous Day Alice Stratton 348 The Hardest Work Sally Ann Roehl 352 "And When Ye Shall Receive These Things'' Margaret L. Phelps 358 The Rebirth Nancy Tuddenham 381 Weicome the Task—Chapter 7 Michele Bartmess General Features 322 From Near and Far 343 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 344 Editorial—A Blessing for the Hemispheres Vesta P. Crawford 400 _ _—s— Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 347 —' The Everlasting Hills Joyce B. Maughan 357 ~+Tree of Magic Betty Mazzacano 363 Harvest of Fulfillment Betty G. Spencer 365 Mothers Emily T. Wilkerson 366 Make Your Own Draperies Edythe K. Watson 374 Lost Forever—One Expression of Love E. Grace Stanford 376 Recipe for Pavlova Patricia R. Watkins 378 Staff of Life Barbara G. Toomer Lesson Department 395 Homemaking—House Plants Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 321 No Words Learned Alice Morrey Bailey May Dividends, Beulah Huish Sadleir 329; Impressionist Painting, Linda Lorraine Olson 333; The Lowly Places, Bertha A. Kleinman 336; Wish for Fair Weather, Maxine R. Jennings 337; This Land of Mine, Joyce Trimmer 342; A Mothers Prayer, Oneita B. Sumsion, 346; To a Grandson, Christie Lund Coles, 346; Little Mother, Evelyn Fjeldsted, 346; A Tribute, Bernice Cheshire Harding 356; Hameland, Jean Paul Clark 362; Perception, Grace Diane Jessen 363; When Mothers Sing, Olga Milius 373; My Tapestry, Ruth G. Rothe 373; ''Eternal Kingdom,'' Lorna Nelson 375; Mount Rainier, Dorothy J. Roberts 386. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111: Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. S23 "with Singleness gi cal of Heart" 7 Mayola R. Miltenberger, Member General Board De SLC Ie be eT aS Lh 20626 mie = DoE of Relief Society Wy: @ Mother's rendition of "Catch the Sunshine" was a vigorous accompaniment to the staccato of her heels as they traversed the kitchen floor—back and forth—back and forth. These sounds, together with the rattle of pots and pans, announced that the Saturday routine had begun. My mother was and is a great believer in keeping the Sabbath Day holy and has always been an exemplar of how advance preparation and _ planning can assure proper observance of the day and, at the same time, provide the family restful comfort and a good midday dinner served with "singleness of heart" Sunday noon. We children were allowed 324 Va REGO yy WA RQ SAA oD Marion Rogers and Leonora Smith Rogers to stay in bed slightly longer on Saturday mornings; yet our share of the work awaited us. As each of us girls became old enough, she was given responsibility for placing clean bed linens on our beds, sweeping and dusting our rooms, folding hair ribbons, and otherwise bringing order and cleanliness to our bedrooms. We also had some duties of a less personal nature. My sisters and I must sweep the porches and walks which extended halfway around the house, dust the furniture, and sometimes "run through the house with the mop," Mother's descriptive term for a dry mop dusting of the hardwood floors. My brother must keep the woodbox filled with chopped wood and cedar chips for mother's big black Monarch stove. Most of the time, we children worked at snail's pace interspersed with a little "horseplay," unless motivated by a desire to finish so that we might join a playmate or unless urged to finish by a "certain tone" in mother's voice. One Saturday job, rotated among the four of us, was that tedious task of churning our butter. The wooden barrel-like churn, with its tall dasher, was rolled into the center of the kitchen floor, and the child assigned was shrouded in a big bib apron. "With Singleness of Heart'' Pound, pound, splash! Pound, pound, splash! On and on she toiled until, at long last, tiny curds of butter appeared on the lid and mother took over, gathering, lifting the yellow ball of butter from its milk, washing, salting, and molding the finished product. Ten loaves of bread lay rising in the big black pans and a pot of beans for Saturday night supper simmered on the stove by midmorning. Certain parts of Saturday seemed endless—hair was shampooed with "caught" rain water and homemade soap, shoes were shined, Sunday dresses pressed, and Dad's Sunday suit and white shirt were scrutinized. What a busy day! But on Sunday morning, a quiet calm reigned throughout the clean house as the family prepared to attend Sabbath meetings. Mother's first activity on Sunday morning centered on assisting my father in any way needed to get ready to attend priesthood meeting, then she had a few restful moments to herself, after which she assisted in the tying of hair ribbons, buttoning of dresses and shoes for the children, so that all would be on time for Sunday School. As very young children, we did not fully comprehend nor appreciate the value of this lesson being taught us, but all of us have greatly benefited The Missionary Family—Standing in front, left to right: Mayola Rogers Miltenberger, Louise Rogers Preston, Bess Rogers Ericksen. Seated in rear: Leonora Smith Rogers (mother) holding baby Marion Roscoe Rogers, born after Father's departure for a foreign mission. 325 May 1969 by it, as we have the home training we received in other aspects. For example, Church service was always a part of life at home no matter what was asked. Devoted response to requests of the leaders of the Church was a tradition on both sides of the family. My grandparents went to Arizona to help colonize at the call of Brigham Young, which they did at great sacrifice inasmuch as it involved leaving comfortable homes and dear ones and coming to a remote, difficult area. My father's and mother's willing and obedient service to the Church was an example to us in many ways and at many times throughout our lives, but it was no more clearly demonstrated than when I was about nine or ten years old. We were then a family of three children (and another one on the way), when my father was asked to fill a mission in England. It was not unusual for men with families, as well as single men, to be asked to go. I cannot remember the details of the family deliberations, but my father's departure is still vivid in my memory. I recently read an excerpt from Mother's Journal which illustrates: The bishop spoke to Marion [my father] about a mission and after he explained our '"'condition" and talked it over with me [my mother], decided to accept the call. I was five months along in a pregnancy, but felt quite willing to make the sacrifice and trust to a Higher Power to watch over us so he could go. Dad had sufficient funds from a successful road contract to see him through the mission, but 326 Mother had to provide for herself and us children. She did this, after my brother's birth, two months after my father left, by taking schoolteachers and student boarders from our local high school. The Lord greatly blessed our family and my father during this time and provided another tremendous lesson to the children. For as far back as I can remember, the women in Mother's family have been active Relief Society workers. Therefore, the term "Relief Society" conjured up many mental images and responses in us children. When one of my sisters was a little girl of about four or five years of age, she wandered next door to observe a _non-Latter-day Saint man at work in his carpenter shop. He was smoking. Said Louise, "They don't like you to smoke, Mr. Chafee." "Who doesn't like me to smoke, Louise?" he inquired. "Oh, the "Lief Society!" replied Louise. My mother, my grandmother, and great-grandmother were all Relief Society stake presidents who served diligently for many years. My mother's own tenure was. Seventeen years, during which time the family not only shared mother, but our resources, and, in final analysis, were actually involved in a variety of projects. There were quilt and blanket projects in which needy families were helped to acquire necessary bedding during the depression; an immunization project to protect children and adults against diptheria and smallpox; a dental project, the building of a Relief Society ; management, books Which w Nn mind there Would Someday 5 | enjoye greatly € storyb ks Were thread. © a family or bare by the tj We were grown 327 chestra; theref, re, Considerable or, in Spite of her busy, active May 1969 life, Mother found time for the bedtime story. One of my fondest memories was Mother's expressive reading of one of the fairy tales which transported us into imaginary kingdoms as vividly as_ those seen on television today. Thursdays were looked forward to when we were young, for that was the evening when the family gathered for "Home Night," as it was called then. For those events, Mother was the moving force even though she worked more or less in the background. She always made the children feel important as she designated one each week to be in charge. This meant we could assist in planning the program. This nearly always consisted of stories or discussions regarding certain religious or moral doctrines, with poems and songs interspersed. But the part we children looked forward to with greatest anticipation was the "party"—the games and refreshments which followed the "program." "Pretty bird, my cup, what color is yours?" Round and round the child or parent went with fingers poised in a small cup of water waiting for the moment when one of us guessed the color "it" had in mind. A correct guess signaled squeals of surprise as a drop of water was flicked into the face of the lucky one who then became the possessor of the "cup," and the game progressed. After a few rounds of "Pretty Bird," the dining-room chairs and table were pushed back for a rousing, scuffing game of "Pussy Wants a Corner." This usually 328 came at the end of the evening, for it left all of us laughing and breathlessly ready for the "pass around" and bed. As a young girl, I can remember periods when my parents passed through financial struggles as they worked together to acquire the necessities of life and money for the extras, such as college to come later for the children. There was just no money at one time—no road jobs were available for bidding. Horses and road building equipment stood idle. Creditors, too, were hungry, therefore they eyed any asset of value—cows, calves, horses, land. A national depression plagued the land! Mother, frugal and resourceful as she was, really was no match for these problems, but it was beyond her thinking to séek employment outside the home, prepared as she was to teach. After all, wasn't she a wife and mother? Didn't she have a husband and four children to care for? Someone had to attend to home and family, while Dad matched his wits and brawn against the crisis! Mother did have certain resources she was quite willing to use, however, and did so frequently—faith, and prayer, and works! Both parents bent to the challenge, each assuming appropriate roles, but cooperating and laboring together to free themselves of debt. Mother cut corners everywhere possible. We never knew hunger, but our usual ample larder was considerably reduced. Mother skimped on clothing as_ she patched, darned, remodeled, and made-do. I can remember yet, wearing underclothing which despite bleaching still bore the imprint of Silver Creek Flour Mills—Love Me brand. Frobably at no time in our lives were we ever so short of necessities, but out of this trying experience came a great opportunity to observe firsthand the operation of another great principle of the gospel—tithing. Mother's faith in the Lord has always been absolute; therefore, she talked with him frequently. It almost seemed impractical at a time when our financial needs were so great to pay tithing, but Mother had confidence that the "windows of heaven" would be opened if we were faithful to this commandment. At one time she promised the Lord that if he would give our family inspiration and opportunity for earning, she would exercise her influence in the family so that a full and honest tithe would always be paid. "With Singleness of Heart" Things did improve for us, and for as long as I can remember, Mother's commitment has been kept. Hers and my father's obligation to the Lord has been taken care of monthly before income has been counted as their own. Of course, after things eased a bit, it was great to be able to have a few new things after doing without. My Grandmother Smith once remarked to Mother, upon admiring some new gingham dresses Mother made for _ us, "Leonora, it is so good to see your girls in a new piece of goods." Mother and Dad came from pioneer backgrounds. We children grew up in a simple country atmosphere, and yet ours was a rich, loving experience with our parents until my father's passing and a continuing one now with the head of our family, our spry, busy, affectionate, eighty-threeyear-old mother, Leonora S. Rogers. Gs Speak my name in whispers As new May appears: She has no lusty voice, Breathing her way Through shiny foliage And soft-fallen tears. Speak my name in whispers, Reliving pleasures In a tiny town, Child queen in fairy Dress, with lilac crown. MAY DIVIDENDS * Whisper on, as | Recall those faces Of my childhood friends; Faces young and joyful, Sighting not the promise Life extends: And | shall whisper back To you—in time, Of love-filled years, Of all May's dividends. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 329 w "How can I get my child to do what I say?" Parents have. Asked this question for many years, and probably will continue to do so throughout many generations to come. To some parents this question means, "How can I discipline (or punish) Jimmie if he doesn't do what I think he should, when I think he should?" Such parents are so concerned with finding a device or trick to bring about the response they want that they lose sight of the end they are really trying to attain. Discipline, for them, becomes largely a matter of punishment, rather than an essential step in the slow building up of a child's learning of what is right or wrong, acceptable or not. Many parents unfortunately believe that children learn faster when they are punished. This is not so. Children learn the best and the most important things without being taught, from those who love and care for them. The infant, lying in his crib or on his mother's lap, knows instinctively when she is pleased with him and when she is not. If she smiles and holds him securely with gentle affection, he feels comfortable and warm. If her face holds a frown, her 330 is Discipline ZB a Problem? Frances B. Barlow aa" Associate Professor, Child Development Aye Brigham Young University WS Lynn body is tense, and she dresses or feeds him impatiently or with angry jerks, he senses that something is wrong. Today, more than ever, parents are confused and groping for a clear understanding of how to deal with the question of discipline.: It is not strange that parents are confused. The discipline pendulum has swung between extremes. In the nineteen twenties there was a strong reaction against the repressive "Children should be seen and not heard" and the stern, sometimes harsh, "Spare the rod and spoil the child" dictates and practices of former days. It was soon recognized that such a completely authoritarian viewpoint failed to recognize the nature and needs of a growing child, and also that it was poor training for a democratic way of life. Some parents and teachers abandoned all authoritative control, permitting children to do almost anything and everything the child wanted to do. An attitude of complete permissiveness—letting a child behave in any way short of actual bodily injury to himself and others—was sometimes advocated. Children from such homes became insecure. They were forced to make decisions they were incapable of making. It seems obvious that neither an extreme authoritarianism nor an extreme permissiveness can be a sound method of bringing up a child—either for his own healthy personality development or for preparing him to be a mature, responsible citizen of a democratic, free society. The problem of gaining an intelligent, and middle-of-the-road viewpoint, based on the nature and needs of both child and a free society, has become a crucial one today. Parents need not be discouraged by these changes in viewpoints of child rearing if they understand what causes them. They reflect social changes which affect values and goals regarding the kind of behavior considered desirable. All children misbehave. Mother's reaction to the child when he is misbehaving determines, in a large measure, if he will continue such behavior or discard it in favor of more positive constructive behavior. Children have to make mistakes to learn. Praise them for what they do right. Generally speaking, most children know when they have done wrong, so don't rub it in. Changing an attitude can change behavior. Minimize the mistakes of your child. Emphasizing mistakes and bad habits communicates to the child distrust and little faith which stimulate feelings of worthlessness and "what's the use?" Self-esteem is so vital to everyone, especially children. It has been found that parents have it within their power to give a child high self-esteem.! S Discipline a Problem? Parents cannot turn to specialists for easy and complete answers to their problems of child rearing. Common sense -cannot be discarded to be replaced by specific techniques. Fads and styles exist in child rearing as in other kinds of practices, and should be recognized for what they are. Most specialists agree that the methods of child rearing they advise parents to use must be both intellectually and emotionally acceptable to the fathers and mothers who carry them out. Otherwise parents cannot follow them successfully and are likely to develop unjustifiable feelings of inadequacy and guilt. "Today we recognize the importance of accepting the child for what he is and that each child is different and his needs are to be met. He needs to feel that he himself is accepted under any and all circumstances. But this does not mean that any and all kinds of behavior on his part are to be accepted. In fact, we have recognized that the actual "setting of limits,' making clear what he is not permitted to do, helps the child feel secure. Many questions concerning discipline and freedom are controversial. Let us clarify our thinking by defining just what we mean by discipline. Discipline was originally a term for training, learning, and order. The word implied the art of making disciples; that is, an individual who was disciplined became a disciple or follower of one's teacher or of a particular way of thinking or living. Nowhere in Latin usage did it have the unpleasant implication of punishment which is 331 May 1969 associated with it people's minds today. Discipline in its true meaning implies a voluntary following of rules or principles. All good discipline eventually becomes selfdiscipline. Our purpose in disciplining a child is to train him so that he learns to choose for himself constructive behavior patterns and desirable goals. We discipline a child in order that he may eventually be qualified for freedom. Through discipline he develops the self-control, the self-discipline he needs in order to become able to obey his selfformulated will and the laws which he helps to establish. Freedom can be achieved only through discipline because only a self-disciplined person can be truly free. Children should experience both freedom and control at all stages of their development. They need to experience four types of behavior through which they mature in self-discipline, responsibility, and freedom: in many 1. Behavior which is insisted upon by adults. No parent would allow a two or three-year-old to play in the street or decide when he or she should go to bed. This type of behavior is limited, for the most part, to danger situations, health, and the rights of others. 2. Behavior in which the child has a limited choice within a controlled situation. In this type of behavior he may choose between two vegetables at mealtime, a choice out of two dresses to wear, or what toys to play with. 3. Behavior in which the child has complete freedom of choice (within his ability to accept consequences). In this type of behavior, the child gradually learns to accept complete responsibility for his behavior, a responsibility he must eventually accept as an adult. He should be encouraged to make decisions. Thus Mary may choose the books to be bor- 332 rowed from the library, or what to do after her school work is done. A great deal is at stake in these simple decisions. If she is not allowed to make them as a child, she will not have the courage to persevere in later years when the problems are tougher. 4. Behavior in which group control is established. In this type of situation, responsibility for their behavior is assumed by the children themselves. The group must work out methods of cooperation and ways to secure durable behavior from its individual members. Group control cannot be expected until children are seven or eight years old, but training can begin earlier. Experiments in group control provide fundamental training in a democratic way of life. Examples of these four types of behavior would, of course, differ with the ages of children. As children become older there would be less of the first type and more of the other three types. Adults need to safeguard children from doing things that may bring consequences with which they cannot cope. In situations of physical danger and health, in social situations which arouse childish aggressive feelings, they need to know that their parents understand and can help them control their behavior. The child looks for love and security and order within the home. Once a child knows that he is respected and counts for something within his home, he will be eager and able to meet the outside world. The child who feels alone, struggling against criticism and hostile feelings, has little chance. The child who knows that there are adults who will help and guide him when he needs it, and who will, at the same time, allow him to go ahead because they have confidence in him, for this child the doors of life are open wide. Encouragement is most important. Those who need encouragement and respect may get it the least. It is hard to praise the difficult child and easy to praise the agreeable one. An honest way must be found to give praise to every child. No book, agency, or pediatrician can tell you exactly how to bring your child up, because you and your child are different from anybody else and anybody else's child. No mother or father will be able always to respond to children in an ideal way, nor should they hold up that kind of expectations for themselves. Occasional bursts of irritability are only natural, after all. Children will accept them as such if they know that they can count on their parents' basic love and understanding. Is Discipline a Problem? Whatever devices you use to get obedience and to uphold authority are relatively unimportant compared to the attitude you bring to bear on the situation. Such attitudes are developed: If you can stop thinking of your child as "good" or as "bad," but as learning. If you can think of discipline as training rather than punishment. If you can look far enough ahead for him and teach him so that someday he will not need you. If you can give him self-esteem so that he feels like a worthwhile person. If you can give through your love and example values that he can understand. If you can accept him for what he is and not force him to be someone else. If you can do these things, and at the same time enjoy your child in each swiftly passing phase, then truly the old bugbear "the discipline problem" will dissolve into the splendid process of learning how to live. SS IMPRESSIONIST PAINTING Standing here—a bit too close— 1 wondered if that daub of red Meant anything beside the bit of blue. It's such a tiny fleck of color in the whole. But once away—back to the vantage That the artist had in mind— | saw those two become the purple of a setting sun While greens and brown That had been but disjointed dabs of paint At once dissolved into the majesty of trees. Each speck, brushed deftly into place, Each doing its small part, Was vital to the work when seen complete. Then why should | not look to him who placed me here If my work seems, as yet, unclear to me? Am | the red of sunset or the green of tree? He knows and waits but for my heart to ask To show me where to stand that | may see. —Linda Lorraine Olson 338 Carlyles: Thomas and Jane and Their Philosophy About Work Mabel Jones Gabbott w@ Thomas Carlyle, born in 1795 in Ecclefechan, Dumfriesshire, Scotland, the oldest of nine children, was taught the value of work in his childhood. With his father, a frugal stonemason, he could say, "Blessed is he who has found his work," and "there is a perennial nobleness in work." James Carlyle realized that his son had unusual abilities and sacrificed to provide a good education for him. When Thomas Carlyle was fourteen years old, he walked ninety miles to enter the University of Edinburgh. He had planned to study for the ministry, but instead became a teacher. He was too independent to enjoy teaching on a regular basis, but tolerated private tutoring. Meanwhile, he continued his studies in German and began to write for magazines in Edin- 334 burgh. His first important work was the Life of Schiller, the German poet. Other works included Sartor Resartus, Burns, Past and Present, and. Frederick the Great. Carlyle knew intimately the meaning of work. After he had completed the first volume of The French Revolution, in 1837, he gave it to his friend, John Stuart Mill, to read. One of Mill's servants used the manuscript to start a fire. All of Carlyle's notes had been destroyed and he struggled to reproduce his masterpiece. The rewritten book was a success and established Carlyle's genius in the literary world of his times. Well could he say, "The wages of every noble work do yet lie in heaven." In the writings of Thomas Carlyle, we find over and over this philosophy regarding work: "Do the duty that lies nearest at hand." With regard to women's work, his wife Jane Welsh Carlyle at one time explained that "It is not the greatness or the littleness of the 'duty nearest at hand' but the spirit in which one does it that makes one's doing noble or mean." Jane Welsh and Thomas Carlyle had been married in October 1826. She loved him with a rare devotion and determined that he should never write for money, but only when he had something to say. Since his writing was their source of income, she had to manage carefully and well whatever money came to them. After eighteen months of happiness, new friends, and some successes in his writing in Edinburgh, Carlyle decided to save expenses by moving to Craigenputtock. Craigenputtock, Scotland, has been described as "the dreariest spot in all the British dominions." Craigenputtock was Jane Welsh's own ancestral property; her father had been borri there. The tenants were in arrears, and Mrs. Welsh, who lived nearby at Templand, was glad to have her daughter move to Craigenputtock. In 1828, when Thomas and Jane Carlyle made it their home, the old house stood gaunt and stern, quite alone on the sparse moors. The nearest cottage was a mile away. Jane Welsh had been an only child, born to wealth and servants and a life of art and culture. She describes herself as being "sublimely ignorant of every branch of useful knowledge, though a capital Latin scholar The Carlyles: Thomas and Jane and a very fair mathematician." In this out-of-the-way place, Mrs. Carlyle found she had to learn to sew. "Husbands," she says, "I was shocked to find, wear their stockings into holes, and were always losing buttons, and I was expected to 'look to all that.'" At this time also she found she had to learn to cook. Carlyle had expected the quietness and simplicity of the life at Craigenputtock to cure all his ailments. But his ills went with him, which Mrs. Carlyle described as "bad digestion." At first the Carlyles bought their bread from the baker at Dumfries, about sixteen miles away. But Carlyle soon found this "soured on his stomach." So Jane Carlyle decided to bake at home. She sent for Cobbett's Cottage Economy, and studied the recipe for a loaf of bread. (We are told that when Jane made her first pudding for Carlyle she locked herself alone in the kitchen so no one would disturb her accurate measuring of ingredients.) Knowing little about the processes of yeast and their slowrising powers, Mrs. Carlyle was not ready to bake the bread until long past everyone's bedtime hour. "One o'clock struck," she says, "then two, and then three; and still I was sitting there in an immense solitude, my whole body aching with weariness, my heart aching with a sense of forlornness and degradation. That I, who had been so petted at home, whose comfort had been studied by everybody in the house, who had never been required to do anything but cul- 335 . May 1969 tivate my mind, should have to pass all those hours of the night in watching a loaf of bread— which might not turn out bread after all...!" Alone in that ancient kitchen Jane began to feel sorry for herself. Then, somehow, she remembered the story of Benvenuto Cellini who sat up all night watching his famed statue, "Perseus," being baked in the furnace. She began to think what was the difference, after all, between her and Cellini, between his statue and her loaf of bread. Each was a noble work; each was the thing one's hand had found to do. All his will, energy, patience, and resources had gone into the molding of his statue. But had Cellini been a woman = Se +a + <a - = = = living in Craigenputtock, with a dyspeptic husband, sixteen miles from a: baker, perhaps ail his artistic qualities could have done no better than a loaf of bread. As this idea filled her mind, her watching became a joy, and the loaf of bread, golden and light when it came from the oven, was more precious than a work of art. During the years Jane lived at Craigenputtock this night's thinking often sustained her. Her patience, understanding, and endurance, and the spirit in which she did "the duty nearest at hand" contributed greatly to the noble work her famous husband accomplished. Reference: Life of Thomas Carlyle, Volume II, pp. 24-25, by J. A. Froude 336 THE LOWLY PLACES The distant peaks with glinting spires and steeples, Are not for me—my place is far below, Where valleys teem and hurried toiling peoples Must face the everydays that come and go. The battlefield with ail its urge and glory, Is not for me—my home is far away, Where hero-lust and lore are only story, And petty cares must fill my every day. The walks of fame—the high and lofty places, Are not for me—the hero ranks are few, And | must tread the lowly rutted spaces And there perfect the humble things | do. The day so big must teem with deeds so little, His imaged race must toil at tasks so small, That somewhere when he weighs each jot and tittle, His love—! Know—will justify them all. —Bertha A. Kleinman q Pool in Springtime > Dorothy J. Roberts WISH FOR FAIR WEATHER Wind, Needle the patchwork hill, If you will, And scissor the witlow-to a winter fringe, But, oh, wind, fold the lake gently; pleat the water— Gather it in wide white ruffles; Fashion a fine gown For sky, That shy Blue matron of autumn To wear tomorrow. —Maxine R. Jennings @ Daddy always refers to it as "the happening," and to him I guess it was. You see, Daddy is very practical minded—like bread and butter without jelly. Susan and I were playing paper dolls under the dining room table one evening. We played in whispers so as not to be noticed, for it was getting late and we might be hustled off to bed. "It's about time they learned the difference between the real and the imaginary," Daddy was saying. We knew we were being discussed again. "Nonsense," Grandma retorted. "There's nothing far-fetched about seeing an elephant turn into a peacock." "Nothing but an exaggerated imagination. I think they should call a cloud a cloud, instead of an elephant or a peacock. It's just the idea of the thing. They fabricate something unreal out 338 — am oo ie! Uday Alice Stratton of everything. Take tonight. Instead of simply putting the supper dishes away, they twitched their noses and went 'dingle, dingle' and bewitched them into the cupboard. I tell you, that pair should be brought down to earth and made to talk normal and act normal just once." We had heard all this before, so we went on playing. The most worn-out phrase in Daddy's vocabulary was "exaggerated imagination," and he always used it when he talked about us. Usually he would end up saying, "Someday, something will happen that will bring them down to earth hard, and it's going to hurt." Grandma's answer was always the same, "Pity the day." So we were expecting that piteous day, although we had no idea what was supposed to happen. The next day was Saturday, and Daddy and Grandma were in the garden tying up rose runners. Susan and I hurried through our work, for usually on Saturdays we could go upon the hill to play. We had built a fairyland there. With old spoons we had dug out a king's castle and a witches' den in the bank of a dry gully. We had a sardine can for a chariot and white bones for horses. We had gathered hollyhocks and were sticking black currant heads on them and piling them into a shoe box. "Why didn't you leave stems on your flowers? How can you arrange them this way?' Daddy asked. Susan spoke up. "They aren't flowers." The muscles in Daddy's jaw worked. "They are hollyhocks, and hollyhocks are flowers." I could feel a lecture coming on so I hurried to explain. "We know they are hollyhocks, Daddy, but when you put heads on them, they become people, like this ruffly pink one. She is a fairy princess, don't you see?" "No, I don't see." "Now may we go to fairyland?" I asked. Daddy's eyes shot "Where?" he demanded. Ducking my head, I mumbled, "We want to go upon the hill." "Well, why didn't you say so? A hill is a hill, understand?" "Yes, Daddy. May we go now?" "All right. But don't stay too long." With our digging spoons and shoe box, we scurried out the gate. On the way up the hill we gathered sego lilies and Indian paintbrush for the fairy garden sparks. A Piteous Day which had to be planted fresh each time we came to play. Clearing away the old dried flowers, we poked the fresh stems down to where the sand was damp. Just then a_ lizzard streaked past. "A fire-eating dragon!" Susan shrieked and shot after him. Tripping, she sprawled to her hands and knees, then froze to the spot. Her eyes and mouth open wide, and she stared as if in a trance. "Look!" she whispered, pointing her finger. I squatted beside her and looked. "All I can see is an old chicken egg." She came unfrozen. "It isn't a chicken egg. What chicken would come up here to lay?" "Then, what is it?" I asked. "It is the dragon. He turned himself into an egg just as I fell. I saw him." I crawled over to examine the egg. It was innocent looking enough, lying there on the bare earth. I poked around the bush with a stick. "See, here's a hole. Susan, a snake could have laid the egg." "But a snake didn't. This is a bewitched egg. Inside is a dragon which is really under a witch's spell. When we break the egg, the spell will be broken and the prince will be set free." "When we break the egg, little snakes might run up our arms and legs."' I shuddered. She gave me a look of contempt. Dumping the hollyhocks, she stuffed the shoe box with chaparral and cradled the egg inside. "Come on, let's go." "But we came to play," I protested. "Our people will be ruined." 339 May 1969 "So what! There are plenty more hollyhocks. Don't you see? This is an important happening." Then she chanted, "We'll set the prince free, under the mulberry tree!" She clutched the box to her and we began our descent. Suddenly she stopped. "Listen," she whispered. "I hear something inside." She held the box for me to listen. There was the scratching sound of chaparral twigs against the hd. 'Something is running around inside," I said. Scornfully she said, "No prince would run around in a shoe box." "All right then, what do you think you can hear?" She put her ear to the box. "Tt is the prince, sending us a message in code.... He is promising us a reward for setting him free!" A the way home we speculated on what the reward would be. The possibilities grew more exciting with each step of the way. Weran the last stretch, and were out of breath when we reached our yard. "Land sakes!' Grandma exclaimed. "Back already?" Then scrutinizing us she asked, "What happened? You look as if you'd seen an apparition." We could not speak for our throats were dry. Susan thrust the box at Grandma, who lifted the lid. Daddy put down his shovel and looked. "Well, what do you know! Old Speckle is laying again." "Oh, no!" Susan _panted, "Speck didn't lay this egg. This isn't a laid egg." 340 "Of course it is. You can see it for yourself." "No, Daddy. I saw a dragon change himself into this egg." Daddy looked sternly at us. "Young ladies! Bring that box here and sit down. We're going to have a talk. You come along, too, Grandma." He and Grandma took the lawn chairs and Susan and I sprawled on the grass. "Now," he said with the formality of a judge, "will you repeat that last remark, Susan?" "T saw a dragon change himself into this egg,' she repeated solemnly. "Kathy, did you see the dragon?" he inquired of me. I nodded. "What did he look like?" "Something like a lizzard," I stammered. "Umm humm... If we put this unlaid egg under Old Speckle, then we can hatch us a dragon." "Oh, no, Daddy, we mustn't do that!" Susan protested. "If we hatch it, then the prince would have to be a dragon forever. We have to break the spell!" Sternly Daddy said, "Very well! We will break the spell now! In the first place you saw a lizzard—not a dragon, mind you—upon the hill—and not in fairyland. Get that straight?" The very air felt as brittle as shattering glass. Surely this was a piteous day! Then to our astonished ears came Grandma's laugh. "Tch, tch, tch," she chuckled. "The hill it is nowadays and not fairyland, when such a few short years ago it was the prairie where a small boy galloped on his stick horses chasing Injuns." Annoyed, Daddy said, "All right, all right.... Now where were we? Oh, yes, the egg. Where did you get it?" As Susan told her story, Daddy's brows were drawn with perplexity. "Now what do we do?" he inquired. "It is simple. I will need a silver knife. Kathy and I will sit under the mulberry tree and you and Grandma can watch. We'll all say 'abbracadabra,' then I'll whack the egg. The shell will crack and the prince will step out. He'll be big instantly and stand and bow before us and kiss our hands and ask us which we'd rather have, a golden carriage or a helicopter and we'll take the helicopter." "T see,' Daddy said. "Go fetch the silver knife at once." As Susan flew to the house, Daddy turned to Grandma and said, "Mark my word, those two are due for a fall. This fabricated, A Piteous Day imaginary, ridiculous world of theirs is about to tumble before our eyes. They are going to be hurt. Now you will understand the harm an exaggerated imagination can do." This was going to be more than a piteous day. This was doomsday! Hopefully I scanned Grandma's face, searching for a grain of comfort. Sadly she shook her head. "It is a pity children are forced to grow up so soon." How baffling! Were we going suddenly to become big like the bewitched prince was supposed to do? Susan returned with the knife and everyone did as she said. We had to say "abbracadabra" three times before it suited her. Then she whacked the egg. The world stopped turning and the sun stood still. My spine tingled and goose pimples popped out all over me. If a volcano should have erupted behind me, I uld not have taken my eyes off he egg. Susan held it away from ér and a firm yellow yolk, surrounded by clear white, plopped -onto the grass. No one spoke. She raised up on her hands and knees, leaning over the magical thing. "Wow!" she exclaimed. "Wow! Take a look! A blob of gold in a puddle of crystal!" Then she sat back on her heels and laughed. Relieved, I rolled with laughter on the grass. Drooping like yesterday's sego lily, Daddy slumped down on a stump. With elbows on knees and chin in hands he studied us. Grandma pulled her low weeding stool next to him and sat down. With ill-concealed merriment, 341 May 1969 she said, "Well, son, they took quite a tumble, didn't they! They sure act hurt." Daddy was the one who seemed to be hurt, but he recovered. Clapping his hands with a loud pop, he demanded, "You little vixens, come here!" Laughing we scrambled to his side. "What are you laughing for? Where is your prince?" he scowled. "He left his gift and scrammed," Susan said. "Some gift! A raw egg. Where's the helicopter? Why aren't you crying miserably with disappointment?" "Daddy, you're so funny," I giggled. "We were only pretending, don't you see?" "It was mighty real pretending," he insisted. "Good pretending always is," I explained. He spread his hands in a wide, helpless gesture, and we flung ourselves into his arms. "Tell me, kittens,' he said tenderly, "how can you conjure up something so real and then let it vanish without being sad? Don't you feel like crying?" Susan snuggled her cheek against his. "No, Daddy. You see, grownups pretend, too. When Grandma calls us 'punkin' she doesn't cry because she can't make pie out of us. Just now you called us 'kittens.' Do you want to cry because we aren't covered with fur and have whiskers? Pretending is fun. Your pretending makes us feel soft and cuddly and loved." Daddy burst into a hearty laugh. Grandma laughed, too. "T love piteous days," I exclaimed. "They are fun." Jovially Daddy said, "This is a happening, little kitten." THIS LAND OF MINE Brown, sunburnt land, where heat abounds In layers of hard, dry, crusted earth; The creek beds once caressed by waters cool and sweet, Are now as bricks, baked black, like peat. Old Ben stood there remembering, how In days gone by, with dog at heel, He roamed the valleys, every one, Hunting for game, and ducks with graceful fun Came wheeling and diving out of the sun To land with perfection, in this very spot. How softened by shade, although so hot To the touch are the mounds of earth Where tree roots are growing, all tangled with age. And kookaburras shout their song of mirth, This is Australia, the country of my birth. 342 Sg. —Joyce Trimmer Glennoy, Australia 3 J Woman's. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was honored February 26, 1969, by the Women's Council of the Latter-day Saints Student Association (LDSSA) of the University of Utah. The program was held in the Tabernacle, and women of college age were invited to attend. One of President McKay's poems, set to music, was sung by the choir and President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency, Bishop Robert L. Simpson of the Presiding Bishopric, and Elder Marion D. Hanks, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, gave inspiring addresses regarding the glorious role of women in the Church and in the world. A tribute to Sister McKay was given by her daughter, Emma Rae McKay Ashton. Chairman for the occasion was Joan Carlston, President, LDSSA. Louise Bogan, eminent American poet, has been elected to membership in the American Academy of Arts and Letters to fill the chair left vacant by the death of Carl Sandburg. Her induction will take place in May 1969. Princess Irene of Greece, sister of King Constantine, is a renowned concert pianist. A student of Gina Bachauer, distinguished Greek pianist, her Royal Highness Princess Irene has been declared ''a dedicated, serious musician, who plays in a fully professional manner.'' She has made several tours of the United States, and in February 1969, she and Madame Bachauer performed with the Utah Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Maurice Abravanel. Sewing as a hobby and as a household art is increasing in importance, several recent surveys among high school girls have revealed. Sewing, it was found, helps the girls to have more variety in their clothing, helps them to stretch their clothing budgets, and gives them a rewarding creative outlet. Golda Meir has been appointed Prime Minister of Israel, the fourth Prime Minister to serve since Israel became a nation in May 1948, and the first woman to serve her country in this capacity. Only three other women have received this honor: Mrs. Solomon Bandaranaike, Prime Minister of Ceylon (1960-65), Indira Gandhi, who became Prime Minister of India in 1966 and is still serving; and Ana Pauker of Romania. Ann Woodbury Hafen, Latter-day Saint poet, literary critic, and distinguished historian, is author of Campfire Frontier (Old West Publishing Company, Denver, Colorado), historical poems and stories of the Old West. Recognized for many years as co-historian and able helpmate of her well-known husband, Dr. LeRoy R. Hafen, she has achieved many honors for her own writing of notable poetry and biographies. She is a former president of the Utah State Poetry Society and is greatly appreciated for her encouragement of poets and poetry. Campfire Frontier contains seventeen biographical sketches, vividly narrated, and the second section offers a selection of outstanding poems. 343 EDITORIAL/A Blessing For The Hemispheres mw In a time of the changing of seasons, when the hours of sunlight are altered, when the northern hemisphere receives increasing length of days, and the southern hermisphere turns to a longer night, the women of Relief Society look forward to a new program for the coming months and summarize and review the developments of the time which has passed. Then again, time changes and summer is long and beautiful in the southern lands and winter comes to the north. Also, in those regions of lasting summer, where less evidence of varying weather is apparent, the work of Relief Society continues in its learning, serving, sharing. Its companionship and compassion continue. It is a significant thought for all of us to realize the many and farreaching homelands of the sisters—the towns and the cities and the rural areas where the sisters live and care for their homes and their families and devote themselves to the equally far-reaching program of Relief Society. The sisters do not regard the wide oceans, the skyward mountain ranges, and the great deserts as dividing the womanhood of the world. They think of the green valleys, the long rivers, the uplands and the lowlands of the many nations as the native lands, the homes of the world-wide sisterhood. There is no ocean, no mountain range, no expanse of desert or prairie—no barrier of land or sea that can divide the sisters of Relief Society, for they are the same in ideals and aspirations—the same in faith and devotion, the same in their desires to follow the teachings of the gospel, and to be a pattern and example of womanhood to the world. It was for all of us in every land that the Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1842, revealed the pattern and declared in long treasured words the purpose of an organization for the sisters—the first auxiliary in the Church. He addressed the women assembled before him and said that their desire for organization was ''accepted of the Lord.... | will organize the sisters under the priesthood," he said, ''after a pattern of the priesthood.'' And later the Prophet declared that the Church was never perfectly organized ''until the women were thus organized." In our time and in our place, we rejoice in the continued purpose 4 Volume 57 May 1969 Number 5 7, Belle S. Spaftord, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ys a Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, Secretary:-Treasurer 344 andpattern. Inthenorthern hemisphere andin the southern hemisphere, upon the continents and the islands of the sea, in unity, and in the beauty of companionship and service, the sisters are organized in prophetic design. That design is basically the same after many years—after more than 127 years—the glorious pattern and purpose remain the same. There is the same remembrance of duty, the same sincerity, the same deep compassion. The Society remembers its origin and destiny—still the same as at that time when Emma Smith, the first president, arose '"'to make appropriate remarks on the subject of the Society—its duties to others also its relative duties to each other... That each member should be ambitious to do good."' It is the same as on that day when Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet, illustrated the desires of the sisters: ''... We must cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another."' So it is in all the lands and in all the nations where the sisterhood has been organized. The gospel light is a great radiance for spiritual living. The visiting teachers go forth, as in times past, with their enduring messages of faith and consolation. The sisters in their handicrafts and in their homemaking observe a heritage of usefulness and beauty in lasting color and design. In Relief Society they find the ways and the means of achieving cultural refinement in literature and art and music. They learn the ways of uplifting and helpful social relationships. The program and the spirit of Relief Society open the door to a full measure of the attributes of noble womanhood. The voices lifted in praise of the gospel are as beautiful in a village on the slopes of the Andes as they are in a far northern land where the icefields rise above the meeting place. The far-reaching echoes of rejoicing in song reach to all the sisterhood and join them in spiritual communion. In a saying of olden time it has been written: ''Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad... The multitude of isles be glad.'' (Psalms 96:11; 97:1.) The world-wide sisterhood continues its loving service and still is greatly blessed in time and place. -VPC GENERAL BOARD: Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Myrtle R. Olson Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Edith S. Eltiott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Lucille P. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Blanche B. Stoddard Jennie R. Scott Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Marjorie C. Pingree Reba C. Aldous Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Ellen N. Barnes Mayola R. Miltenberger Winniefred S. Manwaring Fawn H. Sharp Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock 345 MAYTIME WORDS FOR MOTHERS A MOTHER'S PRAYER Blessed child, With hands in mine, Hands | must guide Throughout all time. Blessed child, On bended knee, My guidance must reach Through eternity. Blessed child, Each word | say, Shall be uttered again By your lips today. Blessed Father, Wilt thou hear me? That my words, my hands, My bended knee, Might guide this child Back to thee? —Oneita B. Sumsion TO A GRANDSON You are the son | never had, Blue-eyed and blonde of hair; You are the substance of a dream, So fair, so fair. You are the impertinent smile, The mischievous, child act; The love of outstretched arms, You are the living fact Of what we hoped, so long, could be; You are so gentle, wise. Small boy, you are my heart Stretched twice its size. —Christie Lund Coles 346 LITTLE MOTHER Long ago the nights were softly dark, And even as she said goodnight, A song was in her voice—a song That lingered till the morning tight. With true appreciation, We listened when she sometimes played, A simple little melody— To us a classic that had strayed... For Mother always played in harmony With all the joys we ever knew And when it seemed our hearts would break She was there with precepts proven true— Precepts taught to us in childhood days To guide us far along life's ways. —Evelyn Fjeldsted The se al His, omen of, + < Joyce B. Maughan What a sentimental journey! How good it is to see those old red hills again. I don't recall being repulsed by the ruggedness of this country when I first moved here as a child, and how I have yearned to return. Such variety! I believe every part of the world has a duplicate here. The whole world was in my backyard. The raw, unpolished, and jagged slopes speak of creative energy. Mile after mile my eycs caress the vari-colored striped hills, the geographic folds and slides, the eroded surfaces, and the craggy faces. The suggestive forms resemble familiar objects so much that they seem almost symbolic. Are they like a dream bringing out my past fears, my hopes for the future? They seem to speak to me, yet I am not sure what they say. They don't say words, but, yes, they do speak to me. The colors touch a sensitivity that causes a certain pleasurable sensation to be felt throughout my whole being. The structures speak of power, a power that lifts mountains, lays down plains—a power that is almost terrible. Yet it is this same power which is so tender that it makes the rough places plain within my own heart and brings peace to my inner world. The clay soil reminds me of my own nothingness until the Creator breathed the breath of life into my body. No wonder this landscape speaks to me! Now I understand. This country is I! It is the vision of myself. I will be what the Creator designs for me. I am clay, rough, unpolished. I am eroded, jagged, and seemingly unfit for cultivation. I am barren soil. With his breath, with his touch, with his power, I can be made productive.... Everything begins here—everything goes from here. The beautiful valleys are covered with oak, aspen, pines. From the peaceful garden we drop down. Falling, the erosion begins. Cedar Breaks—vermilion and white cliffs showing the passage of years. But these are productive years also: sheep grazing, lumber trucks, sheltered cabins. These are also the stormy years: thunderheads piling up, roaring, flashing, dropping their load. Stunted trees speak of severe winter blasts leaving their heavy burden. There are peacful times: Duck Creek, Navajo Lake, Wood's Ranch. But the barren lava beds remind me that the refiner's fire also comes to purge our lives, leaving its scars. Yet, look at the tender growth springing up on the perimeter, moving into the heart. The Creator will not leave the barren fruitless, if they yield to make a place for the seed of life. The everlasting hills speak of God to me. This is my cradle, my childhood, mature years, my life. My joys, my sorrows, my pleasure, and my pain echo from me and resound from these hills and proclaim, "Like the everlasting hills, life is eternal." 347 m@ It was a beautiful morning. A sky of purest azure held a gleaming white-gold sun _ that turned the vast beds of snow stretching beneath to sparkling crystal brilliance. Kari Kay Jackson leaned her elbows on the window sill and with her chin cradled in both hands surveyed the glory of the mid-winter Alaskan morning. Ordinarily, her heart would have swelled to bursting atthe beauty of the spectacle before her, but even this rare morning could not alleviate the gloom that lay around her heart. It had been a year now since Tom had brought her as a bride to this vast frontier country. They had worked hard to make a home in the wilderness. They had done quite well, she 348 The Hardest Work Sally Ann Roehl thought, even though they hadn't had much with which to work. Red-checked curtains sewed by her own hands, lined the windows of her large square kitchen. The white cushioned linoleum covering the bare plywood flooring had been installed perfectly by Tom. The furniture was rough hewn but carefully varnished. And the bedroom even had wall-to-wall carpeting. Tom had thought that something of an extravagance, but Kari had managed to talk him into it on the premise that the bare wood floor would be terribly cold during the long spells of sub-zero weather. Besides, it was the new kind that could be used outdoors on patios, and she cleaned it easily herself. Next year they planned to put in running water and add another bedroom. If there was a next year. The thought struck her miserably. She was seriously considering leaving. She and Tom had settled into such a routine. There just didn't seem to be much excitement anymore. And as the excitement faded, Kari was beginning to doubt that they truly shared a lasting love. Then, too, she missed the Church so much. And the isolation from the talk and companionship of other women was bearing heavily upon her. She loved Relief Society, and often felt a great need for the lessons and sustaining spirituality of other sisters. Never had Kari Jackson felt so deeply the need for other women about her. And while she and Tom had been married in the temple, the priesthood did not seem so close and protective out here where the land reached so far beyond the eye. Before she had left home, Bishop West had admonished her to carry the Church into the wilderness harbored safely in her heart. He had counseled her never to allow separation from a chapel and other members to separate her from the gospel itself. But it just: wasn't that easy. Unhappiness was settling down around her like a cold fog when she noticed the short, full figure approaching the cabin. She smiled at the sight of the little woman slogging through waist-high snow, and this morning the thermometer had registered forty degrees below zero! Running to the door, Kari pulled it open just as her visitor was lifting a mittened hand _ to knock. The Hardest Work "Good morning, Annie! You must be frozen! Come in, I have some hot chocolate on the stove." The little native lady, her face wreathed in smiles, kicked the snow from her boots and stepped into the warm kitchen. "Ahhhhh," she breathed, "that heat feels good. Very cold today. Nice though. Think maybe you go ice fishing with me." Kari took the heavy parka, trimmed so beautifully with the fur of the wolf and wolverene, and hung it on a peg by the door. She looked at the brown, full face, with the eager lights dancing in the dark eyes. "Oh, not today, Annie," she sighed. "How come? You been wanting to go so bad. You not sick?" The black almond eyes were full of concern as her work-worn hand smoothed her heavy black hair mussed by the parka hood. "Oh, no, nothing like that." Kari smiled, warmed by the woman's concern. "I just don't feel like doing much." Annie Andrews was a bright spot for Kari in this lonely country. She and her husband, Wassillie, lived not far away in their own cabin. They had seven children and somehow managed to house them all in one room. They still clung to the old native ways and had not been much influenced by the white man. '(hey were good people, and to be admired for their loyalty to each other and love of their family. Wassillie was typically native, quiet, and efficient at providing for his family from whatever the land had to offer, and content to live as his Indian ancestors had for hundreds of years. 349 May 1969 Annie was different in every way. Talkative, bright, and interested in everything, she was the most truly cheerful person Kari had ever met. She talked incessantly, her conversation so fast and lively it was impossible not to be happily infected by it. Now, looking at Kari's cloudy expression, she settled herself at the kitchen table in an attitude of listening. "We talk now," she stated matter-of-factly. Ee (Cea a), Kari gave a little sigh, them both a cup of hot chocolate, experiencing the little jump of pleasure she always felt when she used the earthenware cups from her wedding dishes, and sat down across the table from Annie who waited in attentive silence. "T don't know, Annie," Kari began uncertainly. "Everything has changed. Tom seems so distant and I miss the Church terribly, Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and, especially, 350 Relief Society. My spirituality seems to be almost gone. Everything is so—so..." she searched for the right word, "so difficult! Building the house and fixing it up was fun. Tom showing me how to hunt and fish, and how different everything is here. But now that's all over. It's just day after day of sameness. The morning melts into afternoon and the afternoon's covered by darkness. Nothing new or exciting or different. Nothing to look forward to when you get up in the morning." She stopped, expecting sympathy and support, but Annie sat silently looking at Kari as though trying to see inside her heart to what lay there. Finally, she spoke _ slowly and thoughtfully. "The Church you talk about. This is the one with what you call temples so people can marry forever. Where men have the right to do work in God's name, and children are made to belong to their mother and father forever also?" "Ves." "You told me about this not long ago, remember?" "T remember." Annie continued softly, "I have thought about these things very much. I think they are good things. You told me, too, that you made promises to God, and if you kept these promises God would give you many blessings." "Yes." "Did God promise these things to come easy?" she demanded quietly. Kari looked at her hands encircling the cup of hot chocolate. "No," she whispered, shame creeping into her young face as she remembered the sealing temple service. Annie continued, a gentle note of scolding in her voice. "Did God promise all excitement and only good things?" Kari could not answer. "IT am not Mormon as you are called, but I am Christian. I do not believe that God wanted things to be easy for us. If it were easy to catch the king salmon, we would not enjoy eating it so much, and we would learn nothing. I think marriage is very hard. Marriage teaches us all things we need to know. The lessons are hard, but they bring most happiness too. Sometimes when I am tired from pulling the fish nets or scraping the skin of seals, I wish not to be married and have so much work to do. But I think life would mean nothing to me then. "Sometime Wassillie get very far away from me, and I do not know what to do. But I pray hard, and God helps me bring my husband back close and I think this is way God meant it should be for us. We should work very hard to do right. If we do not work hard, we learn nothing, make nothing good. Marriage is hardest work of The Hardest Work all." She stopped and began to sip the hot chocolate in her cup. Silence fell around them. Neither spoke for a long time. Finally, Kari found her voice. "Thank you, Annie. I had almost forgotten how things should be. I wanted the newness and excitement of my marriage to stay forever. It's beginning to wear off, and I didn't want to settle down really to being married. I nearly forgot that I must try with all my strength to keep my promises and deserve God's_ blessings." A repentant Kari vowed to herself not to think about giving in when things were not just as she wanted them. And she, too, would pray to keep her husband close to her. She would never, never, allow her = spirituality to ebb so low that her covenants with her Heavenly Father might slip from her. She looked at the little native lady, a simple woman with the wisdom of a queen. She gave a prayer of thankfulness to God for giving her a friend like Annie. Jumping up from the table, she said, "Annie! Let's go ice fishing. It's a beautiful morning!" Soa Sees NOTE ON THE POEM ''MY THREE SONS" The poem, ''My Three Sons, Thomas, Harold, and Richard,'' which appeared in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine was paraphrased from the poem, ''My Sons" by Grace Noll Crowell, which has appeared in Harper and Row publications. 351 Margaret L. Phelps Southampton, England gw Emily May fumbled in her purse for the correct fare; her hands, stiff with arthritis, refused to manipulate the coins, but at last, in triumph she produced the correct money to give to the patiently waiting bus conductor, and he smiled down at her benevolently. As the bus continued its journey, Emily May settled back in her seat and became lost in thought—was it only this morning that the letter came about the new flat? She had hurried down to the council offices to find out all about it, and couldn't believe that it had happened, they were going to pull down her old cottage and move her to a new housing estate. What about her garden? She could see the workmen's boots trampling: down her carefully planted bulbs and her precious 352 primroses, and the rose bushes would never bloom this summer, or any other now, all this was to go, and for her it would be a luxury flatlet. "Luxury!" She startled herself by saying the word out loud, and quickly looked around to see if anybody was giving her strange looks, but no, everyone was too preoccupied with his own deep thoughts. "Anyone for Redleigh Post Office?" the conductor's voice called along the bus. "Yes, me!" Emily May hadn't realized she was at her destination and had to jump up quickly, an embarrassed look on her face, as she felt people watch her move slowly along towards the platform to disembark. "T'm terribly sorry not to have got up sooner." "That's all right, lady, we've got all day," and the bus conductor took her arm and descended the platform with her to the pavement. She took from her bag the crumpled piece of paper with the directions that the man at the Council Offices had given her, and she made her way along the wide white pavements, feeling strange and alien. Eventually, she found the block of flats where her future home was situated and looked up at the massive construction in awe and apprehension, but then her sharp blue eyes narrowed, her face, with skin like wrinkled paper, became set and, bracing her shoulders, she marched across the flagged courtyard as best she could manage. Once inside, the automatic lift was the next obstacle, and she surmounted this by waiting for another person to arrive on the scene and explain the workings of that particular marvel of man's invention. A few seconds later and the door of her flat was before her. It was clean and bright with pale distempered walls, tiled floors, and large picture windows, not quite so bad as Emily May had imagined, but she felt out of place within the walls of this building. For awhile she stood contemplating the bareness of it all, her feelings surging inside of her, feelings of despondency and loneliness, then, holding on to the wooden surround of the fireplace, she eased herself to the floor and poured out her heart to the only one who could possibly understand. "Dear God, why couldn't things "And When Ye Shall Receive These Things"' have been left as they were, just for a little while longer. I would so much have liked to spend my last days in the home that John and I made together. We had so many happy times there, a sad time, too, when the news came that our two sons had been killed in the war. All my life has been wrapped up in that cottage, and now it is to be pulled down. Why? Oh, why?" Emily May knelt silently with her head bowed, the sun shining on her diminutive body. The time slipped by, and she still knelt there. Somehow she was at peace and felt near to her Heavenly Father. Her thoughts sped back over the years, and she could hear the words that her father had spoken so long ago, when she failed to win a ribbon for pony events in the local contest. "Now, Emily May, don't get so upset. Things don't always go the way you expect or want them. Sometimes we fail in things when we have tried our best, and sometimes it seems that we have troubles heaped upon us, but the Lord works in a strange way, and most of these things turn out for the best." Yes, thought Emily May, who am I to expect the world to revolve around me, and anyway, as Father used to say, the Lord sometimes works in a strange way, and I may yet see the reason for things happening as they have. With these thoughts, she began to rise from her knees. It was a very painful process after kneeling in one position for so long, but she was compensated by the peace that now filled her mind. S53 May 1969 It was one week later that Emily May moved her belongings to her new home, and it was while she was standing in the corridor, near the lift, supervising the men unloading the furniture, that she first saw the two young men. They had come from one of the flats further along the passageway, and a young lady, who must have been the occupant, was seeing them to the lift. It was she who spoke. "Oh, are you just moving in? I expect you could do with some help." "Well, yes," said Emily May, dubiously. "Perhaps we could help you get your furniture in place." It was the taller of the two young men who spoke, and Emily noticed that he had an American accent. "Well, I was worrying about how to get everything straight, and my arthritis does make things difficult. Yes, I would be very pleased with your help." She was quite surprised at herself, inviting complete strangers into her home, but they had such open faces, and she really did need the help. In no time at all things were beginning to look tidier, although still rather bare. The helpers were wonderful company and kept her laughing the whole time. As she was putting out the photographs of her late husband and sons, she went to call one of the young men from the other room and realized that she didn't know his name. "Do you realize, I don't know your names?" At this invitation they began telling her about themselves. 354 First, the taller of the two men spoke, and it seemed that his name was Elder Jameson and he came from Salt Lake City to England on a two-year mission for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The second man's name was Elder Thomas from California. His parents had gone there from Wales when he was a baby, and he was also a missionary. The lady from along the corridor was Sister Jean Tanner, and she was also a member of the same Church. The elders had just been visiting her when they all met. Emily May was a little stunned for awhile, when she realized that they were "Mormons." All those stories that she had heard about them came pouring into her mind, but somehow she couldn't feel any fear in the company of these young people, but she didn't particularly want to get involved with such a strange set of people, either. Elder Thomas spoke, "Would you like to know more about the Church, Mrs. Cross?" "Oh, no, no. I'm too old to change my ways now, but thank you for all your help, it really has been appreciated." They didn't press her any further, but just continued to clean and tidy up as if nothing had happened, and when finished they left with a cheerful goodbye. It wasn't until about an hour later that Emily May found the book with the pamphlets inside. She was about to take them down to Jean Turner, when she noticed the words written inside the cover. Dear Sister Cross: If you take time to read these things I'm sure you will find them interesting and if you pray about them, you will know of their truth. Elders Thomas & Jameson She banged the books down onto the sideboard as if they were red hot and refused to take any further notice of them. Sometimes, though, when dusting the pictures of her family, she would become tempted to take just a little look, but not anything more than that. Somehow they bothered her, so she decided to tuck them away in a cupboard, however, they still preyed on her mind. Sometimes, at night, before going to sleep she would think about the young men who had helped her and the books that they left that were hidden away in the linen cupboard, but she would declare to herself that they probably knew no more "And When Ye Shall Receive These Things' than any other religion and had no more to offer. Emily May had always been a devout church goer in her youth, and it was at church that she had met her husband. They had been married in the little village church not far from her old home, and it was in the same building that their two sons had been christened, John first, named after his father, of course, and David next, named after his grandfather. They were beautiful babies and grew into fine young men. At the outbreak of war, when both of them had volunteered, she often thought of what life would be if one of them was lost, but little envisaged losing both. Those were sad days for Emily May and John. They naturally turned to God and their church for comfort. In their prayers together they found peace in God, but there were many questions that needed answers, so it was to their local vicar that they went. He was a good man and did his best in giving them the little information he _ possessed about life after death, but he knew this was inadequate. His parting words had been, "I'm so sorry I can't be of more comfort to you. Sometimes I feel it would be wonderful to have someone on the earth who really knew all the answers, a prophet or something." After this Emily May and John went to church less frequently, until they stopped altogether, but they always kept up their prayers. Emily May awoke to a beautiful bright morning. Her first thoughts were happy and at 355 May 1969 peace, for she had been dreaming about John. He had been sitting at a large desk, bent over his work, and she had crept up behind him and kissed the back of his neck. He had turned, smiling, and she noticed what he was doing— reading a book, the same book that was tucked away in her cupboard. Just coincidence, she said to herself. It must have been a culmination of thoughts. Jean Turner had continued to call on Emily May to make sure that she was all right and to see if she needed anything, and today was one of her usual days for calling. "Hello, Mrs. Cross, is there anything I can help you with this morning?" "Thank you, my dear, for calling. There are one or two things that I need from the shop, come in a minute." As Emily May sorted out her money and wrote down the things that were needed, she took note of Jean's face. Somehow it seemed even more happy and radjiant than usual. "You're looking very happy today, Jean my dar, something special happened? "Oh, I should say so," her voice bubbled with excitement. "My husband and I were married for time and all eternity yesterday and I'm still walking on air." Emily May stopped what she was doing and turned a puzzled face towards Jean, and she, realizing that what she was talking about was all new to Emily May, began to explain. It was much later that Jean eventually left for the shops. Emily May was sitting in her favorite chair, looking fondly on the faces of her husband and sons, and in her mind, going over the events of the last few weeks. Could it be that she now had the reason why, the answer to her prayers? Were Jean and those two young elders the reason she had come to this new home? A few minutes later, when Jean came back from the shops, she found Emily May with her gray head bent intently over a book, a book that began: "I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents...." roo A TRIBUTE I'm just a visiting teacher, | heard a sister say, But, oh, how golden was the key that she had used today. It had opened doors of comfort and doors of hopefulness For lonely hearts and troubled minds and brought them happiness. A sweetly-worded message she had humbly left inside, And every home she visited seemed sweetly purified. No idle words of gossip, no ugly thought was left to scar— No wonder God was pleased as he watched her from afar. So she is ''just a visiting teacher,'' how little does she know How valuable, how welcome her monthly visits grow! As she turns the key of service that fits in every lock Of every precious sister whom she visits on her block. 356 —Bernice Cheshire Harding Betty Mazzacano To the passerby, it was a wide-boughed, beautiful elm, but it was more than that, it was a verdant, many- \ roomed world of its own, and my best friend Bonnie Jean and I: called it ours. Our tree, of course, didn't really belong to either of us. It stood on the corner of a lot which lay about y halfway between her house and mine. Nearly every hot _ summer day, one of us would telephone the other and say, "Let's go climb our tree!" Betty Jean would walk the block from her house, and I would walk from mine. We would meet at the lot, two skinny, freckled little tomboys, in our Buster Brown haircuts, seersucker playsuits, and skuffed leather barefoot sandals. But once we had kicked off our sandals and shinnied up the thick tree trunk, we were transported into the world of our imagination. Our tree had many branches wide enough to sit or stand upon, and strong enough to hold our puny weight, almost to the very top. From its heights, we could balance precariously and peer over the neighborhood, feeling bigger and more important than anyone around. We could climb down into the middle section and play Tarzan games, swinging acrobatically from branch to branch. Betty Jean, a bit more daring than I, could leap from one branch, catch onto another several yards away, and swing breathtakingly to still another, leaving behind a wake of trembling leaves and quivering branches. Other times, our tree would become the sumptuous homes of our current favorite movie stars, or a big city apartment, or a hideaway deep in cowboy country. We never ran out of dialogue or situations, borrowing heavily from a current pet movie or book. We were masters at ad-libbing and credulity was not a problem. We spent hours in our tree, sometimes perching there to eat our lunches. Even these prosaic flung-together slabs of bread and jelly became for us a gourmet delight fit for the princesses we were in fancy. We wore the boughs shiny with use, but our imaginations never failed us; we were always able to leave our boring, little-girl worlds and dream the time away in our private aerie. It's strange about our t.°e. Betty Jean and I walked past it years later, when we were sophisticated young ladies. We stopped for a moment and looked up into its leafy heights. What we saw was an ordinary el:: tree, no different from any of the others on the avenue. It was even quite small. Had it shrunk? No, the tree had remained the same. It was our imaginations which had shrunk into nothingness. And, now, a tree was just a tree. 357 The Rebirth Nancy Tuddenham Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia @ What on earth had made her say she would come out to this forsaken place with her husband? Sue sat on the camp chair outside the caravan, and drooped. The blazing sun shone out of a brazen blue sky, bare of clouds. The flies came around in droves and stuck, crawling, into her hair and eyes. She swished at them viciously. Here she was stuck in the middle of the bush, in the middle of Australia—well, nearly, anyway. Dust, flies, ants, hornets, and goodness knows what. Ah, she could weep. One had to carry one's own water, with no electricity, and the gas-bottle empty. The meat was going bad. And weep Sue did, as she thought of all this, and how they came out here. 358 Two months ago her husband Jim had come home from work all excited. "T've got it, honey," he called as he came through the door, letting it slam behind him. "T've got the job on the Road —think what it will mean— more money to pay off our debts, a holiday for you in the fresh air away from the smog...." And on he went about all the things they could do, all the benefits of this venture. So it happened, packing the caravan, packing the things at home. Rush! She was exhausted by the time they left. Fortunately, they had no children. They didn't want any, well, to be honest, she didn't. Jim would have liked children —but she didn't want her rou- tine upset by babies. She had to leave her job to go on this wild goose chase as it was. With a baby! Ah, my goodness, never! They were camped, along with some other married couples, in the rough Australian bush in the Northern Territory where the Beef Road was being built. It was late April, just after the wet season, and the countryside was at its best. The spinifex shone green and gold, even now the spines turning yellow with the hot sun. The ghost gums were clean and fresh looking, with their gray-white boles that shone in the sun and moonlight. The crows were numerous, along with the gray and rose galahs, and the white cockatoos. The bright red and green parrots made the bush ring with their raucous cries. She just sat there, really quite an attractive young woman, brown eyes and hair, fair complexion. Her age—just thirty. WJ ust then around the corner came a young woman. "Hello there! My name is June. I'm from the van over the way there," she said, pointing to a pretty little van with an awning and a tidy litter around it. "Isn't it beautiful today? Lovely sunshine, clear air, better than your city smog any time. Don't you love it out here?" She rattled on. "Wide open spaces, birds, trees, no rush, no traffic jams." Sue had looked up in surprise. At first she was speechless, but it wasn't noticed because June kept on talking. But then she found her tongue. "Ah, hello! I'm Sue. I didn't The Rebirth notice you come round the corner." "That's all right, as long as I didn't frighten you." Sue laughed. "I thought I''d come over while my children were playing elsewhere. We have two, one of each, not of school age yet. I would have my hands full with correspondence school if they were. Like to come over for a drink of something?" Sue said, "hank you." She couldn't say any more, but thought, may as well—there's nothing else to do. Together, they went over to June's van. She got Sue a camp chair, and told her to sit down while she prepared the drinks. Sue thought, yes a_ cool drink would be nice now. While June was busy she talked about their two children, Jan and Rob, and her husband Robert. Jan was five and a half, and Rob was four. Robert was out here as a grader driver. Jan had asthma in the city, but had not had a sign of it since they had come out here, so that was a blessing, wasn't it? June rambled on, having sensed that Sue wasn't very happy, until she brought out the drinks, lime cordial in glasses that clinked merrily with the ice-blocks she had put in, also a plate of biscuits spread daintily with cream cheese and tomato, "Now," she said, "let's settle down for a good chat. I hope you don't mind, but I noticed you looked a bit down in the dumps. Can I help?" "Not really," murmured Sue, then, "it's just everything has got me down—the bush, lack 359 May 1969 of facilities, a bush made shower cubicle, worry of flat batteries for our lights, empty gas bottle. I'm sorry," she went on, "T don't want to burden you. I'm just sorry I ever came here, that's all!" June was saved an answer by the two children returning dirty but happy. They threw themselves on their mother, and both started talking at once. "T climbed a tree...' "|.. Saw a butterfly...' "... Seed a lizard..." ".. Found a cattapilla... June said, "Sh! We have a visitor." They turned around with big smiles and both said, "Hello." "It's great fun here," said young Rob. "I can climb trees, can you?" Sue had to admit that feat was a bit beyond her abilities. Turning to their mother, they both said, "We brought some wood home, Mummy." "Thank you, my dears," she said, "now off with you and wash your hands and you may have a drink, too." When Sue first saw the cordial she thought, fancy drinking that! But on tasting it, she found, to her surprise, that it was very refreshing, and enjoyed it so much that when June asked if she would like another, she replied that she would. Sue went back to her own caravan feeling much happier. Later in the evening, when she and her husband were sitting reading, there was a_ knock at the door. Robert was there. "June told me you _ people were out of gas," he said. "You > 33 360 can use our spare bottle until your refill arrives. No good being without a refrigerator out here." Jim thanked him and invited him in. "You find out who are friends in places like this," he commented. "Would you like a cup of tea?" "No thanks," Robert explained, "We don't drink tea, and I must get back and help get the nips into bed. Another time perhaps." He left the bottle of gas outside the door, and went off whistling. "Nice chap,' commented Jim. "June seems nice, too—quite happy-go-lucky," Sue added. INI ext day, June came over to ask Sue to go for a walk with her and the children. She didn't fancy going, the spinifex cut her legs, the flies were such a nuisance, and there could be snakes. However, June was hard to refuse, so she went. As they passed a gum tree, June broke off four twigs and gave one each to the children and one to Sue. Swish these around to chase the flies with," she advised. To Sue's surprise, it did chase the flies. As they walked, they saw the tiny wild flowers that grew among the grass, as well as many other kinds of flowers. Sue gathered some, along with some of the pretty grasses, to put in the van. She hadn't realized there was any beauty in the bush like this, she had never taken the trouble to look. The children kept pointing out to her all the different things to look at. A flock of galahs flashed past, screeching in protest at being disturbed, grasshoppers, two and three inches long, jumped out of the clumps of grass with a whirring of wings. Willy-wagtails, in their black and white suits, flaunted their tails on the track before them. June told the children' the native legend about them. Sue listened. "Never tell a secret in the hearing of a wagtail." "Why not?" the asked. "Because of this," replied their mother, "they tell all the secrets they hear." children "There's a magpie," called (iat Jan, as a big black and white bird flew off at their approach. "T love to hear them caroling at dawn, don't you, Sue?" June asked. Sue confessed she _ hadn't taken much notice. "But," she added, "I will tomorrow morning." Sue saw and heard all these things for the first time, and, much to her amazement, enjoyed them all. She was very thoughtful on the way back. Over the next weeks June showed Sue many little things that made camping in the bush much easier for her. One day, before Jim left for work, Sue went over to June's van to borrow something. As she neared the van she heard subdued voices. She was just about to knock, when she heard Robert's voice, "... In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." Then a murmur. Then another voice, a child's, and recognized Jan saying, "Dear Father in heaven, The Rebirth thank you for our blessings. Thank you for Mummy and Daddy and Rob, and Auntie Sue, and help her to be happy out in this lovely country you have made, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." Sue crept away to her own van. What is this she thought, prayers in the morning and young Jan, so young? They didn't seem to be religious. Well, they didn't ram it down your throat, but there was something—as when Robert lent them the gas bottle, he said they didn't drink tea. June had given her cordial and milk drinks, never tea nor coffee. They didn't seem to drink and neither of them smoked. There was something about them, a closeness that she and Jim had never seemed to acquire. They had two children and were pleased that number three was on the way. She was thoughtful all day. Maybe if they had children they would be closer, too. Maybe 361 May 1969 she would be at peace with her own mind. But there was more than that. That night she spoke to Jim about what she had heard that morning and her thoughts during the day, and asked what he thought. He agreed they had "something." "You go and have a talk with June tomorrow," was his suggestion. So she did speak to June, and June exclaimed, "Ha! The chance to ask the two Golden Questions!" Which she promptly did. Sue was thoughtful all day. "Yes, I would like to know more, and I'm sure Jim would, too." "Robert is an elder" June told Sue, "and he can tell you both about the Church, but," she added, "you will have to wait until you get back to civilization to be taught again and be baptized." From then on life opened up for Sue and Jim. Sue was introduced to The Relief Society Magazine, and learned to love every word of it, and learned so much from it. Jim was interested, as well, so much so that when the tea ran out, they did not order any more. After quite a tussle they gave up smoking, and Jim gave up his beer, a very hard thing to do in one of the hottest parts of Australia. But the crowning event was when Sue was able to tell Jim that a happy event could be expected next year. "My darling," whispered Jim, "this is what we have been waiting for." COCO Over the hill And over the sea Is where my heart Aften langs tae be. | see the heather Upon the green hill And the wild deer runnin' Tae escape the kill. | see the wee yins Doon by the stream While my mither works happily At churnin' the cream. | see the women Doon by the mill Spinnin' fine lace Tae thrill many a girl. 362 | see the gospel Proclaimed at my door, My heart swells with joy At the message they bore. | see my native land Left far behind As | traveled far west A new Zion tae find. Now, although I'm quite happy In this land and am free, My heart aften wanders Far beyond the blue sea. Tae hame, and my hameland And all o' my kin Their hearts tae the gospel | surely must win. And when that day comes And united we be Perhaps | won't reminice Sae much o'er the sea. —Jean Paul Clark Ny Harvest Wye of VAAN Fulfillment WANN | l Betty G. Spencer Mf FAH It was harvest time and, as I returned from an errand into the country, I noticed that many sugar beets were lying by the roadside. The beets were perfect! Full of sucrose and as plump and heavy as their counterparts which had made the journey from the nearby fields to the beetdump without mishap, the beets at the side of the road had been left at the wayside. The beets had been planted in the spring, carefully tended, weeded, and thinned as the growing season wore on. They were harvested with hope as the fields were cleared, but these beets would be wasted. Without arriving at their ultimate destination, the sugar factory, they would not be processed and yield their sweetness. The wasted beets brought to mind the unfulfilled projects which I had also left "by the wayside." Good ideas, which did not see fruition because they were not carried to their ultimate destination. I thought of the lovely drapery material I had selected, but had put off sewing into drapes for the family room; the letter I had started to a friend who needed encouragement; the new recipe I had carefully clipped but had not prepared for my family. It was not enough that the farmer had planted, tended, and harvested his crop, he must also see that it was processed in order to reap full benefit from the sowing. So it is with us, It is not enough to have good ideas, if we do not carry them through to the harvest of fulfillment. PERCEPTION | walked today with my children three In the quiet land where | wished to be. | left the dishes at home in the sink, For | needed space to breathe and think. Three fragile voices sang delight In a miniature waterfall, silvery-bright, Exclaimed at leaves, falling one by one, And praised the warmth of the autumn sun. | walked today with my children three And saw things my eyes alone could not see. —Grace Diane Jessen 363 Mothers are many things: They are the sweethearts of fathers. They are comforting arms for tiny babies. They are nurses for all the family. They are counselors for growing children. They are words of encouragement when there is an obstacle to overcome. They are aids to all the teachers that children have. Mothers are people who never need anything for themselves if their children are in need. A mother is a person who knows the ache in her heart but sends her children into the world with a smile on her face and words of confidence from her heart. A mother knows the great good that is deep in the hearts of her children. A mother prays for her loved ones. A mother's joy is in the righteousness of her children. A mother's courage is in her faith in God. A mother feels the responsibility of her children, for she realizes they are the children of God, and she is aware of the need for their good training. A mother is grateful for the planned lessons given in the different auxiliaries of the Church, for she knows they are inspired helps for her in training the precious spirits entrusted to her by the Lord. A mother is that person who becomes that wonderful grandmother. We are truly grateful to the Lord for his great generosity when he gave us mothers. Pptozraph by Dorothy J. Roberts els: Sharon Morgan Berrett, Mother, and Melissa Morgan, child. 365 raperies Edythe K. Watson, Member General Board of Relief Society Photography by Dorothy J. Roberts These beautiful curtains displayed by Mary Frances Watson, were purchased in Dusseldorf, Germany, and are typical of the many lovely varieties seen throughout that country. They give the windows a warm yet luxurious effect. @ It all started with fourteen and a half yards of pretty pink and white chintz drapery fabric purchased from a sale table for only fifty cents a yard. The material was an excellent quality and was reduced to one-fourth its original cost. Happily it provided the basis for a family project which put excitement in the air for days and gave lasting satisfaction and enjoyment to every family member for a job well done. The results were a lovely and attractive bedroom for our five-year-old granddaughter Jill. The drapery fabric inspired my daughter and me to make our first pleated draperies. I had made many sets of curtains and draperies for my kitchen, bathrooms, and bedrooms over the years, but they had always been either the shirred ruffly kind or simple tailored ones with a conventional heading. To 366 make pleated drapes was something quite different. Their making proved to be fun and quite easy to do. Since then I have made draw draperies for my kitchen windows and curtained and draped my bedroom windows. My curtains were especially interesting to work with since I had purchased them in Germany and German decorating methods are quite different from the American ways. It is a beautiful and interesting sight to ride through the towns and cities of Europe and observe the varieties of window treatment. Every country has its own distinctive and charming style which seems to identify with the personalities and the people of that country. I was intrigued with the beautiful curtained windows of the German homes. They always seemed to look fresh and inviting. Often the curtains | added a simple quilted valance over these windows, made from the fabric of a matching bedspread. They were very easy and inexpensive to install, yet add a finish to the room. Were hung high enough to allow space above the sill to hold a flower box. Such a lovely sight! I felt fortunate to bring some of these curtains home for my own use. Windows, as it appears to me, are an important part of a home. Usually they set the scheme of interior decoration and the everyday passerby may even judge the occupants of a home by what he sees from the outside. Draperies or window hangings were used originally to insulate a room against the weather, the cold in winter and the heat in summer, and were usually just lengths of heavy dark fabrics, with no thought in mind to beautify or enhance a room. Today draperies and curtains have come into their own. Myriads of exciting colors and designs are available. The making of draperies, curtains, or sheers can This original design for a den was made by Sister Jean Tolich at a nominal cost, yet it is very attractive. A black and white mattress ticking was the fabric used, with a black fringe for trim. The wails were also covered with this same material. Bright colored accessories for accent were added to the room. Be fun and rewarding both aesthetically and financially. Have you ever tried to make your own draperies or curtains? From my limited experience I have learned that you need not be a professional seamstress. All that is really required of you is that you can sew a straight seam, put in a simple hem, and be willing to learn a few tricks of the trade. To assure success in 367 follow these drapery basic rules. Making, Learn All You Can About Drapery Making and Fabrics Before You Begin Look through the home decorator magazines. You may find a clever drapery or curtain idea to make your room_ something special. Visit the library for books on drapery making. Most every city and country would have their own sources of information. Many furniture and department stores have made-up 368 A lovely soft gold was the color chosen for this bedroom. The valance is of velvet and the draperies a sheer held back by gold cording and tassel. The blind was made from the same fabric used in the bedspread. Models, and with the purchase of materials from them, they are happy to provide you with excellent written information compiled by leading authorities on the subject. Sister Lorainne Bagnell, an experienced and capable drapery designer and seamstress, gave an excellent demonstration with detailed instructions including some special tricks of the trade, in the homemaking department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference in 1967. This was published in the homemak- -& as e- 'it ~~ ——— P| idee ye, co eg ll, sRamona tees =m i These delightful and practical draperies were made by Sister Margaret Arnold for her young son's room. A valance and border were made from border print of blue and red marching soldiers. This trim was most effective on the white fabric of the drapery. Knitting yarn tassels were used for accent. Sister Jean Tolich created this attractive window trimming in her son's bedroom from red felt, with black yarn tassels as trimming. A minimum of sewing was required yet the overall effect of this room is very interesting. Ing booklet. I was able to follow her detailed instructions from the booklet as I made my draperies. Choose Your Fabrics With Care There are many beautiful miracle fabrics on the market today. Choose the one best suited to your needs. If you have a family of young children you may wish to choose asturdy material, easy to launder and care for. If your household consists of adults, you may wish to choose a more elegant, less sturdy fabric. Don't buy inferior material. It takes the same amount of work to make up poor quality material and the results can be disappointing. Buy the best material you can afford, but remember the price tag does not always denote the quality. If you are timid about making draperies for the first time, don't buy material which is too expensive. Very attractive draperies can be made from colored sheets. They lend themselves well to many varieties of trim, they are color fast (at least as much so as any material subjected for long periods to the sun's rays), they launder beautifully, and they come in lovely colors, stripes, and prints, and are usually less costly than many other fabrics. Watch sales in_ reputable stores. Many excellent fabrics are reduced to clear stocks at certain times of the year. Know your fabiics, and don't buy some- 369 This window was too small for the effect Sister Margaret Arnold wanted, so she extended the rods on both sides several inches,. Made the draperies ceiling high and added extra fullness. The results were most satisfactory. This charming and practical kitchen window treatment is made from a lovely fabric in colors of orange, yellow, and brown. Sister Margaret Arnold used a drapery from the same material to decorate a large window in the adjoining family room. Exact measurements were very important in making and installing this blind and canopy. Thing you don't want just because you think it is a bargain. Look for fabrics that have a permanent finish, are water and soil repellent, are preshrunk, color-fast (vat-dyed), have a firm weave, and are soft and drapable. Although soft fabrics are more traditionally used, don't be afraid to try something different. Even felt can be used in an interesting manner to drape a window in a tailored fashion. Though felt is fairly stiff, it is very attractive for a teenager's room. Allow sufficient material to make a full drape. Use less expensive fabric if your funds are limited, rather than make a skimpy drapery. You will need double the rod measurement for 370 draperies and three to four times the width of the rod for sheers. Study and Understand the Anatomy of the Windows You Wish to Cover Don't feel limited if your windows are small. You can change the whole effectby a clever manipulation of rod and fabric. Understand How to Measure a Window Correctly The same rules can be followed for measuring all varieties of windows. Measure each window individually, even though they are in the same room and appear to be exact in size. Sometimes window sizes may vary several inches in the same room and in corresponding positions. I found this to be true in my own kitchen. Have a paper and_ pencil handy. Measure accurately and write down every measurement. Don't depend on your memory— it may fail you. Make Certain You Have the Right Equipment a. Have sufficient space on which to lay, measure, and cut your material. A young friend of mine who made most of the draperies in her lovely new home, was greatly helped by a cutting table made by her husband. It was simple to make and inexpensive, well worth the effort because of the money saved by making their draperies. Your dining room table extended may do nicely. Pads designed especially for cutting material are now available in many stores. These can be used on a bed or the floor. I used my long counter in my kitchen and it worked very well. B. Make sure you have a good light. Don't work in a poorly lighted room. It could be the cause of a foolish mistake. C. Have your ironing board and iron in readiness. The same procedure should be used in drapery making as in sewing articles of clothing—press your seams as you sew. D. Have plenty of sharp pins. They can be used to designate spaces ar to hold your material in place. E. Use good needles and a thimble. F. Have sharp scissors. Long scissors are recommended for cutting. You may wish to use small scissors for clipping and detail work. G. Use a metal measuring tape. A fabric tape tends to stretch. A yard stick and ruler are useful, too. H. Notch a piece of cardboard the depth you are making your hems. This is much easier to handle than a ruler. I. Have your sewing machine in readiness. Make certain that all parts are wiped free of excess grease. Know where to set the tension for each weight of fabric. Make sure the machine needies are the proper size for your fabric. You may wish to check with the manuMake Your Own Draperies facturer's representative as to correct information on these subjects. Keep your hands clean at all times. See that no residue from hand cream or lotion remains on your fingers. Some fabrics absorb such residue quickly. A grease spot can spoil a lovely fabric. You may wish to sew parts of your draperies by hand. This gives a lovely effect, particularly to sheers. Don't be afraid to baste. This may save you countless stitches. Sister Bagnell gives the following helpful hints in measuring, cutting, and sewing draperies, with illustrations to assist you: How to Figure Yardage Width—measure rod area including returns (the part of the rod and bracket that extends from the bend in the rod to the wall) plus six inches for overlap where the panels meet, then double this measurement for proper fullness. If the total pleated width is sixty inches, you will need at least 120 inches of fabric. Length—measure one half inch above the rod to the length you want the drape finished, and add _ twelve inches if using three-inch crinoline, or sixteen inches if using four-inch crinoline. This allows for double hems at the bottom and double heading at the top. Crinoline is used in the top to give body to the material so that it will stand up and not droop when the draperies are drawn. It comes in three, four, and five-inch widths, but fourinch is usually the choice for draperies. If you are using a patterned fabric the following information will be helpful. Figure the length as above, and measure the length of the pattern repeat. Divide the length needed for the drape by the size of the pattern repeat. If the result is a fraction, order an additional repeat. 371 May 1969 Length needed, including hems and headings - - - _ 76 inches Pattern repeat ____-_---10 inches Divide __--------- 76 by 10 - 7.6 Multiply the number of repeats needed by the size of the repeat for the length of the fabric needed—10x8 equals 80 inches, or 2 yards and 8 inches. A pair of single width draperies would require four yards and 16 inches. To Make Unlined Draperies When cutting drapery strips be sure to stretch out the fabric smoothly and measure straight and accurately. It is essential to cut on the true cross grain. This can be determined by pulling a thread or following an obvious cross thread. Using a yardstick or measuring tape on the selvage, measure and cut one strip to the exact total length, including hem and heading. Cut lower edge on true crossgrain also. This length can be used to measure the others, laying fabric out flat on top with edges pinned. If you have a patterned fabric, match patterns exactly on each length. If you have to join several widths, you may use a French seam or a lapped seam for a_ professional finish. Remove the selvage or else clip the selvage at intervals and press the first turn of the bottom hem—three or four inches. When making draperies, the general rule is to make the depth of the bottom hem the same as the depth of the heading. When making sheer curtains, you may want to have the bottom hem and heading as deep as five inches. Press a double hem at each side (1 or 1% inches), press the second 372 turn at the bottom hem, and sew around the drape with machine or by hand. If a large table is available, pin drape at bottom edge to a table, press, then measure from the hem to the correct length needed. Press material and fold double over crinoline. Pin or baste. To Make Pleats There are several ways to figure the pleating on draperies. A simple way is to figure fourinch spaces between each pleat. To determine the amount of fabric in each pleat and the number of spaces, measure the width of the rod across the front (not including rod return) and divide this by two to determine how much each panel will have to cover. For example, if the rod measures 36 inches, divided by two it would be 18 inches. Divide this by 4" which would make 4 4-inch spaces. There would be 5 pleats needed as there will always be one more pleat than spaces (see illustration). Pin the drape from the center front edge the width needed for the overlap, pin from the side edge the width needed for the return. If the space between these two pins measures 40 inches, we subtract the width of half the rod which is 18 inches, which leaves 22 inches for pleats. Divide 5 into 22 inches which equals 4%, inches. This is the amount to be used in each pleat. Pin. I found that the easiest way to pleat your draperies is to divide the panel in half and work from the center. After pinning you should have 5 pleats 4%, inches and 4 spaces. Sometimes it is necessary to make minor adjustments. To make a lovely, full drapery, it is always well to have the width of each pleat greater than the space between pleats. Draperies should be pinned according to the rod used. There should be one-half inch of drape above the rod. If you are timid about making hand-set pleats, there are some excellent pleater tapes available Make Your Own Draperies in drapery departments, and they are very easy to use and can help give the drapes a_ professional look. There are so many clever and fun ideas for fabrics and trims —use your imagination and ingenuity. Give your windows that special charm that will be yours alone. Add beauty and warmth to your home. —— © ~<iiee WHEN MOTHERS SING When mothers sing the home is sweet, And peace and joy abound; Troubles seem to fade away Before this happy sound. Children smile, and baby coos, And Dad forgets his care; Faith and hope and harmony Dwell securely there. Singing Mothers everywhere, Patient, tender, strong, Send to heaven this daily prayer— Lord, make my life a song. —Olga Milius ee ge = - MY TAPESTRY The tapestry of life | stitch Is never quite as perfect as it might be; | plan it carefully, Choosing the theme and materials, And yet, when the time of working And blending has arrived, | sometimes find myself inadequate. The task which once seemed easy May on occasions of sorrow or stress Be almost too difficult to finish; And yet, when | view it at its completion, | hope that the over-all picture Is a pleasing blend, With the mistakes of the first stitches, Corrected and almost unnoticeable In the perfection of the others. —Ruth G. Rothe 373 LOST Forever— One Expression of Love E. Grace Stanford High Level, Alberta, Canada mw My nine-year-old son was all big-eyed and enthusiastic! With the importance reserved by nine-year-olds, I was being informed of the forthcoming school track meet and his schedule for Little League ball. My mind, for a few fleeting seconds, withdrew from his sports résumé, and spanned a great desire to open my arms and say, "Come here, son, and give me a big hug!" I resisted for a fleeting second and this great surge of love subsided to normalcy. Now I have a small tugging void where happiness should be. Now I know that I let slip by, forever, one opportunity for my son and me to strengthen and declare our love in an impromptu happy embrace. Children need this affirmation of love from parents. Then will they know for a surety that their parents do love them! This knowledge would be their anchor and buoy during youth's turbulent storms—their comfort and strength when young heartbreaks bring fear and anguish into their lives. This knowledge would enlarge a child's own capacity for love. How often, in times of trouble and sorrow, parents long to reach out and closely commune with their older or even married children! How often the children will not let the parents draw near! Could it not be that in the early years these parents failed to fulfill an impulse visibly to express their love? That these children who are, in reality, cherished, do not realize how deep is the concern of their father and mother? Parents and friends also need this spontaneous declaration of our affection. These spiritual promptings to display our love toward parents, children, and our fellow men are of a Godlike quality and may take many forms. There are many urges to run over to a new neighbor with a batch of cookies fresh out of the oven, the nudging desire to tell a friend how lovely she looks today, the feeling that you want to go and help Jim put a few boards on that garage he is trying to build alone, the moment when you want to say to a teacher, "I enjoyed and was impressed by your lesson today," the word of congratulation you meant to send to an acquaintance—the impulse to tell your husband how proud you are of his achievements, whether great or small. 374 Lost Forever—One Expression of Love If we suppress these divine emotions too often they cease to come to us. Our lives become drab and days go by without meaning. Suddenly, one day, we wonder what we have accomplished that was worthwhile in our lives. On our last picnic, the little children came running to me with their hands clutched full of wilting crocuses, and their faces beaming. Their token of love deposited, they rushed off to climb hills again. These wonderful experiences need last only moments. I have a dear friend who, occasionally, hands me a brown paper bag. Inside I have found everything from a loaf of home-baked bread to a pair of exquisite meticulously hand crocheted doilies. Today in the mail, I received a small parcel from one of my sisters, sent first class mail. Inside was a pair of dainty, cool summer slippers covered with enchanting beaded flowers. There was no special occasion, no special reason. It was one of those glorious extempore expressions of love, and, because it was not suppressed, her life and mine have been enriched! "ETERNAL KINGDOM" Love, where is love? Hope, where is hope? Who am I? Am | the world in vain? Am | a child crying? Love me, love me. Give me hope to go on On and on forever To live a life— To be proud. Give me love To show the way To my eternal kingdom— Oh, people of God, help me Help me to see your happiness. Help me to hear your pleading cries. Help me, oh, world, help me To do what is right for you. Help the world in which you live That | may try to prepare ''you'' for me. —Lorna Nelson 375 Patricia R. Watkins @ Anna Pavlova, the Russian ballerina, was one of the greatest dancers of all time. Born in St. Petersburg, she made her debut in 1899, becoming prima ballerina in 1906. She began to tour Europe in 1907 and also appeared with Diaghilev's Ballets Russe in Paris in 1909, in London in 1911, and in New York, with Mikhail Mordkin, in 1910. In 1913 she resigned from the Maryinsky Theater and established her permanent home, Ivy House, in Hampstead, England. In 1914 she began extensive tours to virtually every part of the world, which lasted the rest of her life. Pavlova's dancing was marked by greatness and had an incalculable effect on audiences, everywhere. She seemed to command a universal language and to possess a complete dramatic range, changing easily from the fragile, floating swan in her famous "Dying Swan" role to the dangerous flame in "Autumn Bacchanale." Anna Pavlova was born in 1881 and died in 1931. The following recipe is, when completed, representative in appearance of the ballet skirts Pavlova wore during her career as a famous dancer. 376 PAVLOVA 4 egg whites | a pinch of salt 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Cornstarch V/, tsp. Vinegar or lemon juice Suggested fillings: Strawberries and whipped cream; fruit salad; lemon filling. Add salt to the egg white. Beat until a knife cut through the mixture comes out clean. Gradually add sugar, beating continually until mixture is very stiff and the sugar is well beaten in. Fold in cornstarch and vinegar. Pour into an 8-inch round cake pan which has been greased lightly and sprinkled with a little cornstarch. Make a slight depression in the center bringing the mixture a little higher at the sides. Bake for 1%, hours at a temperature of 250° F. Cover with a piece of grease-proof paper if the meringue shell shows sings of browning on the top. Turn onto a wire rack and then immediately onto a serving plate. When meringue shell is cool, fill with choice of fillings suggested above. LEMON FILLING 4c. Sugar ¥, tbsp. Grated lemon rind 1¥, tsp. Cornstarch 3 tbsp. Lemon juice pinch of salt ¥/, tbsp. Butter ¥, c. Water Mix together sugar, cornstarch, salt, water, and lemon juice. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until boiling. Add grated lemon rind, cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add butter. Serve Pavlova as a special dessert for buffet luncheons, bridal and baby showers, or as a treat for the family. SUMMER SALAD Jessian Rhoton 1 medium-sized head lettuce, finely cut or shredded 13 oz. Crushed pineapple (undrained) 1 c. Grated cheese (cheddar or long horn or your favorite variety) % c. Shredded coconut nuts (optional) —— Combine all ingredients and serve without dressing. Any of the ingredients may be increased or decreased in amount to suit individual preferences. Serves eight. 377 Barbara G. Toomer @ What better way to start a friendship than to send a loaf of freshly baked bread to a new neighbor? A hot loaf of bread placed near the casserole destined for the house where the mother is ill would surely cheer the family. What husband wouldn't be thrilled to come home to the tantalizing odor of baking bread? In Minneapolis, there is a real estate broker who has bread baked in the oven of his homes the mornings of his "Open House" days. For all occasions, bread, hot, fresh, homemade bread is the answer. 378 "T'm too busy to bake bread," you say, "I have six children, two dogs, three cats, and a canary to separate. I can't afford the time to bake bread." Lady, you are the very one to whom baking bread should be more important than cleaning the living room. You see, baking bread is good for the baker as well as the eater. Do you have one half hour in the morning hours? Come, let us bake bread in this time. Get out your big fat cookbook and find a basic white bread recipe. Soak the yeast in water as directed (use either dry or moist yeast, both work beautifully). Remember that too hot water kills the little yeast people and you want them to grow, so give them baby-bottle temperature water. Collect the rest of the ingredients and place all except the flour in a big bowl. Easy, so far, isn't it? Make sure this mixture is warm, not hot, and feel free to use powdered milk in place of whole milk. Add your bubbly yeast mixture. Now put in about two to three cups of the flour and stir well. It looks like library paste, doesn't it? Never fear, just keep adding the flour until you can't stir in any more, then dump the whole conglomeration onto a clean breadboard or kitchen counter. Sprinkle about one-half cup flour over the dough and start pushing with the heel of your hand, then pull back the dough towards you with your fingertips. The dough is sticky, but keep adding flour and kneading it in, and the dough will smooth out. Do this for ten minutes. This push-pull motion is rhythmical and_ soothing. Think pleasant thoughts, and at the end of your ten minutes, you will feel relaxed and ready to face the world again. After the dough has_ been kneaded ten minutes, it will be Staff of Life smooth and have a satiny sheen. It also will be elastic and tend to return to its shape if you push it away. Place it in a large bowl or pan, cover it with a damp cloth, set it aside in a warm place (try a tray table set next to a wall heater) and let it alone. It will rise until "double in bulk." Usually, this takes about two hours. Plunge your fist into the dough and watch it deflate! Sort of mound up the dough, turn it over, and let it rise again. This time it will take a shorter amount of time, around one to one and one-half hours. If the recipe makes three loaves, cut the dough into three parts and roll each with your hands to fit into a greased bread pan. If you don't have bread bans, use small hunks of dough about the size of a plum, and place them side by side in a 9x15 greased pan. You could make hamburger buns by rolling out tangerine size balls to a flat pancake. Place these discs on a baking sheet and let them rise. Bake any of the above according to the recipe you are using. You can also save some of the dough, let it rise again, then tear of plum-size pieces and deep fat fry them. When light brown, remove, drain, and dip in sugar. My family calls them "spindles" and can eat a whole recipe at one sitting. This is a good Family Home Evening treat. Bread baking is fun, homey, simple, therapeutic, and you can do it yourself easily. SSD 379 en ae ¥. Adria Brough Muir, Woodruff Stake, Utah, applies herself devotedly to the Church and to creative arts. She enjoys keeping her hands busy and the results are many lovely quilts, crocheted items, afghans, and braided rugs. Sister Muir also has a beautiful flower garden and keeps her yard looking lovely. She is the mother of five children, grandmother to eighteen, and has forty-one great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren. She is still active in Relief Society, and has served in many important callings. She has been organist, secretary, counselor, and president. She has also served in the other Church organizations. In July, she will be ninety-three years old. Marie Wagner, Clearfield Stake, Utah, brought her talents with her from her native Germany. As a bride she came to America to honeymoon, and remained. She loves to sew, quilt, embroider, and crochet. She was converted to the Church at the age of seventy-seven, and has added genealogy work to her list of accomplishments. She returned to Germany for a short visit and to work on genealogy. Throughout her lifetime she has been a practical nurse and helped to deliver two hundred babies. Sister Wagner is the mother of two daughters. There are eleven grandchildren and nineteen great-grandchildren. All of them enjoy having her lovely handwork in their homes. This dear sister has taught the art of quilting to many Relief Society sisters and has made many articles for bazaars. 380 Chapter 7 Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young girl of twenty-four, has taken over the management of her family home following the death of her mother. She has three young brothers, and she finds it a great challenge to be responsible for them. Steve Rey, a long-time friend of the family, and Jim Long, whom she met on a trip to Houston, Texas, now a student in Utah, are competing for her attentions. M It was February, and winter seemed to have settled in the valley permanently. It had been dark and cold for more weeks than Jennifer cared to count. For her it was a time of unexplainable depression. She could not put her finger on any one thing being wrong, but for the first time in the entire six months that she had been responsible for the family, life seemed to be at a standstill. She had resumed her studies, and had been awarded a student teaching position in Welcome the Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Springville. If she could attend the summer session, she would be graduated in August. The boys were behaving well and seemed well adjusted. There had been minor skirmishes and disagreements over trivial matters, but no serious disciplinary matters had arisen. Charles Miles seemed much more settled, and although his job required him to travel a great deal, he had taken an active part in home activities since the incident with Dave. Jennifer was saddened to note the lost, lonely look in his eyes, and his smile came not as readily as it once had, but he was making adjustments. Twice monthly he took a trip to Manti to do temple work, and seemed in much better spirits when he returned from such trips, yet nothing could ease his terrible 381 May 1969 aching loneliness, Jennifer knew. Jennifer could feel a cold coming on as she went through the motions of preparing final lesson plans for Tuesday morning. She felt generally miserable. The ringing telephone interrupted her efforts. "Miss Miles," a cold, impersonal voice said, "I'm calling for Mr. Hansen, principal at the junior high school." "Yes," Jennifer responded, her heart quickening. Could something be wrong with Sam? "We are given to understand that you have assumed most of the responsibility for your three brothers since your mother passed away. Is this correct?" she asked. "Yes, that is correct. Is something wrong?" Jennifer asked breathlessly. "Mr. Hansen would like to talk with you in person. Could you come into the office at one o'clock today?" Jennifer was apprehensive. Sam obviously was in some kind of trouble. "Of course, Ill be there," she responded. As she finished the remainder of the lesson plans she began to worry. If Sam was in serious trouble what should her course of action be. Her father was going directly to a sales convention from this trip, and was not due home for ten days. It would not be possible to withhold discipline until he returned, of this she was certain. Mr. Hansen was quite a contrast from his impersonal secretary. He seemed _ genuinely friendly and warm; however, Jennifer had the feeling that he could be very firm, in fact quite 382 formidable if the occasion should call for that. He came directly to the point. "Miss Miles, has Sam been ill a great deal lately?" Jennifer was puzzled. "No, except for the cold he had a month ago, he's been fine." "Then you haven't been keeping him home?" "No, Sir, I haven't." "Well, that's about the way I had it figured," he said, not unkindly. "You see, we have a group of five boys who have been missing school quite regularly at the same time. They are all wellbehaved and good students, and in observing, we have no''-d that they are good friends. It has been on the average of a half day or a day each week. We suspect that they could be found up at the old mill sleigh riding, apparently avoiding the Saturday and after-school crowds that congregate there. Jennifer, as a future school teacher, I think you know how serious this is." wf ennifer could hardly believe her ears. Sam skipping school! It was indeed serious. Truancy was not tolerated. "What would you suggest be done?" she asked falteringly. "Well, we are first talking to the parents and guardians of the boys. I don't think we'll let them know that their parents have been alerted. Tomorrow we'll call them in, but for you the element of surprise will be best. Of course they must be disciplined here at school, and although they aren't trouble-making lads as a rule, parental action is clearly indicated, mostly to avoid repeats and more serious violations of the rules." Jennifer knew this to be true. She thanked Mr. Hansen and left, her head spinning. She knew that she would have to act immediately, for the other parents would do the same. It was impossible to wait for their father's return. She wasn't certain as to how to approach the boy, or what his punishment should be. This was one task she didn't welcome. When dinner was finished, she told Dave and Pete that the walks needed to be _ shoveled, then called Sam into their father's den. "Sam, how is school coming?" she asked, trying to keep her voice light. He studied her for a moment, wondering what this was leading to. "All right," he answered guardedly. "Are you keeping up with your work all right?" "Oh, yes," he replied enthusiastically. Jennifer took a deep breath and went on. "You haven't missed very many days this year, have you? I want to keep the records straight on you boys." "No," he answered furtively. "Only the times when I had poison ivy last fall, and when I had that cold." "Are you sure that's all, Sam?" she asked hoping that he would confess before she had to accuse him, and not really knowing what she would do if he did. "Yeah," he muttered, his face turning a little crimson. "Sam, have you ever missed any school without my knowing?" He was becoming increasingly more nervous. "What do you Welcome the Task mean, how could I?" his voice rose in pitch. UJ ennifer restrained the impulse to get angry. In a carefully controlled voice, she said, "By going up to the old mill with Bob and the other boys instead of to school." "Sam squirmed uncomfortably. "I guess I did," he said in a low voice. "I know you did," Jennifer told him. "Sam, you have not only broken the school rules, you have broken an important rule of our home, and of Heavenly Father. You deceived me _ by sneaking off, and you _fibbed about it. Are you proud of yourself?" He hung his head. "No, I'm not," he mumbled. Jennifer could see the tears beginning to form in his eyes, yet knew she must carry out what she had started. Resisting the urge to take him in her arms and hug him, she said, "You realize that you must be punished, don't you?" "Yes." "What do you consider an adequate punishment?" He looked at her dumbly. "I'm waiting for a suggestion," she said after quite a period of silence. "T can't think of anything," he finally said, his voice barely above a whisper. "I won't do it again, though, ever," he insisted brightly. "T hope not," she said, "but we still have to punish you. Very well, I shall choose one." She was silent for a few moments, and he sat tensely awaiting her decision. "You will not be able 383 May 1969 to leave the yard after school or on week-ends for a period of one month, except to attend Church meetings." "Do I have to miss the ski trip to Alta?" he cried. "Yes, Sam, I'm afraid so. And don't pester me to relent and change my mind, or Ill add more time to the punishment," she threatened. "Also, you will have to tell Dad what you have done, when he returns." Sam took his punishment well, but was subdued when he left the room. Jennifer rubbed her neck. She was feeling the effects of the cold worse than ever. She hoped that she hadn't been too rough on the boy, and that he had learned his lesson. She went into the kitchen to do the dinner dishes. Dave was talking on the telephone, apparently to a girl, judging by the way he was guarding his conversation, and Pete was pouring over an algebra book, with the radio going full blast. As she walked by she turned the volume down on the radio. "What did you do that for?" he snapped. "You can't study with that thing going," she told him reasonably. "T can, too. You don't know what you're talking about," he said boldly. ~ Her first impulse was a violent one, but with an effort she controlled it. "Peter, go to your room. Take the book and leave the radio." "Yes, your majesty," he said angrily, rising quickly. Jennifer stared after him as he ascended the stairs, stomping loudly. What had she done to prompt that outburst? She wondered. Glancing out of the window, she noticed that the walks had not been shoveled. As soon as Dave hung up she challenged him. "I thought I asked you boys to shovel the walks." "Why should we? It's just - going to snow again. It won't do any good. I'll do it when Pm ready." There was a hint of a challenge in his voice, and she knew her authority was being resented, and his look was more proof. Jennifer sighed wearily. She had noticed this tone more and more often lately. Probably this was where Pete was getting his boldness. "All right, David, go and get the other boys, and we'll meet in the den." Something in her tone told him that he had best obey. "Sit down boys," she instructed as they filed in, each avoiding her eyes. "There seems to be something wrong here, and I think we had better get it straightened out before it gets any worse. I know I make mistakes, and perhaps you have occasional reasons to resent my authority. I realize that you are all growing up. I'm sorry if I've made mistakes, but we're all only human, we cannot be perfect. I know this has been hard for you to accept, having me try to take Mother's place, but you're stuck with that. If you have any real complaints, I think this would be a good time to air them." Avi three boys stared at the floor. Finally Jennifer said, "Dave, I think a word of prayer is in order." As David prayed, Jennifer could feel the bleakness beginning to lift. She admired the way he expressed himself to Heavenly Father on behalf of all of them. When he finished, she was certain that there would be no more trouble for awhile. Pete was the first to speak. "Jenny, I'm sorry I behaved so badly. I know that you are boss, and that you know best. I really can't concentrate as I should with the radio going full blast. Please forgive me," he said humbly. Sam spoke up, "Jenny, I won't ever tell you any more lies, and I won't ask you to let me go places when you've said I can't." "And you won't skip school anymore?" "No, sir!" phatically. He grinned emWelcome the Task Dave came over and put an awkward arm about her shoulder. "T haven't been very much help to you, and I should be. That's going to change now, I promise to do better," and Jennifer knew he had grown up a little more. Jennifer's cold settled in, but the misery did not last long, and family life seemed to be going more smoothly than ever. Soon it would be spring, and time for new starts again. Dave would be graduating. Jennifer thought how their mother would like to have seen that day, and there were so many others she would like to have shared. Then would come Dave's mission, and soon Pete would be following in his footsteps, and only Sam would be left at home. She wondered idly how long she would be needed there. Perhaps' those stories about old maid school teachers would apply to her one day. Jim was in Salt Lake attending law school full time, and was busier than usual. The long drive from Salt Lake ate into his schedule. Steve, too, was deeply involved in his studies, and Jennifer admitted that studies were a good excuse for being busy, for her own were often hard to complete. One rare evening when she was home alone, reading a book, Steve's familiar tap on the door brought her back from the world of school teaching. He seated himself on the couch. He had been so busy with his studies that he had not been over for several days, and then only briefly. They made small talk for awhile, then he asked, "How about me taking my best girl dancing a week from Satur- 385 May 1969 day? It is the spring formal, you know." She could hardly believe it. Steve taking her dancing! She loved to dance, but he could take it or leave it, and when it came to formal affairs, he preferred the latter. "T hope your hesitation isn't a refusal," he said gently. "Oh, no! I'm just astonished. I'd love to go,' she answered sincerely. "Good," he said as though he really meant it. They discussed his master's thesis, which he obviously loved doing, for he was a writer at heart, and Jennifer knew that he had not abandoned his dream of writing and publishing a novel. Often he had said that there was so much in the Latter-day Saint heritage that could and should still be told. Jennifer had heard this many times, and believed it, and believed that Steve could do it, for his mind was set in that direction. Just after he left, the telephone rang. Supposing it to be one of the girls who had been calling Dave, she was not too friendly when she answered the phone. "Jenny? Jim. How have you been?" "Well, just fine. How are you? How was the debate trip?" "Just great, we took four first places." Jennifer assumed that this was quite an accomplishment and reacted accordingly. "Hey," he finally said, "my fraternity ball is coming up a week from Saturday, and I also have a very important question to ask, and Ill want an answer. Is it a date?" (To be concluded) ZAR Finally, Memoried with violence. MOUNT RAINIER After long distances, decorated with green needle And amber cone, hung with veils of hemlock And set with hue of many petals, The mountain peaks emerge, summer-burdened with snow. What once-red violence, long stilled, Burst from the lifted peak— A savagery now cooled by converging streams And the breath of a million leaves. After long millenia, trimmed now With forest, the samite peaks emerge, Vistas above the plain, their vast calm —Dorothy J. Roberts 386 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Ail submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Central States Mission, Ames (lowa) Branch Relief Society Completes Home Nursing Program, October 10, 1968 Front row, left to right: Evelyn Hall; Janice Burbank; Mary Ann Adams; June Booth, nursing instructor. Second row, left to right: Pat Van Woerkam; Sharon Hendrickson; Sandy Orehig; Reva Brooks; Helen Page. Third row, left to right: Luana Merrill; Elaine Brown; Evelyn Bulkey, President, Ames Branch Relief Society; Bobbie Lewis; Sandy Clark; Averil Seely. Lola R. West, Supervisor, Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A special 'capping' ceremony was held for the sixteen members of the Ames Branch Relief Society who completed the Red Cross Home Nursing course.! T was taught by June Booth, a member of the branch who is a trained nurse. "The course was taught during the summer months at the regular homemaking meetings. It was designed to help the homemakers be more effective and prepared for various emergencies that might confront them. The sisters were most enthusiastic about learning these things, and appreciated the opportunity." 387 LO AS a re May 1969 Fullerton Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present "Our Heritage in Music,'' November 15, 1968 Front row, Left to right: Jolene Swenson featured organist for solo work; Bonnie Rosell, narrator, and cultural refinement class leader, Fullerton Stake Relief Society; Marjorie Newman, (fifth from left), soprano soloist; Lois B. Anderson, President; Betty G. Low, chorister; Karen Lynn, viola soloist; Bernice Lehman, organist; Pricilla Taylor, accompanist for Sister Lynn. Sister Anderson reports: '"'Only the music of Latter-day Saint composers was used for our Singing Mothers concert, 'Our Heritage in Music.' The decorations featured old wagon wheels cowered with sage and sego lilies, and our singers wore sego lily corsages. "The program included a brief resume of the life of each composer, and one of the sisters had drawn charcoal sketches of them which hung in the cultural hall. "Our guests were served a buffet luncheon following the concert, with background music featuring some of the songs presented on the program. It was a very lovely and spiritual experience, richly enjoyed by all." American Falls Stake (Idaho) Board Presents "Family Christmas Fair,'' December 7, 1968 Shirley Kendell, President, American Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our 'Family Christmas Fair' was beautifully presented and very successful. It was primarily a stake board fund-raising project and was attended by a large percentage of the members of the stake, and many nonmembers. "Among the many displays was the clever bag display (pictured) which was delightful to young and old. We also had a home sewed clothing booth, Christmas tree decoration ideas, homemade foods, including hand-dipped chocolates, and a hamburger and hot dog stand where homemade root beer was served from a wishing well. "We felt that it was a most worthwhile activity, and was enjoyed by all who attended or worked." Hamburg Stake (Germany) Relief Society Activities Are Numerous Marianne Eggers, President, Hamburg Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Activities among the German sisters in the Hamburg Stake Relief Society are numerous. A regional meeting, with representatives from the General Board of Relief Society, thrilled the sisters and offered some excellent instructions and suggestions. The priesthood brethren were included in these meetings and were able to reap the benefits of a greater understanding of and appreciation for the Relief Society program. "On December 7, 1968, a bazaar was held featuring handwork for Christmas. All of the branches in the stake participated, and found this to be most worthwhile. Following the bazaar, the Singing Mothers presented a Christmas concert featuring the works of some of the world's greatest composers. Several sisters presented music on the piano, violin and flute. The singing was under the direction of Anneliese Imbeck. The room had been decorated for Christmas, and this and the lovely music made a most worthwhile and enjoyable holiday event."' 388, May 1969 Phoenix North Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present A Christmas Program, December 1968 Sisters in dark dresses, left to right: Veoma F. Stallings, pianist; Ida M. Steele, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society; Doris W. Rowse, chorister; Sharon W. Shields, organist. Sister Steele reports: 'Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program of Christmas music to help instill the spirit of Christmas into the families in the stake. With the cooperation of the priesthood, no other activities were scheduled for that evening, and the members were encouraged to attend as a family unit. Several hundred enjoyed the music and a narration written by Sister Rowse, the stake chorister. "Our Singing Mothers have presented many fine programs, and we are very proud of them and of the accomplishments of their leaders." British South Mission, Thames Valley District, Presents ''Winter Wonderland' Bazaar November 9, 1968 Left to right: Gillian Brown-Lee, Homemaking Counselor, Thames Valley District _ Relief Society; Madeleine Brighty, President; Maralyn Lasater, President, Oxford Branch Relief Society; Connie Rigby, Secretary-Treasurer. Joan Child, Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The annual bazaar for the Thames Valley District of the mission was themed, 'Winter Wonderland.' All eleven branches in the district participated. The Oxford Branch won the prize for the loveliest booth. "The quality of workmanship in all fields, ranging from delicately knitted baby clothes to a tempting variety of cakes, sweets, and jams, was outstanding. We are very proud of all eleven of the branches." Lehi Stake (Utah) Holds Short Story and Poetry Contest September 19, 1968 Left to right: Eva Carson; Maxine Black; Leola Porter; Connie Nielsen, Alice Cook, first place, poetry; Sylmer Thayne, first place, short story; Margaret McMillan. Leah M. Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A short story and poetry contest was held, under direction of the stake Relief Society presidency. The judges ruled that the entries were so outstanding that all entries other than the first place winners were accorded second place. 'We were delighted with the writing quality of the sisters who entered, and the discovery of hidden talents among the sisters. We hope that more contests can be held in the future to further stimulate the use of these talents, and lead to greater participation." 390 Cee ane eee ee May 1969 Brigham Young University Eighth Stake Relief Society Presents '| Remember Mama'' November 16, 1968 Left to right: Judith Cookson, Education Counselor, BYU Eighth Stake Relief Society; Laurel Stott, homemaking leader; Jackie Westover, guest demonstrator; Roberta Magarrell, Homemaking Counselor; Ann Madsen, President. Sister Madsen reports: 'Our pre-holiday homemaking meeting fondly recalled family traditions for celebrating Christmas. Outstanding mothers in the Provo community, dressed in old-fashioned clothing, demonstrated the arts of dipping chocolates, stuffing turkeys, wrapping packages, and entertaining, keeping in mind the student budget. "For future reference, a detailed booklet had been prepared and presented to the girls. A luncheon of turkey and all the trimmings was served following the demonstrations. We feel that the 'mamas' of these lovely young girls would be very proud to see the students and student wives upholding the high standards of Relief Society." North Sanpete Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Christmas Home Tour Bazaar, December 11, 1968 Ward presidents of the North Sanpete Stake Relief Societies, left to right: Roxie Washburn, Mt. Pleasant Fourth Ward; Donna Brunger, Fairview North Ward; Norma Elaine Anderson, Fairview South Ward; Louise B. Johansen, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society President; Dorothy Clark, Spring City Ward; Ethel Porter, Mt. Pleasant Third Ward; Leota Anderson, Mt. Pleasant Second Ward; Vera Shelley, Mt. Pleasant First Ward. Sister Johansen reports: ''The stake board in cooperation with the ward presidents sponsored our second Christmas Home Tour Bazaar. There were various types of Christmas celebrations presented in the home of a member of each ward in the stake. Included in the types of celebrations were an old-fashioned Christmas, a children's party, a formal Christmas celebration, a Christmas wedding, and many others. "Over 250 guests signed the register and expressed joy and appreciation for the privilege of visiting the lovely homes, buying beautiful handmade gifts, and catching the true spirit of Christmas in so many various ways." Juarez Stake (Mexico) Dublan Ward Visiting Teachers Honored at Dinner Party, November 1968 Front row, left to right: Jennie R. Bowman; Hannah S. Call, President, Dublan Ward Relief Society; Agnes S. Bluth. Back row, left to right: Ruth M. Longhurst; Mary S. Bowman; Amanda S. Gonzales; Jewel E. Bluth; Willa T. Wagner; Jane H. Taylor; Winifred A. Jones; Shirley W. Memmott; LaRee L. Bluth; Nita H. Taylor, visiting teacher message leader; Christine J. Jones. "Rhoda C. Taylor, former President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A dinner _ party honoring the faithful visiting teachers of the Dublan Ward was held recently. This ward has had a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching for the past twelve years. They are a wonderful group of sisters who are always willing to go the extra mile." Reta Johnson is the newly appointed President of Juarez Stake Relief Society. 392 idaho State University Stake Relief Society Presents "Our Fair Lady" October 27, 1968 Stake board officers, Idaho State University Stake, standing, left to right: Joyce H. Craig, homemaking leader; Irmgard G. Dixon, spiritual living class leader; DeeAnn C. Merrill, Secretary-Treasurer; Carolyn C. Palmer, Education Counselor; Caro! D. Chase, President; Beverly N. Andersen, Homemaking Counselor; Diane W. Perry, social relations class leader; Lorna Kay P. Robinson, organist; Sherry M. Van Orden, cultural refinement class leader; LaRae H. Longmore, visiting teacher message leader; Jeanette T. Cooper; May Beth B. Packin, Magazine representative. Front row, seated left to right: Jane Maughan and Gloria Johnson, visiting teachers; Sylvia Ann Woolley, as ''Miss I'm So Unaware;"' and Linda Bernt, narrator. Sister Chase reports: ''In our stake we held a musical skit to acquaint the new students with the Relief Society program, and the members with the coming year's activities. Featured in the skit was 'Miss I'm So Unaware,' who was educated in the ways and programs of Relief Society by the officers, in song and pantomime. "This was a very successful program and helped to get our Relief Society off to a wonderful beginning."' 394 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 11—House Plants Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1969 Southern Hemisphere: January 1970 Objective: To show how the home can be made more beautiful and livable and our lives INTRODUCTION As the world draws closer together through various means of travel and communication, we learn more about our neighbors both in our own country and in other lands. Anyone who leaves his own country to travel in another returns with a sense of awe at the beauty which is attached to the spot of earth which each man calls "Home." Much of this beauty is centered in the gardens and flowers which surround and decorate the homes. Everywhere is seen a profusion of flowers— blooming in gardens, on terraces and balconies, in hanging baskets, in window boxes and in more enjoyable by the use of house plants. The windows themselves. People literally live with plants and flowers, inside the home as well as outside. If we are not "living" with this natural beauty, we are depriving ourselves of ofie of the great joys and values of life itself. Most of us do recognize this, for the practice of growing plants in and around our homes is not new. Our mothers and grandmothers before us took great pride in the geraniums blooming in their windows or the scented hyacinth blossoming in the bowl upon the table. To nurture a plant and watch it bloom into beauty is satisfying to the soul and warming to the heart. There 895 May 1969 is nothing else that we can bring into our homes that will contribute, at one and the same time, beauty, color, perfume, texture and form, cool comfort, and direct contact with nature. HOW SHOULD WE USE HOUSE PLANTS? Potted plants and _ flowers should be thought of and used in our homes as a part of the whole color scheme; in fact, the colors in every room can be enhanced by the use of plants. For instance, a gay note can be added by a touch of color repeated in the flowers and foliage. Red geraniums make a bright, gay contrast on the window sill between white curtains or drapes, and a potted primrose adds just the right effect on a table where the sun touches it and makes it reflect against the soft-tinted walls. Any room is a happier and more attractive place when healthy, growing greens and colorful flowers are included in the color scheme. WHERE SHALL WE PUT HOUSE PLANTS? No home can be entirely satisfactory for a woman who loves flowers if there are no places where plants and flowers can become a natural and welcome addition. Plants are at their best when treated as any other type of enrichment, selected and placed where they will be pleasing and satisfying to the eye. 1. In window boxes. A_ garden atmosphere can be created against the barest of walls by the use of window boxes filled with flowering plants, potted plants, evergreens, or even small trees. Window boxes have several functions. In one they are miniature gardens used 396 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED... TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department for a wide vanety of plants—daffodils,. —: geraniums, nasturtiums, petunias, mariNew Magazine Binding Prices golds, tulips, etc. Another is to give and Postage Rates pleasure to invalids or to old people confined to the house. Still another is. Li _ f A sure way of keeping alive the valuable in to present an appearance to delight ie struction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain passerby. There must be adequate West's first and finest bindery and printing house drainage and the boxes must be firmly is prepared to bind your editions into a durable attached to the house so that they cannot -" fall and _possibl injury. Th Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to all and po y cause injury. € the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Plants chosen for the boxes must have a Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 sufficiently long period of bloom to justiYearly Index Included fy the efforts, and they must be able to Advance payment must accompany all orders. Survive under the artificial conditions Please include postage according to table which are imposed Upon them. Listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. 2. On _ balconies and __ terraces. Vivid pottery jars containing plants, Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah. '. Luxuriant vines on _ trellises, potted Zone land2...55 Zone5 __-_- -P75) —_—, ||=. Ae85 flowering plants and miniature shrubs ——a 2 |. Ll,65 Zone7 _.._._.-95 and trees beautify any setting. Also Zone8__ - - -1.05 wrought-iron plant stands and _ wall brackets are graceful additions to the pa- = tio or terrace. Hanging baskets holding DESERE EWwsS PRESS ferns or flowers or trailgreens are colorful and attractive against plain walls. 3. On the porch. The enclosed 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 porch, or sun parlor, is an ideal place Phone (801) 486-1892 for house plants and flowers, and it can be made as attractive as any room in the house. Indeed, it can be made to serve as one by the addition of a few The Best in the West | pieces of furniture and the use of plants, Travel With flowers, and accessories tastefully chosen A and arranged. Wee OL 4. In windows. (The indoor garden window is a modernized version of the Travel Serviee Gouton conservatory which could be afforded 022 only by the very wealthy and which Vou went out with the "Gay Nineties.'') Owe a. The bay window with its three exposures lends itself well to the "THE ORIGINAL HISTORIC TOUR" use of glass shelves for growing plants. To the Hill Cumorah Pageant The shelves should be arranged across July 24 - Aug. 10 the windows to give interesting patterns of color and space. Room should be TOURS ALSO TO allowed for trailing plants to hang HAWAII - ORIENT « EUROPE gracefully. The kinds of plants will MEXICO » SOUTH PACIFIC depend upon individual preference— SOUTH AMERICA + CARIBBEAN some want blooming plants; others want just the green. It is well to For further information and for all combine small plants with larger ones your travel needs write or phone— for artistic effect. Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service b. On ordinary windows, with cur-, 216 So. 13th East tains tied back or with side drapes, fait: Salt Lake City, Utah, 84102 glass shelves or squares can be ini 328-3234 or 328-0303 stalled on small brackets or braces "THE TRIP WITHOUT A WORRY" to hold a garden of violets, bulb and tuberous plants, ivy and easily grown 397 May 1969 begonias and geraniums. On windows with sills, potted plants find a place to grow in the sun. For hot, sunny windows, cactus and other sun-loving plants are the best choices. 5. In rooms for decorative effects. A. Largeplants. Big, bold plants are good for major effects or to occupy spaces where furniture will not fit. Plants a foot or two high may be needed on a large table or cabinet. On the floor or low stand, tall plants— as high as six feet—make an impressive image. B. Small plants. On an end table or bench or on a narrow window ledge, small plants bring a pleasant feeling of their appropriateness. Where several plants are grouped together, however, some variation in sizes and kinds can add interest to the general effect. SHALL WE USE ARTIFICIAL PLANTS AND FLOWERS? Some of the artificial flowers and plants which are being made today are so lifelike that even close inspection does not reveal the fact that they are not real. They are being used in the most tastefully decorated homes. However, they should be as carefully chosen and arranged as if they were fresh garden flowers. Artificial plants can be combined with dried plant species for attractive arrangements. Dry arrangements, though not artificial, require little care and cost little or nothing to obtain. A wide choice is available—everlasting or straw flowers, seedpods, bare branches, driftwood, and even rocks and shells in combination. HOW SHALL WE CARE FOR OUR HOUSE PLANTS? Each type of plant has its own requirements of light and heat, 398 soil, water and humidity for best growth. In caring for our house plants it would be wise to keep the following points in mind. 1. We should treat house plants, which include potted plants, cut flowers, garden window plants, artificial and dry arrangements as we would any other accessory to our homes—appropriately and harmoniously. 2. We should choose containers which are suitable to the occupied space and large enough to hold sufficient water, and which have balance and stability so as to prevent upsetting. 3. We should give plants adequate light and heat under conditions of proper humidity. 4. We should keep plants free of dust by sponging with lukewarm water or by spraying with water from the tap or hose. 5. We should protect plants as much as possible from impurities in the air—cooking gas and fumes from other sources. (Plants are injured by gas before it is present in quantities sufficient for us to detect it.) Cross ventilation, without exposing the plants to chilly air, is helpful. 6. Caution: There are several house plants which have been found to be poisonous. We should familiarize ourselves with all plants which fall under this category and avoid their use, especially where there are children. CONCLUSION House plants are one of the least expensive and yet most effective means of embellishing and beautifying our homes, both inside and out. They bring to our homes the living shapes and moving shadows of green plant life, the scent and color of flowers and give us a feeling of intimate communion with nature in its loveliest forms, thereby serving to make our homes more beautiful and livable and our lives more enjoyable. PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July 5th-1 6th Hill @unmerch Pageant Clenege = 16 days and 23 days = leaving July 26th LTB aS It By MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'' "Choir Directors'' * Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. James Travel Tours masta Call or Write for itineraries Phone: 466-8723 Phone: 364-6518 Travel Agency MEXICO Early June 1969 —February 1970 Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Pueblo © Mazatlan and other cities Including 12 archeological Zones—Ample entertainment CANADIAN AND NORTHWEST TOUR Leaving August 15 Including: Banff Lake Louise Vancouver Victoria ALSO PAGEANT AND CHURCH HISTORY TOUR ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR "'TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 399 Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 1 2th-25th 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos Instruments And Supplies Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 107 Mrs. Juanita Cisneros Rivera Rendon 92 Mrs. Margaret Ann English Browning Grantsville, Utah 103 mrs. Lois Elzetta Barton Whittaker Circleville, Utah 99 Mrs. Ida Reynolds McEldowney Norwalk, California 98 Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Alphin Orton Payson, Utah 97 Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane Cherry Whiteman Hooper, Utah 96 Mrs. Mary Alice-Walker Eyre Salt Lake City, Utah 95 Mrs. Emma Metcalf Brown Springville, Utah _ Mrs. Harriet Hands Dixon San Luis Obispo, California Mrs. Clara Collard Nielson Fountain Green, Utah Mrs. Juana Etchandi De Rothfuss Artigas, Uruguay, South America 94 Mrs. Cynthia Ann Keele Larsen Arcadia, Utah Mrs. Bertha Rose Osborn Sharp Klamath Falls, Oregon Mrs. Elizabeth Hay Taylor Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Fannie May Taylor Woodard Salt Lake City, Utah 93 mrs. Hannah Aldous Bihler Orland, California Mrs. Amorett Allen Fifield Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Myra Alica Wedeman Humphrey Cherry Valley, California 400 91 90 -Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Isabel Maude Tanner Somsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann May Arbon Snowville, Utah Mrs. Lyle Young Gates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louise Kreutzer Guerich San Diego, California Mrs. Mary Andrus Hoagland Nampa, Idaho Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Provo, Utah Mrs. Marie Christiansen Murray Hot Springs, Arkansas Mrs. Ellen Dorthia Thunnison Norris — Loomis, California Mrs. Beatrice Maude Gaside Sellers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Belle Watson Anderson Kamas, Utah Mrs. Clara A. Argyle Woods Cross, Utah Mrs. Jane Pixton Bowers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Botts Brooks - Ottumwa, lowa Mrs. Anna Augusta Victoria Nielson Edwards Provo, Utah Mrs. Emma Flake Freeman Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Josephine Dorcas Meservy McKinlay Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. LaVina Robison Wadsworth Redden ' Morgan, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Jones Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah by John J Stewart The ''lron Trail'? — now merely physical evidence of a monumental effort — but the pages of history reveal a drama of iron willed men who fought for and against it. This is the story of human misery worse than slave traffic, of financial corruption against the U. S. Government as well as the Mormons, of courage and men of foresight. ''No state nor people figure more prominantly in the story of the Pacific Railroad than do Utah and Utahns, particularly the Mormons." The Mormon Trail, the road to the Rockies, became the general route of the railroad. As early as 1849, Utah's delegate to Congress introduced a bill ''for construction of a railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific." This is the story of the continental link that was built, almost in spite of men and raging animosities. Once started, you'll want to finish this amazing story in one sitting. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me............ Copies of THE TRON TRAIL TO THE GOLDEN SPIKE Total (COSC S ne| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account (} Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. May R. S. Mag. 69 melt Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah the magic of ~ Sugarplum Land... Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FLUFFY COCOA CAKE 1 cup U and SUGAR ¥Y% cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 1 egg Ye cup cocoa ' Ye cup hot water dry ingredients to creamed mixture. Avoid overbeating. Bake in greased and salt together UL Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and | Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. 1% cups flour Yq teaspoon salt 3% cup buttermilk Cream sugar with shortening and egg; dissolve cocoa in hot water; set aside to cool; sift flour, soda and. Combine % of sifted Stir in buttermilk. Add another ¥% dry ingredients, then water-cocoa mixture, ending with remainder of dry ingredients. Floured 9-inch-square pan at 350° F for 40 minutes. Serve with whipped cream flavored with a dash of cinnamon and sweetened with U and | powdered sugar. The Relief SOCICTY Magazine JUNE 1969 The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: AN HOUR FOR LISTENING Where spruce and fir were darker than the night In a dark forest, when the only light Was her reading candle and a glowworm's tail, Having marked the Book of Psalms, and prayed, Hilda rocked, For rocking pushed against the pull of sleep. This was her listening hour To horned owl gossips who-would keep Wind-lines busy, tying hill to hill, To broad-tail tocsins from the beaver pond Holding her suspended between to and fro For the heartbeat. Second of their diving time; To whimperings of a porcupine, To vaultings of a startled fawn— A canyon cadence bearing her Assurance of who her neighbors were. And Hilda-rocked. —Peggy Tangren Home and Gardens, South Africa Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Forest Flowers in Oregon Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Lr / pe; ( hom lear VE 3 Thank you very much for your kind gift of a free one-year subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. We are, here in Eastbourne, a very tiny branch. We all take the Magazine, and like all branches in the missions, we hope our numbers will increase. \f only all women knew the beauty, sweetness, and real down-to-earth goodness, as well as the intense spirituality of Relief Society, it would need the town hall to hold our classes. Our free copy of the Magazine will be used by a possible new sister or as a gift. Sometimes we give a copy of the Magazine to someone in the hospital, either member or nonmember. The patients like the Magazine for size and for pleasant, comfortable reading. Eda V. Longbone, Eastbourne, Sussex, England We do love our wonderful Magazine and realize how much we depend upon it. Every poem, article, and story are special features to us, and we send our love to all th sisters from the Scottish Mission in Bonnie Scotland. Elva M. Brown, Supervisor, Scottish Mission Relief Society Edinburgh, Scotlan | have been a member of Relief Society for eight months, and | just had to write and let you know how much | enjoy the Magazine, as | know we all do here in N Zealand. The Magazine has certainly increased my testimony of the gospel. | h just had the thrill of becoming our ward's Magazine representative and | present the recipe for Trifle out of the Magazine (January 1968) at the Auckland South St Relief Society birthday social. | found it was one the best Trifles | have ever mad Thanking you all. Lesley G. Wright, East Tanaki, Manukau, New Zealan | do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much. It is the only woman's magazi that | ever read, and | really do not feel the need for any other. Gillian G. Brown-Lee, High Wycombe, Bucks., Englan Let me take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the lovely poems found in The Relief Society Magazine. | was especially thrilled with '"'Sparrow's Worth,"' by Kathryn Kay (March 1969 frontispiece). Mrs. Robert C. Hansen, Cedar City, Utah About a year ago my mother subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for me. The stories are wonderful=and have meaning, which is more than can be said for stories in some other magazines. One article that stands out for me—"'Answer to My Daughter''—by Amy Giles Bond appeared in March 1968. The article has humbled me and given me greater understanding. Jo Ann Jensen, Boise, Idaho | want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine. | am a missionary in the Southern States Mission. Not long ago my companion received a gift subscription to the Magazine from his home ward. | have been reading the issues he receives and really enjoying them. One thing | especially enjoy is the poetry. It would be difficult to find j such a collection of the work of Latter-day Saint poets anywhere else. One poet, Dorothy J. Roberts, especially catches my attention. Her poems are so intellectually — inspiring that they have great appeal for me. | would like to read and study a collection of her works. Elder Gene Trone, Bessemer, Alabama "The Influence of a Friend'' (by Shirley Chase, January 1969) was dear to read. My husband is serving as a stake missionary and | truly appreciate the loving reminder that cheerful, willing service has its own rewards and blessings. A mission call is a family venture, and we all have grown and shared in its blessings. Caro! Olson, Richland, Washington 402 The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 June 1969 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 405 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 The Standard Works of the Church Marion G. Romney 412 In Memoriam—Evon Waspe Peterson 428 South Africa—Land of Gold and Green Caroline Eyring Miner 438 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way'' Jennie R. Scott Fiction 414 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 1 Alice Morrey Bailey 421 Welcome the Task—Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Michele Bartmess General Features 402 From Near and Far 418 Editorial—the 139th Annual General Church Conference 420 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 453 Notes to the Field—Relief Society Song Contest 459 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 427 Hobby Features—Alice Robinson Holyoak and Tillie Anderson Staples 442 The Art of Bread Clay Myrene Alvord 445 Candies of Excellence Dorothy J. Roberts 446 Springtime Is for the Birds Claire Noall Lesson Department 465 Homemaking—Garden Convenience and Safety Celestia J. Taylor Previews for 1969-1970 467 Spiritual Living Lessons Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Messages Alice Colton Smith 471 Homemaking Discussions Celestia J. Taylor 473 Social Relations Lessons Alberta H. Christensen 475 Cultural Refinement Lessons Bruce B. Clark 449 "The Girl in White' by Julian Alden Weir Floyd E. Brienholt 450 'Advice To a Young Artist' by Honré Daumier Floyd E. Brienholt Poetry 401 An Hour For Listening Peggy Tangren Identity, Margaret B. Jorgensen 411; June Night, Beulah Huish Sadleir 450; Freedom, Vesta Fairbairn 456; The Lilt of a Lark, Pearle M. Olson 466; Suddenly Aware, Iris W. Schow 478. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society Generai Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts 403 Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1969 @ The General Board of Relief Society, on behalf of the world-wide sisterhood of the Church, takes this opportunity to wish a happy ninety-second birthday to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, the wife of our Prophet, David O. McKay. In the only revelation given directly to one of his daughters, Emma Smith, the Lord said: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me..." (D.&C. 25:12). Sister McKay has taken these words to Emma Smith into her own life, and has made music an integral part of the cultural aspect of her home, being an accomplished pianist herself. It is no accident that the children of President and Sister McKay love music, for this love was instilled in them from early childhood. Often when the children were young, they now recall, Sister McKay sang to them by the stove in the dining room, and there were always lullabies at bedtime. The family always enjoyed gathering around the piano while Mother played, and each was given the opportunity to learn to play musical instruments, and all were encouraged to develop an appreciation for good music. Sister McKay loves good and great music. Her favorite of the masterworks is "The Messiah"—that magnificent telling in music of the life of the Savior, the prophecies of his coming, and the eternal message of the gospel. "A silent home," says Sister McKay, "is a dull, sad place, and leads to melancholy. Music is soul inspiring, and no money is thrown away for musical instruments. Many an hour may be spent delightfully if daughter plays the piano, accompanying a brother violinist and a brother playing the clarinet or flute, or what you will. "Many a mother nearly distracted by a fretful child has been able to soothe him by softly singing a song to him. 'It is said that when Napolean exploded into one of his ungovernable furies, Josephine was wont to play for him.' Singing by the whole family together is great fun and a great help to a beautiful home...." Sisters throughout the Church would do well to follow the example of Sister McKay in making music an important part of the home life of their families. Throughout this coming year, may she enjoy the rich blessings of good health and happiness which she so richly deserves, and may her birthday be one of joyful association with those whom she loves. 405 m In her request for an "article... On the Standard Works of the Church," the editor of this Relief Society Magazine said, "The sisters would appreciate a discussion of these sacred books..." —meaning, we assume, the Bible, The Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price. THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS AND THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE The Doctrine and Covenants is a book of modern scripture. It was first accepted by the Church as one of our standard works, August 17, 1835. Forty-one years later, in the 1876 edition of the book, twenty-six sections were added. Four years later, in the semi-annual conference of October 1880, President George Q. Cannon said: I hold in my hand the Book of Doctrine and Covenants and also the book The Pearl of Great Price, which books contain revelations of God. In Kirtland, the Doctrine and Covenants in its original form, as first printed, was submitted to the officers of the Church and the members of the Church to vote upon. As there have been additions made to it by the publishing of revelations which were not contained in the original edition, it has been deemed wise to submit these books with their contents to the Conference, to see whether the Conference will vote to accept the books and their contents as from God, and binding upon us as a people and as a church. President Joseph F. Smith said: I move that we receive and accept the revelations contained in these books, as revelations from God to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to all the world. The motion was seconded and _ sustained by unanimous vote of the whole 406 The Standard Works of the Church Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve Conference. (Conference Reports, October 10, 1880) Ten years later, October 6, 1890, in like procedure, the Church adopted the Manifesto. In this manner, the Doctrine and Covenants, with its present content, became and now is one of the standard works of the Church. By the October 10th, 1880 action, the saints also accepted the contents of the Pearl of Great Price as revelations from God and binding upon them as a people and as a Church. During the next twenty-two years, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, the content of the book was somewhat revised. Consequently, in October 1902, President Joseph F. Smith, then president of the Church, said to the saints in conference assembled: I hold in my hand a copy of the revised edition of the Pearl of Great Price. The Pearl of Great Price as it originally existed, was presented before the General Conference and accepted as one of the standard works of the Church. Since then the book has undergone a revision; that is to say, all the revelations that it formerly contained which were also in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, have been eliminated from it.... We now present this book in its revised form—the original matter being preserved as it was before, only divided into chapters and verses—for your acceptance as a standard work of the church. It was moved and seconded that the book be accepted as a standard work of the church, and the motion carried unanimously. (Conference Reports, October 6, 1902, page 82.) The Pearl of Great Price contains: (a) Visions of Moses as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, in June 1830. (b) "The Writings of Abraham while he was in Egypt, called the Book of Abraham, written by his own hand, upon papyrus,' as translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith. (c) The following writings of the Prophet Joseph Smith: 1. His translation of the last verse of the 23rd chapter, and the 24th chapter of Matthew. (King James version.) 2. "Extracts from the History of Joseph Smith, the Prophet." These extracts deal principally with events incident to the First Vision and the coming forth of The Book of Mormon. 3. The Articles of Faith of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. THE BIBLE The Bible is a book which contains that part of the word of God revealed to men in ancient and New Testament times, which has been preserved in writing. It consists of the Old and New Testaments. We believe it "to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly." (8th Article of Faith.) We do not, however, believe that it contains all the Lord revealed to his people in ancient times. From what we can draw from the scriptures relative to the teachings of heaven, we are induced to think that much instruction has been given to man since the beginning which we do not possess now.... We have what we have, and the Bible contains what it does contain... Through the kind providence of our Father a portion of His word which He delivered to His ancient saints, has fallen into our hands, is presented to us with a promise of reward if obeyed, and with a penalty if disobeyed. (DHC Vol. 2, page 18.) 407 June 1969 THE BOOK OF MORMON The first thing revealed in this dispensation about The Book of Mormon, was spoken by Moroni on his first appearance to the Prophet Joseph on the night of September 21, 1823. He [Moroni] said there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the everlasting Gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants. (Joseph Smith 2:34.) After the Prophet obtained and translated the record and published the book, the Lord himself said that he, the Prophet, was given "power to translate" it "through the mercy" and "power of God" and that it contains "".. A record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles and to the Jews also," and that "as your Lord and your God liveth it is true." (D&C 1:29; 20:9; 17:6.) In November of 1841, some twelve years after its publication, the Prophet Joseph said: I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts than by any other book. (DHC Vol. 4, page 461.) Of all men, Joseph Smith was best qualified to make this appraisal. No other person comprehended the content of The Book of Mormon as did he. As he translated, the Holy Ghost enlightened his mind and quickened his understanding. As the glorious teachings contained in the record were revealed to him, they made 408 an everlasting impression upon his mind and soul. The Book of Mormon was for Joseph Smith a handbook from which he first learned the fundamental principles of the gospel. The King James version of the Bible, and The Book of Mormon, were both available to the Church at the time of its organization, April 6, 1830. They were then and ever since have been used by the Church as standard works. As early as February 9, 1831, the Lord, in the revelation "embracing the law of the Church," gave this instruction:. The elders, priests and teachers of this church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel." (D&C 42:12.) As quoted above, the Prophet Joseph declared The Book of Mormon to be "the keystone of our religion." So far as I am advised, the nearest the Church has come to accepting the Bible and Book of Mormon by formal vote was in the General Conference October 6, 1902, when it accepted the Pearl of Great Price as one of the standard works of the Church. The Pearl of Great Price then contained, as it now does, the eighth article of faith, which reads: We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. Although the revelations recorded in these four "sacred books" were given in different dispensations, "Yet," in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "all things which God communi- cated to His people were calculated to teach them to rely upon God alone as the author of their salvation..." (DHC, Vol. 2, page 17.) Set forth in these "standard works" is the law of heaven, which "guarantees to all who obey it a reward far beyond any earthly consideration." (Joseph Smith, DHC, Vol. 2, page 7.) It ' guarantees eternal life in the celestial kingdom of God. A distinguishing provision of this divine law, not common in the law of earthly governments, makes it "necessary for men to receive an understanding concerning the laws of the heavenly kingdom, before they are permitted to enter it...." (ibid. Page 8.) It is this provision which makes the standard works of first importance. Surely, all who "acknowledge their divine authenticity" must have a deep interest in their content. The editor of The Relief Society Magazine spoke wisely when she characterized the "subject" of this article as "one which is vital to Latter-day Saint women in regard to their receiving instruction and inspiration for daily living." (Letter to me from Marianne C. Sharp, January 15, 1969.) I can think of no surer way to seek "instruction and inspiration for daily living," than daily to read and prayerfully contemplate a chapter or so in these sacred standard works, which contain the law of heaven. To do so has ever been the counsel of the Lord. In his farewell address to Israel, Moses reviewed the events and experiences of their "wanThe Standard Works of the Church derings in the wilderness" and exhorted them "to gratitude, obedience, and loyalty to Jehovah." (Dummelow, One _ Volume Commentary, page 12.) Over and over again, he declared that their survival, happiness, and success, depended upon their remembering the Lord and obeying the laws he had given them. After reviewing some of these laws, including the Ten Commandments, Moses continued: Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God \. Ith all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes. And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates. (Deut. 6:4-9.) In these instructions and many more, Moses stressed as the strongest bulwark against apostasy, and the most faith-promoting practice, constant consideration of the laws of God. And it shall be [said he] on the day when ye shall pass over Jordan unto the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, that thou shalt set thee up great stones.... And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly. (Deut. 27:2,8.) And... When Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, [he]... Commanded the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord, saying, Take this book of the law, and put 409 June 1969 it in the side of the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there for a witness against thee. (Deut. 31:24-26.) That is to say, ancient Israel was to be judged by their compliance or noncompliance with the content of "The Book of the Law." By the same token, modern Israel will be judged by their compliance or noncompliance with the law of heaven contained in our "standard works." When Joshua, succeeding Moses, was to lead Israel over Jordan into the Promised Land, the first instruction he received from the Lord included a solemn charge to give constant attention and strict obedience to the law contained in the books written by Moses, their standard works.... Be thou strong [said the Lord] and very courageous that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. (Joshua 1:7-8.) During his earthly ministry, Jesus charged the "Jews" who disputed his Sonship, to study the scriptures—to which they looked for eternal life—to learn of him. Search the scriptures, he said, for... They are they which testify of me. (John 5:39.) Nephi, the son of Lehi, thus expressed his attitude towards the standard works available to him:. Upon these [plates] I write the 410 things of my soul, and many of the scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass. For my soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children. (2 Nephi 4:15.) Jacob associates the searching of the scriptures with the establishment of peace and love among the people and their ability to recognize and resist false doctrine. And it came to pass [he said] that peace and the love of God was restored again among the people; and _ they searched the scriptures, and hearkened no more to the words of this wicked man. (Jacob 7:23.) King Benjamin emphasized to his sons the importance of sacred records and their continual use, as... He... Taught them concerning the records which were engraven on the plates of brass, saying: My sons, I would that ye should remember that were it not for these plates, which contain these records and these commandments, we must have suffered in ignorance, even at this present time, not knowing the mysteries of God. For it were not possible that our father, Lehi, could have remembered all these things, to have taught them to his children, except it were for the help of these plates; for he having been taught in the language of the Egyptians therefore he could read these engravings, and teach them to his children, that thereby they could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling the commandments of God, even down to this present time. I say unto you, my sons, were it not for these things, which have been kept and preserved by the hand of God, that we might read and understand of his mysteries, and have his commandments always before our eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled in unbelief, and we should have been hke unto our brethren, the Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things, or even do not believe them when they are taught them, because of the traditions of their fathers, which are not correct. O my sons, I would that ye should remember that these sayings are true, and also that these records are true. And behold, also the plates of Nephi, which contain the records and the sayings of our fathers from the time they left Jerusalem until now, and they are true; and we can know of their surety because we have them before our eyes. And now, my sons, I would that ye should remember to search them diligently, that ye may profit thereby... (Mosiah 1:3-7.) The missionary prowess of the sons of Mosiah was in part due to the fact that "they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God." (Alma 17:2.) The Savior himself thus spoke to the Nephites concerning the writings of the Old Testament prophets: And now, behold, I say unto you, that ye ought to search these things. Yea, a commandment I give unto you that ye search these things diligently; for great are the words of Isaiah. For surely he spake as touching all things concerning my people which are of the house of Israel; therefore it must needs be that he must speak also to the Gentiles. And all things that he spake have The Standard Works of the Church been and shall be, even according to the words which he spake. Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which I have told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father they shall go forth unto the Gentiles. And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is baptized, the same shall be saved. Search the prophets, for many there be that testify of these things. (3 Nephi 23:1-5.) No one of our standard works is of more importance to us than the Doctrine and Covenants. The revelations there recorded were specifically given for our guidance. The degree to which we conform to the law of heaven prescribed therein, will determine our place in the heavenly kingdom. Under these circumstances, it would seem that Relief Society sisters, and every other believing Church member, would desire to follow the Lord's directions to: Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. (D&C 1:37.) Treasure these things up in your hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds. (D&C 43:34.) In numberless hues, IDENTITY Who am |? Only my Heavenly Father knows, For he created my spirit, and knew my intelligence. What am |? Again, he alone knows, now; But he desires that | learn To comprehend myself. This requires eternity. | could become a unique source Of infinite responses to truth. Why am |? A prism needed Through which truth may shine That beauty and joy may be embodied. —Margaret B. Jorgensen 411 IN MEMORIAM Evon Waspe Peterson General SecretaryTreasurer July 15, 1900—April 25, 1969 412 m@ Words that she uttered just a few minutes before she slipped into eternity were symbolic of the life of Evon Waspe Peterson who died suddenly on April 25, 1969. As the General SecretaryTreasurer since November 15, 1967, she had given her full devotion to the calling. One of the General Board members present at a small luncheon on April 25 thanked Sister Peterson for all she did for her and other members who came to her for assistance. Sister Peterson's reply was characteristic of her life. In her usual modest way of disclaiming credit, she said quietly, "Why, I'm there, and I'm just there to serve. I'm glad to serve." Evon Peterson has been on the General Board ready to serve since her appointment in June 1945. Serving all the years since, she has devoted her time unselfishly to the Relief Society which was so dear to her heart. Some years after her appointment her natural endowments caused President Spafford to make her Administrative Assistant to the General Presidency, a position requiring great managerial ability. Her further talents were used as she was called to be General Secretary and Treasurer, which position she has filled with distinction. Throughout the past seventeen years Sister Peterson would rarely leave her work without taking a briefcase along home filled with home work. The eight, officeworking hours did not allow her time to complete her work. This practice she fulfilled cheerfully, viewing 'it as part of her Church calling. She has given valuable service both to the exacting General Board service performed at the office and also as she has visited nearby stakes and those far away from _ headquarters. She has been a member of the General Board except for two months, throughout the _presidency of President Spafford. Her health was excellent and it was thought many more years of helpful service lay ahead for her to the benefit of others. Prior to Sister Peterson's call to the General Board she held responsible positions with the Red Cross, served for many years as secretary to the Community Chest drives, and for ten years she was secretary to the Superintendent of the Granite School District. Her every ability was utilized in the work she has so ably performed on the General Board. She is the wife of John Vernon Peterson and the mother of a daughter, Carolee Peterson Kempton and a son Ronald E. Peterson. There are eight grandchildren. Elder Peterson has supported his wife in all her callings. The Peterson home has had as its way of life devotion to the Church. Evon Peterson was a dedicated and faithful Latter-day Saint. Those who worked for her felt a warm relationship with her. Those under whom she worked recognized in her an _ untiring handmaiden of the Lord who was ever ready to put aside her personal desires for the good of others and the work. Truly she was a worthy daughter in Zion. Her descendants in future years have cause to rise up and call her blessed. 413 HEAR™, ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 1 s they neared Los Angeles Mary Ann's mind was racing, trying to encompass this new situation in their lives, to fit the care of Kim's father into an already full schedule—Rosemary's wedding and Tommy's graduation in the spring. Taking care of Dad Freeman would have the direct result of her having to break her contract as home room teacher of the Fourth Grade of the San Gabriel school. The year had _ barely started when they had been called home to Mayville, Utah, at the removal of Father Freeman from the nursing home after his accident three months before when he had broken his hip. 414 Adjusting him with proper care in his own home, where he had lived alone since Mother Rachel died a year ago last June, had proved impossible. Bolstered by tranquilizers and pain pills he was now asleep in the bed they had made for him in the back of the station wagon. He had been asleep since Las Vegas, and they were free to think of the impact he would make on their pattern of family living. Kim (for Kimberley) seemed remote, the skillful execution of Cajon Pass taking all his ability as they had dropped down into the coast valley through the San Bernardino mountains, but his mind was on the problem, too, as evibd denced by his next remark. "If only it were Jennifer getting married," he said. "Yes," Mary Ann answered, looking back to confirm that Father Freeman was asleep. He must not know they were worrying already about money. Jennifer was their unselfish child, never wanting a thing so badly that she would accept sacrifice from others. She had been willing to use Barbara's wedding dress, even though it was out-dated and her sister Barbara was taller than: she. Rosemary had already set her mind on a three hundred dollar creation and a reception at the swankiest place in the outer limits of their possibility, bridesmaid dresses that cost at least forty dollars each, and rented tuxedos. She had informed her parents that she expected as a wedding gift at least a new car or a houseful of furniture, they could take their pick. "You'll have plenty of time to pay it off, since I am the last little bird to leave the nest. Can I help it if I have expensive tastes? By the way, I want sterling silver—not plated, nor stainless steel. I intend to entertain a lot, so I will need service for twelve." Rosemary was the pretty girl of the family, titian-haired and creamy skinned, with a softness about her that belied the hard little core of her demanding nature. There seemed to be some barrier about her that Mary Ann couldn't break through, though she had thought much about it and tried often. "T have no intention of working," she had stated flatly, alHeart Room For Home most belligerently. "I intend to be a. Homemaker, a full-time mother and wife," and Mary Ann had lauded her for this decision, ignoring the personal thrust of Rosemary's glance. Mary Ann had started working during the war, when help was scarce and there had been a call for teachers, so many had left to work in munitions plants. Jennifer, who was born in 1935, was in school by then, as were the others, Barbara, ten years older than Jennifer, James and Robert in between. Tommy was not korn until 1944 and Rosemary followed soon after, in 1946. When Rosemary was old enough for kindergarten Mary Ann had gone back to teaching to help fill the widening gap between Kim's wages and their family needs. Kim was a highly skilled mechanic in the Metropolitan Garage, but his income would never reach the status of "salary." Mim sighed heavily without taking his eyes from the freeway, and Mary Ann reached her hand to his knee. "It's another change, isn't it, Kim? Are you worried? It will split our income right down the middle, you know." "There's that to think of, too," said Kim. "But it's taking Dad out of his home that I am thinking about." "Selling it to put him in a nursing home is worse," consoled Mary Ann. "He couldn't stand that." Selling the family homestead had been the crux of the whole thing. It had been Kim's sisters, Emily Todd and also Francine 415 June 1969 Grady, who had advocated that drastic move, and the little scene played out in the parlor which had moved her and Kim to take his father. "Td take you in a minute, Dad," Emily had said. "But you know how Victor is—never wants me out of his sight a minute. Life would be miserable for you with us." "T didn't say—I didn't want.... Began her father, and Mary Ann had ached with the trembling anguish in his voice. She had been sitting beside the window, ostensibly an in-law aloof from the thinly veiled battle that raged back and forth in the room, with Father Freeman the unhappy subject of this little, turgid knot of indecision. Up to then Mary Ann had loved both her two sisters by marriage, but this conversation was bringing out traits which were anything but pretty. Victor Dodd had always seemed to Mary Ann to be a nice, uncomplicated, unselfish man. "T would, too, Dad, but you know I have my own job," said Francine. Kim and Mary Ann were overdue back to their own jobs, of course. "The whole answer is to sell this place," pursued Emily reasonably.. "And put Dad into a rest home." "No! No," protested her father. "T can get along. As soon as I am well, I can...." "From a broken hip?" selves Francine. "I'm not trying to be cruel, Dad, only realistic. I agree with Emily. 'The place must be sold. There are many good homes with wonderful care, people 416 of your own age as friends, but we'd have to sell the place to keep you there." "No! No!," Father Freeman was moaning, shaking his head back and forth in negation. "How can you think of such a thing, France? Emily?" said Kim, echoing the feelings in Mary Ann's heart. That sweet place! Every red stone of it, every square inch of its building was a product of Father Freeman's loving hands, the lilacs along the rock wall, set there when he had brought his bride to the thick-walled stone house he had built, the weeping willow dipping its long slim fingers in the bright little brook that bubbled from the spring against the hill back of the house, into and out of the pond where even now the ducks were diving in pastoral peace. Dad was more than a little artistic the way he had landscaped the place, with the flagstone walks winding gracefully under the trees and over the arched bridge, by the rustic bench. The stream circled a knoll, with fruit trees, all prize stock, to the garden _ behind, the corrals out of sight and the acre of lucerne, and the meadow beyond. It had always been a show place from the first crocuses and violets as early as February, through rose time with its bowers and arches, until the last cushion mum which bordered the walks and bloomed from July to October. The children thought it a fairyland. Sell this place? There had been a little silence, then, and an apple thudded to the ground. Since they had come this time Kim had picked the main part of the crop of red and yellow delicious apples and stored them in_ barrels, dug the carrots and parsnips and packed them in cans of sand and picked the winter pears, stored everything in the milk house which his father had chiseled out of sheer rock beside the spring, in perfect coldness for winter eating. Francine and Emily had been happy to assure him that none of them would go to waste. With modern surgery, a steel pin and bone graft, Kim's father had healed remarkably for his eighty-five years from his fracture, and was now up in a wheelchair, even able to get about by use of a "walker," but he could in no way do for himself, or be left alone. A moment of unbalance, an attempt at something too far beyond his reach, and all the good work would be undone. "With care, you will be able to walk again," the doctor had said. "By spring?" Father Freeman asked. "Maybe by spring—with good care." But where was the good care coming from? Had they not just taken it for granted Emily would take her father? She lived less than a mile away, on a part of the old farm sliced off for her and Victor as their wedding gift. Or perhaps had they just neglected to think it through, knowing there was no good solution, dreading to come to grips with it, so settled were they in their family and work patterns, Heart Room For Home the necessity of earning their daily bread. To be sure, they were both past sixty—Kim was sixty-four to his father's eight-five, Mary Ann was sixty-one, but they were still youthfully healthy and were valued as employees in their respective jobs. With Rosemary getting married in June and Tommy getting his degree in sociology from the University of Southern California at the same time, it would take their combined efforts to see the children through their respective high points. Rosemary's fiance was Cary Marks, a young lawyer. The other four children were married, Barbara, James, Robert, and Jennifer, and launched in their lives, but could Mary Ann condemn Emily and Francine for their inability to care for their father in his old age? W..; there just no place for old people in the family of today's living? Unless the children could honor their parents enough to make a place for them, how much better than savages were they? "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land," hit Mary Ann with a _ particular force. Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, only a few grandfathers back, had held high places in their families in the times of the Old Testament, but were not today's children bound by the same commandment? And were the earlier patriarchs any more deserving of honor than Father Freeman, who had filled a twoyear mission to Scandinavia in (Continued on page 457) 417 ' EDITORIAL/ The 139th Annual @ The 139th Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1969. Of particular significance this year was that Easter Sunday, April 6th occurred upon the same day as the commemoration of the founding of The Church of Jesus ' Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 6, 1830. In a time of the radiant return of springtime weather, and in a setting of blossoms, the Conference placed a pervading emphasis upon the mission of the Savior and ''the greatest event that has ever taken place in the history of mortal man—the resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Creator of the world, who came and gave his life for us and was resurrected."' It was reported that the membership of the Church at the close of 1968 reached 2,684,073—revealing the great momentum of the gospel message. The stakes and missions of the Church, the wards and branches continue to increase in numbers and in faithfulness to the Lord and service to mankind, with a remembrance and an active devotion to the work of salvation for the dead. Officers and saints from every continent attended the Conference. Thousands of priesthood holders throughout the United States and Canada listened to the special priesthood meeting from the Tabernacle by closed circuit. Other sessions were carried by video tape over a blanket of radio and television stations throughout the world. Translators were busy ''broadcasting the words of counsel as they came from the speakers."' By means of modern communication facilities, the messages of conference were delivered to individuals and congregations throughout the world, and the saints enjoyed a unity of rejoicing. From his home nearby, President David O. McKay, in his ninety-sixth year, presided at all the sessions of Conference, and his addresses were read by his sons Robert McKay and David Lawrence McKay. In his address at the Opening session on Friday morning, President McKay stressed the importance of home and family in the strengthening of individuals and in the righteousness of nations. Volume 56 June 1969 Number 6 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor 418 ww General Church Conference An essential, fundamental element in the building and in the perpetuity of a great people is the home. The strength of a nation, especially of a republican nation, is in the intelligent and well-ordered homes of the people. In the well-ordered home, we may experience on earth a taste of heaven. It is there that the babe in a mother's caress first experiences a sense of security; finds in the mother's kiss the first realization of affection; discovers in mother's sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world.... The exalted view of marriage as held by the Church is given expressively in five words found in the 49th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: 'Marriage is ordained of God." It is said that the best and noblest lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Truly no higher ideal regarding marriage can be cherished by young people than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young, such a standard is a protection to them in courtship, an ever-present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the temple to have their love comsummated in an enduring and eternal union. President McKay's great love for the saints and his concern for their welfare both during the time of earth life and in the long milleniums of eternity, were evidenced in his closing address in which he gave a blessing and offered comfort and direction:.. With truth as our guide, our companion, our ally, our inspiration, we may tingle with the consciousness of our kinship with the Infinite, and all the petty trials, sorrows, and sufferings of this life will fade away as temporary, harmless visions seen in a dream. Today as we commemorate the coming forth from the tomb of the crucified Lord, | bear my testimony to you and to all the world that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts the resurrection not only as being real, but as the consummation of Christ's divine mission on earth. | know with my whole soul that as Christ lives after death, so shall all men, each taking his place in the next world for which he has best fitted himself.... God bless you in your individual lives, in your home life, in your Church activities, and give you the comfort that comes to every soul who loses himself for Christ's sake, { pray in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL BOARD: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucille P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock 419 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Belle Smith Spafford of Salt Lake City, Utah, General President of the Relief Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was 4 guest of honor Friday night, April 11, 1969, at the 50th anniversary dinner of the New York League of Business and Professional Women's Clubs. Mrs. Spafford, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, congratulated the league on its fifty years of existence. Flora Amussen Benson, wife ot Elder Ezra Taft Benson, of the Council of the Twelve, was selected "Woman of the Year'' at Ricks College, Rexburé. \daho, March 25, 1969, and was presented with the Distinguished Achievement Award "in recognition of an outstanding example of womanhood." She spoke at the Annual Mothers-and-Daughters Day on the campus to some 2,000 people. Elder Benson was present with Sister Benson at the meeting and in the evening he addressed the student body. Both Elder and Sister Benson spoke to the missionary language school at Ricks. Sister Benson's citation reads, in part: "As a youth your positions of responsible leadership, education, participation in drama, athletics, and music, aspirations for high ideals, and real determination have helped prepare and shape your character into an outstanding epitome of womaniiness. As a mother, your domestic interests and values have demonstrated themselves in your prayerful dedication to home and children. Your faith, spirituality, foresight, and encouragement are attributes which have characterized you as 4 charming and devoted wife..." Marlene Telford Lundahl, a Latter-day Saint, and mother of nine children, is manager of designing, promotion, and sales of the Jer Maral Lingerie Company, 4 multi-million dollar firm in California. Her husband, Gerald Lundahl, had received his M. D. Degree and completed his internship when he was stricken with polio. Marlene kept the family going and the business progressing. After his recovery from paralysis, but still being unable to practice medicine, Dr. Lundahl became a full-time partner with his wife and took charge of the technical aspects of manufacturing. Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, Maine, remains the only woman among fifty-seven United States Senators in the ninety-first Congress. A member of the House of Representatives in 1940, and successively for ten years, she has been a Senator ever since. She feels that a woman president of the United States would run the Govern: ment on a strict budget as 4 good housewife manages a home. Denied a college education through circumstances, her intelligence and ability have been recognized by the bestowal of thirty-six honorary degrees. Patsy Takemoto Mink, Democrat, Hawaii; Charlotte T. Reid, Republican, {Wlinois; Martha W. Griffiths, Democrat, Michigan; Lenor K. Sullivan, Democrat, Missouri: Margaret Heckler, Republican, Massachusetts, Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey: Shirley Chisholm, Democrat, New York; Edith Green, Democrat, Oregon, Catherine May, Republican, Washington, Julia Butler Hansen, Democrat, Washington— these ten are women United States Representatives, among a total ot 432 Repre: sentatives. Several nations that have enjoyed democratic government for far fewer years than America, are far better represented by women In political life than is the United States. 420 eas Welcome the Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Chapter 8 (Conclusion) m Jennifer had to wait two additional weeks to find out what Jim's very important question that he had to have an answer to was. He had not been too happy when she had turned down his invitation to the dance, however when he arrived he was all smiles and confidence. Instinctively, Jennifer knew that she was going to be faced with the most important decision of her lifetime. She felt strangely calm. "Jenny, he began. She tried not to appear too eager. "Do you love me?" It was a direct question, and one she had not quite expected. "T—I'm fond of you, Jim," she said truthfully. "Fond enough to marry me?" he pressed on eagerly. She hadn't expected it to be quite that sudden. Before she could answer, he pursued the subject. "Ill soon have my law degree and a good position. I love you Jenny, and I want to give you the world, and Ill be able to, you know that." He talked on about the wonderful places they would go and the things they would see together, his handsome face flushed, his blue eyes eager, but Jennifer was only half hearing him. Somehow this wasn't the marriage proposal she had dreamed of all her life. The setting was right. It was a warm May evening; Théy were sitting on a rock overlooking the valley, towards the lake. A slight spring breeze was wafting the smell of newly blooming roses across the air. Of course Jim would take her to the temple, that was simply a foregone conclusion, and if he wanted her for his wife, surely that meant the mother of his children, although this hadn't been mentioned. The things he was mentioning now were things she had not considered too important. Membership in the country club would be nice, but it wasn't a basis for a successful marriage, and money alone would not buy happiness. When he finished, she sensed that he was awaiting her affirmative answer. Suddenly the selfassurance she had so admired in him annoyed her just a little. She finally answered, "I'm in no position to get married right now, Jim." His tone was authoritative. "Jenny, you have to think of yourself sometime. You have given your family your whole life for close to a year. They 421 June 1969 have no right to expect it forever, and you would be a fool to give it to them." "Right now they need me, Jim. They haven't expected anything I haven't been more than willing to give." They mildly argued the point until Jim stood up angrily. "Well, you have a convenient excuse. I'll take you home now." The ride home was a silent one, and Jennifer wondered if he was right. Perhaps she was using her family as an excuse. She only knew that her heart had not been set afire by this young man whom she had once thought would make an ideal husband. As he walked her to the door, she said, "I'm sorry, Jim." He brushed off the hand she had gently placed on his arm. "T'll be back in September to see if you have changed your mind," he said, and was gone, leaving Jennifer a little hurt and very angry. She worked hard the next two weeks, getting spring housecleaning done. One afternoon her father called her into the den. He expressed his appreciation for all that she had done, and the fine manner in which she had carried on in her mother's footsteps. He reminded her that she had her own life to lead. She assured him that she would and told him that her name was definitely on the summer commencement list. Then he said gently, "Jenny, there is something I want to tell you. Your mother and I talked about this a great deal, and I want you to know that it was she who urged it." 422 Jennifer was puzzled. What could he be driving at? "Someday, you are going to want to marry and have your own family. And well prepared you are going to be, from your experiences here. However, we are not going to be prepared to live without a woman's influence." "Dad, I won't leave until...' "Jenny," he stopped her gently, "what I am trying to say is that I am going to start seeing women—socially." She stared at him speechlessly. How could he even think of such a thing! ' a | e went on more gently. "You see, Jenny, I need companionship and the boys will need a mother. Not. A replacement of your mother, for no one could ever take her place for any of us. But we must go on and live as fulla life as possible here on earth. Your mother made me promise this. You see you weren't the only one she was preparing. At the time I had no intention of ever keeping that promise, but time has indicated that she was right." Jennifer listened numbly as he talked, hardly believing it possible. Somehow, she managed to get out of the room without losing her dignity; without letting her hurt and disapproval show through. She went through the motions of preparing, serving, and eating dinner, and finished the dishes. With everyone in the living room, she bolted out of the back door nearly knocking Steve over in her intensity. He took one look, and knew something was upsetting her. "Want to talk about it?" he asked. "No!" she answered shortly. "Mind if I walk along, in case you change your mind?" She did change her mind and he listened patiently. "T think I know how you feel, Jenny. But he has a point. He is a very lonely man. Some men need a good woman at their side. You don't know how hard it is not to share life with a companion. I've often wished Mother had remarried." As they talked, Jennifer began to see some sense in what Steve was saying. She could finally accept the situation, but not without reservations. Each time she suspected her father of having a date she had to fight the rising resentment. Dating! It was preposterous. She and Dave were dating, and Pete occasionally, but their father! She didn't think of the time in Houston when she urged Bea to consider Dick, nor of the terrible loneliness in her father's eyes. Jennifer began to suspect any single woman over twenty-five years old of having designs on her father. When she received a letter from Bea telling her that she would stop in when she and Dean came to Provo to enroll him in the university, Jennifer suspected that it was Charles she really wanted to see, for she had often admired him. When Bea arrived, Jennifer was somewhat cool to her mother's cousin and her own dear friend. Bea attributed it to tiredness. The girl had taken on quite a task, surely it would be discouraging at times. Bea drew Welcome the Task the story about Jim from Jennifer. She was amazed at his behavior. "IT never thought that selfconfidence of his would get the better of him like that," she said. "I hope he learns a lesson before it is too late." "It was a shock to see him suddenly turn so angry," Jennifer admitted. "I guess I should have told him that I just wasn't in love with him, for if I were, I don't think anything would keep me from his side." "J think he suspected that, Jenny,' Bea said wisely. "But a man's pride is indeed a delicate thing." "Yes, I know that. I don't suppose he will come back this September as he threatened to do. It's better left dead, I think." "Oh, he may make one more try. Is Steve still a part of all this?" Jennifer blushed. "TI don't know. I haven't really given any of it too much thought. I'm just taking things as they come. By the way, do you still see Dick?" It was Bea's turn to blush, and she did so girlishly. "T thought you would never ask. We're being married at Thanksgiving." Jennifer threw her arms around her. "Oh, I'm so happy for both of you," she said sincerely. "Thank you, Jenny. It is wonderful to have someone care about me again, and to be able to return that love. I feel like a whole woman again, and I know John would want it this way, and the boys are most happy about it." 423 June 1969 Jennifer surprised herself by saying, "I hope Dad can find someone to make him happy again." "Yes," Bea said, "it is hard to be alone, especially with children. I don't know what Dick thinks about becoming a stepfather and grandfather at the same time, but he seems to be adjusting well," she laughed. Bea talked on about Dick, her sons, and the precious granddaughter who was growing so fast. Jennifer's thoughts went to Houston on a wave of nostalgia. So much had resulted from that one little trip. Strange, she thought, how life is. Charles Miles had found the woman who brought the light back into his eyes, and a smile to his lips, and Jennifer had never suspected a thing until he told the family. Nyta Rey had been accompanying him on_ temple trips for nearly six months, and they had been good friends over the years. Jennifer was truly glad. The boys could not have been more pleased, and when Charles brought her over, she was blushing like a new bride. We're being married for time in the Manti Temple," Charles explained. Sam hugged her and smiled up at her. "Hi, Mom," he said, as tears filled Nyta's eyes. Dave was quietly reserved, but Jennifer knew that he would accept the situation wholeheartedly, just as she had. Pete merely smiled his approval. Charles answered the phone. "What?" he asked, obviously somewhat disturbed. His listened 424 for quite a period of time, and then said, "Let me call you back, I'll get to the bottom of it." He turned to Nyta wearily. "You may as well get a taste of what being the mother of these three is going to be like. Pete, Sam, into the den. Dave, you seem to be innocent this time. Jenny, you had better come, too." Jennifer could. Not imagine what could have possibly happened, but she obediently followed him into the den. "All right, boys," be. Began sternly. "You took a job caring for your Aunt Net's grounds. Am I right?" Both boys nodded. "That job included keeping the place weeded, the grass trimmed, and general yard upkeep." Again the boys nodded. Jennifer could not imagine what had gone wrong. Nyta watched him fondly, knowing full well what trouble sons could get into at times. "May I ask," Charles said exasperatedly, "just how you managed to ruin every bit of grass that you were supposed to trim with the shears?" Pete gulped. "Did we ruin it?" "Well, Aunt Net says that it has turned yellow, apparently from some sort of burning. I would call that ruined. How did you do it?" Pete looked at Sam, Sam looked at the floor. "Pete, as the older, you are responsible. Answer me," his father commanded. Pete cleared his throat. "We used gasoline on it so we wouldn't have to cut it." Their father threw up _ his hands and proceeded togive the boys a stern lecture. It was all Jennifer could do to suppress a giggle. It was serious but also amusing. She glanced at Nyta and noticed a smile playing at the corners of her mouth. It was decided that the boys would have to pay for the damage, and that their father would assist them in repairing it, making certain that it was done properly. After he sent the boys out of the room, he shook his head and smiled, "Of course you realize I never did anything like that as a boy," he confided. Jennifer was again faced with the problem of what to do with her life after the marriage. She would be through school. She decided to take a position in the Salt Lake City schools. She had promised to type Steve's thesis in the spring. With that finished, he, too, would have completed his education. She had welcomed the task that took her beyond herself. What the future held, she could not foresee and had given up trying. Oi Welcome the Task She found an ex-roommate from college who had an apartment in Salt Lake, and when the honeymooners' returned, — she would be ready to leave. Steve offered his services in helping her to move. He, too, had moved into a small apartment in the city, and was commuting to Provo for his classes. Jennifer's position would be open in February. For two months she would work on genealogy and had other preparatory plans before taking over the job. Winter had settled on the Salt Lake valley, and Temple Square was being readied for the Christmas season with its many beautiful lights. Steve and _ Jennifer walked along, hand-inhand. They stopped to gaze up at the temple spires, their beauty so enhanced by the soft lights and falling snow. "Well, I guess we're sort of related now," Steve said. "True," Jennifer smiled. "I hope they will be very happy." June 1969 "Me too. You and I are both displaced persons you know. But, at least, you are all moved in," he grinned, remembering the heavy boxes. "Yes, and it's kind of nice to have my own life to plan now, but I suspect that I will sort of miss having others to do for." They had moved around toward the Assembly Hall, and discovered that it was open, although empty. Gently he led her to a bench. "Jenny, I don't know whether it is proper to ask your stepsister to be your wife or not," he began, "but that's a chance I'll have to take." Jennifer could only stare at him. She had given up ever hearing those words from Steve. "IT don't know exactly what the future holds for me. I want to be a writer. Of course, I plan to hold down a job. I've been offered a teaching position at the university, and I would like to consider it. I think I can write the great American novel, but what writer doesn't, unrealistic as that dream may be? There may be some lean years for me, but Jenny, I would be the happiest man alive, and the proudest, if you would share them with me." Before Jennifer could utter any word of acceptance, which she was sure was in her eyes, he went on, "I love you, Jenny. I think I have for a very long time. I want you for my wife, for time and all eternity. I want you to have my children. You have had lots of experience with boys, and I would like a whole houseful." He grinned engagingly. "And Jenny, I need you." There was 426 sincerity in his voice, and she knew that his love for her was as pure as the spot where he had chosen to profess it. The word need struck her. He needed her and he loved her. What more could a woman ask? He had indicated that it might not be easy. She recalled vividly the whole phrase her mother had so often used: "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself, for then and only then can you grow and accomplish and be prepared to meet the next task which will take you beyond." He was humbly asking her to be his wife, to share the ups and downs. She recalled what her mother had said when she asked how she would know. There was no doubt. Her wildly beating heart told her the answer, even before her mind could, but both were in agreement. He didn't have Jim's self-assurance, and he wasn't promising her the world on a silver platter, but as she saw the diamond he held eagerly in his hand, she realized that Steve's self-confidence was of a different nature. He took nothing for granted, until he felt certain that things were right, and there was humility and concern for others in his attitude. This was the kind of assurance that would someday give him the world, or at least that portion which he earned and was meant to have. It would bring happiness to him and to others. And he had said that he needed her by his side. She sighed happily and whispered, "Oh, yes, Steve," as she extended her left hand to meet the ring, which was only the first step in binding them forever. ae Alice Robinson Holyoak, Parowan, Utah, says, 'I always do lots of work to keep from being lonesome."' This work includes the piecing of more than two hundred quilt tops in recent years, designing and making scores of prize-winning hooked rugs, embroidered pillowcases, crocheted tablecloths, and many other lovely articles. Sister Holyoak is ninety-two years old. She has seven children, twenty-three grandchildren, and thirty great-grandchildren. For many years she walked four miles to attend Relief Society meetings and do visiting teaching. She does her own canning of fruits and vegetables, from her own vegetable garden. She raises chickens and sells eggs, and makes her own soap. Ld States at the age of nine. Gracing her home are many lovely articles of handwork, much of which she has done since turning ninety years old, six years ago. She is an expert quilter, and crochets and embroiders exquisitely, making tablecloths, doilies, and pillowcases. Her family of four children, seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren enjoy her lovely work in their homes, as do many other relatives and friends. She especially enjoys baking bread and cookies for her great-grandchildren. In Relief Society she has served in the presidency and as a devoted visiting teacher. 427 — §OLITH AFRICA Land of Gold and Green ow Caroline Eyring Miner, Member, General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association Transparencies by the author INTRODUCTION # South Africa is a land of gold and green, the gold referring to the tremendous output of gold, as well as the gold-colored mine dumps one encounters everywhere in Johannesburg as he first enters the Republic. The green refers to the grass-covered hills or veld so characteristic of much of this land. South Africa is located on the southern tip of the great continent of Africa, which hangs like a_pendant under Europe. TOPOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE The Republic of South Africa is a self-governing country composed of four provinces: Cape of Good Hope, Natal, the Orange Free State, and the Transvaal. In climate it compares to the Southern United States. The east, south, and west 428 of South Africa are bounded by the Indian and Atlantic Oceans which add to the beauty of this area. For the most part, the coastline is low lying and inhospitable and there are few ports or harbors. The country may be divided into an interior plateau, more than 4,000 feet above sea level, and the coastal region, which is the only area below an elevation of 1500 feet. The interior plateau, which occupies forty per cent of the area, consists of undulating plains and steep hills, barren or covered with brushwood. The eastern part of the country. Is grasslands called veld, which is used for sheep grazing. This area is green in summer, which comes during the winter of the Northern Hemisphere, and dry in winter. Extensive areas in the west, such as the Kalahari, are semidesert. On the rim of the interior plateau are several peaks over 10,000 feet in elevation. Along the eastern coast, rainfall is adequate and part of Natal has an average of thirty-five to fifty inches of rain a year. December, January, and February are the warmest months. The Cape of Good Hope Province is the driest area and is the most healthful for white settlers, the altitude tempering the climate. INDUSTRIES Agriculture, mining, and manufacturing are the principal industries. Agriculture is hampered in parts where it is dry. Maize, wheat, and cotton are the main products. Citrus fruits and grapes, peaches, and apricots are grown in the Cape area. I was surprised to see oranges for sale everywhere in the outskirts of the cities we visited and inquired about them from the guide. In the northern part of the Republic, pineapples, papaws, mangos, and bananas are grown and we saw numerous great tea and sugar plantations, as well as some tobacco fields. We also visited some great vineyards and wineries that dated back to the beginning of the history of the country. Only half of the Republic is arable, or agriculture would be more extensive. Sheep are the most important domesticated animals and wool is exported. Ostrich farming is éxtensive and profitable. We saw great ostrich farms near Outshoorn, with as many as 8,000 birds to a farm. Raisers are able to sell and use everything pertaining to the birds, but the squack, we were told. The mineral resources are rich, varied, and extensive. The Transvaal region is generally regarded as the most highly mineralized portion of the earth's crust. South Africa produces more gold and diamonds than any other country in the world. South Africa—Land of Gold and Green GOVERNMENT AND HISTORY There are about nineteen million people in the Republic of South Africa. The two official languages are Afrikaans (a new language based on Dutch) and English. The earliest people were the Bushmen and Hottentots who mingled with the Bantu people to form the colored people of which there are well over a million. Only about one-fourth of the people are white and most of them are Dutch-German (Afrikaaners) or British. There are about a half million Indians from nearby India. Two thirds of the white population speak both English and Afrikaans. The rest of the people are the Bantu tribes. Two capitals are maintained to satisfy both the Dutch and the English elements in the nation. The legislative capital is Cape Town and the administrative capital is Pretoria. South African law is based on Roman-Dutch law brought to the Cape in 1652. Western civilization came to southern Africa in 1652 when the Dutch East India Company established a provision station at Table Bay to provide fresh food for the fleet on the voyages between Holland and the East Indies, and later the French Huguenots came in 1688. The British settled in Port Elizabeth in 1820, and the German immigrants in 1859. The Indians came into the area in 1860 settling in Natal. There are many prosperous professional people among this group today in Natal. The Bantu crossed the northern frontiers of what is today South Africa about the same time as the early pioneers were moving northward. There were many frontier wars between these groups in the 18th and 19th centuries, but each group retained the area where it had settled. Toward the end of the 15th cen- 429 June 1969 tury, Vasco da Gama opened up a sea route to India by sailing around the Cape of Good Hope, but for two centuries no attempt was made to occupy any territory. From 1652 to 1806 the colony, begun in 1652, thrived under the Dutch rule. In 1806, during the Napoleonic Wars, the British seized the area. In time this led to trouble, and the Boers (Dutch), rather than submit to the British, "trekked" in large numbers and formed the new republics of the Orange River and the Transvaal. The Orange River Province became The Orange Free State, but in 1900 it was declared a possession of the British Crown. The discovery of diamonds in 1867 brought many British into the Transvaal area and war resulted between the two groups, but the Boers were defeated and the Transvaal was annexed to the Union in 1910. NATURAL RESOURCES South Africa is not heavily forested, but acacia, wild olive, yellowwoods, blackwood, and black stinkwood are the principal trees growing there and they are used for furniture and carving of ornaments. The animal life of South Africa is noteworthy. All kinds of antelope, including the springbok, the national animal, are the most abundant. Lions, elephants, leopards, and cheetahs, hippopotami, wild or Cape buffaloes, giraffes, and zebras are protected and are at present in most parts of the Republic. There are many wild animal reserves in the country, the most famous of which is Kruger National Park. There are good hotels and motels in different areas of this extensive park that make one think of Yellowstone Park and its facilities. 430 TOURING THROUGH THE COUNTRY AND CITIES Many parts of South Africa remind me of the Salt Lake Valley. Both have great rugged mountainous areas with beautiful valleys in between. Both have a long history of pioneer hardship and both revere their pioneers and have erected monuments to them. It was something like a trip to Temple Square to go to Pretoria, the administrative capital of South Africa, and visit the Voortrekker Monument and its nearby museum. In the monument's rotunda are granite murals depicting the courageous pioneers of South Africa. In the museum across the street one finds also these same scenes worked in needlepoint in magnificent colors. Both are monuments to the devotion of the present citizens of South Africa, as well. In the city of Pretoria, itself, one views the Kruger Home where there are many mementos of early pioneer days. It was like a visit to the Lion House to visit there and view the household and working effects of Paul Kruger. In the city we also saw the magnificent zoo where wild animals of every description are housed. The House of Parliament is a magnificent structure, and the entire city is very clean and beautiful. Johannesburg was the city where our plane first landed in the Republic of South Africa and I remember most of all the many golden hills or mine dumps spread throughout the populous city of four million people. Johannesburg is the industrial, commercial, and mining center of South Africa. After several days' stay in Johannesburg viewing the sights, we took a fast train to Kimberley, the diamond center of the world. Here we saw all the activities involved in processing the diamond from the blue clay mining to the many-faceted jewel. We also visited the training farm where dogs are taught to protect the diamond fields. The Big Hole right in the city, fast filling with water, was a famous stop. We left Kimberley for Cape Town on the world-famous Blue Train, arriving in the early morning. The mountain scenery, green fields, and attractive farmsteads in the outskirts of this three-hundred-yearold city were very pleasing. This is called the Mother City of South Africa as well as the legislative capital, and we found the people unusually friendly and hospitable. I, particularly, shall never forget - the trip up Table Mountain to the north of the city. The wind was blowing a gale so most of the members of our tour stayed close to the lodge. I wanted to catch a view of the Indian Ocean, as well as the Atlantic, so I started out across the mountainous terrain, which was in reality solid rock gouged by wind and weather until it was very irregular. I did see the Indian Ocean and saw many beautiful flowers as well, so the hike was a great success for me. I did get left on the mountain, however, and caused the party to be delayed. For this I was sorry, but the views from that vantage point will be treasured all my life. We also enjoyed the flora and fauna indigenous to this area, including the protea, national flower of South Africa, which grows in countless varieties. From Cape Town we followed the Garden Route for three days through Paarl, Outshoorn, Port Elizabeth, and East London. Near Outshoorn we saw the huge ostrich farms and tried our luck at riding on the ostriches and learning of their strange culture. My father had owned a male ostrich and two females when I was a child, and I South Africa—Land of Gold and Green had known much about these big birds from that experience. The Transkei Territory, for natives only, mostly of the "redblanket" Xhosa tribe, was fascinating. These people build their mud and thatch huts high on the hills to catch the rays of the sun through the one door that must be to the east. This location is necessary even though the natives may have to carry the water from springs miles away down in the valleys. Here the scarlet aloes bloom for fences and for beauty as well. The last big stop in South Africa was in Durban, after we had viewed the Zulu dancers in Drummond. Durban is located on the beautiful eastern coast and is the resort city of South Africa. This harbor is one of the best of the relatively small number of port cities in all of Africa. Here is transplanted part of India since it is on the Indian Ocean, and these people have found many business opportunities here. One attraction for tourists here besides the beach is the riksha men who come right up to the good hotels to solicit business for their colorful vehicles. A tour of the harbor was enjoyable. This harbor handles more business than all the other ports in South Africa put together. CHURCH ACTIVITIES The story of the Church in South Africa is a long one, for it began with missionary activities in 1853. In 1864, the work was discontinued because of persecution, however, in 1903 the mission was reopened and has been active ever since. In 1921 the number of missionaries to be admitted to South Africa was set at twenty-five. It was ruled that applications for admission be submitted through the 431 June 1969 British Consular Authorities in America, and they were authorized to visa the necessary passports. The names of the persons selected were to be furnished to the High Commissioner for the Union in London. An undated memorandum states that the steamship fare over the Union-Castle Line from Southhampton to Cape Town second class was about fifty pounds, third class about twenty-five pounds. An elder upon arrival in South Africa was required to have thirty-five pounds landing money. It was suggested that an elder send ahead of him to Liverpool about sixty pounds. This amount would be deposited with the Union-Castle Line in London, with an order to draw the same on arrival at Cape Town. In April 1936 the quota of. Missionaries in South Africa was increased to thirty, and in March 1939, the quota was further increased to forty missionaries. At the present time the quota is sixty. The missionaries travel by air, usually, because of the value of time and the reasonableness of the fares.; First president of the South African Mission was Warren H. Lyon, who served from 1903 to 1906. He was followed by Ralph A. Badger in 1906, and Brother Badger by Henry S. Steed in 1908. Fighteen presidents have been listed by the Church Missionary Committee as serving in South Africa, with Howard Carl Badger being the present president. He took office on March 22, 1967. Many prominent members of the Church have served as mission presidents in South Africa. A magnificent work has been and is being done and the saints there are very progressive. There are six districts in South Africa, with twenty-three branches, twenty having their own chapels. Although the membership is 432 small in some branches, that makes little difference to the earnestness and devotion of the Relief Society sisters or to their desire to carry out the full program of Relief Society. I was privileged to go to the Bulawayo Branch in Rhodesia and see the wonderful facilities of that beautiful new building. The branch members were working overtime to try to get the building paid for so that they could have it dedicated. We had spotted the building as we entered Bulawayo and nonmembers called it to our attention and commented on its beauty. In Johannesburg, the mission home is a beautiful and spacious mansion called "Cumorah," on Fifth Avenue, Houghton, Johannesburg, South Africa. The yards surrounding this brick mansion are large and beautiful and it is located in a good neighborhood. After going through the mission home we were taken to a baptismal meeting at which ten new members were brought into the Church, and it was a thrill to hear their testimonies. At the Church services the following day, we heard young people give excellent talks they had won awards on in the MIA Speech Festival. The talks were as good as any I have ever heard. How wonderful the gospel is! Four branches of the Church within the South African Mission are organized in four cities of Rhodesia: Bulawayo, Copperbelt, Midlands, and _ Salisbury. We visited in Bulawayo and Salisbury. In Rhodesia we went to see the remarkable sight of Victoria Falls, perhaps the most magnificent falls in the world. These are formed where the Zambezi River drops off a great fault. In a small plane we saw this remarkable sight from a dozen angles. The future of the Church in South Africa is promising. . Victoria Falls on the Zambezi River, Rhodesia Flower-bordered Road Near Bulawayo, Rhodesia Voortrekkers Monument in Pretoria, Administrative Capital of Republic of South Africa African Tulip Tree in Bloom Kaffir Boom Tree in Bloom + s ~~ i) Q £ x cS Q iS} <= Bs) ¢ 3 iS a (a) ss a Cape of Good Hope | Tropical Scene on. The East Coast of Africa Groundbills in Kruger National Park Giraffe in Kruger National Park AEF <mey TY MAG: _ ety''s Ss >. "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way''—Mural by Irene Emigh, depicting sisters of the Church around the world joining hands in sisterhood through the light of The Relief Society Magazine. OT! The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way"' Jennie R. Scott Member, General Board of Relief Society "High Lights of the Magazine''—Prepared by Clarice Witbeck of the Editorial Department, and Myrna Hardy of the Mailing Department, pictured fourteen steps in the makeup of the Magazine "From Manuscript to Press.' The map at the back indicates where the Magazine is mailed each month. The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way a "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way" was the theme for the Magazine department and Magazine display at the Annual General Relief Society conference, October 1968. A colorful mural depicting the theme showed sisters of the Church around the world joining hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The Relief Society Magazine. The mural, painted by Irene Emigh, served as a background in the department, and was an interesting part of the display. "The Magazine Lights the Way for Relief Society Workers''—East Cache Stake—Mildred H. Himes, stake Relief Society president, Rachel M. Plaser, stake Magazine representative. Each pedestal represented a different program of Relief Society—all guided by light from The Relief Society Magazine. Four of these programs are pictured in addition to the entire display: Visiting Teaching, Nursery, Compassionate Service, and Singing Mothers. Five stakes and The Relief Society Magazine Editorial and Mailing Departments prepared table displays. Fourteen steps in the makeup of the Magazine "from manuscript to press" were shown in a display titled "High Lights of the Magazine." A background map indicated that more than 278,000 copies of the Magazine were mailed each month all over the world except to those countries behind the Iron Curtain. These "High Lights" helped the sisters viewing the display to understand and appreciate the careful planning, time, and attention to detail required by the dedicated individuals who prepare and mail the Magazine each month. (Continued on page 451) 439 Visiting Teachers The Nursery Compassionate Service Sarees a "The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters." Mexico City Stake—Leona F. Wagner, stake Relief Society president, Ruth France, stake Magazine representative. Mural and artifacts of the South American people past and present, portraying the times of spiritual darkness and the blessings of the light of the gospel. On the right side can be seen Spanish sisters receiving The Relief Society Magazine in the Spanish language. —————> Singing Mothers "The Magazine Lights the Way at Holiday Time."" Palo Alto Stake— Alice M. Jorgensen, stake Relief Society president, Elaine Tuttle, stake Magazine representative. Holiday ideas from the Magazine arranged in lighted shadow boxes carried out the theme. + ah NL AA OP OR ey @ t 441 The Art of Bread Clay Myrene T. Alvord, Homemaking Leader Lois L. Tanner, President East Phoenix Stake Relief Society 442 Transparency by J M. Heslop = One of the most exciting new mediums for Relief Society homemaking departments is the art of bread clay. Though we speak of it as new, actually its origin dates back several centuries into South America. Traditionally small figurines were ornately prepared as food offerings and placed on the graves of loved ones. Last summer, into the hands of our stake homemaking leader, Myrene Alvord, came three of these small figures with tiny flowers, scrolls, and fine lines of delicate handiwork. These had been brought to her as souvenirs from Ecuador. The women make them of bread, a type of mucilage, and color them with natural dyes. Though these figures had small flaws and cracks, Sister Alvord was intrigued with their china-like appearance and clear colors. She began ex- Bread clay flowers adorn the top of this lovely box perimenting and tried numerous processes and methods. But she was never fully satisfied until, through her own trials and many, many errors, she arrived at a nearly foolproof formula for bread clay devoid of cracks and the graininess that most bread clays seem to have. She has not found another recipe in exact proportions to her own. She uses more white glue along with her glycerin and lemon juice. The "feel" of the clay is very important. It must be fine enough to create a porcelain quality. She has worked her bread clay into many areas and uses. She feels that Relief Society women can create not only lovely, lasting ornaments to wear and to enjoy in their homes, but tremendous, saleable ideas for bazaars and fairs—and at minimal cost. To mention just a few: jewelry (pins, earrings, bracelets), ornaments, decorated boxes, jewel boxes, candelabra, wall plaques, pictures, figurines, dolls, filigree, miniature fruits and flowers for decorative arrangements under glass. The only outward difference in the final product of ceramic china and Sister Alvord's bread clay is that china must be "fired," and in so doing the ceramic tends to lose its color to some extent. Not so with bread clay because Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Transparency by Dorothy Roberts Unique Christmas card with bread clay face it is not painted or "fired," its color remains original. It has the ability to hold brilliant, vibrant color. When a ceramic piece is chipped, it shows the white ceramic under the glaze. If bread clay, which is as hard as china, is chipped, it is not so noticeable as the clay is colored through and through with the same color as its surface. The first and absolute rule, Sister Alvord says, in working at the art of bread clay is extreme cleanliness. Bread clay seems to have an incredible talent for picking up any grime or oil on hands, tools, or molds, so every piece of plastic or pencil or knife must be checked or there will be muddied colors or hard-set specks and lint in the finished product. (Continued on page 454) 443 Gardens in Portland, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Furness Fells, Coniston, England ' Transparency by Camera Clix Candie | of [ & ne | Made by Ramona W. Cannon Dorothy J. Roberts s "I think Jerry would have married me sooner if he had known I have a grandmother with your culinary abilities,' wrote Ramona Cannon's granddaughter at Christmas, after receiving the cherished gift of her candies. Ramona's superb candies are good travelers. They go, packed in round fruit cake tins, to her waiting family in many parts of the country. Anyone who has ever tasted her candies will never forget, but long for more. They lend a final touch of elegance to any occasion. Ramona uses: A cool room, temperature under 70 degrees A 16-inch by 24-inch unpolished, unfinished marble slab she picked up at a marble company (some sources Transparencies by the author say formica will do) preferably placed by an open window. Be sure slab is clean. A long-handled wooden spoon A 3%, quart, or larger, kettle. Ramona uses a medium heavy aluminum kettle. Some small, clean pieces of white cloth to wipe inside edge of kettle free of sugar crystals to prevent granulation (Continued on page 452) = One, two, three—on a spring day, I saw six times that many hummingbirds darting toward the feeder suspended on a tree, trying to give the brilliant, ruby-throated "king' the slip. A gold bird shone molten in flight; others, burnished green. Two or three grace notes of winged energy combined against the "king," chasing him away in midair, so a colleague might sip the sugary red nectar. The ruby-throat rested on a mullein tip, but remained constantly ready to drive every other sippers from the field. Once I had seen a pair of these airborne jewels, with bills crossed over their nested young, carolling an idyllic love song. In a flowering meadow, I had heard half a hundred hummingbirds in silvery fluted notes—music unforgettable. 446 Springtime Is for the Birds Claire Noall Transparencies by the author But, now, to my amusement, I found the ruby-throated hummingbird perfectly demonstrating the instinctive struggle for the survival of the fittest. Hummingbirds: one, two, three— nature's gift of jewelled flight to the watcher with a camera in his hand. "ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARTIST" by Honoré Daumier National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. Gift of Duncan Phillips For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970—Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Commentary on page 450. Transparency by J M. Heslop " - < ' 'et -« on e + " _ "THE GIRL IN WHITE" by Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 2—The Role of Education Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969—Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Commentary on opposite page. 448 "THE GIRL IN WHITE" By Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah Painting on Opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 and people worth knowing. He was a man of charm, nobility, and taste. A close study of "The Girl in White," then, provides a rewarding educational experience in that one learns about the Personality and tastes of the artist. To the more casual observer, however, the picture represents an educational experience on another level—the experience of a lovely child 449 "ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARTIST" By Honoré Daumier National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. - Gift of Duncan Phillips Painting on page 447 Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3 - The Problem of Communication Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Honoré Daumier at the age of seven decided to be an artist. To gain background for his chosen field, he frequented the poorer quarters of Paris and haunted the corridors of the Louvre. He studied Rembrandt and Michelangelo, nature, and the manners and customs of his period. Although he is better known as a lithographer and political cartoonist, it has been said that he was one of the greatest painters of the 19th Century. Daumier expressed very deep feelings in a spirit of satire and ridicule. His caricatures are without hatred or spite, although they are biting. There is a direct simplicity in the expressions of what he saw and felt. All of his work has social significance. His art was and still is a very direct means of communication of ideas, a universal language. Artists today use art for propaganda purposes just as Daumier did in his time. The painting, "Advice to a Young Artist," is perhaps more mild than many of his works. This is not a portrait of any two particular people but more a generalization of a typical situation in the world of work. We all learn from others who go before us, especially if they are willing to share their knowledge with us. In this very commonplace idea, expressed in a simple, earthy manner, one senses a certain kinship between the artist and the common working man, a certain reality that makes the commonplace beautiful when stripped to the bare essentials. None of his works is pretty. All tinsel and glitter have been left out and only simple truth remains. Perhaps this is why many have placed Daumier in the school of realism. All of his works, full of compassion for the downtrodden, are attempts at communicating the unvarnished truth as he saw it. As in all great art, Daumier in his work gives us not merely a photographic likeness of his subject but an interpretation of it in which he communicates what he knows, thinks, and feels. Or JUNE NIGHT Five red roses climbing a stem, Daisies cushioned below: How did he know that he placed them for me To capture the spirit's glow? The moon shining full through a paradise tree— Bid for a lover's kiss— And | shall return in my memory's way When he has forgotten this. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 450 "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LIGHTS THE WAY" (Continued from page 439) "The Magazine Lights the Way for Relief Society Workers" was the subject of the display by the East Cache Stake Relief Society. Pedestals, sprayed with gold, were arranged on a green cloth. On each pedestal a different facet of Relief Society work was represented. At the back of the display was an enlarged colored copy of the cover of the June 1968 Magazine with the theme of the display above it. Four of these Relief Society activities, lighted by instruction from the Magazine, are pictured, as well as the complete display: Singing Mothers, Compassionate Service, Nursery, and Visiting Teaching. Many articles, ideas, and pictures appearing in the Magazine are directed toward activities for special occasions. Some of these ideas were selected from the Magazine, made up, and displayed through the use of lighted shadow boxes by the Palo Alto Stake in their display which emphasized how "The Magazine Lights the Way at Holiday Time." The boxes contained a candy house, miniature stove with "kuchen" recipes, antiqued Magazine pictures and Christmas ornaments and decorations. A lighted lamppost at one side of the boxes was papered with Relief Society Magazine covers. The Magazines from which the ideas were taken were placed above the display. How the Spanish-speaking sisters are benefitting through the Spanish language Magazine was the subject of another display, "The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters." (The sisters had waited many years for the Magazine to be printed in their language.) The Mexico City Stake, through their beautiful mural and artifacts of the South American, people depicted graphically the times of darkness before the restoration of the gospel, and the present time when the light of the gospel is a part of their lives. Scrolls containing scripture passages, placed on either side of the table with the mural and Mexican artifacts, emphasized the difference in the condition of the people in times of darkness and light. One section of the mural showed the Spanish-speaking sisters using the Spanish language Relief Society Magazine. Taylor Stake (Canada) under the direction of Vinessa T. Hamilton, stake Relief Society president, and Lauretta S. Dahl, stake Magazine representative, arranged a display (not pictured) which consisted of a large white panel on which was painted a double door. Under the door were the words "Through the Relief Society Magazine." Gold letters on white nylon curtains draped above and behind the door formed the words "Keys to Eternal Life." On steps leading to the door were five gold key rings, each holding a set of golden keys. On each key ring was the name of one of the courses of study for Relief Society, and on the blue satin folds of the table cover were Relief Society Magazines. To help wards and stakes preserve their Relief Society Magazines at little cost, and to encourage sisters who wish to bind their Magazines, the Rose Park Stake, under the direction of Stake Relief Society President Francis Holtry and stake Magazine representative Doris Hensler, explained and demonstrated different methods of preserving and binding the Magazine. In addition to the table displays, original Magazine posters from a number of the stakes where every ward in the stake achieved 100 per cent or more in their Magazine subscriptions, were on display. As the sisters of the Church around the world join hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The Relief Society Magazine, this medium of communication will help to inform, instruct, inspire, and unify. It will light the way to understanding, sisterhood, opportunity for service and self-development, to stronger testimonies of the gospel, and to happier homes. 451 June 1969 CANDIES OF EXCELLENCE (continued from page 445) A candy thermometer, for those who prefer a thermometer for testing. Remember that recipes give sea-level temperatures. To adjust these temperatures to your own altitude, put a thermometer in a pan of water, and bring to a boil. Record the temperature. Sea-level boiling temperature is 212° F. So, subtract your boiling temperature from the sea-level boiling temperature. The difference might be two, ten, twelve, or more degrees. Then subtract that number of degrees from the recipe temperature. If, as in Salt Lake City, for example, the difference is twelve degrees; the sea-level temperature for the soft ball stage is 236°; therefore the candy will be done at 224°. At sea level caramels are done at 246°. In Salt Lake City, where the difference is 12°, they are done at 234°. CREAM CENTERS FOR CHOCOLATES 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla Add cream to sugar in a kettle and stir well. Then, with a cloth wrung from hot water, wipe off the inside of the kettle down to the candy line. Remove spoon and boil over medium heat or less. Important: Mixture must not be stirred during the heating and cooking process, but wipe the inside of the kettle with a cloth three times, down to the candy line, holding the kettle still. Let cook to very soft ball stage 20-30 minutes); test by dropping a bit into a cup of ice cold water. When this can be gathered into a small ball and rolled between thumb and finger under cold water, without adhering to fingers, it is done. Slowly pour a thin stream of candy, outlining the edges of the cold slab, to prevent candy from running off the slab. Then pour the candy slowly from the center to the edge. If it runs off in your first efforts, do not touch it; let all candy stand untouched until completely cool. Push it into the center of the slab with a long knife. Then use a long wooden spoon, clean and dry, to beat the candy. 452 Never scrape the kettle at all! Scraping causes granulation. If the candy grains, add \, cup cream, stir well; reboul. Add a teaspoon of pure vanilla; it must be the pure vanilla as this is one secret of the flavor. Beat and beat, under the partly opened window, until the candy is creamy and firm; then knead as you would bread, for a minute or two. Divide the candy into three parts. (Yield: 60-70 chocolates) VARIETIES OF CREAM CENTERS Plain Centers Mold the first part into round balls, the size of chocolate centers, by rolling between the palms at an open window, for the plain creams. Place these on wax paper on plates under open window or in refrigerator. Let stand two hours to form a_ slight crust before dipping in chocolate. After an hour these balls may be shaped into greater symmetry by very quickly rolling between the palms again. Then let stand. Coconut Centers To the second part, add two thirds of a 3%-ounce can of choice coconut flakes. Mix and prepare as in part one. Nut Centers To the third part, add as many broken pecans as desired. Prepare centers as previously directed. If covered these centers can stand in the refrigerator a day or so before dipping. CHOCOLATE DIP 5 squares bitter chocolate 4 squares semi-sweet chocolate Use only a few squares at a time, as the leftover mixture should not be re-heated another day for dipping, but used for other things. Melt in a bowl over hot, not quite boiling, water. Lift off burner, and allow to cool for about 2 minutes. Centers must be cold when dipped, and room must be cool. It is said to take two years to make a good chocolate dipper so don't be discouraged if you don't achieve a professional look at first. Use a fork and quickly dip the (a es ANNOUNCEMENT OF AWARDS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST The names of the award winners in The Relief Society Song Contest will be announced in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and pictures and biographical sketches of the winners will be presented. The contest was announced in the October 1968 issue of the Magazine, and closed March 1, 1969. SE chocolate, or roll in chocolate in the palm of the hand. Then set it on waxed paper. When chocolates are hard, trim off the uneven edges at the base of each. Store in fluted chocolate cups in covered tin containers in the refrigerator. MINT FUDGE CENTERS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 square bitter chocolate, shaved and mixed in before putting on the burner (homogenizes during beating) 1¥, scant tsp. Mint flavor added after candy has cooled on the slab, also 1 tsp. Vanilla. Proceed as for cream centers above, only flatten the balls before cooling. Then dip if desired. All cream centers are attractive plain, with a half pecan pressed into the top. RAW SUGAR CREAMS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 1 quart raw sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added after candy is cold Follow directions for cream centers. These are particularly nice undipped with an almond half on top. PANOCHA CREAMS 14, c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 2', c. White sugar 1 pint whipping cream 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added when cool Make as other creams. PECAN ROLLS Plain cream center, prepared as directed V lb. Fresh butter 1 c. Evaporated milk lc. Half-and-half cream 2 c. White sugar 2 c. White syrup Stir sugar and syrup together and bring to a rolling boil; cook over quite high heat stirring constantly with a long wooden spoon. Add the evaporated milk, cream, and butter alternately while syrup is boiling. Candy must be stirred constantly, until it forms a firm ball in cold water, like finished caramels. Pour into a large, buttered platter or cookie sheet and let stand until partly cool but still pliable. Have pecan halves or pieces scattered on a large piece of waxed paper. Plan on about 12-inch long rolls. Take one half of caramel and press out into the nuts. Then take a cream center roll 12 inches long, and 1-inch thick, shaped two hours before, and place in the middle of the flattened caramel pieces. Roll caramel around cream center, pinching the edges together. If some nuts fail to adhere to the caramel outside, use a little maple syrup as adherent. Let stand several hours to cool. This roll can be sliced into pieces and wrapped in the thin plastic wrap. Keep all candies in covered tin boxes in the refrigerator. Good luck! 453 June 1969 'aints: Opaque fluorescent Water colors; water colors in tubes—fo) Painting on Ceramic tools: not a necessity, but a Joy to Work with in bread toothpicks, clean new Pencils with eraser tops, tinkertoys With rounded Points, tiny cookie cutters, very small] Sharp knives can be just as effective if you are imaginative Molds: lovely filigrees, faces, and Shapes, Bread Clay is Marvelous in molds ag it takes sharp, clean images quickly. Be Sure you "roll" clay into Molds and Watch: for Placing bread clay articles on after applying glaze "Joli" glaze (Sister Alvord has found nothing else to give equal finish) oy clear Varnish, HOW To MAKE BREAD CLAY Do not be afraid to mix what May look to You to be a very large batch, To mix and color js very time consuming, but, if Properly Packaged and cared for, the clay will remain Usable for Many months. Recipe Kneading and Pulling egin kneading and Pulling ag YOu would taffy candy. Do not become discour. Aged at texture and Stickiness, but keep Pulling and kneading. After about 15 minclay but she Cannot kn OW your climate o sphere wil] affect it ou may find that You wil] need to leave oy l or 2 tablespoo OF glue (no More, ever!) But before YOu decide jt IS too "wet" knead jt and It to €xpose it to the air The Art of Bread Clay Sister Alvord Suggests that You do all the Coloring at one "Uninterrupted s is way, you will have al] the Colors you will need, mixed and ready for She uses Only Opaque fluorescent Water colors Sh cking Urquoise, Pink, brilliant Orange, Vivid yellow, reuse, gre » blu SS ees... Of rightest Colors she can n ese usy lly come in Jars. You wil © want blac » Drown, w Ile (these are ube water colors) and flesh (a Xture o llow, Ochre and a smal] 4Mount of Pink). Be Sure to leave Some cla Ncolored. Yo I want ¢ anaie you, Colors and you et into the Pastels by uSing UNcolored Clay with 4 speck of the €epest colored ¢| nd work to desired Shade. Man: Variations as you would like. (Keep the Clay you are not Working wit COvered With Plastic. You are Oroughly © begin, Sister Alvord urges that YOU make UP a good Supply of flowers In Varying Sizes, kinds and colors before You plan for 4 definite Project. With them on hand, your Creativity can have more Vision, or Creating the tiny flowers (all Varieties and roses) that are not more than 1 to ', inch Across that Sister Alvord US€s in so many of her; Oxes and alrangements Under Slass—are the following instructions: After Pressing "Paper-thin," Peel off leaf and With Cutting tog] Or small knife indent down center, Pinch at broad end of leaf This js the end to attach to the base. Urve up Sides and end as a natural leaf 455 June 1969 ROSE PETALS Petals should be about the same size as the centers. Begin by pinching off again small bits of clay and rolling round between your fingers and dropping to plastic sheet. When you feel you have all you can finish before they dry out, cover with plastic sheet and press again to paper-thin. The petals will all come out fairly round. Pick up a dried rose center, still on the toothpick. With another toothpick, dab a little white glue at the base of your center. Peel a paper-thin petal from plastic sheet and begin wrapping and overlapping your center and petal. You will not need to add more glue as you will be working again with pliable clay. Pinch your petals towards the back as a natural flower. (Go out and pick one for your model.) Remember, roses are not all of the same shape or variety of shading. Ripples and even small tears are as attractive as on live flowers. Wrap and pinch until you have a small full rose or bud. Before your rose (or any of these clay flowers) completely dries, carefully remove from toothpick and turn it upside down and gently place tip of pick into flower center. Now, with small scissors, snip off bottom of flower to give it a flat base to glue to surface you are to decorate. (For some flower arrangements or flower trees, this step is unnecessary.); Daisy, poppy, pansy—any 3, 4, or 5-petaled flower (imagination please!): Make balls of bread clay between your fingers, drop on plastic, and roll and rub ends as you did for leaves and centers, into teardrops, except, do not flatten or press these, but place together all tip ends of teardrops as base of the flower and pinch a little. Using toothpick or other wooden tools, roll carefully each petal out on your finger as flower petal, leaving indentions or ridges as you desire and as thin as you can or, shaped as you want. Bend and curve them a little here and. There to give them a natural look. Centers for these can be very small balls of complimentary colors or a dab of colored clay from one of your glue guns. BREAD CLAY PLAQUES AND FIGURES For making specific designs for plaques and flat figures with a pattern, roll out a portion of the clay between plastic sheets with a small even bottle to about the thickness of pie crust. Place the pattern on the clay and cut around with either a ceramic knife or small very sharp knife. Peel off, and place on prepared plaque or picture. (A burlap covered board, painted and trimmed with cording, gold or silver doilie edging is very attractive.) Choose next color of clay and pattern, roll and cut, placing figure or design together color by color and piece by piece—a little like dressing a paper doll. Tiny fine lines, swirls, and decorations can be made by using the glue gun as you would decorate a cake. Finishing touches, of course, are done when the clay is completely dry, painting faces with tube water colors and a very small, fine brush. For all your creations, flowers, leaves, plaques, dolls, decorative pieces, etc., when completely dry, use a soft brush and apply a coat of glaze. Place on the aluminum foil to dry. A FREEDOM »* Always My mind escapes, If it will, though | may Be fettered and bound. It travels Far, far. —Vesta Fairbairn S y, 456 HEART ROOM FOR HOME (Continued from page 417) his youth, worked his faithful way up through the priesthood, been a bishop, a high councilman, a stake president, and a patriarch in his stake? "Something has to be decided," Emily had pronounced. "Right today." Before you leave for Los Angeles," Francine put in. "You can see that Dad can't take care of himself," Emily went on. "And I have stated my position. It isn't the way I want it. I would like nothing better than to take him home and care for him, but Victor...." "You can see my position," echoed Francine. "I work. I have to work with Melanie's whole family there. Her husband is good, and doing his best to get a place for them, but it fills the house up, and now Melanie's baby is due. Besides, Jack's not well. He keeps on his job, but he is the one who needs special * care." "T don't want to be a bother," said Dad weakly. "When I get well...." "The place has to be sold," said Emily firmly. Looking at it without sentiment, Emily was right. Even if Dad did walk again, as the doctor had promised, there was too much work here for him ever to do again. He had stayed doggedly on after his beloved wife passed 'away suddenly of a heart attack, milking his one cow, tending a few chickens and puttering in his garden, living off the proceeds of an earlier farm which he had sold, and cooking his own simple meals, with the girls fussing over him, keeping the house clean, bottling his fruit and bringing him treats from their own tables. How could it be looked on without sentiment? As long as he had this place he had her, her crochet work and her dishes, her braided. Rugs and the quilts she had made. "She would have wanted it this way," he had told them. He always spoke of Mother Freeman only as "she." "She planted that cherry tree; she grew those roses from the corsages the boys brought Emily and Francine." He honored her as Jacob honored Rachel; the spring was a Jacob's well at which he wept for his lost companion as Jacob wept for Rachel. And Rachel-was her name. A warm woman, full of compassion, outgoing in her love: This home was her shrine. There was more than sentimentality involved here now. There was obligation, deep obligation. This home had been a mother island from which their little boats cast off to ride the storm of their: independence, returning on every tide—not only Mary Ann's and Kim's, but his sisters, too—until they were strong enough to cope with the seas of their new responsibilities, always bolstered, of course, with help from home, their cars loaded with vegetables and fruit, the nudge of a little check when vacation money ran out, or a new home called for a down payment. "Dory Works would pay ten thousand cash for this place right today," Francine had said. "Dory Works," Dad said impotently, in despair, "Dory Works would strip this place of every item of beauty in short order, and have the front yard filled 457 June 1969 with broken down cars." "T']l tell you, Dad," said Kim, turning his back on his sisters and kneeling beside his father's wheel chair, "This place won't be sold. Never, not while you live, and not while I live. Come home with Mary Ann and me. Just for now." A surge of pride in Kim had swept Mary Ann. Instantly she was on the other side of the wheel chair, her arms around Kim's father. "Yes, Dad. Come home with us—just for now!" "You have your work, too," objected Francine in the background. "Tl quit my job," said Mary Ann recklessly. "How can you, with Rosemary getting married—Tommy graduating? You said...." "We'll work it out," said Kim. "But I can't let you...." Father Freeman had begun. "T don't like my job anyway," said Mary Ann, trying to make it easy for Father Freeman. "You don't know how I've longed to stay at home, be a decent homemaker for a change." Kim's hand had found hers, and he pressed it, the objections of his sisters rumbling away in the far distance like subsiding thunder. "The crops are in, Dad. There's nothing much to do here in winter, and by spring...." "By spring I can come home!" his father had said gratefully. Kim had not promised, Mary Ann remembered, and neither had she. How could they? They had told each other in the night hours that maybe they could wean him away from his home, make him really enjoy 458 California living, but both knew this hope for what it was, a palliative to their own conscience. Now the full force of their emotional commitment and spoken promise hit them, as Kim jostled for position to exit from the freeway onto their own boulevard. "Where are we?" asked Father Freeman, rousing from the back of the station wagon. "My, what a long sleep I had!" ° "Almost home, Dad," said Kim cheerfully. The tranquilizers and the pain pills had served his father well. Mary Ann braced herself to meet Tommy and Rosemary as they turned into their own driveway. Tommy, grinning his welcome, leaped to help with his Grandfather and the wheelchair. "Gramps! Why didn't you make these characters fly you down?" His flip words covered an instant concern, and Mary Ann loved him for it. "Grandfather! Who knew you were coming!" asked Rosemary, after the slightest of hesitations. If she was shocked she covered it admirably. "What a surprise! Now I know why I got such a special dinner ready. Dad, why didn't you call me from San Bernardino and I would have put another spoonful of grease in the gravy,' she went on, reviving an old family cliché when unexpected company was on the doorstep. Maybe only her mother saw the unanswered questions chasing back of her eyes, noticed the little frown which _ fleetingly creased her brows and sensed the gathering storm. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Coior pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS), NORTH SHORE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS WIFE OF NEWLY APPOINTED SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, January 14, 1969 Front row, left to right: Lenora Kennedy, visiting teacher message leader, North Shore Ward Relief Society, and wife of David Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury, United States Government: Donna Smith, President North Shore Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Carol Whittle and Barbra Law (social relations class leader), Kennedy daughters; Nedra Hardy, Second Counselor. Jasmine R. Edmunds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Sisters of the North Shore Ward Relief Society of our stake honored Sister Lenora Kennedy prior to her leaving for Washington D. C. Where her husband would assume the duties of Secretary of the Treasury in the United States Government. "Sister Kennedy had served as visiting teacher message leader and was an active member of Relief Society. At the program and luncheon in her honor, she was presented with a book entitled, Evidences of Washington, which was signed by all of the Relief Society sisters."' 459 June 1969 GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH) HOLDS OPEN HOUSE December 7, 1968 Elba H. Brown, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A lovely display created by Olive Western, stake Magazine representative; Jean Palmer, Clark Ward Magazine representative; and Mable Wootton, Grantsville First Ward Magazine representative, was interesting, artistic, and informative at the open house held in our stake. "The theme of the display was 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way.' Only part of the display is pictured. Food was displayed made from recipes in the December 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine." EERE el BRAZILIAN SOUTH MISSION VISITED BY MEMBERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND PRIMARY GENERAL BOARDS November 21, 1968 Left to right: Nedra Strong, member, Primary General Board; Dulce Heuser, First Counselor, Mission Relief Society Board; Sherma A. Jensen, Supervisor, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, President, General Board of Relief Society; Leanor J. Brown, member, General Board of Relief Society; Jany Deljaux, President, Mission Relief Society Board; Clarinda Bortoletto, Secretary-Treasurer; Maria Kunz, visiting teacher message leader; Aracy Duarte, Second Counselor. Sister Jensen reports: ''It was a blessing to the Relief Society sisters to have President Spafford and Sister Leanor J. Brown of the General Board of Relief Society visit our mission headquarters in Pérto Alegre, Rio Grande Do Sul, Brazil. "Although their visit was limited to mission headquarters, their influence has been felt throughout the forty branches and ten member districts of the mission. The mission board members are devoted to Relief Society and work with much love and harmony." snes TAYLORSVILLE WEST STAKE (UTAH), TAYLORSVILLE SIXTH WARD PRESENTS BAZAAR, December 6, 1969 Left to right: Virginia White, Second Counselor, Taylorsville Sixth Ward Relief Society; Geraldine Sorenson, First Counselor; Louise North, President. Maryilyn Coats, President, Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Taylorsville Sixth Ward of our stake presented a gala bazaar which was enjoyed by many. The evening began with a delicious dinner. The theme of the evening was 'Christmas Gifts and Goodies,' which was carried throughout the displays, the bazaar items, and the table decorations. "The sisters were earnest and enthusiastic in the year's preparation and planning that, went into this lovely affair.'' 460 SS a June 1969 PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), PORTLAND TWELFTH WARD PRESENTS A CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON, December 11, 1968 Left to right: Norma Marshall, Secretary-Treasurer, Portland Twelfth Ward Relief Society; Clarine Birch, President; Jean Vernon, homemaking leader; Diana Swanson, Homemaking Counselor; Bonieta Deppe, Education Counselor; Sonoma Y. Toolson, cultural refinement class leader. Helen T. Randall, President, Portland Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Portland Twelfth Ward of our stake held a very successful luncheon during the Christmas season. The large attendance was made up of young mothers, elderly sisters, and many 'shut-ins.' "The luncheon was prepared from traditional recipes, and was not only delicious, but attractively presented. The lovely pink table decorations were done by Sister Sonoma Y. Toolson." EIGHT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY STAKES FORM RELIEF SOCIETY "SINGING SISTERS" CHORUS TO SING AT FIRESIDE, March 2, 1969 Edwin J. Butterworth, director of public relations, Brigham Young University, reports: "Sisters from each of the eight stakes on campus combined to form a 'Singing Sisters' chorus to sing at a combined stakes fireside, in honor of the 127th birthday of Relief Society, March 17.: Conductor for the group was Judy Barton, and the organist was Beth Walker. The 300 sisters dressed in dark skirts and white blouses for the occasion. They sang 'Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountains' and 'Now the Day Is Over.'" REXBURG STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS ''CHRISTMAS FAIR,'' December 7, 1968 Officers of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society Board, front row, left to right: Raya Lewis, homemaking leader; Leona Flamm, Magazine representative; LaMarr Davidson, Homemaking Counselor; Cleo Johnson, President; Fern Smith, Education Counselor; Lela McCulloch, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, left to right: Lucille Ricks, spiritual living class leader; Rama Griffeth, social relations class leader; Geraldine Jacobs, cultural refinement class leader; Nina Wilkins, chorister; Carol Barrus, organist; Trieste Robison, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Johnson reports: ''We held a Christmas Fair in conjunction with our monthly leadership meeting. The leadership meeting was held in the morning, and in the afternoon and evening, the fair was open to the public—a lovely way to acquaint the people of the stake with Relief Society activities. "Each ward decorated a Christmas tree, prepared a holiday table setting, and featured a display of arts and crafts. In one end of the cultural hall was a nativity scene. In another corner a large replica of The Relief Society Magazine tied with bows served as a gift idea. 'We felt that this was a most successful event, and acquainted many people with the Relief Society program." 462 SSE LAL ARN PE Ne PHOENIX WEST STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD VISITS DESERET INDUSTRIES AND PRESENTS A FASHION SHOW, January 24, 1969 Officers of the Phoenix West Stake Relief Society, left to right: Helen R. Macdonald, chorister; Marjorie Y. Bills, spiritual living class leader; Havana S. May, visiting teacher message leader; Ruth K. Winsor, cultural refinement class leader; Ida C. King, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice M. Foutz, Homemaking Counselor; Irma R. Harris, homemaking leader: Barbara B. Brown, social relations class leader; Millicent K. Winsor, President; Rae D. Levie, Magazine representative; Julia W. Riggs, Education Counselor. Sister Winsor reports: 'Members of the stake Relief Society board recently visited the Deseret Industries in our area, and each member purchased an article of clothing. After a few alterations, the clothing was ready to be modeled at a fashion show presented at leadership meeting. "Each sister modeled her dress and told how much it cost. The total cost of the dresses modeled in the picture was $8.96. A special song, written by Millicent K. Winsor, dedicated to Deseret industries, was sung by the board members. "This same program was presented at the next stake welfare meeting where it was received with much enthusiasm. Ward officers were encouraged to return to their wards and hold similar fashion shows at homemaking meetings to stimulate sales at the Deseret Industries." 464 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING 'Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 12—Garden Convenience and Safety Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1969 Southern Hemisphere: February 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show how carefully planned gardens and grounds and careful use and storage of tools can contribute to the convenience and safety of outdoor INTRODUCTION Just as we do not want to be slaves inside our homes with constant sweeping, dusting, and doing dishes, just so we do not want to burden ourselves outside with excessive lawn mowing, weeding and watering. To avoid making ourselves slaves to either, wise and careful planning is necessary. In the grounds as in the house we are concerned with modifying or controlling the environment so that it is convenient to our needs and easy to maintain and so that it provides safe and _ peaceful shelter to our families. One garden enthusiast has said that the best life and the best gardens are made up of a wise combination of beauty and utility, convenience and safety. All of these considerations augliving. Ment each other, and when the garden is planned with them in mind, the results are pleasing and satisfying. HOW MAY WE ACHIEVE A CONVENIENT GARDEN ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR HOMES? The following suggestions may help us in planning our surroundings for convenience. 1. The front yard should provide a pleasant setting that relates the building to the grounds and furnishes easy access to both. Facilities and space should be _ provided for comfortable outdoor living. The habit of eating out of doors in the cool of the summer mornings and evenings is one which is being widely practiced and which should be highly encouraged. A. When possible, the garden living areas should be placed so as to take advantage of the greatest number of hours for garden living. Bo 465 June 1969 b. If possible, the garden living area should be furnished with places to sit, read, play, or dine. 3. There should be space provided for outdoor recreation with emphasis on children's activities. This will draw family members closer together, away from the television set, the public movie, or questionable sources of entertainment. 4. The service area could be designed to fit the habits and needs of the family and organized and located so as to occupy a minimum of space. 5. When space permits, flowers, fruits and vegetables are welcome additions to the garden. Tomato plants, fruit vines and even espaliered fruit-bearing trees can be trained to the propertyline fences and walls. HOW CAN WE PROMOTE SAFETY IN OUR GARDEN SURROUNDINGS? 1. We should be alert ourselves to all possible hazards on our property and remove them. 2. We should keep the premises clear of rubbish and trash, dry grass and weeds and any other useless material. 3. We should keep firefighting equipment handy and be sure the garden hose has a suitable connection to both inside and outside faucets. 4. Any buildings within fifty feet of a fireplace area should be built or surfaced with fireproof materials. 5. Fires should never be left unattended but should be completely extinguished when left. 6. Acircle of about sixteen inches should be cut around the base of trees in the lawn area to insure protection from the blades of lawn mowers and for convenience in the mowing operation. 7. For safety in the garden as well as in the house we should have a firstaid kit well supplied and available. 8. Garden tools and equipment can be safe or dangerous depending on how they are operated and stored. Children should not be permitted to operate or handle high-powered lawn mowers, hedge clippers, or sharpedged tools. 9. Fences, gates, and equipment should be kept in good repair. 10. When electrical cords are used in the garden they should be kept away from water or dampness. All electrical equipment should be grounded and used with caution. 11. Movable ladders should be strong, in good repair and stored in a dry place. 12. Outside stairways, raised terraces, ditches, and other hazardous places should be equipped with guard rails. 13. Insecticides, weed killers, chemical sprays and any other harmful or poisonous preparation as well as the equipment used should be stored out of reach of children. CONCLUSION By careful planning of our gardens and grounds, we can provide an environment so comfortable and livable and safe that it invites the participation of family and friends for relaxation, for pleasant dining, and for recreation of body and spirit. A THE LILT OF A LARK A meadowlark was part of morning; Breathless, when a child | heard {ts lilting lyric, spring on spring, And | adored the bird. A meadowlark is part of twilight; { hear it now in a grassy park. Its lilt has power to lift my sight To meet descending dark. —Pearle M. Olsen | 466 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1969-70 Elder Roy W. Doxey The Relief Society year 1969-70 brings to an end this study of the Doctrine and Covenants begun in 1957. These lessons began with events prior to the organization of the Church in April 1880, and end at the beginning of the pioneer period of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The lessons again are written about a central idea from the revelations. It is hoped that during the year each Relief Society member will finish reading all of the Doctrine and Covenants to complete the assigned reading. The lessons for 1969-70 begin with Doctrine and Covenants Section 131 (May 1843), a part of which was studied last year with Section 136 (January 1847). Only two of the five sections for study were given to the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the others were given by Oliver Cowdery, John Taylor, and Brigham Young. All of the sections in the Doctrine and Covenants from Section 1 through 133 represent the revelations and writings of the Prophet. The latest revelation is Section 132, carrying the date July 12, 1843; whereas, the last Section, 133, was received on November 3, 1831, but since it is the Appendix, it appears at the end of the Prophet's revelations. Apparently, Section 134, dated August 17, 1835, was placed in its position because it was not written by the Prophet, but by Oliver Cowdery, though later accepted by Joseph Smith. After the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, Elder John Taylor wrote Section 135, an historical statement regarding the martyrdom. The final section in the Doctrine and Covenants is a revelation received in 1847 by President Brigham Young, President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, about one year before he was sustained as the President of the Church. This fact indicates the authority and power of the President of the Twelve in the interim between the death of the President and the appointment of the new President. In this interim period, he presides over the Council of the Twelve which quorum is equal in authority to the First Presidency. (D&C 107:23-24.) 467 June 1969 Lessons for the year 1969-70 bring messages of faith and assurance of the divinity of the work instituted, under God, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The greatness of his mission and the work performed by him are considered in four lessons. An opportunity is available through these lessons to know of the signs which indicate the nearness of the second coming of Jesus Christ. The final lesson of the series is devoted to the great theme of the dispensation—the building of Zion upon the earth. In another work the author of the lessons wrote the following: It is the writer's firm conviction that the privilege of participating in the building up of Zion in preparation for the glorious advent of the Lord depends upon how well we follow the divinely appointed latter-day leaders and hearken to the voice of the Spirit. He who accepts the prophets, seers, and revelators and constantly prays for the sanctifying influence of the Holy Ghost will be able to say with President Brigham Young, "I live and walk in Zion every day" and to recognize as he recognized, that ''... Thousands of others in this Church and kingdom... Carry Zion with them." But this is not all. He who walks in Zion—in purity of heart—today shall build the city of Zion, in fact, tomorrow, or at the very least, bequeath to his posterity the qualities of godliness that will enable them to build it. (Roy W. Doxey, Zion in the Last Days, Salt Lake City; lst ed., Olympus Publishing Company, 1965, pp. 81-82.) The 1969-70 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 97—Eternal Marriage (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 131:1-4; 132.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman should understand the truth that a marriage to endure after this life must be performed in a house of the Lord, and seek to attain an eternal marriage. Lesson 98—Events Associated with the Second Coming of Christ (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman will resolve to prepare herself for the second coming of the Savior. Lesson 99—Government and Laws (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 134.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to uphold the law and work within the law in seeking any desired change. Lesson 100—Joseph Smith Evaluated (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman strives to strengthen her testimony that Joseph Smith is a Prophet and that The Church of Jesus Christ was restored through him. 468 Lesson Previews Lesson 101—One of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Translation of The Book of Mormon (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman, knowing that The Book of Mormon was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith through the power of God, gains increased faith in Jesus Christ as her Savior. Lesson 102—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Doctrine and Covenants (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: As the Latter-day Saint woman gains a greater testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration, she seeks to conform her life to its teachings. Lesson 103—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions—Pearl of Great Price (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To increase the Latter-day Saint woman's testimony that the Pearl of Great Price was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration and to enlarge her understanding of God's eternal plan. Lesson 104—Zion and Its Future (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136. Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is guided and sustained through her knowledge that the Church has been, is, and will forever be led by prophets of the Lord. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths To Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Preview of Messages for 1969-70 Alice Colton Smith Thousands of years ago an astonishing and sobering event occurred. "... A large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord...." (Ether 1:34) was shown all "... The inhabitants of the earth which had been, and also all that would be... Even unto the ends of the earth." (Ether 3:25.) This example of God's omniscience, prophetic power, and knowledge of man is staggering. At the end of 1968 man's flight around the moon was hailed as a towering tribute to man's imagination, inventiveness, perseverance, 469 June 1969 and technical brilliance. It resulted from thousands of men working together. Outstanding as this was, compared with God's knowledge as shown to the brother of Jared, it was but a beginning. The Lord foresaw our day and its needs. Many would worship science and technology. There would be disillusionment with old and ancient religious rituals and ideas—even to the claim that "God is dead." The Lord made preparation, centuries in advance for an irrefutable book:... Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever—And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations.... (Preface to The Book of Mormon.) Abridged by two prophets, Mormon and Moroni, with their writings added, and translated by another, Joseph Smith, it remains an awe-inspiring, faith-inducing, stabilizing, continuing force in the unstable, searching, confused, often cruel world of men. Latter-day Saints everywhere turn to its pages for counsel and renewal of faith and understanding. It is a shining light in our turbulently troubled times. It is a beacon of God's constant concern, love, and offered help. This year we will draw new strength from its pages as we seek guidance and understanding for each day. Message 1—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Northern Hemisphere: — First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To realize that when we serve our fellow beings, we are in the service of our God. Message 2—The Power of Example Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To understand that one's example can impede or help others. Message 3—The Compassion of Jesus Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To emphasize that Jesus' compassionate acts are a standard for us all. Message 4—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not (See 2 Ne. 9:51.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To remember that throughout one's life one makes eternal choices. Message 5—Weak Things May Become Strong Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To understand that by overcoming our weaknesses we can become strong. 470 Lesson Previews Message 6—Faith in Christ Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To know that faith needs constant nourishment. Message 7—True Conversion Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To remember that true conversion entails humility, repentance, improvement, and righteous works to the end of one's life. Message 8—''Men Are, That They Might Have Joy."' (2 Ne. 2:25.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To remember that one of God's great objectives is that man "might have joy." Homemaking Development Through Homemaking Education— Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Preview of Discussions—1969-70 Celestia J. Taylor From the very beginning of this dispensation of the restoration of the gospel, our Church leaders have never ceased to admonish and advise us to maintain and provide for our families, not only in times of prosperity and plenty, but also in times of need and emergency. With the world in a turmoil of uncertainty and confusion, it is of greater importance than ever before that we heed the counsel of our leaders and prepare our homes so that our families will be provided for in any emergency which might, and very well could, arise. For this reason, the following course of study has been worked out for our homemaking discussions. Discussion 1—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household.'' (Prov. 31:27.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To show the need for family preparedness and the role of the Latter-day Saint woman in achieving it. Discussion 2—"'She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise Is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out By Night." (Prov. 31:18.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To show that buying wisely and saving regularly are basic to good money management. 471 June 1969 Discussion 3—''The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her, So That He Shall Have No Need For Spoil.'' (Prov. 31:11.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To recognize that debt must be controlled to insure family happiness and financial security. Discussion 4—''She Considereth a Field and Buyeth It: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard." (Prov. 31:16.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To point out the woman's responsibility in planning and managing a successful family budget. Discussion 5—''She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands." (Prov. 31:13.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of foods. Discussion 6—''She Is Not Afraid of the Snow for Her Household: For All Her Household Are Clothed With Scarlet. (Prov. 31:21.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of basic items other than food. Discussion 7—''Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed; Her Husband Also, and He Praiseth Her."' (Prov. 31:28.): Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To point out the mother's role in adequately preparing herself and her children through education and training. Discussion 8—''She Stretcheth Out Her Hands to the Poor; Yea, She Reacheth Forth Her Hands to the Needy.'' (Prov. 31:20.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To show that compassionate service is part of each woman's role in the welfare program. DISCUSSIONS FOR SUMMER MONTHS June—''He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son: But He That Sleepeth in Harvest Is a Son That Causeth Shame." (Prov. 10:5.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1970 Southern Hemisphere: November 1970 Objective: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman appropriate utilization of available foods. July—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet '... Eat Thou Honey, Because It Is Good; and the Honeycomb, Which Is Sweet to Thy Taste." (Prov. 24:13.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1970 Southern Hemisphere: December 1970 Objective: To show various uses of wheat, honey, and molasses in cooking. 472 Lesson Previews August—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet (Cont.) "Behold, the Lord Requireth the Heart and a Willing Mind; and the Willing and Obedient Shall Eat the Good of the Land... In These Last Days."' (D&C 64:34.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1970 Southern Hemisphere: January 1971 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the need for and the use of products rich in protein in her family storage plan. September—The Mechanics of Food Storage "For the Earth Is Full, and There Is Enough and to Spare; Yea, | prepared All Things, and Have Given Unto the Children of Men to Be Agents Unto Themselves.'"' (D&C 104:17.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 Southern Hemisphere: February 1971 Objective: To point out that a storage plan can be started regardless of space or circumstances. NOTE: A demonstration would be given in July and August and recipes furnished. A SOCIAL RELATIONS Immortality and Eternal Life Preview of Lessons 1969-70 Alberta H. Christensen As we approach the 1969-70 social relations lessons, based again upon the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., we recall the words of Lord Byron: But words are things; and a small drop of ink, Falling like dew, upon a thought, produces That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think. During the coming year we shall be concerned with words—motivating, thought-evoking words which may inspire thousands of Latter-day Saint women throughout the world. During the years of President Clark's membership in the First Presidency of the Church, April 1933-October 1961, he delivered numerous addresses to graduating university students, to Church auxiliary organizations, at general Church conferences and elsewhere. In these addresses many principles of the gospel were impressively clarified and truths fundamental in constructive, righteous living became beckoning roads for the listeners to follow. Some of these addresses preserved in written form constitute the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study for 1969-70. The companion Relief Society lessons will again correlate with a number of them. Ques- 473 June 1969 tions important as the following are among those to be considered in the social relations lessons: Is restraint really the road to freedom? How are our everyday activities influenced by the immutable laws of the universe? How important is work in achieving personal happiness? How does the role of woman relating to the eternal plan of creation place her in a position of honor? How may a mother's knowledge of the ultimate destiny of the family unit influence her attitude toward what otherwise might seem merely housewife routine? What would be included in the inherent upward reach of man? In some cases the correlation with the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study will be very close and the words of President Clark will be quoted frequently. This will give the Relief Society women an opportunity to feel the spirit and individuality of President Clark's writings. In other cases significant statements made by President Clark will form the basis for a lesson channeled more specifically to a woman's everyday world. The emphasis thus will be on a woman's relationship to her Father in heaven, to herself, and to her family, with some consideration of neighborhood situations. We remind class leaders that. The introduction to each lesson should be a helpful guide in their lesson preparation. They are urged also to make full use of the involvement suggestions so that class members will be motivated to think and to participate actively in the discussion of gospel principles and human behavior situations being considered. Lesson 1—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 1 Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To point out a mother's opportunity to teach the need and benefits of complying with the restraints of the immutable laws of the universe. Lesson 2—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To point out that understanding the difference between immutable spiritual and physical laws and the regulations which apply to them, may influence one's attitude toward the regulations. Lesson 3—The Upward Reach > Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To illustrate that all may enjoy man's material progress but our spiritual achievements must be individually attained. Lesson 4—Work—A Road to Personal Fulfillment Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To emphasize the value of work in meeting the requirements of happiness and of divine admonition. 474 Lesson Previews Lesson 5—Be of Good Cheer Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To remind the Latter-day Saint woman that the gospel of Christ brings a message of gladness to her home. Lesson 6—A Position of Honor Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To point out that the role of woman is essential to the eternal plan of creation and that she therefore occupies a position of honor. Lesson 7—Purpose and Reward Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To point out that if a Latter-day Saint woman will keep the ultimate destiny of the family unit constantly in mind, she may be purposefully motivated in her daily living. Lesson 8—''Whither Goest Thou?" Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To reemphasize some of the truths in the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., which may influence for good the behavior patterns of our lives. Cultural Refinement Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Preview of Lessons for 1969-70 Bruce B. Clark (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5: Community Responsibility, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas.) The Cultural Refinement program of lessons using Out of the Best Books as a basic text has now functioned for five years in the Relief Society organization. Volume 5, to be used during 1969-70, will complete the sixth year of what was planned from the beginning as a six-year program. Volume 1, used in 1964-65 and 1965-66, stressed the individual and human values as seen through literature and the related arts. Volumes 2 and 3, used in 1966-67 and 1967-68, widened the horizon, emphasizing ideals and problems in marriage, parenthood, and family relationships. Now the closing two years of the program, Volume 4 for 1968-69 and Volume 5 for 1969-70, widen the scope still further, stressinga woman's activities andresponsibilitiesin community life and the world in which she lives. 475 June 1969 As pointed out a year ago, no individual or family can exist in isolation. In many significant ways a woman's first responsibility is to herself and to her family, but she also needs to function meaningfully with other people—as a friend and neighbor, as a Church worker, and as a citizen of the community, the nation, and the world. Moreover, in all of these things she needs to find a happy balance between work, recreation, relaxation, spirituality, and cultural fulfillment. Each lesson in the Cultural Refinement program for this year will focus upon community involvement that is meaningful, wholesome, and well balanced. As in former years, each section of the text will include more material than can easily be covered in a single lesson. This is done intentionally so that each class leader may choose those selections that she responds to with enthusiasm and that she feels are especially appropriate to her group. It is far better to cover one or two selections thoroughly and in such a way that they really touch the lives of the women than it is to cover all of the selections hastily and superficially. Any selections not used in the Relief Society lessons are still available for excellent enrichment readings within the home. The year ahead will be the fourth year in which music and painting are used to supplement the literature in each lesson. Once again we encourage class leaders to harmonize the music and art as fully as possible into the lesson goals for each month rather than use them merely as decoration. We know that this is difficult, but the challenge can be met with careful advance planning, i. E., by careful allocation of time, by using them either as introductory or concluding material, or by using them as special assignments. Once again we also urge class leaders to get as many Relief Society sisters as possible personally involved in each lesson. If the lesson is simply a monthly presentation by the teacher to women who have not read the material and do not participate in experiencing it, the lesson probably will not be very meaningful. All Relief Society sisters should be encouraged to read the selections in advance, participate in presenting them or at least in discussing them, and then take them home to their husbands and children for family enrichment. With this approach each lesson can be deeply meaningful and permanently useful. The overall theme for the year is "Woman's fulfillment through service to others and involvement in the lives of others" and the outline of individual lessons is as follows: Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom "My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free.''—Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To demonstrate that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty. 476 Lesson Previews Music: "Blanik" from Ma Viast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Czech Lesson 2—The Role of Education "The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them.''—John Ruskin i Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To show the development of individual capacity is a primary source of social or community strength. Art: "The Girl in White' by Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication "There is no more sure tie between friends than when they are united in their objects and wishes.''—Cicero Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To illustrate that those who can communicate can work together, and those who work together make civilization possible. Art: "Advice to a Young Artist' by Honoré Daumier (1808-1879) French Lesson 4—The Place of Entertainment "Any pleasure which keeps the heart from God will be fatal to the soul.''- Richard Fuller Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To show that there is a valid place for entertainment and pleasure in life but that these should always be in good taste and in accordance with Church standards. Can (Italian-born) Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service "Humblest service done by willing and discerning souls is glory..'—George Eliot Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To emphasize that service makes a citizen out of an inhabitant and a Art: 'The Blind Girl' by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English Lesson 6—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure "All true work is sacred; in all true work, were it but true hand-labor, there is something of divineness."-—Thomas Carlyle "Without leisure we must live above the surface of things; leisure brings penetration." —Manly Hall Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To stress that both work and leisure can contribute to improvement when balanced wisely. Art: 'La Grande Jatte'' by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French 477 Music: 'The Telephone, a '"mini-opera'' by Gian Carlo Menotti (1911- community out of a town. ) Ameri-; June 1969 Lesson 7—The Thrill and Reward of Participation "Action may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without action." —Benjamin Disraeli Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To show that no view from without can match the insight, growth, and accomplishment of involvement. AYQD SUDDENLY AWARE American (Russian-born) He steadied her arm, and their glances were bent For a long, searching moment, intense and intent Upon one perfect snowflake that lay on her sleeve, While awareness of joy come alive at the touch And the wonderful wonder of having so much To be shared and in which to believe. —Iris W. Schow New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _- 555 Zone5 __._-..75 Zone3..___.60 Zone6 __-_-.- 85 Zone4 _.... 65 Zone7 _._..-.95 Zone&®_~__ _ -1.05 $ = DESERET FREwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED... TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service 478 Music: ''Fourth Tableau' from the ballet Petrushka by Igor Stravinsky (1882- ) / UTAH VACATION? - by Brighton Chalets" MODERN FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS IN COOL ALPINE SETTING ENJOY: ~ TENNIS, GOLE FISHING, A HIKING SCENIC CHAIR LIFT RIDES, YY ~~ 949 CONNOR STREET p 2". (80!) 363-2158 2. SWALBERG BLAU All Grain 4 Stone Ground 3 Flour Mill For full ¢ information,; write _ 6 Dept. R. S. Lei P. O. Box 115 Tremonton, Utah 84337 The Best in the West Travel With CLAWSON ZZ tile TOK Gown Jodie "THE ORIGINAL HISTORIC TOUR" To the Hill Cumorah Pageant July 24 - Aug. 10 TOURS ALSO TO HAWAII *« ORIENT » EUROPE MEXICO +« SOUTH PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA + CARIBBEAN Travel Service SINCE 1933 For further information and for all your travel needs write or phone— Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service 1 Ye Salt Lake City, Utah, 84102 Zan 328-3234 or 328-0303 "THE TRIP WITHOUT A WORRY" PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July 5th-16th * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th # Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 1 8th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 1 2th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 479 vegees 216 So. 13th East 100 95 94 93 92 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month. Of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs.. Leota Hendershot Bigelow Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Stewart Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Elthora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Lilly Ann White Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Eliza Ottellia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Butler Pulsipher Eagar, Arizona Mrs. Phebeth Evans Seymour Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Elmira Allred Aiken Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jennie Mabel Brooks Pinkham Avery Manchester, New Hampshire Mrs. Edith Crampton Clarkson Tonasket, Washington Mrs. Margaret Alice Robinson Holyoak Parowan, Utah Mrs. Kathrine Jensen Olsen El Monte, California Mrs. Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Kathyrun Burt Poole Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Amanda Munk Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Steed Walker Salt Lake City, Utah 91 90 Mrs. Harriett Jane Smith Cercy Tampa, Florida Mrs. Catherene Mabel Woodbury Eldredge Granger, Utah Mrs. Almira Heeney Kline Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Bertina Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Janet Twaites Purdy Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sena Rasmussen ° Richfield, Utah Mrs. Tessie Olivia Bolinder Turpin Murray, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Calvert Stanger Woodland Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Helen Ethelin Holgate Boas Rochester, New York Mrs. Mary Etta Moore Farnsworth Glendale, California Mrs. Ellen Isabele Marritt Lancaster Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Ella Berry Leigh Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Susan Adams Lewis American Fork, Utah Mrs. Elsie Bessie Cornford Savage Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Alice May Tayler Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs.: Antonia Van Harten Salt. Lake City, Utah "Treasured Nuggets of "Truth GOSPEL INSIGHTS From Sermons and Stories of William J. Critchlow Jr. Compiled by Eleanor Knowles opel Sih From the Sermons and Stories of William J Critchlow Ir. Treasured nuggets of truth and sparkling wisdom are found in the ''storiettes'' of the late Elder Critchlow. He tells the story of the woman who asked him why women do not hold the priesthood. Here is part of his answer. "There is a center in every home From which all joys must start. Where is that center? It is in the mother's heart." Scripturally ''the husband is the head of the wife.' Did God, however,... Make mother the family heart... With subtle power to sway the head? Read the complete answer in Chapter 15... Women and the Priesthood. $3.95 THE SAGA OF THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM by Jay M. Todd The fascinating and puzzling story of the Book of Abraham is told here in a style that is both easy and interesting to read. Probably the most minute physical description of the four mummies the Prophet purchased is contained in this book. For example Mummy No. 1 a female, 4 feet 11 inches... No. 3 a male about 80..., but read the full details and many newly discovered facts in this new volume. $4.95 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me.............. Copies of GOSPEL INSIGHTS 20000C8 EEcopies of THE SAGA OF THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM Total Cost $.....0.00000 000.| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [| Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. June R. S. Mag. 69 DESERET BOOK COMPANY "pook Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land or a 9-inch square cake 11% inches thick. %4 cup shortening 234 cups sifted cake suggests this delicious ' sfoert amy —* Bt = dessert for family raves... SUGAR a 3 eggs, separated 1 cup milk PLAIN CAK ¥ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla Sift flour, baking powder, salt and U and | Sugar into mixing bowl. Add shortening, milk and vanilla. Beat on medium speed for 2 minutes, scraping down bowl occasionally. Add egg yolks and beat 2 more minutes. Beat egg whites (have them at room temperature) until they form soft peaks. Fold into other ingredients. Spread into greased pans. Bake layers 25 minutes or until done in a 375°F. Oven; bake square cake 35 minutes or until done in a 350° F. Oven. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where - U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. Y U '| Makes 2 round, 9-inch layers 1-inch thick, sugarbeets are grown. U and! Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: INustrations: = BY HANDCART CAME They knew how far it was By measured longings for a home. Exulting as they went, their cart wheels spun Into the garnet-studded West. Children of the evening, they? No, of the noon. The scars of the night were washed away, The Zion of their days begun. A thousand miles and pull a cart! They, of avalanche and stone, Of fiords and crags, Of bounties of the sea and shore. Possessions now, were millstones gone. The throated burning in their breasts Enough to feed upon. They knew how far it was, The lingering distance stalked with death. With spider strength, dragged Carcasses of bed and skillet, Flour and salt, through grass of June, July's scorched lips, then to lay their burdens down Upon November's sod. Ground so hallowed, pray Walk....... Unshod. —Hazel Loomis Meeting of Desert and Mountains, Southern Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Handcart in the West Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes | must tell you that | made two gingerbread houses from the recipe in the December Magazine (by Berta Mae Peek). | gave one to some little friends of mine and the other to my own children. All were delighted. | was surprised to find how easy it was to make the houses and how beautiful they were. | am planning to make more cakes next year. June Erskine Booth, Ames, lowa | have been so interested in your story—''Welcome the Task" by Michele Bartmess (November 1968—June 1969). | have a special pride in reading this, too, because | feel a special love for the person writing it. We so enjoyed being able to associate with Michele in BYU's Maeser Hall where we were privileged to be dorm parents. Carol Wright, Provo, Utah When | first married | was given a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine as a wedding gift. That was my first introduction, and | have never been without this wonderful Magazine since that time. It has been an inspiration to me as a homemaker. Since | have been in the mission field | have come to a greater awareness of the true value of the Magazine. | have used the materials on many different assignments, and many times the Spirit has directed me to the very issue that has given me guidance and information. Donna Craven, Auckland, New Zealand The Relief Society Magazine is certainly a guiding light in my life. It is almost the only Magazine that gives so much wholesome reading. | teach the spiritual living class in Relief Society and | love the lessons as they are presented in the Magazine. Nadine M. B. Anderson, Steamboat Springs, Colorado Kind Mormon friends from Washington D. C. Introduced me to the Magazine and have it sent to me. | enjoy reading it very much and admire the lovely covers. | am pleased to see the pictures of so many of the sisters and am most grateful for the precious gift of the Magazine. Marguerite Miller, Neuchatel, Switzerland It is a most satisfying experience to me to realize how very much the sisters in the Canadian Mission love and use the Magazine. They truly make it a vital part of their lives. Of course, to me, it is the breath of home and loved ones, and | turn the pages and read every word. | feel close to all the dear Relief Society sisters, and am grateful for their strength and inspiration. Ardella Davey, Supervisor, Canadian Mission Relief Society, Brampton, Ontario | want to tell all of you sisters who work in that lighthouse, that The Relief Society Magazine is the one our sisters here admire most, and we support the organization so that the great work can go forth and our joy can be greater. We are happy to have the Magazine in Spanish. Adela Zapata de Mejia, Mexico City, Mexico We have an exceptionally strong and good Relief Society in the Florida Mission. The sisters do wonderful work and receive great assistance from the General Board. The Magazine is wonderful. Only yesterday, an eighty-three-year-old man said to me, "One Magazine | always subscribe to is The Relief Society Magazine. When | read the stories they always bring tears to my eyes, and this is the favorite Magazine of all for me."' We have quite a number of saints scattered and living alone out in the islands of the Caribbean, and we always make an effort to see that they get extra copies of the Magazine, if they do not have subscriptions. Glen L. Rudd, President, Florida Mission, Winter Park, Florida 482 The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 56 July 1969 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 484 How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 492 Announcement of Winners—Annual Relief Society Song Writing Contest 494 Keys to Child Guidance: Goal, Understanding, and Technique Jean Larsen Fiction 497 Missionaries to Dinner Joan Nelson Ahiman 506 Love Is not Veiled Marian Gardner Nielson 520 Just a Dab of Butter Lena Mae Hansen 526 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 2 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 482 From Near and Far 503 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 504 Editorial—To Each Is Given a Gift Louise W. Madsen 532 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 514 Mama Counted Flavor—Not Calories Edythe K. Watson 518 A Brace of Horses Helen Hinckley Jones 523 Her Hobby Is Writing—Bertha Anderson Kleinman 524 Budget Decorating—The Tapestry Touch June Feulner Krambule Lesson Department 540 Spiritual Living—Eternal Marriage Roy W. Doxey 546 Visiting Teacher Message—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice Colton Smith 547 Homemaking Discussion—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household' Celestia J. Taylor -; 549 Social Relations—Restraint—The Road to Freedom, Part 1 Alberta H. Christensen 554 Cultural Refinement—The Meaning of Freedom Robert K. Thomas Poetry 481 By Handcart Came Hazel Loomis ' His Gift, Sadie Ollerton Clark 490; Wooded Headland, Vesta N. Fairbairn 491; Summer Night, Elizabeth Russell 502; The Infinite Composer, Gillian G. Brown-Lee 512; A Lamp to Shine, Maxine R. Jennings 513; Grandma's Cookies, Ruth G. Rothe 519; Winged Peace, Bernice Ames 525; Life's Afternoon, Grace B. Wilson 553; Bright Echo, Nona H. Brown 559. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1969 by the Reliet Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 483 be sont; OS AS Xa Loe NNN NNN NOX KNN7 DORA. SS AEE OE. SE IEEE OEE SESESESSSESSSSSSOAW, 5 uo) OF 0; ' OR e ORR ae How | Became Involved in the of of! O ROHN, Q fi 0 Ki G ie an ue Ras STE Te SESSESESESSSESA SEESSSSSSSSESSSSOM SRR TS TS TS TT OO OO OS OOLK XONO y Roy W. Doxey Professor of Scripture Brigham Young University [Editorial Note: The concluding year of the study of the Doctrine and Covenants will begin in October 1969 in the Northern Hemisphere and in March 1970 in the Southern Hemisphere. ] ws I assume that it would be a little easier if I were to address myself to the subject: "When Did I Begin to Study the Gospel of Jesus Christ?" instead of "How I Became Involved in The Doctrine and Covenants,' because the Doctrine and Covenants _ gives us the gospel. In fact, if we were to analyze its doctrines, I do not believe it could be surpassed by any of the other three books of scripture accepted by the Latter-day Saints. Furthermore, we would learn that it is the repository of many doctrines of salvation which are only mentioned or inferred in those other books. Formative Years in the Priesthood As far as I am concerned, my interest in the study of the gospel began when I became a deacon in the Aaronic Priesthood. Il believe that because I was 484 given responsibility at that time my interest in the gospel was heightened. It was the practice of the counselor in the bishopric who had charge of the quorum to give assignments to the quorum members to participate in giving parts of the lesson. As an ordained teacher, I became the teacher of the quorum under the direction of a member of the ward bishopric. This practice continued in the priest's quorum; consequently, my interest in the gospel became very great during those formative years in the priesthood. This foundation proved very helpful in preparation for a mission, so much that when I was called to be a missionary at the age of twenty-two, I felt that I was prepared to teach the gospel when I arrived in the mission field. My interest in the gospel was theological; consequently, I learned the doctrines of the Church from all of the standard works, especially with an emphasis upon the Bible since I knew I would use it as the ip ven Lon Lon Lon Xoo Kon Koo) ' ¢ OV CRONO: 5 O1R0. OCHO: 3 Oy OWO: ee ore: RRO. AWN ORO ROO Uy OC, O08 ROS RO: FA ( SSS OOD Ss XooX. OS SOS OT OS OS ESTOS OS OS CS CS OS OS OS OS OOS CS OS C5 SA Pa a IC PP IC PR TCE IS ES TI TS SO SS ESO DS SO OE OS OS CS SOS OS AAS Con) = ES OOS ty OOS OS CS CS OS OS COS OS OS OS OS OS OOS SOS OSXo Fes See> GS? GG? SO SPO? OPO GOGO O99 GO 0 909 SGP. GO GOGOL LGP GO. BOBO GO Sop S00O10) ( O: (RU OX) DOO. 00 0: OOO, () Oy) 0 tient 0 cin OO HOOK > 0% i * OAR ORO ORO 0 OX) SOS OS SOS DS SOS iio XOX KEXRXO How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants basis of my missionary work. It wasn't until some years later, except for the use of many pas- - sages in the Doctrine and Covenants which provided clear explanations of particular. Doctrines, that I really studied the Doctrine and Covenants in depth. The True Concept of God Among many other fundamental doctrines, the missionary teaches the investigator the true concept of God. Of all the doctrines of the gospel this one stands out as one of the most important for people to know since it is life eternal to know God. (John 17:3.) One of the difficulties a nonmember may have in accepting the concept that God is personal, having a body of flesh and bones, is God's attribute of omnipresence. The apostate "Christian" world believes that God is a spirit without form; whereas the Lord has revealed to his prophets, ancient and modern, that he has a body. He may be said, however, to be a spirit the same as "man is spirit;" that is, he, as well as. Man, has always been a spirit, from eternity to eternity though in earth-life and the resurrected state the personal spirit is associated with a body. (D&C 93: 33; 130:22.) If God has a tangible body, and he is not a spirit only, then how can he be omnipresent, or everywhere? The "Light of Christ" or spirit of the Lord emanates from God to fill all space. (Acts 17:27-28; D&C 88:12.) Because of this omnipresent power, God has communication with all of his creations, and thus he is everywhere, as the scriptures aver. Salient Principles of Doctrine and Covenants The Doctrine and Covenant is different from the other three standard works of the Church because it is a little more difficult to maintain interest in sustained reading unless one has a definite objective in his reading, such as theological. There is relatively no narrative in the Doctrine and Covenants. The exception to this is Section 135, the historical account of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum 'at Carthage Jail 125 years ago. I presume that it would not be amiss to suggest an exaggerated comparison of the Doctrine and Covenants and reading the dictionary—in both, there is statement after statement of truths not always connected with the preceding information. This fact, however, has its advantages. One does not have to look very far to find rich, inspiring thoughts. Also, one must concentrate on his reading in order not to miss salient principles. Years ago I realized that many members of the Church might find difficulty in keeping up their interest in reading the Doctrine and Covenants, so I conceived the idea that this book could be enjoyed more and learned better, perhaps, through the commentaries of the prophets, seers, and revelators of the dispensation. With this and other purposes in mind, I set out to compile such a work, using the sermons and writings of the members of the First Presidencies, Twelve Apostles, and the Patriarchs to the Church to explain 485 July 1969 the Doctrine and Covenants. For well over five years I labored on this project which culminated in the four volumes of The Latter-Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, published from 1963 to 1965. I have known young as well as old people who have shown unusual interest in the Doctrine and Covenants through the use of these volumes. Writings of Elder B. H. Roberts In the years when I was learning the teachings of the Church, I was impressed with the writings of Elder B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy. I remember his quoting a passage from George Rawlinson's Historical Evidences of the Truth of the Scripture Records, as follows:. Of this we may be sure, that if any new forms of evidence should hereafter be needed, to meet any new forms of unbelief, and authenticate afresh the word of truth, they will be found deposited somewhere, waiting for the fulness of time; and God will bring them forth in their season, from the dark hieroglyphics, or the desert sands, or the dusty manuscripts, to confound the adversaries of his word, and to magnify it above all his name. (Quoted in New Witness for God, Volume II, Forewords.) Under the caption of "The World's Hunger For Knowledge of The Christ," President Roberts quoted the following from the Life of the Master by Rev. John Watson: Were a parchment discovered in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing fifty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century. (Ibid.) 486 Although Elder Roberts used these quotations to support the Book of Mormon, I came early in life to know that we do have the words of Christ in the Doctrine and Covenants, in fact, hundreds and hundreds of them spoken to his Prophet, Joseph Smith. The introduction to the revelations in this book of scripture reveals the author as the Savior. Examples are: Hearken, O ye people of my church— 1:1. Ae to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer... (27:1.) Behold, thus saith the Lord, even Alpha and Omega... (54:1.) A Witness for the Savior The Lord declared, however, that the revelations were given after the manner of the Prophet's language. (D&C 1:24.) The Doctrine and Covenants stands as a witness for Jesus that he is the Savior of those who want to be saved. The doctrine that salvation comes only to those who accept him and thus he saves only them, is taught plainly. (D&C 42:1; 29:17.) In truth, the Doctrine and Covenants is an answer to the present thought among some theologians that God is dead, a notion that has received wide publicity. The modern scriptures declare plainly that God lives! Two important accounts of the appearance of the Savior in this generation are given in the Doctrine and Covenants: (1) the stirring description by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon is a testimony to this fact. And now after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are beand daughters unto God. And (2) we know of the glorified account of the Saviors aPpJoseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery 10 the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were We saw the Lord standing upon the preastwork of the pulpit, before us; and His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the 5 sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: he who J am Tbid., 110:1-4.) In a scholarly article entitled "The Requiem for God," the guthor gives four causes for the ing in the 20th century d stratedin the work of "Christians" the words of the author, Donnelly, she said that the terrible suffering that is 1 God if he is made into a monster. ("The Requiem For God," Religious Education, July- (sufferings and the tribulations) shall give thee experience, an man knows the purpose of suffering, he ls better able to endure development, fication. (Lesson 92 sity," Relief Society October 1968.) A Witness for the Bible if learned that in addition to I believe people. President Brigham Young said he expected to see t (Discourses of Brigham Young, p- 125.) rejected. In a survey of 500 ministers an 487 July 1969 500 students studying for the ministry, many teachings held dear to the older ministers were not acceptable to most of the younger men. (Leo Rosten, editor, A Guide to the Religions of America, pp. 236-238.) On the other hand, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith that the revelations he gave him would have the effect of increasing faith among men. (D&C 1: 17-23.) Thousands of people have had their faith restored and also increased in the credibility of the Bible through their acceptance of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The trek of our pioneer forefathers over long miles of plains bears solemn testimony to their faith built upon modern revelation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Caught the sacrifice and toil of these hardy, faithful men and women as he described in a general conference later published in a book "To Them of the Last Wagon," this magnificent accomplishment, as follows: That evening was the last of the great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt, and as the sun sank below the mountain peaks... They of the last wagon, and of the wagon before them, and of the one before that, and so the very front wagon of the train, these all sank to their knees in the joy of their souls, thanking God that at last they were in Zion. 'Zion, Zion, lovely Zion, Beautiful Zion, Zion, City of our God." They knew there was a God, for only he could have brought them triumphant, militant, through all the scorn, the ridicule, the slander, the tarrings and featherings, the whippings, the burnings, the plunderings, the murderings, the ravishing of wives and daughters, that had been their lot, the lot of their people since Joseph visioned the Father and the Son. (Conference Report, October 1947, page 158.) 488 Words of the Lord to This Generation How did I become involved in the study of the Doctrine and Covenants? You will have observed by now that my interest came about as a youth because I needed the Doctrine and Covenants to clarify many Bible doctrines in my preparation for the mission field. Also, I came to know that this book of scripture is a witness for the divinity of the Savior. In addition, I saw in the Doctrine and Covenants the words of the Lord Jesus Christ to the people of this generation. This last fact was apparent, for it is a modern book intended to guide people on the road to salvation in the present world. In the Bible there are many prophecies regarding the last days. My interest was aroused in the Doctrine and Covenants because it is a "voice of warning" to the people of our times, just as the Bible was intended to "warn" the people of the generations about which it speaks, and at the same time, in prophecy, it spoke of our dispensation. In other words, to have the Creator of the earth inform us of what is to happen to this world and its inhabitants today even more clearly than the information on this subject in the Bible, is a stimulus for the members of the Church to become involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. For example, the very conditions which we see today—extreme wickedness, disbelief in God, people becoming laws 'unto themselves—were foreknown. Of interest to all of us are world events. The political unrest among the nations, the How | Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants extent of rumors of wars and actual conflict, together with the great amount of sickness and natural calamities, all signify that the times prophesied are with us. Unless extreme apa- | thy has taken hold of us, it is difficult to understand why a Latter-day Saint would not want to understand the signs preceding the second coming of Christ. We should look forward to his coming. (D&C 45:39-42.) The Purpose of Life I doubt that there is a person who at some time in his life, if not many times, has not wondered about the purpose of this life and especially the important question as to what lies beyond the grave. This ever-present question is revealed in the Doctrine and Covenants, especially the future existence following the spirit world. The truth is taught that man had a premortal state and that the earth was created for man. (D&C 92:23-29; 49:16-17.) Man is spirit and body to be wed eventually by the resurrection. (Ibid., 88:15-16.) The doctrine of the resurrection is revealed plainly, and evidence to support belief in the resurrection is given in accounts of resurrected beings communing with mortals. Such examples are: John the Baptist, Peter and James, Elijah, Moses and other prophets. (I[bid., 27:5-14; 128:21.) One of the most distinctive doctrines taught in the modern revelations that has found unusual interest and profit is the one regarding the various kingdoms following the resurrection. Who has not thrilled with this "transcript from the eternal world," as he has come to understand the magnanimity, mercy, and justice of God in this divine plan? How wonderful it is to have one's eyes opened to understand the opportunity to receive exaltation—all that the Father hath? Early in life I learned this great truth, and I came to love it because it was congenial to my soul. I believe that this doctrine motivates one to serve the Lord with all his heart, might, mind, and strength. As one comes to love one teaching after another, his whole being takes on new life and new purpose. The visions of the prophets become his visions and. His goals. The same spirit that revealed the teachings of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the prophets also reveals these truths to the one who becomes involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. He loves the Lord because he knows that the Lord loves him. He understands what it means when the Lord said: That which is of God is light; and he that receiveth light, and continueth in God, receiveth more light; and that - light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day. (D&C 50:24.) How to Become Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants. If someone were to ask me what he or she could do to become involved in this wonderful book of scripture, I would offer the following: 1. She could undertake an assignment to teach this book. 2. If this opportunity were not available in the classroom, she could assume that someday she would need the teachings of the Doctrine and 489 July 1969 490 Covenants to help her as a teacher, administrator in the Church, to assume the responsibilities of a parent, to abide by the charge of "every member a missionary,' and above all for her own salvation. She could ask herself a series of questions about the doctrines of the Church periodically and then endeavor to learn the answers to these questions from the Doctrine and Covenants by the use of the index, concordance, commentaries, and other means. She could resolve to set aside ten or fifteen minutes each day to read the revelations. If there were times when she found it hard to follow this practice she could remember the advice of President Brigham Young concerning prayer: If you do not feel like praying then get down on your knees, then stay there until you get the spirit of prayer. (Journal of Discourses 7:164.) So also, she could be as persistent until she became the victor. No doubt other means might be employed of accomplishing the same purpose. In any case, I bear testimony that a knowledge of the teachings of the Doctrine and Covenants is necessary to attain the heights of performance required to receive eternal life. The revelations are true, Joseph Smith is a prophet, and his successors enjoy the same calling. All of this means that Jesus Christ is our Savior in every sense of the word; he lives, this I know by the testimony of the Spirit. = HIS GIFT They say Six thousand of them perished as they came this way. And she was one of those. He could not fathom why they left her there Why he must forfeit all her loving care, Nor why her life must close. Just eight years old. He walked the rocky path With no sweet hand to keep him on the trail. His father, stumbling on with bitter eyes, Ruing the day he left his English skies, Fearing what future griefs might yet unveil— Desperate and doubtful then—he prayed, and stayed. Then came gray days, And homeless, drifting, lonely, seeking years. He found no Mecca in this rugged land, No dream fulfilled for him. Yet for his son He gave a gift beyond comparison. He gave America to compensate those tears. —Sadie Ollerton Clark Cypress Tress—Northern Calif Willard | WOODED HEADLAND Someone Long 480 dreamed Of this, and planted seeds here now wind-blown coastal Cypress d. —Vesta N. Fairbairn y, Announcement of Winners Mary R. Decker Safsten The General Board of Relief Society is happy to announce the names of the winners in the first annual Relief Society Song Writing Contest. The first prize of sixty dollars for the music and forty dollars for the lyrics is awarded to the song-writing team of Mary D. Safsten and Ranghild L. Safsten for a lovely hymn, "Lo, Thou Art Near." Mary D. Safsten wrote the music, and the lyrics were penned by her mother-in-law. Both women are members of the Bellingham Ward, Cascade Stake, in Washington. The second prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Ruth B. Lehenbauer of Logan, Utah, for her hymn "My Cup of Joy." The prize-winning songs are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and will be programmed for performance by Singing Mother choruses. The General Board is very pleased with the response to this first contest. There were 222 songs submitted to a committee of eminently qualified judges. The winners are to be congratulated for their very fine abilities. The caliber of the songs submitted was very high, showing the great talent of Latter-day Saint women in the musical field. The General Board once again congratulates these sisters and all others who entered the contest on their accomplishments and encourages even more widespread participation in future competition. 492 Mary R. Decker Safsten began her study of music at a very early age and has participated extensively in Church and school musical activities. She was reared in Mesa, Arizona. She was graduated from Brigham Young University with an undergraduate and graduate major in music. In 1957, she married Robert Safsten and they are the parents of seven children. She has given organ recitals in Washington, Utah, and Arizona, and accompanied the Cascade—Vancouver Stakes - Singing Mothers concert, and _ participated with the Singing Mothers from the Northwest at General Conference two years ago. Besides her family, her activities include music composition, genealogy, musical service in the auxilaries, and teaching positions in these organizations. Ranghild L. Linde Safsten Ranghild L. Linde Safsten was born in Sweden. Her family emigrated to the United States when she was five years old and homesteaded a farm in northwestern Washington. She is married to Oscar J. Safsten and they are parents of four children and have seventeen grandchildren. She has taught Sunday School, and served as Relief Society president, counselor, and homemaking leader. She recently served a stake mission. She enjoys sewing, handicraft, cooking, and of course, writing poetry. Ruth Benson Lehenbauer was born in Washington D. C. And spent most of her youth in Silver Spring, Maryland. She acquired the majority of her college education in Utah. After serving a mission to West Germany, she was married to Ottomar Lehenbauer and they have three children. She is presently serving as MIA chorister in her ward, and is a part-time instructor of languages at Utah State University, Logan, Utah, teaching French and German. Ruth Benson Lehenbauer 493 Goal, Understanding, and Technique Jean Larsen, Instructor in Child Development and Family Relationships at. Brigham Young University @ The answer to the question, "Should there be discipline?" comes through loud and clear, "Yes, there must be discipline!" But the what, the why, and the how of discipline and guidance are not so clearly spelled out. Not knowing what is expected on either end of the guidance situation provides some frustrating experiences for all concerned. We recall the story: Bobby had been playing by the duck pond for several minutes when Father called for him to come in the house. Bobby approached his father slowly, looking down at muddy feet and wet pant legs. When Bobby's father saw the mud and the wet, he said in a stern voice, "Well, Bobby, how many times must you be told to stay out of the mud and water? Go get mea willow, maybe a 'willowing' will help you remember." Bobby was gone for several minutes before he slowly approached his father again— this time with his hands behind him. His father's voice was again stern as he said, "Well, I'm waiting, give me the willow." Bobby 494 drew both hands around and produced not a willow but several rocks in each hand. Then he said in a meek little voice, "T couldn't find a willow, but here are some rocks to throw at me." GOAL As adults being responsible for guiding the child we are concerned about his behavior and ways of altering, controlling, or instigating certain behaviors. Guidance can become a battle of wills between adults and children. But, as in all battles, someone must be the victor. Should it be the adult at the expense of the child's curiosity, spontaneous expression, and self-esteem, or should the child be the winner because of his ability to display compulsive, negative, and violent behavior? Power struggles are a risk to any relationship and should be avoided. The goal of guidance is to let the child know what is expected of him, and then provide experiences which will help him to develop self-discipline or control from within. UNDERSTANDING Why do children do what they do and when will they change? There is a reason why children do what they do. Sometimes adults don't take time or don't try to understand what is behind the behavior. How many times have you heard a parent say to a child, "Now stop crying or [ll really give you something to cry for," assuming that there is not a reason for the child to cry in the first place. Some behavior, although unacceptable to adults, is normal for the child of a given age and may very well pass on like the seasons. Temper tantrums are a normal reaction to frustration for the toddler age. Getting into things, finding out what possibility an object or material has for manipulation, is a_ force pushing the child from within. Most parents have the same concerns. "Why can't my child be quiet in Church?" or "Just when I want him to behave, he really acts up." A new situation or one that does not necessarily accommodate to the child usually produces child behavior that the adult does not approve of. The most difficult time in many households is the dinner hour. Mother may be intent on preparing the meal, younger children are tired and hungry, and Father and the older children need a listening ear after their day away from home. Tension runs high in such a situation. Keys to Child Guidance Sometimes children do what they do because they do not know what is expected of them. TECHNIQUE Guidance involves evaluation of and reaction to behaviors. Because each of us is an individual dealing with another unique individual, successful techniques will vary. There are some guidelines which may serve as a basis for dealing with behavior in general. First, punishment does not teach or show the child the type of behavior you want exemplified. It may cut off the behavior or traumatize the child about that which he should not do, but punishment does not establish what the child should do. Toddlers are notorious for using primitive social techniques. Usually, if another child has something they want they will bite, poke, pull or hit in order to gain possession. Many parents see this behavior and become very anxious. Usually, someone will suggest that the way to teach them not to bite is for you to bite them back. Will your biting the child teach him what you want him to do? Second, it is not wise to try to cut off a child's curiosity. This is like trying to stop his growth. Foster his asking questions and trying things out. If the _ behavior is caused because of a growing curiosity, then tolerate or channel, but be very selective when you stop this kind of behavior. Water play is one of the most soothing types of play a child of most young ages can engage in. However, water play and 495 July 1969 other related sensory types of play need to be channeled. A mother might respond, "No, I can't have you pouring water from container to container here on the kitchen floor, but outside (or a protected area inside) you may do so." Third, try looking at things from the child's point of view. Rather than expecting the child to come all the way in an intolerable situation, see what you can do to make it easier for him. Sincere praise for just being himself can modify a_ child's behavior. Some adults feel compliments are not for children, but if there is a basis for them, they should be used. There was a five-year-old in the nursery school who seemed to be overflowing with good ideas. The teacher in the nursery group would frequently comment to this child, "John, you are clever!" One day a parent said to the teacher, "Why. Are you always telling that. Child he's clever? Don't you think he'll-. Become egocentric?" The teacher replied that she. Felt children's behavior was greatly influenced by the way others reacted to them both by words and deeds. Sometime later John was watching a disgruntled repairman fixing a plugged up sink in the nursery school. As the repairman took off the gooseneck and found it filled with sand, it appeared he was going to explode. John, who had been watching the operation, looked up at the man's angry face and said, "My, you're clever to be able to fix that sink." The repairman's anger turned into a friendly smile as he said, "Well, I guess I am clever at that." 496 A fourth guide would be to feed into the child love, warmth, gentleness, and self-worth. Children learn what they live. A child who has _ received has something to give back. A fifth and concluding guide deals with letting the child know what is expected of him. Teach the child what to do rather than what not to do. Help the child see reasons, outcomes, and responsibilities. This is the opposite from threats and retaliations. Provide experiences whereby the child can develop innercontrol through understanding rather than control through fear. Mary had been cutting and pasting at the art table. When she was nearly finished with her picture she noticed how easily her scissors snipped off small corners and pieces of the paper. Mary snipped and watched the small pieces flutter to the floor. Soon it looked like snow and soon the floor looked like a real storm had hit. The teacher came to Mary and said, "When Mr. Bob, our custodian, comes in to clean tonight, he'll wonder what has been happening in this room." Mary thought for a moment and then replied, "I'll need to get this mess cleaned up, would you hold the dustpan while I sweep?" Make teaching your discipline and take the initiative to discuss, explain, interpret, and demonstrate desirable behavior. If your guidance relationship is constant and you are accepting of the fact that each experience will not be a successful one—it takes a long time to learn—eventually you will reach the goal of establishing self-worth and controls from within the child. m Lenora Peterson had hurriedly glanced at the clock as _ she popped the frozen peas into the steaming pot of chicken and noodles. Time had more than caught up with her, and the missionaries would be coming to dinner in about twenty minutes. She always tried to have the meal ready exactly when the elders arrived as time was so precious to them. Today had been unusually busy. At Relief Society that morning Sister Lemmon, the president, had asked her to stop by Sister Slack's home and pick up some ironing. After a few days home from the hospital with another new baby, Sister Slack had suffered a set-back and was ordered to bed by her doctor for a week or more. The Relief Society sisters were assisting the family with the work, food, and the small children. Lenora had spent most of the day ironing, so she could return it to Sister Slack later on tonight. I do wish Maida would get home soon, she thought as she added a bit more salt to the noodles, she's such a big help when time is pressing. Maida had announced her intention of being a little late today, as it was the final tryouts for the high school musical. Of 497! / the ten who had competed for the coveted part, she was one of July 1969 the three finalists. She had been an "almoster" the past three years, and had come so close to getting parts in the school productions that this last chance in her senior year was, at the moment, the most important thing in her life. | enora turned the flame down on the noodles and started buttering the French bread. As the knife smoothed the soft spread over the slices she smiled faintly, her eyes watered a bit, and her mind shifted in reverse to more than a decade ago. No matter how many times she prepared dinner for the missionaries, this backward glance was a mental ritual with her—a way of giving thanks for a second chance. Life had been so different and wonderful when she and George had moved from southeastern Idaho. Even though Church membership was large here on the West Coast, the saints were still a minority in this teeming metropolis, but the missionaries had found this a fruitful field. George had immediately befriended the missionaries and shared his own experiences with them. Knowing what a _ real home-cooked meal meant to a young missionary far away from home, he wanted to invite them to dinner, and Lenora had agreed wholeheartedly. She wanted it to be a very special meal. These young men so valiantly serving the Lord deserved the very best. For days she planned the meal, shifted the food budget, in order to buy the choicest steaks, and put an all-out effort into the occasion. Every minute of that first day that the elders came to 498 dinner was spent in cleaning every corner, making a table arrangement that resembled a page from Home Lovely, and preparing food fit for the most critical gourmet. It was worth it though —the way those hungry boys devoured every morsel, the praise they heaped on her, George's look of satisfaction. She had fed the children early, sent them to their rooms, and planned an after-dinner relaxation period around the fireplace with hot buttered popcorn, crisp apples, happy conversation, and a background of soft nostalgic stereo music. Her plans were shattered, though, as the elders had to eat and run in order to make an early evening appointment. It was some time before they were invited again. Such a meal played havoc with her grocery budget, and she expended so much time and energy in preparing it that she needed a couple of months' rest between invitations. Lenora put as much dedication into the second meal as she had the first, and the new elders praised her highly. She felt especially happy, and after bidding the young men goodbye, she went to check on the children. As she neared the bedroom she noticed the door was slightly open, and heard the children talking. Maida had a play telephone to her ear, and the first words Lenora caught were, "Yes, were having missionaries to dinner tonight." Lenora paused and_ smiled with deep satisfaction. How sweet she thought, children usu- ally imitate their parents in play. Having the missionaries to dinner is evidently making an impression on her. She stood outside unnoticed as Maida's conversation continued. "I'm sorry your baby suddenly got sick, Sister Nelson, but I can't take your Primary class today. The missionaries are coming to dinner.... No, I can't tend your children while you go visiting teaching, Sister Gregerson. We're having the missionjn, aries tonight." aw Tn a eee mel KR? NAT ear pte orm tre eorty: And then it was Vernon's voice. "No, you can't bring your friends in the house today. It must be clean for the missionaries tonight.... No, you can't eat at the table with us tonight. I don't want to be embarrassed by you or Maida spilling your milk, and baby Paul tossing food all over." The pleased look drained from Missionaries to Dinner Lenora's face. Somehow the replay of her own words sounded different from the original. It was Vernon again, "Ah, let's not play 'missionaries' any more. I'm tired of it." "But, Vern, when you go on your mission, you'll be invited out to dinner, and you've got to know all about it." "T don't wanna' go on a mission, 'cause when people ask missionaries to dinner, then the mother's not nice, and she can't do anything else to help anybody, and all she cares about is a clean house and fancy food, and the children have to eat sandwiches and then go to their room... And I just don't like it." Lenora's first reaction was to plunge into the room, and give her son a good tongue lashing for his failure to recognize her tireless efforts to serve the missionaries who were in turn serving the 499 July 1969 Lord. Instead, she dazedly foand her way back to the living room and sat at the foot of the reclining chair where George was reading the evening paper. With tear-filled eyes and voice, she related to her husband what she had just overhead. George listened thoughtfully; then in his usual quiet manner commented, "Well, I guess we'll just have to make a few changes." "T know, dear, I would like to have the elders over again, but 'if this is the effect it's having on the children, we just won't be able to." "That's not exactly the type of change I had in mind. As I recall, some of my most pleasant meals in the mission field were when we took potluck with some of the members or investigators. That hash or watered-down soup tasted as good as if it had been served at the Waldorf-Astoria, because it was served in a homey atmosphere with warmth and love." "But, George, I've tried to serve the missionaries with warmth and love." "Of course you have, dear. You've probably tried so hard it's been a burden on you, and you didn't have enough energy left to be considerate to the children or your friends. How about trying it again soon, and see what can be done about changing the children's 'I-hatethe-missionaries-to-dinner' attitude to 'we-love-them-to-dinner' image." "Well, okay, George, I guess I'm willing to try." Lenora was a little skeptical, though. It had always been so important to her to have the 500 house spotless and the food superior when she entertained guests. "The ensuing days saw Lenora conducting a lot of self-analysis. Was she having the missionaries to dinner as a sincere gesture of love, or was she eager to show off an immaculate house and receive a shower of compliments for her superb cooking? Was she like the Pharisees who paid tithes, yet omitted the more important things of the law? Was she a bit guilty of swallowing the camel and straining at the gnat? She realized that in her narrow effort to perform one benevolent act, she had shunned the opportunity to perform many. Lenora knew it wouldn't be a fast or easy change, but she resolved to try. The next time missionaries were invited she planned it very carefully. She let the children decide on the menu, though she didn't mention guests were coming. How she hoped the elders could tolerate hot dogs on a stick and French fries. She cleaned the house the day before and arose extra early on the appointed day to add the finishing touches. All day she tried especially hard to be pleasant to the children. Though nervous and tense on the inside, she put on a good front before them. She let Vernon and Maida invite some of their neighborhood friends over to make cookies. This would create a happy experience for them and also provide dessert for dinner. All was going well. The children were blissfully up to their elbows in cooky dough, and the first try had been taken from the oven. Just as she had passed around the first samples and observed the looks of pleasure and accomplishment on their faces, the telephone rang. It was Annie next door. Her toddler had fallen and slashed his cheek on the table's edge. The cut looked deep, and Annie was sure stitches would be needed, so she needed Lenora to drive her to the doctor. Annie had a car at home. Why couldn't she drive to the doctor herself? Instinctively, Lenora said, "Oh, I'm sorry, Annie, but..." then caught herself. Quickly she shelved her uncharitable thoughts and realized a mother with a crying, bleeding baby would be in no condition to do any driving.. "I'm sorry, Annie," she repeated, "but... It will take at least a minute before I can leave." She removed the sheet of halfbaked cookies from the oven, hurried the children to the car, and met Annie on the driveway. In a couple of hours they were back home with the injured baby repaired almost as good as new. Time was of the essence now. Lenora flew around her kitchen so fast she even surprised herself. But now the doorbell rang. It was Annie, beaming with gratitude. "Here, Lenora, I thought you might like these radishes for dinner. It's my first experience growing vegetables. I'm as proud as punch over them, and I want to share them with you." "Oh, Annie, how sweet of you. They'll be perfect in the salad. We're having two missionaries from our Church to dinner toMissionaries to Dinner night. They'll so appreciate home-grown radishes." "Oh, Lenora, why didn't you tell me before, and I could have had someone else drive us to the doctor?" Annie paused. "When I have guests for dinner I don't let anything else interfere. You're a real jewel." Lenora had to fight the pangs of self-righteousness after that compliment. She then seized the opportunity to tell her neighbor a bit about the missionary system of the Church. Somehow or other, dinner was ready on time. She had the children set the table and instructed them to set two extra places for the missionaries. Even though the silver was on the wrong side, she didn't have time to worry about it. As they devoured the hot dogs, the rest of the cookies were baking in the oven. How the elders exclaimed over the hot cookies and cold _ bottled peaches! And during the meal Maida spilled her milk and baby Paul tossed his food, but Lenora tried to take it calmly. WWhile the children helped with the dishes, there were comments. "Those were the best dogs and fries... This has sure been a neat day." After a few more well-planned "'missionaries-to-dinner". Experiences, the children began remarking, "When are they coming again? Let's have them real soon." Gradually, then, Lenora began really to believe Mr. Emerson's philosophy—that persistence in doing increases one's capacity for that job. Soon the weighty tenseness of company to dinner 501 July 1969 disappeared, and it became a relaxed, enjoyable experience for herself, her family, and guests. She was amazed that a one-dish missionary meal, cooked in the oven while she taught a Primary class, could taste nearly as good as an all-day preparation of turkey and the trimmings. She was further amazed how on extra busy days when she had the missionaries to dinner, a fifteenminute cleaning on 'the front rooms could look almost like the two-hour job. Yes, Lenora had changed over the years, and how grateful she was for that opportunity of evesdropping on her children so long ago. The sudden slamming of the front door quickly brought Lenora back to the present. "Mom! Mom! I got the part. I really made it this time." Lenora ran through the hall, embraced her daughter. Their squeals of delight resembled a couple of pre-schoolers. "I'm sorry 'm late, Mom... I know we're having the elders to dinner, but they took so long making a decision... What can I do to help with dinner?" "How about getting out the greens from the crisper and making a quick salad?" "I wonder," reflected Maida as she chopped the celery, "what my big brother will be having for dinner tonight." _ "Well," replied Lenora, "about right now Vernon is sleeping, but in a few hours he'll probably be eating Ris Grot and perhaps a side order of fish." "Or how about peanut butter sandwiches?" Just as Maida placed the salad on the table, the five short and two long buzzes on the doorbell gave the signal that the elders had arrived. As the young girl headed for the door she paused at her mother's side, hugged her gently, and exclaimed, "Oh, Mom, I just love the whole world tonight. I love the judges who gave me the part... I love you... I love my missionary brother... And I especially love having missionaries to dinner." v. Dyd SUMMER NIGHT And now in gentleness, the sun goes down. Last light of evening edging every hill with gold— Quietness now— Except the crickets' call. A lone hawk wheeling—whistles, The curlew calls for rain— And in every peaceful hollow Coolness lies again. 502 —Elizabeth Russell Calgary, Alberta, Canada Woman's Ze Sphere f Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency of the Church, has been honored by many student organizations and other groups of young people. A noted singer and beloved exemplary woman, her addresses and her singing have delighted collegiate and Church audiences. In April 1969, she was given a citation as an ''Ideal Woman' by the Latter-day Saint co-eds at Utah State University, Logan, Utah. The subject of the meeting was ''The Eternal Quest of Womanhood," and Sister Smith addressed the young women, sang a solo, and participated in the music presented by a special chorus. Also, in April, Sister Smith was honored by Weber State College in the tabernacle, Ogden, Utah. President E. Lamar Buckner said that her visit was the highlight of the year, and that her singing thrilled everyone present. "We are so grateful for your spirit of dedication," he said. ''We want you to know that you hold a spot in our hearts, and we shail always be grateful to you for being with us." Sister Smith spoke of the young women as diamonds in a diadem of crown jewels, advising them to make a careful selection of the jewels for their crowns. Mrs. Evelyn LeTourneau, sixty-eight, of Longview, Texas, wife of industrialist-inventor Robert LeTourneau and mother of four sons and one daughter, was named American Mother of the Year in Los Angeles, California, last May. She was chosen, in part, because she lovingly extended her role of motherhood to students: the Winona Bible Camp groups she established in seven boys' ranches across the country and the student body of the LeTourneau Institute of Technology in Longview. Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson McKay, a seventy-two-year-old Latter-day Saint woman from Ogden, became Utah's Mother of the Year. She was left a widow with four sons and four daughters from one to sixteen years of age and through the heroic efforts of all, the children received excellent educations and have become distinguished members of Church and community. She is a woman of talents, sterling character, and refinement. Mrs. Edna C. Karlinsey, wife of Curtlee J. Karlinsey, Tacoma, Washington, a schoolteacher and mother of seven children, represented the State of Washington as Mother of the Year. An active Latter-day Saint, she has encouraged and assisted her children in attending college and serving missions for the Church. Her talents in teaching, oil painting, and homemaking are outstanding. Mrs. Jessie Lamb Stewart of Las Vegas, Nevada Mother of the Year, now a widow, reared four motherless children in addition to her own eight sons and daughters. A devoted Latter-day Saint, she has held numerous offices and teaching assignments in Relief Society. She assisted her husband in managing a large ranch and in raising cattle and thoroughbred horses. She is active in community affairs and in politics. A chorus of Singing Mothers from the Los Angeles area, directed by Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, provided music for the Awards Luncheon on May 12th. Many of the 1969 Mothers visited Salt Lake City following the convention in California and were entertained by the Church and by Relief Society. President Belle S. Spafford is second vice-president of the American Mothers Association. 503 EDITORIAL / TO EACH IS GIVEN A GIFT For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God. (D&C 46:11.) (Italics added.) ma in his loving-kindness God allows each person to come into the world possessing in his soul embryo gifts to be used and developed as one's free agency determines. While man's mind is veiled from a remembrance of his pre-mortal life, some of the seeds of his accomplishments there are born into mortality with him. The Father expects life to bring joy to his children. He prepares them for such joy by giving them the gifts with which to acquire it. One of the essential requirements of the Giver of Gifts is that the gift be used for the benefit of others ''that all may be profited thereby."' (D&C 46:12.) The use of these precious gifts selfishly, for personal gain alone is not the purpose for which they are given. The intention of the Lord is that gifts be magnified for the building of the kingdom. The rewards of such increase are that the gifts will be added upon. No one, we are told, lives to his fullest potential. Always there are greater goals to conquer. Efforts to reach that potential are crowned with the increased desire to do more and progress further. Gifts are to be sought. The prophets exhort the people to ''covet earnestly the best gifts.'' (I Cor. 12:31.) The blessings of spiritual growth are contingent upon asking in faith for one or more of the gifts. Proficiency is to be gained by personal effort and constant prayer to God to bless those efforts. Gifts are many and varied. They encompass gifts of knowledge and understanding of gospel doctrine given by the Holy Ghost to talents in culture areas. Talents are given in music, literature, and art, in Volume 56 July 1969 Number 7 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Mittenberger, Acting Secretary-Treasurer 504 the realms of medicine, in aptitudes in educational pursuits, in the fields of engineering, and agriculture. The gifts are as diverse as the ability to love all of God's creations, a cheerful spirit, friendliness. To some is given the gift of leadership, to others the gift of following, not blindly but understandingly. Some are the lawgivers, the wise and sagacious, others are the workers who uncover the secrets of nature. Some possess gifts that even they do not suspect until they are brought to light by obedience to commandments. Some gifts are never discovered because they are not sought. There are those who resist the disciplines the development of a talent requires. They will not accept the responsibility bestowed with the gift to work toward its fulfillment. The potential for greatness is there but as a fallow field lies unused and dormant, idle in the sun, its potential for growth and production curtailed, so lie buried talents the owners fail to enlarge. These are the unprofitable servants of the parable of the talents whose condemnation is greater than the loss of the talent. Their condemnation is greater than they would have received had they not been given the gift. There are those who reject the gifts so willingly given by a loving Father, those whose self-afflicted blindness, whose spiritual unawareness prevent their accepting a glorious opportunity to use the gift in perfecting themselves and in helping build the kingdom of God. Relief Society is a marvelous gift given by our Heavenly Father to his daughters which some of the unseeing women of the Church have not yet accepted. The loss to themselves is great and to their families, husband, and children, but the loss to the building of the kingdom of God on earth is equally great. Failure to accept the God-given gifts results in failure to live most abundantly. Each gift is spiritual if used to elevate, to build, to make the world better. No gift is a small one. Its size is determined by the receiver. All gifts are given that each might contribute to the work of the Lord. —L. W. M. Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Alice C. Smith Lucille P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock 505 GENERAL BOARD:: Is Not Veiled Marian Gardner Nielson @® When the three sisters, Gwen, Mary, and Maggie made the final decision, they knew there were still problems to be solved. Getting Gwen's three lively boys settled at Maggie's would entail planning and cajoling. Telephoning Mary's husband in New York about the change of plans was going to take some diplomacy. The real problem was getting their mother out of the hospital and then getting her comfortably and_ safely back home. The plan was simple on the surface. Gwen would go to Cedar Mesa on the plane with their mother. Maggie would keep Gwen's children, and Mary would drive down by car first to get the home ready for the mother's homecoming. 506 Gwen was washing the boys' play clothes, mending overalls, and folding and packing their Sunday clothes. She had a batch of bread in the oven. The baby's bed would be taken to Maggie's later. The trip would probably take four or five days, so she must leave plenty of clothes for the children. Gwen hoped she could get a batch of cookies made to take to Maggie. It would be the hardest on Maggie—what with four youngsters of her own—and she did look a little peaked lately. Gwen had wanted to get a baby sitter but Maggie had insisted on having the three little boys come to her place. Maggie had begun to carry out necessary plans, too. She had made room for Gwen's baby bed in the family room. Hy could set up two army cots in the boys' room. She would move her own baby bed into their bedroom. That way, everyone would be comfortable. She would make stew for the boys and maybe set some jello for dessert. Even thinking about food made her squeamish. You'd think after four babies.... She hadn't told her sisters about her pregnancy. She knew what Gwen would say, "Well, that settles it! I am going to get Jane to come over." Mary was not looking forward to these eight hours of steady driving to Cedar Mesa. It had been nearly ten years since she had driven down that road—ten years of a successful career, and, she admitted wryly to herself, ten years of unsuccessful marriage. And the telephone conversation with James last night had not helped. She knew she had been too brisk, too impersonal on the phone, but habit was hard to break. "James, Mother is well enough to leave the hospital... Oh, she's fine. She said to tell you hello and she would like to see you... QOh. Yes. Well, Gwen will go down with Mother on the plane. Maggie will keep Gwen's children, and I am leaving in the morning for Cedar Mesa to get the house ready.... Why? Well, I have no ties to keep me home.". When James asked "Mary, are you coming back here?" she had answered, "I don't know, James." His "Well, suit yourself" was as cold as her "Goodbye, James." Mary's hands tightened on the wheel. She had not let herself think of the marriage. That is, Love Is Not Veiled not until she had accepted the position with the publishing company. James had not objected, then. As she became successful in her work and spent more time at it, James became resentful. He objected when she spent the summer in Europe for the firm. Why couldn't he accept her success? The house was fine and the cook served better meals than Mary could prepare. She had tried to get close to James again, to get their marriage on an even keel. But now it was a cool neutrality. She was not sure that she wanted to go back to New York—especially since she had stayed in Gwen's comfortably furnished home with its confusion and love. And in the shabby, bulging home where Maggie was a lovely and beloved wife and mother. It was not until Mary came to the Colorado River that she threw off her unhappy mood and began to notice the spectacular scenery. She still missed the narrow, colorful, trestle bridge which had spanned the river when she was a girl, however the sheer red cliffs were still blazing in the sun, their dark shadows darker still because of the intense sun-glare of their lacquered surfaces. She slowed down to catch glimpses of her favorite places. Here was the famous fault that her geology professor had told the class about. There was the little meadow where the five quaking aspens grew—and there they were! But they were taller, with their golden leaves twinkling in the sunlight. She glanced at the familiar 507 July 1969 Horsehead on the Blue Mountain. She slowed down at Devil Canyon and again thrilled to the blaze of scarlet maples warming the dark long-leaf pines. She stopped when she came out on top and gazed at the blue hazelocked horizon. On the flat mesa directly below, yellow cottonwood trees brought Cedar Mesa into sharp focus. The sight filled her heart, mellowed the bitterness and sadness in her soul. She knew she was returning home. Mary drove into the small town marveling at the growth of the community. She almost became excited as she started down the hill toward the house with its big tree in front and its spacious lawns, green in the late afternoon sun. As she stopped in the driveway, Mary shook her head in bewilderment. Why did seeing this childhood home bring tears to her eyes? She had been entertained in palaces in Europe, in ostentatious apartments in New York, in ultra-modern homes throughout the Eastern States. But only this rambling livedin-looking house humbled her, made her feel like a young girl again. It was the flower garden west of the house that caused the tears to fall—freely this time. That was her mother's garden, the one she worried about in the hospital. There were the earlybloomingchrysanthemumsmulticolored against the green lawn. The aspen tree Kent brought from Elk Mountain so many years ago was now a beautiful, white column, flaunting its golden leaves. Tucked in under a scarlet-tipped sumach, Mary saw one 508 lone defiant buttercup peering brazenly from its matted foliage. Suddenly she stopped and examined the ground _Closely. It was still damp from a recent watering! Mary also realized that there were no weeds among the plants. The foliage was all fresh and green—the asters, petunias, and late-blooming zinnias standing straight and tall. Uncle Zeke? It had to be. She stood up and looked around. Across the street at Aunt Gen's, a curtain fell into place. | Mary smiled. So—the neighborhood knew she was home. It was a good feeling to know you were being watched—with neighborliness and friendliness. The house had weathered a little more in the past ten years. The trees were a little 'taller, the shrubs a little thicker. She stopped under the big English elm and looked up into the lightlanced branches where the remnants of the tree house still hung precariously. Once she had fallen from there, had broken her leg, but that pain was nothing like the pain she felt now with her marriage breaking up. Inside, she pulled the drapes, opened windows, and aired out each room as she went from one to the other. What happy hours were spent in this middle bedroom giggling with Gwen and Maggie. How cold it was in the north bedroom in the wintertime, when the boys snuggled under the warm, tied wool quilts! The long table in the dining room was still scarred where the table tennis net had been screwed on too tightly. The big, sunny kitchen still echoed with the sounds of a noisy family popping corn, pulling honey candy, and sitting down to Mother's cooked dinners. She had stepped quietly into the corner bedroom and had felt the presence of her father and mother still there. It was a good house. It was a good feeling Mary had as she went through it. She touched the familiar pictures, ran her fingers along the faded and broken piano keys. Even in the daylight she switched on the lights in the living room to see if she could catch the rainbows in the prisms of the chandelier the whole family loved.... She still wondered why her father had never bought a dishwasher. It would have saved her mother so many hours. Well, if she was going to get to the Merc before closing time, she'd better go. She decided to walk the three blocks to the store. She was stiff from driving and the walk would do her good. Besides —she might see some of her old friends or her mother's friends. Too, she would have to pass Aunt Irene's. Perhaps she would be working among her roses where she was usually seen. It had been difficult to explain to James' friends that all her "Aunts" were really not Aunts at all, but were the older women she knew and loved. Everyone called these dear friends "Aunts." Call them "Mrs Galbraith" or "Mrs. Taylor'? That was too formal for Cedar Mesa folk. It had sounded a little provincial, later, when she thought about it. But home again at Cedar Mesa it sounded all right to talk about "Aunt Irene" and "Aunt Hattie" and all the rest. They seemed closer to you, that way. Aunt Irene wasn't in her roLove {s Not Veiled ses when Mary passed her house. She stopped at the telephone office and asked to have her mother's phone connected. She walked into the Merc, took a basket and selected the groceries she would need. The clerks were all strangers, the few people in the store busy with their own buying. When she paid the bill she felt distinctly let down. Old Home Town, indeed! On the corner near home she met Ruth Murphy—Ruth Layman she was now—the tall wearylooking woman informed her. But Ruth was in a hurry to get supper for her large family so she spent little time talking. "I'm so glad your mother is coming home. We've all missed her—and worried about her." "She had a rough time, Ruth, but the doctor says she will be all right. She's coming in a day or so. I']l stay until she is up and around and can do for herself." "Well, we must get the old crowd together while you're here. I'll give you a ring. See you later, Mary." Ruth hurried down the street to her small trailer house. The feeling of not belonging persisted. Mary was tired. She wanted to get right home, take a shower and get into her bed. She hoped she wouldn't see anyone else now; she didn't feel like talking. She saw Johnny Jones, her father's old friend, hobble out of his lot to intercept her, but she pretended not to see him and hurried along faster. But the minute she stepped into the house, serenity returned and Mary became receptive to the enfolding arms of the dear home. She fixed a sandwich and 509 July 1969 a glass of milk and went into the living room to eat it. She picked up an open book from the table, Collection of Great Poems, and leafed through its pages. It was a favorite book of her mother's and the penned comments on the page margins brought the beloved voice into focus reading to the children in the evenings. Whren she finally closed the volume and placed it almost reverently on the table, she was ready for bed. She was going to plan her work for the next day, but dropped off to sleep immediately. It was a bright hushed morning when she awoke. For amoment she felt as she did years before when she was waking in that same room—a sense of anticipation, a surge of interest, a feeling of expectancy. A knock on the door brought her to her feet. "I'm coming," she called. "just a minute." "Oh, Mary, it's just your old Aunt Gen. I'm already in." She peered around the door. "How good to see you. You haven't -changed a bit... Still the prettiest girl in town!" She planted a quick kiss on Mary's surprised face. "So your mother's coming home tomorrow! We've been keeping in touch with Gwen. It will be so wonderful to have her back. You know," Aunt Gen spoke tenderly, "you look more like her than any of the girls." Quick tears stung Mary's eyes as she held the frail woman close. "That's the nicest thing anyone has said to me for years. Come and sit down Aunt Gen, and 510 what do you have under that napkin?" "Just a few cinnamon rolls for your breakfast. I knew you wouldn't stop to cook anything." She surveyed Mary with bright black eyes. "You're too thin. And your eyes tell me you are not happy. What's the matter?" Mary laughed. "Oh, Aunt Gen, you always did say my eyes gave me away. You're wrong. I'm —fine. And now that I'm home, I'm beginning to be myself again." Aunt Gen noticed the slight hesitation, but she changed the subject. "You see, I have on my working apron. I am going to stay and help you get this house all ready for your mother's return. Oh, I know," she shook her head, "you think you can do it alone. Well, maybe you can, but we're going to help." "Wile,. "Certainly... Irene, Lydie, Addie, and Natalie. Do you think we girls would let your mother down? After sixty years of being as close as we are? Not for one minute! Now eat your rolls, child." Mary sat down and helplessly watched Aunt Gen take over— as she always did. The cinnamon rolls were warm and sweet and she ate the three without even once thinking of her diet. Aunt Irene brought a casserole and greeted Mary with love and a few happy tears. Aunt Lydie and Aunt Addie came in talking a blue streak... Not expecting Mary to answer. Aunt Natalie was late, but her warm greeting and her gentle manner made Mary realize why her mother loved Natalie so much. It was a lovely day. Actually, Mary didn't accomplish much. Every time she started to dust or vacuum or wash windows one of the aunts firmly pushed her aside. Mostly, she listened to the familiar stories, laughed at the same anecdotes, and hummed the same nostalgic songs. Just as the sun stepped behind the Bear's Ears and flung its painted shafts at the drowsy sky, the women finished their work. Gwen called later that night to say that the plane would land at the airport at Cedar Mesa at four-thirty the next afternoon. Mary called Aunt Irene who said she would tell the others. "Don't cook your roast, Mary, save it for another day. I am bringing chicken a la Maryland that your mother likes so well." "But, Aunt Irene...." "Now, Mary! I'm in a hurry. Goodbye." The next morning Mary rose early. She went out to the strawberry patch and picked a bowl of the plump sweet berries. As she washed them she thought how her mother liked them and how proud she was of her berry » patch. All morning neighbors came in and greeted her with familiar affection. They were all so happy that her mother was coming home. Shy Mrs. Sanchez, who helped with the ironing, brought a basket of peppers—huge green bell peppers, round orange-red pimentos, long, pale-green mild ones and slim, dark-green hot ones. Becky brought a big apple pie, freshly baked. The little schoolteacher's wife, whom her mother had befriended, slipped her choice casserole into the Love Is Not Veiled oven. Aunt Gladys brought a loaf of her stone ground brown bread. There were bottles of sour cherry jelly, Doris' pretty pickles, a ground raisin cake, and a tin of rolls almost ready for the oven. Mary could only thank the people, her voice choking on inadequate words. How hospitable they were! How could she have forgotten her mother's lovely friends? Yes, and hers, too. How could she have cast aside these cherished customs? The first thing her mother saw when she got home from the airport were the fresh flowers. The house was full of them: roses in tall vases; late velvety clematis in a low crystal bowl; zinnias, asters, petunias, and a pottery jar filled with brown-hearted sunflowers. Mary gasped in surprise. 511 July 1969 "The Garden Club!. How they must have worked to get them all here, fresh and smiling," her mother exclaimed. She wandered slowly through the shiny rooms smelling the fragrant bouquets, noting gleaming windows and crisp curtains. At last she settled down in her own room. "How good to be home. How wonderful to be in my own room again. God has been good to me. He sent love to make me happy. He sent comfort to me when I was sorrowful. Children and all of my friends to sustain me in my illness. I am so grateful for his sharing these 'things with me." She-looked up at Mary, her He sent you words tender, meaningful. "Sharing is a part of life, Mary. You have to be able to receive, by knowing how to give." Mary nodded. She took Gwen's hand and the two sisters left, their. Mother's understanding smile blessing them. It was late that night that Mary made up her mind. She put in the call to James in New York, her hand unsteady on the receiver. When he answered she could hardly bring herself to speak. Then, humbly, sincerely, with sweet tones of love, she said, "James, do you really want me to come home?" And the sudden radiance in her face lighted up the whole room. AD THE INFINITE COMPOSER The great composer sat within his room, And wrote a part for every instrument, He blended wondrous: themes into a whole Most beautiful, and yet: so quickly spent. But there is one whose genius is more great, His: work is far more beautiful to see, He blended all live things, all natural sounds Into an everlasting symphony. He took the mighty ocean's angry roar And tempered it with plaintive cries of gulls, The calls of cormorants. And guillemots, Which fly for shelter till the great storm lulls. He shaped the rolling uplands, and the plains With March wind whispering through the waving grass, With shyest creatures swiftly burrow bound As human steps approach, and gently pass. He sent the speeding comet on its course That each might have free passage on its flight, Then massed the myriad-stars of Milky Way Into a highway of celestial light. His orchestra is heard throughout the world, In jungle, mountain, desert plain, and fjord, His music is eternal, and his skill Is absolute, he is our gracious Lord. §12 —Gillian G. Brown-Lee Worcester, Worcs., England Photograph by Willard Lur _—Maxine R. Jennings inside and out Mama Counted Flavor—Not Calories Edythe K. Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society ws Mama left a legacy of happy memories for her family. Our friends and relatives young and old loved to come to her gracious, hospitable home. Some who knew Mama best said it was because she was generous, kind, and witty, with a penchant for making every guest feel special and welcome. To this I wholeheartedly agree, but Mama had something else which drew people to her. Mama was an excellent cook. She liked nothing better than to share her cuisine with those she loved. ' Unfortunately for her daughters, Mama never used a recipe. All of her dishes were concocted by feel, consistency, or taste. A pinch of this or a handful of that. Mama didn't even own measuring cups or spoons. One of the happiest memories Mama left her children was our annual trip to "the Lakes." Mama prepared for several days for this special event. I can close my eyes now and it seems as though I can almost taste some of her special goodies. As the tantalizing aroma from Mama's preparatory baking permeated the air, it appeared that it touched off the appetite alarms of all the youngsters in our neighborhood and those children who came to our kitchen door never went away hungry. For the long drive to "the Lakes," our outing site, Mama usually brought a lunch of milk, cinnamon buns, or slices of raisin and nut bread spread with freshly churned butter. She would pack them in the folds of snowy white dish cloths to keep them fresh, since wax paper or plastic wrap had never been heard of in our town. There 514 Mamma Counted Flavor—Not Calories was always just enough food to appease our hunger but not too much to spoil our appetites for the picnic to follow. And what a picnic! Our favorite food was Mama's baked beans. Their cooking was an all-day process. How we loved the smell of the molasses and brown sugar, mustard, and the salt pork nestled cozily among the brown beans. Combined, they produced a flavor that was delectable. Homemade root beer was a must. This was an exciting change from milk or the ever-popular lemonade. Mama's root beer had a special tang. We all loved the bottling process and as we put the corks into the bottle tops and tied them securely to the bottle with string, we would beg Mama to put our mark on just one bottle reserved especially for each of us. In our home town, most everyone had at least a small garden. Fresh vegetables were common fare. Mama said they were good for us and so she used them in every possible way. Happily, Mama had the knack for giving even the lowliest variety a special flavor. Pickled cucumbers were our special favorites so Mama always included them as part of our picnic menu. Wheat was indeed the staff of life in our home. Mama used it in a variety of ways. From a breakfast food which she simmered for hours on the back of our coal range, to hot cakes, baking powder biscuits, buns, scones, to wonderful crusty homemade bread. We loved to spread fat slices of this bread with cream skimmed from the milk pan and flavored with sugar, or covered and dripping with honey or syrup. Long loaves of what we now call French bread were our favorite for an outing. What is so delightful as homemade ice cream? No picnic or outing was complete in our family without it. Since Mama never counted calories, her ice cream was rich and delicious. The best and sweetest part was that which some lucky individual would lick from the dasher. Mama made many flavors and each kind we would avow to be our favorite. Try a delicious peach variety for your family. A dripper cake, usually Mama's special fudge cake recipe, completed our lunch. Even though we had eaten our fill we could never resist this special treat. Papa always concluded our picnics by arising to his feet and proclaiming that this picnic was the best ever. His only complaint being that he had eaten too much. Why did she make everything taste so good? Then, one by one, each one of Mama's children in his own way would echo Papa's words. Many of you, like Mama's children, have treasured memories. Many of you, as we do, long for "Mama's" cooking. Why not plan a family outing and try these recipes or those you and your family enjoyed and remember so well? Several of the following recipes have been adapted from Mama's original ingredients and methods of preparation, -and the other recipes included have been contributed by friends. 515 July 1969 CINNAMON BUNS 1 yeast cake 3 c. Flour 2 tbsp. Warm water Y tsp. Salt Yc. Sugar 3c. Buttermilk, room temperature Dissolve yeast cake in warm water. Combine ingredients with a mixmaster or stir thoroughly and let rise 1 hour. Then add the following ingredients, and let rise one hour longer. Zc. Melted butter 1 tsp. Soda 3 eggs, beaten 3% c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt Punch down and refrigerate over night. Roll portion of dough into a rectangle and spread with 2 tbsp. Melted butter, % c. Sugar, 2 tsp. Cinnamon and 2 c. Raisins. Roll securely and cut into 1-inch slices. Place on greased cookie sheet and let rise 1% hours. Bake at 400° 10-12 minutes. While buns are still warm, spread with frosting of confectioner's sugar, dash salt, vanilla, and top milk or cream. Sprinkle lightly with chopped nuts. Yields 4 dozen. BAKED BEANS 2 c. Pinto beans Y% c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Soda. '% tsp. Dry mustard 4 |b. Salt pork, sliced 2 tbsp. Molasses 112 tsp. Salt 1 small onion, quartered 1 tsp. Soda Wash beans and cover with water to which 1 tbsp. Soda has been added and soak over night. Pour off water. Cover with fresh water and boil slowly until tender, with salt, approximately 2 hours. Drain, reserving liquid. Combine sugar, mustard, molasses and onion. Place half of beans in a pot or casserole. Bury part of the pork and add half of seasoning mixture. Add remaining beans and seasoning and top with remaining salt pork. Pour bean liquid over mixture. Cover. Bake in slow oven (250°-300°) 6-8 hours. You may need to add hot water from time to time as the beans cook. HOMEMADE ROOT BEER Follow the basic ingredients and instructions given in the recipe with root beer extract. For extra flavor, boil 1 tbsp. Dry hops in 2 c. Water and pour through a strainer to remove hop leaves. Add this to the commercial recipe. Bottle and cap according to package directions. BAKING POWDER BISCUITS 2 c. Sifted flour Y% tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Sugar 1% ¢. Shortening 4 level tsp. Baking: 1 beaten egg powder 24 c. Milk Sift together dry ingredients and cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Combine egg and milk and add to flour mixture all at once. Stir until mixture leaves sides of bowl. Turn on lightly floured board and knead quickly about 20 strokes. Roll dough to % inch thickness. Cut with 2-inch biscuit cutter that has been dipped in flour. Bake on ungreased baking sheet in very hot oven (450°) for 10 to 14 minutes or until golden brown. If desired, uncooked biscuits may be refrigerated for as long as 3 hours. Makes 2 dozen. 516 Mamma Counted Flavor—Not Calories PICKLED CUCUMBERS 2 large cucumbers, peeled 1 c. Water and sliced thin Y2 c. Vinegar 6 green onions, chopped % c. Sugar fine salt and pepper to taste Combine all ingredients in covered dish and let stand for 6 to 8 hours, or until ready to serve. FRENCH BREAD 3 c. Warm water 3 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 8 c. Flour (approximate) 2 tbsp. Melted shortening evaporated milk 2 tbsp. Dry yeast sesame seeds Combine warm water, sugar, shortening, dry yeast and salt, and let yeast dissolve. Add flour and mix. Make dough a little stiffer than ordinary white bread dough. Let rise for one hour. Divide dough into five equal parts, or as many as you would like. The more loaves you make from the recipe, the more crust you will have. Form the dough into loaves by placing it on a breadboard, pressing out the air and then rolling tightly to form an oblong loaf. Pinch the dough together at the ends to seal the edges. Roll in evaporated milk and then in sesame seeds. Place on greased cookie sheets as far apart as necessary to keep the loaves from touching each other when they rise. Let rise, uncovered, for 1% hours. Bake at 375° for about 30 to 45 minutes or until bread reaches desired brownness. Remove bread from the oven, cut in big crusty pieces, and serve spread with butter. PEACH ICE CREAM 3 c. Mashed peaches juice of 1 orange (about 4 large peaches) - 1 pt. Whipping cream 3 c. Sugar 1 qt. Milk juice of 24% lemons 1 can condensed milk Combine mashed peaches, sugar, lemon juice, and orange juice and let stand at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Lemon juice will keep fruit from discoloring. Pour mixture into a four-quart ice cream freezer and add whipping cream, milk, and condensed milk. FUDGE CAKE 3-squares chocolate 1 tsp. Soda Yc. Milk 2c. Flour Y2 c. Shortening Y% tsp. Salt 1% c. Sugar 1 c. Milk 3 eggs, separated lc. Nuts 1 tbsp. Water 1 tsp. Vanilla Melt chocolate in Y2 c. Milk over medium heat. Cream shortening and sugar. Add egg yolks one at a time, beating well after each addition. Pour melted chocolate mixture. Sift flour and salt together and add alternately with 1 c. Milk. Dissolve soda in 1 tbsp. Water and stir into batter. Add vanilla and nuts. Beat egg whites until stiff and fold into batter. Bake in greased dripper cake pan in moderate oven (350°) for 45 minutes. FROSTING Melt 1 square chocolate and 4% square butter or margarine. Add 1 beaten egg and 1% to 2 cups powdered sugar and beat vigorously. 517 A Brace of Horses x nN Helen Hinckley Jones as g Papa had agreed to appraise a farm out in Snowville, and, since our Grant car was one day new, all the family went along for the adventure. This was a long time ago and the road was nothing more than a lane with a well-traveled center strip and two wide, bumpy shoulders. Mile after mile we jounced along on the shoulder. "Sam," Mama begged, "try the middle of the road. This is shaking our new car to pieces. The bottom of those wheel tracks looks smooth to me." Papa shook his head. "Ida, if I once get into those ruts, it will take a brace of horses to pull us out." So Papa avoided "getting into a rut," and every time I hear that trite old phrase I remember the dry, sunny day, the deeply rutted road, and our highwheeled, high-bodied new Grant. Perhaps that is what has led me to wonder continuously if I am getting into a rut, and, if I am, will I find a brace of horses to help me out. Getting into a rut is a dangerous and deadly thing. One of the basic needs of man is something to look forward to, some change, some growth, some different experience. Indicated, too, is that the road upward is not marked out by wheel tracks of the crowd. Perhaps you have seen the ruts on the road ahead of you, and recognizing the danger, have stayed out of them; but maybe you have blundered in, and the brace of horses to pull you out has not turned up. Do you ever feel stuck? You do have the brace of horses available: Resolution and Effort. Surveys show that one rut—and a deep one—is mental inertia. Some people haven't read a book in a year, or participated in a stimulating conversation since they can remember. Is this your rut? Perhaps you aren't keeping up with world events. If you don't know what is happening on the earth and above and below it, resolve to read the front and editorial pages of your newspaper each day or a good news magazine once a week. Resolve and then do it. Books are even more vital. One day a little ant climbed a blade of grass and, looking around him, said happily, "From here I can see the world!" and began happily to describe it. Writers of books are like that ant. They can see only the part of the world that is around them, but by reading you can see many such areas. Books can tell you of the scientific developments that are impinging upon our everyday lives. They can take you to faraway places and make you feel a part of all humanity. They can share with you the thoughts of great minds and the actions of noble men. And don't think that you can't 518 A Brace of Horses learn from fiction. Biography is the story of one man, fiction offers an account of mankind. Resolve to read a good book each month or even each week. Then make the effort to live up to your resolve. "Picking the brains" of others sounds almost unpardonable, but that is what the mentally alert do every day of their lives. If you meet a ceramic artist, learn about ceramics. If you meet an old-timer, learn more about your community. If you meet a scout-explorer, learn more about mountaineering. Reach out for these opportunities. A group of seventy-five adults living near the Huntington library where rare book exhibits are always open free to the public, was asked how often each of the group visited the library. Some had never been there. Some had been only when taking out-of-town guests. Only three visited with each change of exhibit. If there are libraries, museums, art galleries in your area, you may decide to grow mentally through visiting these places. Perhaps you want to pull out of your rut in a really big way. Plan to attend some adult education or college extension classes. Even go back to school if there is an opportunity in your area. The really tragic thing is to get into a spiritual rut. "For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Matt. 16:26.) Have you grown careless and substituted routine Church activity for real spirituality? Church attendance is excellent, but unless it is an evidence of a "hunger and thirst after righteousness," you will still find yourself in a rut. Don't go to Church only to have your body counted. Perhaps you no longer take time to prepare yourself to pray. To really commune with God and hear his answers to our prayers we must close everything else out of our minds. Our minds must be open to receive the help and the solace that prayer can bring. You can find spiritual experience in reading the scriptures. Why don't you try reading any of the scriptures straight through with a good commentary at your elbow? You will find it a rich experience. Ruts are dangerous not only for a low-centered car on a high-centered road, but for any man or woman, boy or girl, who has ever read the commandment, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." (Matt. 5:48.) Remember that it takes just a brace of horses whose names are Resolution and Effort to free you and set you high on the shoulder again. CPD GRANDMA'S COOKIES No one could make the cookies just like she could, Some were soft and spicy, raisin filled, Others were real crunchy, topped with sugar, At making brownies she was highly skilled. For holidays she used her special cutters, Hearts, and stars, and chubby boys and girls, Ginger, butterscotch, and plain vanilla, Baked and trimmed with little frosting swirls. Her cookie jar was very seldom empty, She always seemed delighted when we'd come, And what was best of all about her cookies, She invited one and all to, 'Please try some." —Ruth G. Rothe 519 July 1969 = Mama took a crocheted pot holder off the hook on the wall and opened the hot oven door of our big coal and wood range. Reaching in, she carefully pulled out the large dripper that was filled with eight evenly shaped loaves of golden brown bread. The delicious aroma that penetrated the room made me ever so glad I had a nose, and I inhaled deeply, again and again. Mama reached for another pot holder, lifted the big pan, and carried it to the pantry, where she emptied the luscious contents on a bread board that had previously been covered with a clean white cloth. Coming back into the kitchen, she went again to the stove, removed the lid from a pot of beans that had been slowly cooking since early morning, and taking a spoon, stirred them thoroughly. I was sitting half-on-half-off a chair, watching her every move with the wholehearted interest of a hungry nine-year-old youngster. "When are we going to eat?" I asked her as she went into the dining room and took a coin from the sugar bowl in the china closet. Mama smiled. "Just as soon as you get back," she answered, handing me the coin along witha scarf to tie around my head. "I want you to take this money and go up to Sister Carey's for a pound of butter." I slid off the chair and took the money quickly, for I thought of how the yellow butter would melt when it touched the hot bread, and how good it all would taste. "Hurry now, and be very careful not to lose the quarter," she 520 cautioned as I tied the scarf under my chin and left the house. I squeezed the money tightly in one hand, and guided my bicycle up the road with the other one. The later afternoon air was chilly, and low-hanging rain clouds made me pump faster than I usually did. As I rode along, I remembered the hot bread in the pantry and the good beans on the back of the stove. In spite of the cold weather I felt warm all over. Sister Carey was on the back porch and called, "Come in," when I knocked on the screen door. "I'm just now churning," she said when I told her why I was there. "Do you want to wait or come back later?" "T'll wait," I said as I sat down and watched her turn the handle 'of Butter Lena Mae Hansen of the big wooden churn. Round and round went the paddles inside, and I could hear the sour cream closh back and forth as I imagined little pieces of butter beginning to form. Soon Sister Carey removed the lid and paddles from the churn, and taking a long spoon, she gathered the clusters of butter, and placed them in a large bowl. With a broad wooden paddle she worked the butter back and forth, stopping once in awhile to empty the liquid that oozed out as she pressed the yellow spread against the bowl. I watched intently while she poured cold water on and off the butter to wash away any remaining sour liquid. After salting it, she worked it again as she had before. Finally, she spooned a pound portion into an oblong wooden mold and carefully pushed it out on a piece of parchment paper. Folding the sides and ends of the paper to cover the butter neatly, she found a_ small cardboard to place it on so it would be easier for me to hold. I gave her the money and hurried outside thinking that Mama might be a little upset because I had been gone so long. Very carefully, I laid the cardboard and butter in the small wire basket that was hooked securely to the handle bars of my bike. As I started back down the road, the summer rain clouds darkened, and soft sprinkles of water began to dampen the earth. I was glad I had a bicycle, and I hurried as fast as my young legs could pedal me. I held on to the handle bars tightly as I rode the four blocks toward home, for I didn't want anything to happen to the soft, precious contents in the wire basket. But happen it did, without any warning, and only a half block away from my destination. It all came about so quickly I don't know exactly how it took place. I guess the front tire hit a rock in the slippery road because all of a sudden the wheel turned sharply, the bike swerved dizzily, and the butter flew into the air as I tried frantically to regain control of the handle bars. But the bars wouldn't be controlled and we fell with a crash—me on the bottom and the bike on top. I skinned my knee as I slid along the ground, and tiny particles 521 July 1969 of blood were standing on the bruise as if it was a big decision as to whether they should stay on the surface or trickle down my leg. I was on the verge of tears when, suddenly, I saw the parchment paper, its contents splattered every which way in a mass of yellow ruin. The tears that had gathered close to my eyelids flowed over the edge and down my face. "Good old expensive stuff," I cried, as I saw that only a small amount of butter remained on the paper. I picked it up ever so carefully and hoped with all my heart that it would be enough for supper. "It's doubtful," I murmured to myself as I pushed the bike the remaining distance home. "I'm sure this isn't enough for nine of us to share." I parked the bicycle and walked slowly to the house wish- -ing I was someone else's little girl, so I wouldn't have to go inside. But I wasn't someone else's, I was our own little girl, and I opened up the door and stepped into the kitchen. The table was set, and our 522 family was starting to sit down; so no one noticed me for a minute. "Here's the butter," I said in a sad, weak voice. Mama was at the stove pouring the beans into a bowl. "What kept you so long?" she asked, not looking around. I walked over to her and stretched out my arm. The paper and butter, on the palm of my hand, were very close to her face. She stepped back to avoid being smeared, and a trace of a frown appeared on her forehead as she raised one eyebrow slightly. Then looking at me, all tearstained and skinned, she said with the real concern of a loving mother, "You've had an accident." She began immediately to examine my knee. "It isn't too bad—go and wash up," and she gave me a hug as she took the butter. "Will there be enough for supper?" I asked anxiously as I dried my hands. Mama looked at the contents on the parchment. It appeared to be clean, so she carefully scraped it into the butter dish. "Yes, I'm sure there is enough," she reassured me, kindly, and going to the table, she set the dish by the bread. I slipped quietly into my place as Mama sat down on her chair. "There are plenty of beans, cool milk, fresh warm bread, and a jar of strawberry jam," she said after we had said the blessing on the food, "so there will be no need for any of us to use more than just a dab of butter tonight." Everyone smiled, and I was ever so glad that I wasn't someone else's little girl. Her Hobby W> Writing @® Bertha Anderson Kleinman, Mesa, Arizona, has brought distinction to herself, to her State, and to the Church through her well-developed and useful hobby of writing. Her verbal architecture encompasses many fields, from prose and poetry to hymn lyrics and pageants. Her childhood home was situated on the rim of the north bench adjacent to City Creek Canyon in Salt Lake City. On this commanding location, her father erected a pretentious home for those times. Here Bertha grew to womanhood among orchards of fruitful and beautiful trees, lilac hedges, shrubbery, and_ terraced lawns. She watched the sun rise over the magnificent rugged Wasatch Range and watched it set in splendor over the great inland sea to the west. The ever-changing beauties of the Rockies lent color and majesty to her poetic nature and _ influenced her writing of the glowing tributes to the great western empire of which she is so much a part. About her writing, Sister Kleinman says: "If anything that I have written can help someone else, that is my favorite." Primary children love to sing her well-known "I Have Two Little Hands." Soon after her marriage to Orson Kleinman, she moved to Arizona and became one of the most prominent literary women of that area. She has been described as an outstanding citizen and Church member. In 1957, the Governor of Arizona _proclaimed November 3d as Bertha Kleinman day in recognition of her many published works regarding the State of Arizona. She earned the title '"'Poet Laureate of Arizona." She received the David O. McKay Humanities award at commencement exercises at Brigham Young University in 1958, largely in honor of the pageant "The Message of the Ages," a literary memorial to 100 years of Mormonism, perhaps the best known of her works. She updated the text in 1947 to include the pioneers coming into the valley. This pageant was produced every night for six weeks in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. Sister Kleinman was honored by the King of Denmark for her writings about the land of her ancestry. Her writings have appeared many times in The Relief Society Magazine, and in the other Church publications, and she has had a book of poetry published which is now sought after as a collector's item. At the age of ninety-three, she continues to write lovely and moving poetry. Her six children and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren revere her and are proud of the rich heritage of her written words. Always a devoted Relief Society worker, she was recently honored by the Relief Society of the East Mesa Stake for her untiring service and dedication. 523 e ye es =~ AANA AAACOAAN BUDGET DECORATING The Tapestry Touch i AAA (v f\ ad U ' 4 i Af uy j al The age-old tapestry touch is created inexpensively with a colorfully patterned terry bath mat and enhanced by a matching rose tree of bright plastic flowers. Photo by John 524 @ From ear Budget Decorating liest history woman has endeavored ) decorate, as elegantly Wealthy amilies and were Prominent]ly displayeq at important Public oe. Casions, While You may not Wish to apprentice for twelve to fifteen Years (the 4 year's time, yoy Y stil] appreciate the effects of fabri n your wall Odern technology can he] you! Your decoy Is the NOW-popular Spanish, Select g towel—one of those richly ¢ lored Way or a Ppropriate Spa or old tr t large terry bath ' ighly-sculpty ed on ce under Which u nk, repainted, r €S—for a hall- °U can place a heavy teed basket An active and Ost effectiy duo. OWer designs are Plentify]. Tinted fabrics, Padded and Panels of Sam quilted, May be hun ple drapery— with large Classic Utilized in the traditional] be or liyj Fr you ma ue and Styrofoam he tub is 8reen plastj ball on a your hom tapestry touch. WINGED PEACE At the feeder gz in fringeg light a hummingbirg and a € drink together. » but Sound 525 as Possible, the Walls that Surround herself and amily Mura] treatments developed through the yea S, tap Stry h rated as the most Magnificent. Fantastic lly Intricate tapestries Usually °CcUpied usua] learning time) in Order to itche at may blen of all 8enerally been expensive, Place 9 honor jn he homes of royal] and €ave one Square yard of tapest 'Vv in about eIry towels hol Promise, too, in Creating g tapestry effect ith early Merican or "modern kitchen." Fruit and HEART ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 2 SYNOPSIS: Mary Ann and Kim Freeman take Kim's father from his home in Mayville, Utah, to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident, in which his hip has been broken. His coming will constitute an upheaval in their way of living, as Mary Ann will have to break her contract as a teacher in order to care for him. This will halve their income at the crucial time when their last two unmarried children are dependent on it—Tommy for his last year in college and Rosemary for her wedding, both events the following June. It is now October. The parents are apprehensive about Rosemary's reaction, especially, as she has a demanding personality. @ Rosemary was her charming best throughout the slow process of the dinner after they had made her grandfather comfortable—and he sparkled under her attention. "Grandfather, is my little grotto still there?" "Yes, honey. The grandchildren play there by the hour." 526 "But you made it for me, didn't you? Chisled it out of pure rock." "Indeed I did, but the water had done most of it. It was yours before it was anybody else's." Rosemary dimpled with pleasure. "You know when they had those adorable, ugly troll dolls? My college friends couldn't imagine why I collected them. It was so I could take them there and put them in their own setting, and someday I mean to." It was Tommy who voluntered his room for his grandfather, as Mary Ann hoped he would. "Because it is closest to the bathroom," and moved his things to the one vacated by Robert, which they had used as a guest room since, while Rosemary made the bed ready for her grandfather. "Such willing hands!" said their grandfather. "I feel as if I had dropped into a bed of roses. Everybody is so nice to me, and I don't know why—a useless old man." "Grandpa!" Tommy and Rosemary protested in unison. "You could be useless forty years and not live up your credit,' Tommy went on. "How I loved my summers with you in Mayville!" "That's real nice of you children to say," said Father Freeman, "but mind you, stop me if I get to repeating myself. I've taken to reminiscing and I forget things, tell things over and over, can't remember what I've done and haven't done. I have to keep a list, I'm so old." "Dad, I do the same things," put in Kim. "Well, you're not so young yourself," said his father, looking at him astutely. "This doddering of the mind is a terrible trial to the young." "He's a darling!" pronounced Rosemary when they got back to the living room. "He looks like an angel with that shock of white hair." "T had forgotten what a beautiful old man Grandfather is," said Tommy. "But he's so pale he looks ethereal. Is anything else wrong with him—besides the hip?" "He is in remarkable condition, except for his heart. It could go any time, the doctor says, but with good care he can walk again." "With good care," said Rosemary, the little frown appearing between her brows. "What I want to know is...." "How's Cary?" demanded Mary Ann suddenly, to head Heart Room For Home off the inevitable showdown. Cary Marks was Rosemary's adored and adoring fiance, a tall, clean-limbed young man, dark and handsome in contrast to her titian loveliness. "Cary's a doll," said Rosemary, her mouth softening. "He helped me with dinner, getting the groceries. He's going to be a wonderful husband, but I told him to vamoose. I knew you'd be home, and that you would be tired." "How thoughtful of you, dear, and we are tired. Exhausted, and we're going to bed this minute." "T didn't know then that Grandfather...." "How are Robert and Heidi? Have you heard from James? How are the girls?" Mary Ann interposed quickly. If Rosemary had a night to get used to her grandfather's presence, maybe the impact would dissipate. Tomorrow was Sunday. It might even get lost in the rush of Church duties. You are diverting me," accused Rosemary. "Barbara and Hank wanted to come and be here when you came, but I vetoed that, too. So did Jennifer and Dick—but all those little kids!" Jennifer's five were lively and noisy. Barbara's were older. "Robert had to fly to New York for his company—they might go there to live—so Heidi went with him. It was a good chance for a vacation, with only her fare to pay. Heidi's mother is staying with the children." "To New York to live!" said Kim. "That will be a step up for Robert won't it." 527 July 1969 "I hope not!" said Mary Ann. "Tt has been good having them near. If they move to New York we'll never get to see them." "Can't keep us under your wing forever, Mother Hen," observed Tommy. "James is only in San Francisco, but we rarely see his family." "J know," wailed Mary Ann. "Distances are nothing, nowadays," consoled Kim. "These young ones flit around with more ease than you and I used to get from one town to another." "Cary and I might go to Europe," said Rosemary. "And Jennifer and Dick are talking of going to Hawaii. He has an offer at Church College." "Don't talk about it," said Mary Ann. "Now what about the school, Rosemary?" Rosemary had been her inexperienced, but educated substitute in the fourth grade while she had been gone, having graduated in August, too late to get a contract of her own, but she hadn't seemed to mind. "I'm not going to work, anyhow, so why start?" she had said. "I want to concentrate on having a perfect wedding." To Mary Ann's surprise Rosemary brightened at the mention of school. "Mother, you know that little boy—Freddy Finch—you said was a problem child? 1 found out what was the matter with him!" "You didn't! I felt he had a problem, but didn't have time to go into it before we left. What is the matter with him?" "Well, it was like this," said Rosemary. "To begin at the be- 528 ginning, I thought it was just your leniency, and I would teach the little tyke true discipline. All he did was scribble on his paper whenever I made a board assignment, and I was about to take him to the principal. But I noticed that he did all right when I made verbal assignments and it puzzled me. All at once it dawned on me. He can't see the board!" "Rosemary, how smart! And how compassionate! What did you do?" "Saw that he got glasses right away. His parents were dumfounded. He's my star pupil now!" "Pm thrilled. You know, I always feel there are no bad children only bad circumstances. Not at that age, anyway." Tommy was silent, but he had an observing air, as he had very much, lately. Rosemary noticed it. "Tommy, you're making guinea pigs of us. Do you take notes?" "Yes," admitted Tommy. "My thesis quarter is coming up and I need a new subject. I started the Watts riots, but it has been over-explored. Now I am open to new suggestions. This might be a thing—what Mother says, no bad kids, only bad _ situations. Or what you did, Sis. 'The Role of the Teacher' or 'Above and Beyond the Call of the Three 5" Earlier today, watching you and Cary, I almost decided on 'Bridal Bossiness Before Marriage.' " "You wouldn't dare!" wailed Rosemary. "Only because I would run out of material too soon. Yd need to know something firsthand, and you know my stand." Wes, Tommy's stand: "No romantic entanglements before I go on my mission," "No marriage before I get my Master's," and now, none before he got his degree, had been of growing concern for his parents. Tommy was twenty-four. "Tt just isn't normal for a boy not to fall in love somewhere along the line," said Kim. "T give myself a chance," defended Tommy. "I date." "Yes!" saidRosemary. "A - different one every week. Mother, he drops them over nothing. All Janie did was to call him,-and - that was it!" ~ "T-don't: want girls calling me up," said Tommy. "I want to be the one who does the calling." "T can't disagree with that," -said his mother. "When I was a girl no young lady called a boy up. It is no more proper now." "When Tommy falls it will be like atom-fission. I don't know that I want to be around then." "What happened to Phyllis— and Melba?" queried Mary Ann. "I thought they were nice girls." "Dream-boats, both of them," said Tommy. "But they wanted to get married. I didn't." "IT hope, Tommy," said Kim, "that you are not like Kipling; 'The more I see of the lot of them, the less I am settled to one.' 33 "The young man hunting a straight stick in the forest? No, Dad, when I am ready, she will be there—the straightest one of them all." "T hope," said Mary Ann, "that you don't get any of them to Heart Room For Home fall in love with you, then leave them to pine after you." "They'll survive," said Tommy callously. "You should have seen the 'Dear John's' my companions in the mission field received." "Maybe that should be your thesis subject,' observed Rosemary. "Most of my studies have been on geriatrics. It intrigues me. Grandfather, now...." "What about Grandfather?" demanded Rosemary. "What I want to know, if he has to have so much good care, is how is he going to get it here? How long is he going to stay?" She was looking at her father. He looked at Mary Ann. Here it was! "I'm going to take care of him," said Mary Ann. "How can you, with your job?" "TI have to break my contract. Monday." "Just like that?" "There wasn't any other way out, Rosemary." "Couldn't Aunt Emily or Aunt Francine have taken Grandfather? At least until summer?" "They thought otherwise," said Kim. "They wanted to sell the place and put your grandfather in a rest home." "Sell the place!" said Rosemary and Tommy im unison. This reaction, so like their own, was at least heartwarming to -Kim and Mary Ann. "T often describe Grandfather's set-up in class, an almost totally self-containmg unit—the. Cows, the chickens and garden feed the table and the table feeds the pigs. The pigs and extra produce go to market. One blissful round of living." 529 July 1969 "In the older days," said Kim, "you added a few sheep and got your clothing and bedding out of it, with rabbit brush, indigo, and madder root for dyes." "Somebody ought to write all that down," said Rosemary. "I love old things." "I remember!" said Tommy, his eyes sparkling. "Grandmother washed the wool, picked the burrs out of it, carded it into bats and made quilts. She even made her own soap—with lye and old fat." "Her mother made her own lye, out of leached wood ashes. The early pioneers didn't have to buy a thing. They grew cane and made their own molasses, spun the fleece into yarn, and wove their own homespun, even grew cotton, and raised silk worms and made silk. I've seen samples in the museums." "How long is Grandfather going to stay?" repeated Rosemary stubbornly. "We don't know," said her father. "Your grandfather thinks he will be well enough to go home by spring, but you can see...." "What about my wedding?" pursued Rosemary. "And Tommy's thesis quarter?" "Let me worry about my own affairs, Sis," said Tommy. "I wasn't thinking of the changes it would make in our lives when I invited your grandfather—or the burden it would put on your mother," Kim said. "Neither was I," said Mary Ann. "If you had been there, Rosemary, if you had seen your grandfather, with all of us talking as if he wasn't there, the 530 tears coming down his face in spite of his efforts not to show his weakness—his physical weakness. He is proud and independent. I was proud of your father when he told him the place would never be sold—not in Grandfather's lifetime, and not in ours." "And I was glad to hear from your mother her true feelings about her job. I had felt all along she was just saying she liked it to make us feel better about her working." "That's all very fine," said Rosemary somewhat bluntly. "But now what about my wedding? Obviously, both of you forgot about that." Rosemary was right. They had forgotten their children in the emotion-charged scene. The full brunt of their impulsive invitation had not hit them until later. Right now, as a matter of fact, Tommy had depended on his mother for his tuition and books, no small matter at this point in his education, and Rosemary had every reason to expect a lovely wedding, on the basis of their combined income. "Well, honey, we'll out," Kim said vaguely. Mary Ann realized now that she had shielded Kim in the matter of money, rushing forth with her funds whenever something above his ability to provide was needed. How could he realize the difference her salary had made in their plane of living? All the fringe items not officially listed with utilities, groceries, and house payments, the deluxe station wagon which had come into use bringmake ing his father home, the luxuries of finer clothes, a bigger fourbedroom home, including the swimming pool, extra gas and expense money for all of them. "We just have to play it by ear," he finished lamely. "T don't like ear music," said Rosemary succinctly. "Or hadn't you noticed? I like to play it as it's written—and it wasn't written this way. It is obvious that my wedding is not important to you." She went into her room and closed the door with a definite bang. Mary Ann rose to follow her. "Don't go, Mother," advised Tommy. "She has to think this thing through," but Mary Ann went anyway, entering Rosemary's room after a slight, unanswered knock. Rosemary was on her stomach on the bed. "Rosemary dear! If you'd been there! If you had seen how it ell Went ace ea deh was, with your aunts determined to sell the place and put the old dear into a rest home. He had been in a nursing home for a month after the hospital, and he couldn't bear it. 'Old people!' he said. 'Nothing but old people! And spaghetti one day, macaroni the next!' Your father and I couldn't bear to see your wonderful grandfather shunted off in his old age, to force him to sell life." his home—his whole "T'd really rather be alone," said Rosemary, without turning over. "T have some retirement coming, Rosemary. Not a great deal, but you can have that for your wedding." "What, exactly do you take me for?" demanded Rosemary, sitting up. "Your retirement is for your own old age! Now, really, Mother. I'd like to be alone." (To be continued) 531 FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities St. Louis Stake (Missouri) Presents "The Light of Sisterhood—127 Years" to Honor Visiting Teachers, March 14, 1969 Left to right: Bishop Dee Willden; Matilda Heldt; Patricia Keyes, President, St. Louis Stake Relief Society; Marilyn Hunt, President, Ft. Leonard Wood Branch Relief Society; Marg Garn, Stake Relief Society First Counselor; June Wall; Wilma Boyer, Second Counselor. Sister Keyes reports: ''We combined our visiting teacher convention with the birthday celebration, using the theme, 'The Light of Sisterhood—127 Years.' There were 190 present. Seventy-seven visiting teachers were presented with small ceramic boxes with a gold inscription '100% V. T. St. Louis Stake 1968.' Twelve other teachers were honored as outstanding visiting teachers and given special awards for 100 per cent attendance at meetings. Norma Hohl and June Wal! Were named outstanding visiting teachers of the year. Matilda Heldt was recognized for thirty-eight years as a visiting teacher. The Ft. Leonard Wood Branch was honored for outstanding achievements in visiting teaching. "Stake President Roy Oscarson and the bishoprics of wards assisted in presenting the awards. "The birthday cake was assembled and decorated by the stake board. It measured three feet by six feet. The program was successful and enjoyed by all who attended."' z= a = EEE On eT TR Midvale Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert to Honor Visiting Teachers, February 14, 1969 Officers of the Midvale Stake Relief Society Board, front row, left to right: Beverly Brown, chorister; Gloria Buck, organist; Eileen Terry, Secretary-Treasurer; Jean Owen, Second Counselor; Donna Davis, First Counselor; Jeane Reed, President; Janiel Apostle, spiritual living class leader; Delcia Weber, visiting teacher message leader; Zina Olson, Magazine representative; Elaine Nelson, homemaking leader; Caryle Young, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Reed reports: ''The theme for our visiting teacher convention was 'Love One Another,' which was particularly appropriate for Valentine's Day. "Highlighting the program was the beautiful singing by our Singing Mothers chorus composed of sisters from seven wards. Corsages were presented to nineteen sisters who have served as visiting teachers for forty years or more. Special awards were given to Sister Margaret Hall, who at eighty-six is our oldest visiting teacher; and to Sister Mary Jenkins, who has served for fifty-six years. Midvale Second Ward received a plaque honoring eighteen years of 100 per cent visiting teaching.'' All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. I eR ea Ee ee Sa i a ee Sn ne Lenore ee tee Tie July 1969 Minidoka Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts in 1968 February 23 and December 6 Sisters in the dark dresses in the second row, at left: Mabel B. Blacker, President, Minidoka Stake Relief Society; center, Shirley E. Brady, chorister; at right, |sabell Sorensen, organist. Sister Blacker, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented two concerts during 1968. Both were well-attended. At the first concert, Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, was present and graciously conducted several of the numbers. "The concert in December consisted of Christmas music which thrilled the heart. Each program had a narration." LEE LL E RI OY ENT Grant Stake (Utah), Ninth Ward Achieves 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching for Eighteenth Year, March 12, 1969 Beginning sixth from left on front row: Evelyn M. Edrington, Education Counselor, Grant Ninth Ward Relief Society; Erma Allen, President; Leona N. Widdowson, Homemaking Counselor; Dora Peck, Secretary-Treasurer. The sisters wearing corsages are visiting teacher supervisors. Visiting teacher message leader is Lucille Peck. Marjorie Y. Nelson, President, Grant Stake Relief Society, reports: "'The Ninth Ward of our stake honored the visiting teachers of the ward at their annual birthday celebration. These sisters have achieved 100 per cent visiting teaching for the eighteenth year. "A narrative written by Ruth C. Owen, entitled 'Reflections From the Past,' was enjoyed by all. It depicted the divine origin, glorious purpose, and the inspired growth of the visiting teacher program. "All visiting teachers were honored, but special recognition was given to the supervisors and to those who have served for more than forty years." Cumorah Mission, Utica Branch (New York) Relief Society Presents Bazaar December 1968 Left to right: Marjorie Laffere, President, Utica Branch Relief Society; Dorothy Mercer, Homemaking Counselor; Barbara Moore, homemaking leader. Mary S. Bankhead, Supervisor, Cumorah Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A successful bazaar was held in the Utica Branch despite a heavy snowstorm. The display pictured is the popular Christmas booth. "Through the bazaar, the sisters had an opportunity to display their homemaking talents to the people of the area. The branch is very active and there is a close spirit of sisterhood in it." 534 2 LTT TPT meget yeti Ton HNTB ETAT SHED. (ACU ee one re A MISSION OF LOVE BRINGING TRUTH AND LIGHT TD ® CT a a aa July 1969 Mount Ogden Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents 'Female Relief Society of Nauvoo," March 6, 1969 Front row, left to right: Ethel Lewis, Homemaking Counselor, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; Edvenia J. Malan, President; Louise Knight, Education Counselor. Brethren left to right: James Jacobs as John Taylor; Dean Gardner as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Delmar Dickson as Willard Richards. Remaining sisters are officers of wards and stake. Sister Malan reports: ''For our birthday celebration we presented a very successful program regarding the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo. "The script for the program was written by Ethel Lewis, using as a reference, History of Relief Society. The portrayal of the characters and the costuming were excellent, and the program carried a definite theme and feeling of authenticity." Lorin Farr Stake (Utah) Presents Nursing Program for Both Brethren and Sisters Front row, center: Maxine Marshall, Counselor, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, in charge of nursing program; directly behind her: Marilyn Page, nurse in charge of the program. Second couple from left: Stake President and Sister Lawrence D. Olphin. Remaining brethren and sisters are husband and wife graduates of the program. Virga W. Swenson, President, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Our Relief Society nursing program, under the direction of seven registered nurses, has now graduated ninety-seven people. "It was the feeling of the board that the brethren could benefit from this program, not only in assisting the wife, but also in case it was the wife who should be ill. 'We attribute much of the success in this program to the cooperation of the priesthood authorities. Several of the high councilmen and their wives are among the husband and wife teams who have successfully completed the course."' Reseda Stake (California) Relief Society Presents '""Some Enchanted Evening," February 22, 1969 Members of the Reseda Stake Relief Society Board, left to right: Marjorie Rose, cultural refinement class leader; Nancy Waldvogel, Homemaking Counselor; Ida Ellis, President; Helen Nichols, Education Counselor; Nina Funk, Secretary-Treasurer; Ada Steenhoek, social relations class leader; Margaret Martell, Magazine representative; Elaine Lundberg, spiritual living class leader; Betty Whiting, organist; Janell Johns; homemaking leader; Barbara Udy, chorister. Sister Ellis reports: ''One of the most successful fund-raising events we have held in our stake was 'Some Enchanted Evening,' the theme for a prime rib dinner. "Talented musicians from the stake played during the dinner hour and after dinner, entertainment was provided by professionals from the Los Angeles area. There were 336 guests present.'' 536 STR BR TAY RAT OR OT LSE se ETS nT em ~aTeele Otaere eT, July 1969 Brigham City Stake (Utah), Brigham City Third Ward Honors Sisters Over Eighty Years Old March 19, 1969 Afton H. Olsen, President, Brigham City Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Third Ward of our stake celebrated the birthday of Relief Society in a most unique and thoughtful way. All sisters over eighty years of age were honored at the celebration. "The honored sisters were presented with a corsage and a profile portrait. The portraits were done by Carol A. Phillips. Mary P. Reeder, chairman for the celebration, was responsible for reading and writing the life sketches of the honored sisters. There are twenty-eight sisters in the ward over eighty years old, and eighteen of them were in attendance. "Marilyn B. Miller is president of the Brigham City Third Ward Relief Society. South Summit Stake (Utah, Peoa Ward Honors Sisters for Long, Compassionate Service to Relief Society, February 11, 1969 Left to right: Edith Barnum, eighty years of age; Eva N. Laughlin, eighty-nine; Jane M. Walker, eighty six. "Afton H. Marchant, President, South Summit Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Peoa Ward honored the birthday anniversaries of three of the eldest sisters in the ward. They have each given many long years of compassionate service to Relief Society, and have served many years as visiting teachers. Sister Walker served as president of the ward for over twenty years. "A lovely luncheon was served, complete with birthday cake. Corsages were presented to the sisters and songs reminiscent of earlier days were sung by Margaret Thomas."' Mesa Stake (Arizona), Mesa Thirteenth Ward Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts March 29, 1968, February 27, 1969 Ada J. Jones, President, Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Thirteenth Ward of our stake has presented two concerts featuring the Singing Mothers. The theme of the first was 'Such Lovely Things.' The second told the story of our country in music, and was themed, 'Our Heritage.' "Narrating 'Our Heritage' was La Veryl B. Payne. Ida S. Church directed the group, Rae B. Dodge was pianist, and Gerda H. Flake was organist. "Both of these concerts reflected careful planning and devoted rehearsing. The music was very lovely and enjoyed by all who attended." 538 ETT = i Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING | The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 97—Eternal Marriage Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 131:1-4; 132.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman should understand the truth that a marriage to endure after this life must be performed in a house of the Lord, and seek to attain an eternal marriage. INTRODUCTION In conversation with Elder William Clayton, the Prophet Joseph Smith told him what is now recorded in verses 1 through 4 of Section 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants pertaining to marriage. Section 132 is the revelation on celestial marriage, which includes plural marriage as well as eternal marriage. It is believed that the revelation on plural marriage was received as early as 1831, but Section 132 was committed to writing on July 12, 1843. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, p. Xxxi [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Inasmuch as the Lord by revelation has withdrawn the prac- 540 tice of plural marriage, it is only necessary to mention the principle in this lesson. (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, pp. 213-18.) It is well to remember that this practice is proper only when the Lord commands it. (D&C 49:15- 17; Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 323-24; Jac. 2:27-30.) The penalty for practicing plural marriage by a member of the Church today is excommunication, the same as for others who commit adultery. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 280.) © Exaltation in the celestial kingdom requires eternal marriage but does not require plural marriage. In the revelation regarding eternal marriage, the expression "if a man marry a wife," expression 26 IN THE BEGINNING Marriage ig or Is 2: 18, 29. Lesson Department PURPOSE OF MARRIAGE There are some Churches Which Maintain that celibacy IS sanctioned by God. Ne of these Churches a 4¥S of the Shou] Latter-day Saint young m Or wo Marry SOMeone Who js ota Member of July 1969 The chances for conversion and the consequent happiness in marriage are far greater if the conversion is made before marriage. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 132.) The Lord has said that parents should teach their children correct principles to shape their lives for happiness. (D&C 68:25- 28.) The mother has a wonderful opportunity in the home to impress upon her children the importance of Tt within the Church. Class Discussion How and when should a mother prepare her children for temple marriage? PURPOSE OF LIFE To work out one's salvation in this life and in the life to come is the paramount purpose of the earth life. This means that the purpose of God in creating man is to grant to him, through obedience, the greatest measure of salvation—eternal life. (Moses 1:39.) As man is the child of God, so also man may, by obedience to law, become as the Father. (D&C 132:20-22.) The blessing of eternal life comes to those who fulfill all the laws and commandments. OBEDIENCE TO THE GOSPEL The gospel of Jesus Christ provides the way whereby the sons: t and daughters of God may return. To his presence in the celestial kingdom. Baptism is the gate to that kingdom. (D&C 76:50-53.) There are degrees in the celestial kingdom, therefore, members of his Church should seek for the highest degree. 542 In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order or priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage]; And if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase. (D&C 131:1-4.) The new and everlasting covenant is the gospel of Jesus Christ. There are many covenants within the gospel and marriage for eternity is one of them. To be fully obedient to the gospel involves full discipleship. ETERNAL MARRIAGE After a couple have received the higher ordinances of the priesthood endowment in the temple, they are qualified to receive eternal marriage. Only by the keys of the priesthood held by the President of the Church, who delegates these powers to others, may this union be solemnized. (D&C 132:7.) The blessings available to those who marry for eternity are these:.. They shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever. (D&C 132:19.) ETERNAL INCREASE In Section 131 and in Section 132, verse 19, the Lord has told us that if faithful to the eternal marriage vows, the blessing of "increase," and "a continuation of the seeds forever and ever" will be received. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the following information on this subject: The children born to an exalted man and woman after the resurrection are spirit beings. The parents are tangible, resurrected persons referred to in the Scriptures as having spiritual bodies; that is, with spirit element in their veins rather than blood as in mortal bodies. (D&C 88:27; Al. 11:45; Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 374.) THE DEATHS When resurrected beings are exalted they receive "eternal lives," the power of eternal increase, which is the Opposite of the "deaths," or the lack of such power. (D&C 132:24-25,) Only exalted beings will be Married in the future life because they proved themselves while on the earth in being faithful to all things required of them. (D&C 132:12.) In the following verses the conditions in the world to come are explained, having reference to those who receive marriage for eternity and to others who did not subscribe to the full law: Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me nor by my word, and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world and she with him, their covenant and Marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound Lesson Department by any law when they are out of the world. Therefore, when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven, which angels are ministering Servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory. For these angels did not abide my law; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain Separately and Singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever. (D&C 132:15-17.) If there are some who may believe that their Marriage is in effect beyond the grave, although not solemnized by God's priesthood in the temple, the following verse corrects this belief: And again, verily | Say unto you, if a man marry a wife, and make a covenant with her for time and for all eternity, if that covenant Is not by me or by received there, because the angels and the gods are apwhom they cannot pass; they cannot, therefore, inherit my glory; for my house is a house of order, saith the Lord God. (D&C 132:18.) Class Discussion How does our desire to project our family relationship into eternity motivate our desire to attain the celestial kingdom? MARRIAGE IN THE RESURRECTION In reference to a question concerning Marriage of a woman to that "in the neither marry, resurrection they nor are given in 543 July 1969 marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven." (Matt. 22:30.) What did the Lord mean when he said that there was no marrying in the resurrection? He was speaking of the Sadducees who had rejected the gospel and its teachings about eternal marriage. As far as they were concerned, there was no Matrying or giving in marriage in heaven. But if the persons are worthy to be married for eternity, and the opportunity does not come while on the earth, the opportunity for this blessing will come in the world ahead. The necessary ordinances may, for instance, be performed on the earth in a temple by proxy. What of Latter-day Saint daughters who have died without being sealed to a man in the temple? Elder Melvin J. Ballard gave this counsel: Now, then, what of your daughters who have died and have not been sealed to some man? Unless it is made known to you, let their case rest. They will make known to you the agreements and contracts they have mutually entered into. The sealing power shall be forever and ever with this Church, and provisions will be made for them. We cannot run faster than the Lord has provided the way. Their blessings and privileges will come to them in due time. In the meantime, they are safe. (Bryant S. Hinckley, Sermons and Missionary Services of Melvin J. Ballard, p. 260.) Elder Ballard also gives an answer to the same question concerning little children who, of course, did not receive the sealing ordinance of marriage: I lost a son six years of age, and I saw him a man in the spirit world after his death, and I saw how he had exercised his own freedom of choice and would obtain of his own will and volition a companionship, and in due time to him, and all those who are worthy of it, shall 544 come all of the blessings and sealing privileges of the house of the Lord. Do not worry over it. They are safe; they are all right. (Ibid.) What about young men and women who die without the opportunity for marriage in the temple? Elder Harold B. Lee has said: You young women advancing in years who have not yet accepted a proposal of marriage, if you make yourselves worthy and ready to go to the house of the Lord and have faith in this sacred principle, even though the privilege of marriage does not come to you now, the Lord will reward you in due time and no blessing will be denied you. You are not under obligation to accept a proposal from someone unworthy of you for fear you will fail of your blessings. Likewise you young men who may lose your lives in a terrible conflict before you have had an opportunity for marriage, the Lord knows the intents of your hearts and in his own time will reward you with opportunities made possible through temple ordinances instituted in the Church for that purpose. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, p. 132.) Many women join the Church although their husbands may not. What of them? Salvation is an individual matter. If one party to the marriage remains true to the covenant of baptism and the opportunity for eternal marriage is not possible, then the righteous desires of that person's heart will eventually be realized. Class Discussion In view of the foregoing discussion, why do you think the gospel of Jesus Christ is just? BLESSINGS OF TEMPLE MARRIAGE -Experience has shown that those who marry in the temple generally find success in their marriage. Elder John A. Widtsoe gave the following nine reasons for a temple marriage: 1. It is the Lord's desire and will. 2. It is in harmony with the sacred nature of the marriage covenant. 3. It tends to insure marital happiness. 4. It permits the association of husband - and wife for time and for all eternity. 5. It provides the eternal possession of children and family relationship. 6. It acts as a restraint against evil. 7. It furnishes the opportunity for endless [eternal] progression. 8. It. Places the: family under the. Protection of the power of the priesthood. 9. It provides a God-like destiny for human beings. (John A. Widtsoe, Evidences and Reconciliations, pp. 231-36.) HAPPY HOMES The performance of the marrlage ceremony in the temple is not sufficient in itself to make a happy home. President David O. McKay has given six elements which lie at the basis of true home building: 1. Let us substitute the present tendency toward a low view of marriage with the lofty view which God gives RO woe. 2. Teach the young of both sexes in the responsibilities and ideals of marriage so that they may realize that * marriage involves obligation and is not an arrangement to be_ terminated at pleasure.... 3. Instruct young girls in the fundamental arts of housekeeping, so that when responsibilities of wifehood come, they may be free from the difficulties and _ perplexities which arise from ignorance and inexperience. 4. Marriages should be solemnized, as far as possible, in the house of God.... 5. Keep religion in home life.... 6. Teach the young that the foundations of a happy home are laid before even the bride and bridegroom kneel at the marriage altar. (David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, pp. 478-79.) Lesson Department IMPLEMENTATION In the premortal world the plan of salvation was formed whereby the spirit sons and daughters of God could receive an earth life necessary for eternal progression. The relationship between God and his children was a parent-child relationship because his spint children were born of a Heavenly Father and Heavenly Mother. (Harold B. Lee, Youth and the Church, pp.. 126-27.) The eternal round of spirit children being born to exalted beings and the opportunity to reach the heights of exaltation by an earth life require marriage for eternity by mortals. Faithfulness to eternal marriage covenants is a means of proving oneself as a part of the eternal plan. Marriage was instituted by God for the purpose of bringing to earth life his spirit children for this probationary state. Exaltation is possible only to male and female together. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 276.) Marriage is so essential to salvation in the highest sense that provision is made in the gospel that those who do not have the opportunity in life for eternal marriage may have the blessing of temple ordinances by proxy. Latter-day Saint parents have the responsibility of teaching their children the principles of the gospel in order that they may be prepared for marriage in the temple. They know that success in marriage is enhanced greatly by eternal marriage and that only when sealed by the priesthood of God can contracts remain unbroken when men are dead. (D&C 132:13-14.) 545 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 1—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To realize that when we serve our fellow beings, we are in the service of our God. A few years ago a group was discussing the meaning of service. One said, "I'm a business man. Everything I manufacture and sell is to help others have a better life." A teacher said, "My whole day is devoted to helping others develop." A mother said, "I gave birth and thus life to a number of people and I serve them." A lawyer said, "A public servant is well named. An elected official serves others." Centuries before this, King Benjamin called all his people together to teach them the will of God. In his memorable address he said: And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God. (Mosiah 2:17.) What was he saying about service in this verse and the following verses of his speech? Did he mean what the businessman, the teacher, the lawyer, even the mother did, or was he speaking of something beyond the general goodness that people 546 may extend to. One another and for which they often receive remuneration and other earthly rewards? Jesus said: Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? (italics added.) And then will I profess unto them: I never knew you... 3 Ne. 14:21-23.) And again Jesus said, "For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same?" (Matt. 5:46.) In these teachings is God -not calling us to a more profound meaning of loving service? Is it enough just to take care of others we love? Do not sinners do the same? In his early instructions to the Relief Society, Joseph Smith said that one of the purposes of the society was in "... Searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants.... (History of Relief Society, 1842-1966, p. 18.) Moreover, Jesus taught it was to be done so "That thine alms may be in secret...." (Matt. 6:4.) Again Joseph Smith - said, ".. Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, p. 25 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) Our service to our fellow men, then, has special meanings. It is to be a part of serving God with our "whole souls" (Mosiah 2:21), to follow Jesus into total Lesson Department righteousness, and do the "... Will of my [our] Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 7:21.) We should love and serve our enemies. We should search out those in need. We are not only to attend to their physical needs but to help them find the kingdom of God, to keep his commandments "... That they might rejoice and be filled with love towards God and all men." (Mosiah 2:4.) We are to help them lift their lives to greater goodness, to help them achieve salvation. As we serve our fellow men, then, with these added dimensions, we are in the service of our God helping to bring about his multiple, great purposes. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 1—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household." (Prov. 31:27) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show the need for family preparedness and the role of the Latter-day Saint woman in achieving it. INTRODUCTION Have any of us ever known a period of time when our leaders have not counseled, advised, and even urged us to prepare our homes and families that we might be self-sustaining in a time of need? The answer would certainly have to be in the negative. Why, then, are many of us so reluctant or so indifferent, or even so negligent that we fail to heed this counsel? Is it because we have lulled ourselves into a state of false security by using excuses—excuses which 547 July 1969 we can usually find if we are looking for them? WHAT ARE OUR EXCUSES? 1. That we are not converted. Can we justify ourselves when we accept some of the teachings of our leaders and reject others? 2. That we hear the counsel but we are not ready to heed it. Can we attain salvation without working for it? 3. That there is no immediate need. Illness, accident, strikes, destructive weather (earthquakes, tornadoes, etc.), and other disasters could occur at any time. 4. That we are protected by the Church storehouses. These supplies are only designed to meet needs that go beyond what the family is able to do for itself. 5. That we have inadequate storage space. If there is a will, there is a way to overcome this problem. 6. That spoilage of stored food results in a waste of money and effort. Do we criticize the program rather than the method when unwise planning and improper storing are responsible for our losses? 7. That we cannot afford the extra expense. Careful planning and _ wise manipulation of income will overcome this difficulty. WHY SHOULD WE BE PREPARED? If there were no other reason than that our Church leaders have so counseled us, it would be the best reason in the world for obeying. In a talk given at a Brigham Young University Leadership Week, Elder Harold B. Lee made the following statement: The only safety and security there is in this Church is in listening to the words that come from the prophets of the Lord, as if from the mouth of the Lord himself. And they have spoken; they have told us to prepare, and it is not for us to argue whether we should or whether 548 we should not. We have the prophets today telling us what our responsibility is here and now.... God help us not to turn deaf ears, but go out while the harvest is yet possible and build on a foundation such that when the rains descend, and the floods come, and the winds blow and beat on the house, our house will have stone walls. (BYU Leadership Week, June 16, 1953.) President Tanner told of a conversation he had with a member of the Church regarding the importance of family preparedness. This person said "Well, you know, if I knew that this was going to happen next year, if that is when the emergency is going to take place, I would get mine in" —meaning the year's supply. President Tanner replied, "If I were you I would wait for the emergency.... You remind me of the man who was complaining that he had been paying fire insurance for the last twenty years and he had never got anything out of it." (Welfare Conference, October 1, 1966.) We pay fire insurance, certainly not hoping that some day our houses will burn down. We pay insurance on our lives hoping that we will long. Outlive the maturing of the _ policies. We take other precautions which we hope will insure us a happy and profitable life here on earth, and then we endanger it all by not heeding the warnings and counsel of our leaders regarding this most important phase of our living—preparedness. President J. Reuben Clark gave us some wise and sound advice when he said: First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments.... [Second,] Let us avoid debt as we would a plague.... Let us straightly and strictly lve within our incomes, and save a little. Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. (Conference Report, April 1937, p. 26.) WHAT IS THE LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMAN'S ROLE? In some instances women manage most of the family expenditures. Home management has become a business in itself. This intensifies our responsibility as Latter-day Saint wives and mothers in this important preparedness program. We need, first of all, to be entirely converted to it, and then we should —if we have not already done Lesson Department so—proceed in a systematic and orderly way tomake the necessary preparation, as our incomes will permit, without borrowing or going into debt. CONCLUSION An increased sense of security and a deep feeling of peace fill our hearts when we know that we are obeying the counsel of the prophets of the Lord and when we know that by doing so we can take care of those we love in any emergency. Few of us have known an extremity of want or suffering, but those who have experienced even minor emergencies recognize the wisdom of being prepared. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 1—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 1 Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study. 1969-70, Lessons 6-7.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out a mother's opportunity to teach the need and benefits of complying with the restraints of the immutable laws of the universe. INTRODUCTION If I were asked to name what I considered to be the most outstanding trend of modern life, particularly among the young people, I think I would say it is the rebellion against the restraints and conventions of our present life, whether those restraints and conventions affect our physical, intellectual, or spiritual activities and being. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 6.) 549 July 1969 These words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., spoken as early as 1933, reveal a situation which has become increasingly evident through succeeding years and is a vivid reality today. They lead us into the general discussion theme of this _ lesson, which will quote liberally from lessons 6 and 7 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. This companion lesson will discuss restraints as they relate to the individual, emphasizing the need for restraints in society and in one's personal relationships. UNREST AND OPPOSITION The attitude of unrest and opposition to established institutions, referred to by President Clark and so apparent throughout the world today, is giving parents, educators, and civic leaders much concern. They are considering probable causes and searching for remedies. Existing conditions convince us_ that no easy answer is available and that no generalization is adequate for the complex condition involving so many aspects. President Clark states: Some may say this rebellion shows merely a wish for greater liberty; others may consider it a destructive demand for complete license. As frequently happens, neither extreme view seems wholly right. The truth probably lies somewhere between. ([bid.) A list of probable factors related to this attitude of revolt follows. President Clark has suggested the first three, others have been added, and still others may be suggested. Our concern in 550 this discussion -is to discover some areas where the home may be abdicating important responsibilities. Question for Discussion In your opinion, which of the following probable factors seem most likely to be responsible for this _personal revolt? Discuss as time permits. 1. A general desire for more liberty. 2. A destructive demand for complete license—freedom from restraint. 3. A personal weakness which may cause an individual to want others to become as he is or to share his point of view. 4. A lack of constructive objectives that give purpose to life. A desire to be different. A wish to escape responsibility. A basic lack of understanding of the value of law and order and of the need for personal restraint even in situations where changes and dissent may be justified. 8. A sincere mistrust by many idealistic young people of what they consider to be the hypocrisy and artificiality of accepted standards. Revolt for this reason, if recognized for the idealism it is and properly channeled, can be transformed into a force for good. NA Points to Consider In the search for cause and cure, may we not justly turn the searchlight upon the homes from which these individuals —these restless resisters of law—have come? We may ask such pertinent questions as these:; 1. Is it possible that restrictive demands within the home have been excessive, or has there been a complete lack of restraint? 2. Is it possible that an understanding acceptance within the home has been lacking so self-esteem has not been developed? 3. Have parents set the example of restraint by having definite life objectives? Have they motivated the children to do likewise? A. Have the children been given freedoms in those areas where individuality is commendable? b. Have they been guided so as to be able to distinguish between that which is merely "different" and that which is fundamental? 4. Have the parents done too much for the children, thus depriving them of the strength and growth that responsibility develops? 5. Has the home neglected to teach the need for law and the fact that obedience to law and order brings freedom? 6. Have faith in God and general religious training been absent in the home? RESTRAINTS—WHY? Certain familiar virtues, when developed and exercised, make us good citizens and dependable, upright individuals. These virtues are basic to constructive private life and have been found to be essential to an orderly society as a whole. We may enumerate some of them in such affirmative terms as_ honesty, respect for life and property of others, or in the negatively expressed commandments of the Decalogue, such as, thou shalt not kill, nor steal, nor commit adultery. President Clark states: These virtues are named _ because, looking at mankind as a whole and at the Christian nations particularly, these characteristics seem to be basic to their civilization. They seem to be equally basic to any form of orderly society of which we can conceive. For if every person murdered and robbed and lied and loafed and caroused, if there were an indiscriminate association of the sexes, no ordered society could exist; and without such society we have scant ground for hoping and no ground for believing, that humanity could escape becoming merely animal. ([bid.) Discussion Statements If the foregoing statements are sound, organized society must esLesson Department tablish some restraints and some conventions to assist in the enforcement of the restraints. President Clark states: Certainly some conventions and restraints must be retained; it is equally certain that others might be changed or abolished. The restraint which forbids murder may not be safely abandoned; the convention which prescribes the difference between dinner jacket and full evening dress might be forgotten. ([bid.) RESTRAINTS—WHEN AND HOW MUCH? How much restraint and what type of conventions needed for an orderly social unit to persist may depend upon (1) the persons or group of people affected, (2) the state of their civilization and righteousness. President Clark declares: The greater the civilization and righteousness which a person or a_ people shall possess, the less will be the need of restraint and convention. (Ibid.) Implementation 1. Relate the foregoing statement of President Clark with the following occasion and statement: When the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked how he governed the thousands of converts into the Church, he replied, ".. I teach the people correct principles and they govern themselves...." (Cited by John Taylor, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 57-58 {hereinafter referred to as JD]).) 2. Relate this principle to parental training within the home, answering this question: Can children, generally, be expected to perform better than their teaching or their knowledge? INHERENT IN ALL CREATION Speaking of universal laws, President Clark states:. The great laws governing the universe—physical, intellectual, and 551 July 1969 spiritual—are coexistent with that universe as known to us: they are self-executory, that is, they enforce themselves, no one needs to enforce them; they operate independently of man's will, consent, or desire; they operate impartially and universally; every creature, human or animal, every other created thing, is subject to the applicable law. It follows that whether we wish or whether we do not wish restraint, yet restraint is inherent in all creation.. Efforts to ignore restraint, or to evade it, or to destroy it, will meet with failure. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 7.) The physical world is fully controlled by law; if it were not, it could not and would not exist. Heat, light, electricity, what we call matter—air, water, earth— all are subject to and controlled by law. Our bodies being matter are equally subject to great physical laws from none of which is there any escape. (Jbid., lesson 6.) Question How can a mother make use of her knowledge of these immutable laws in the training of small children? President Clark suggests some practical. Illustration for the operation of these physical laws. He continues: If we walk off a cliff, we fall. It is immaterial whether we know the cliff is there, or whether we know we will fall if we walk off, or whether we desire to fall, or whether we step off the cliff by one foot or jump off by five feet; the result is the same and inevitable. If we touch a hot stove, we are burned; ignorance of its heat, or an accidental touching, or our own preferences, or our lack of knowledge that hot stoves burn—all are immaterial. If we lay hold of a copper wire, heavily charged with electricity, we are killed; again neither ignorance nor accident nor preference will avail us. Acid burns our flesh, water drowns us, poison gas kills us. These results all come from the operation of laws which are immutable; they execute themselves; they do not depend either upon our knowledge of their existence, or upon our consent to their operation, or upon our desire that they 552 manifest themselves; the penalty inevitably follows the violation. (Ibid.) Discussion Questions How may the relationship between the mother and child be affected if the mother (a) merely gives a _ negative command, (b) explains that a certain action will bring a certain result? Give examples. ' How would you answer the older child who asks: "But is there no exception? Does one always have to experience the penalty for violating the law?" One mother's reply: There is no exception unless some other law intervenes to. Soften or eliminate the penalty. For example, if a person wears asbestos gloves, he may be spared the burning effect of the hot stove. If a person steps off the cliff in a parachute, he may land safely upon the ground. The child, thus, gradually learns through experience and the verbal guidance of parent or other persons to walk freely and safely through many of the hazards of the physical world. He must, however, also learn—that this is a gradual process—that the effects of many physical laws must not be learned through personal experience, if he is to survive physically. He must not shoot himself to learn that a bullet shot from a gun can kill. From his close associates, especially the mother, the small child learns of many laws vicariously. He later may seek other authoritative sources. Question How can the mother establish a relationship that will build confidence in her judgment and admonition? Discuss briefly. THE IMMEDIATE VERSUS THE DELAYED PENALTY The penalty for violation of the immutable laws may be immediate, as in the foregoing examples, or they may be delayed for months or even many years. It is not difficult for adults to know and to understand why this is so. It is, however, not always easy for them to keep the effects sufficiently in mind that they are willing to heed the warning effects of the law. It is far easier to comply with the restraints of the law when the penalty is in immediate sight. Would many persons yield to the habit of smoking if the possible cancer result were always an immediate penalty? For children, it is even more difficult to maintain interest in a far-away penalty. Discussion Statement The more mature a person becomes, the more willing he is to comply with the restraints of physical laws where the results are not immediate. There are innumerable laws in the physical world about which we know very little at present. It is to discover these laws and their effects that research science is making such great effort today, in extensive areas of life. Muchhasbeen discovered already. We have centered our discussion, thus far, upon the immutable laws which affect our physical beings. "... It is inconceivable," LIFE'S AFTERNOON Lesson Department states President Clark, "that affairs of the mind and spirit of men, embracing the moral and spiritual world, are not also controlled by law." (Ibid.) (This aspect of the laws which affect our lives will be treated more fully in the succeeding lesson.) We also have focused our discussion, thus far, upon the effects of violating specific natural laws. We must not overlook the truth that obedience to the law brings affirmative rewards. President Clark phrases this idea beautifully in the following paragraph: On the other hand the law operates just as certainly in its blessings as in its penalties. If we avoid the cliff, we do not fall; if we do not touch the stove, we are not burned; if we leave the charged electric wire alone, we are not injured. So in intellectual and spiritual matters: if we do not offend, we suffer no injury. But in intellectual and spiritual matters, obedience to law brings' not only the blessings of mere absence - of penalty, but it brings also, in every case, increased power and strength, it brings growth and development, it brings us nearer to the ultimate goal pronounced by the Master: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." [Matt. 5:48.] And this truth is the wonder and the glory of our intellectual and spiritual lives. (Ibid, lesson 7.) For Home Doing Make opportunities to remind yourself and to teach your children that obeying the restraining laws of the universe is to walk the road of freedom—free from the penalties that violation brings, free to enjoy the rich blessings of obedience. No afternoon of life is colorless; All the brilliance of the setting sun Reflects the golden memories of youth, And gilds the pathway toward the evening. —Grace B. Wilson 553 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section One By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free.'' _The Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To make clear that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty. MUSIC uBianik" from Ma Viast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. " Through the ages as men have striven to be "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon...." (2 Ne. 3:26) they have yearned for personal and political freedoms. In the great nationalistic movements of the 19th century, artists, writers, and musicians did not really reflect the conditions of their time as much as they wrote on what they wished conditions were to be. Bedrich Smetana, in his later life, composed a series of six tone poems that beautifully expressed his love and hopes for his country. "The Moldau" is the best known of the six. It is a musical description of the mighty river by that name which flows through the land. "Blanik" is the final poem of the series, it paints the hill located in the mid-southern region of Bohemia around which an old legend is built—a legend that tells of sleeping knights that will awaken to serve the country in time of need. Smetana has used as a theme for this work the old Hussite hymn, Ye Are the Warriors of God. He wrote, "On the basis of this melody will develop the resurrection of the Czech people, its future happiness and glory." 554 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON At its most basic level, man's freedom to choose, his "agency" is fundamental to all that he does. We are told in 2 Ne. 2:26 that the redemption of Christ makes men ". Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon...." The selections which we are considering this month help us appreciate the range of choices we can exercise in establishing meaningful concepts of liberty. "THE HIND AND THE PANTHER" John Dryden's lines from his long poem entitled "The Hind and the Panther" emphasize the danger of trying to coerce others into a belief which matches our own: The Hind and the Panther Of all the tyrannies of human kind The worst is that which persecutes the mind. Let us but weigh at what offence we strike, "Tis but because we cannot think alike. In punishing of this we overthrow The laws of nations and of nature too. Beasts are the subjects of tyrannic sway, When still the stronger on the weaker prey; Man only of a softer mould is made, Not for his fellows' ruin but their aid; Created kind, beneficent and free, The noble image of the Deity. The final line of this excerpt— with its echo of Genesis 1:27— is intended to make explicit what has already been hinted at throughout the poem: only that man who remembers in whose image he is made can be expected to understand that Lesson Department coerced freedom of conscience is neither necessary nor beneficial. John Dryden (1631-1700) was one of the most versatile of English poets. He seemed to be at home in dramatic, satiric, narrative, and didactic poetry. He was also one of the greatest of English translators and one of the most accomplished writers of English prose. In 1686 Dryden was converted to Roman Catholicism and "The Hind and the Panther," his most famous religious poem, is a defense of his new faith. The Hind apparently represents the Roman Catholic Church, while the Panther stands for the Church of England. Discussion Question If most of us know that man "convinced against his will is of the same opinion still," why do we still try to force conformity? "THE INDISPENSABLE OPPOSITION" Walter Lippmann (1889) was a member of the famous Class of 1910 at Harvard University. Since his graduation, he has had a distinguished career as a journalist, editor, and author. For members of the Church, Mr. Lippmann's insistence on the necessity of opposition strikes an immediately responsive chord. In the second chapter of 2 Nephi we find the following lines: For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so... Righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. (2 Ne. 2:11.) In reading Lippman's "The Indispensable Opposition" we 555 July 1969 must distinguish at once between that opposition which stems from mere contentiousness and that opposition which is creative. The Book of Mormon warns us against contention in the eleventh chapter of 3 Nephi, verse 29: For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another. One of the cues as to what is essentially wrong with contention is given in the phrase "with anger." Too often our opposition is expressed in emotional, exaggerated charges and counter-charges. In such a statewe are not receptive to the whisperings of the Spirit. The Holy Ghost is not able to penetrate the wall of strong feeling which we have erected. We haven't ears to hear the truth. A dispute is not even a detour toward truth; it becomes an end in itself, a dead end. We quickly become less concerned with finding answers than we are in winning arguments. How rarely anyone is listening in an argument. We wait impatiently while our opponent speaks so we can stun him with our side as soon as he finishes. The opposition Mr. Lippmann finds "indispensable" has little to do with mere disputation. Rather, it is the presentation and consideration of alternatives that test and refine our own beliefs. Truth has nothing to fear from error and _ since the very word "definition" suggests pointing out that something is not as well as what it is, we can focus and sharpen 556 our perceptions by contrast as well as comparison. It must be remembered, however, that Mr. Lippmann is talking primarily about secular truth. That to which the Spirit has testified to us is not illuminated by error. Discussion Question How can we usually tell when a fruitful discussion is turning into a fruitless disputation? "WHAT IS LIBERTY?" Woodrow Wilson, twentyseventh President of the United States, in his essay "What is Liberty" presents an attractive picture of a harmonious society in which each part is adjusted to and balanced against every other one. It is important to remember, in reacting positively to such a concept, that such an adjustment might be temporarily attained where the basis for the social group is almost wholly evil, that' is, men are mere cogs in a machine. "ANIMAL FARM" George Orwell's "Animal Farm" is a convincing and devastating satire on a communist attempt to make "all animals equal." There are few endings in English fiction as effective as the concluding paragraph of this novel. What is most heartrending is that, to the exploited animals who are gazing in astonishment at the violent argument going on between the pigs and men, whatever the outcome of the arguments, they are the TO RELIEF SOCIETY AND OTHER CHORISTERS: Certainly, you are well advised to Strive to raise the cultural tevel of your group by using the songs of Schubert, Brahms, or others of the Masters whenever you can. But if...: You fail to find the precise mesSage you want to convey— welcoming home a returning missionary, honoring the Visiting Teachers, celebrating a temple Marriage, or exhorting to genealogical and temple work, Praising the Relief Society Organization, or dozens of other UNIQUELY L. D. S. Messages,— we suggest you consult our catalog of SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS, written by Mormons to fill such special needs. Why not order enough catalogs for all the wards in your stake? They're FREE. Write to Tel. 277-7331 1365 East 4800 South St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 Vilate R. McAllister, Prop. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is ina handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's 'first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durabie volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 Zone 3 fan - PESERET. And2 __ a WRews PrREss 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Lesson Department real losers. Tyranny, finally, always wears the same face and has the same victims. Discussion Question What is the basic difference between the harmony and adjustment we seek in an organization such as the Relief Society and that sought after in the grouping described in "Animal Farm'? OTHER POEMS Poems by Henry David Thoreau and James Oppenheim stress the importance of peace of mind and personal integrity in the Meaning we can individually give to liberty. Of course we must understand that the Latter-day Saint definition of liberty is in accord with the Lord's definition of liberty. Thoreau's "Independence" is as follows: My life more civil is and free Than any civil polity. Ye Princes, keep your realms and circumscribed power, Not wide as are my dreams, Nor rich as is this hour. What can ye give which I have not? What can ye take which I have got? Can ye defend the dangerless? Can ye inherit nakedness? To all true wants Time's ear is deaf, Penurious States lend no relief Out of their pelf: But a_ free soul—thank God— Can help itself. Be sure your fate Doth keep apart its state,— Not linked with any band, Even the noblest in the land,— In tended fields with cloth of gold No place doth hold. But is more chivalrous than they and sigheth for a nobler war; are, A finer strain its trumpet rings, A brighter gleam its armour flings. The life that I aspire to live, No man proposeth me; 557, July 1969 No trade upon the street Wears its emblazonry. Along with his friend and mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson, Thoreau believed strongly in a self-reliance which was, _ ultimately, a reliance upon God. The fervor of Thoreau in this poem seems out of place if we do not remember this. It is a little unfair to think of Thoreau as the great rebel in American literature and it is even more unfair to believe that the group of which Thoreau and Emerson were a part — the Transcendentalists — were characterized by personal eccentricity and harsh independence. What all the Transcendentalists insisted upon was the necessity for each person to find out for himself what he believed in. They were sure that men of faith and good will would finally come to essential agreement, since God is the author of all truth but they felt strongly that each person must come to that unity in his own way. In this poem Thoreau tries to reject all the crutches which men have tried to use to avoid facing the truth and establishing a personal liberty based on that truth. James Oppenheim's "The Slave" is equally committed to the necessity for each man to free himself before he can conceive the meaning of liberty. Discussion Question According to the gospel, what is freedom and when is man free? "THE BRIDE COMES TO YELLOW SKY" This selection by Stephen Crane has been praised as an im- 558 plicit satire on an idealized West, as a major example of literary realism; or as simply a memorable story. Crane himself felt it was a "daisy" of a story. It is surely all of these but, in addition, few narratives equal its sensitive probing of the nature of freedom. In Walter Lippmann's article we see the part played by opposition in clarifying liberty. In "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" we are helped to understand the necessary connection between freedom and responsibility. There is no talk of freedom in this tale. The characters we meet are not given to philosophizing, but their instinct is sure. Even Scratchy Wilson, blurred by whiskey and unfaltered rage, is sobered and calmed by Jack Potter's announcement that he is now married. We have PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th *% Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 © Phone: 466-8723 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED... TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service fotal blectric ving UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Lesson Department no reason to believe that Jack will be less effective as a sheriff now that he has a wife but the order which he must now maintain will no longer be part of the game by which he has entertained the town. It is an indication of the refining influence of women in the development of the rugged west. Under the press of responsibility we are tempted to equate freedom with lack of obligations. Children, however, know better. How anxious they are to leave the circumscribed sphere of childhood for the choices of an adult world. If we lose some of a child's careless zest in growing up, we trade it gladly for the enlarged positions of husband, wife, father, mother. As Lehi reminds us, a Garden of Eden universe is static. (2 Ne. 2:22-23.) In the right to choose we prepare ourselves for eternal liberty. Discussion Question Too much responsibility may not prove compatible with freedom. How can we establish the proper balance? BRIGHT ECHO | watched a gull fly low Across the sky, Just where the sunset, Mirrored in the lake, Caused all its beauty To intensify. Alone, where rosy ripples Raced to break, Its bright wings echoed In the lake's reply, Flew its reflected self, In splendor's wake, And seemed the mystic Flight to glorify. —Nona H. Brown 559 101 100 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 560 C by thd Congrallelions Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Herkimer Co., New York Mrs. Campbellene Smith Clements Richmond, Virginia Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Altena Ericksen Larsen Newton, Utah Mrs. Sarah Estella Cordon Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ida May Peach Gillespie Wellington, Utah Mrs. Ester Ada King Loveland Boise, Idaho Mrs. Rose Hannah Cottingham Bushell Orem, Utah Mrs. Phebe R. Davies Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Frances Mary Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Safford, Arizona Mrs. Maritla Davis Brown Provo, Utah Mrs. Hilda Johanna Hansen Johnson Waukegan, Illinois Mrs. Mary Ann Cottom Miller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Keey Court Sutton Coldfield, England Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Collins Parrish Centerville, Utah Mrs. Mary Swan Badger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emmo Jean Dudiey Jones Provo, Utah Mrs. Margaret Duncan Meldrom Raymond, Alberta, Canada 91 90 Mrs. Anna Kristine Peterson Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Margaret Boyle West Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma. Nicholina Borg Young Helena, Montana Mrs. Emma Baumgartner Hasler Midway, Utah Mrs. Johanna Antonia Ibel Holmes Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Slade Rawlins Hutchinson Whittier, California Mrs. Edith Drake Tingey Centerville, Utah Mrs. Abbie Wordsworth Ashcraft Springville, Utah Mrs. Louisa Mauss Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida May Upton Clark New South Wales, Australia Mrs. Elsie Sonberg Cook Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Alice Virginia Smith Freeman Larned, Kansas Mrs. Maud Griffin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rosa Green Kennedy Randolph, Utah Mrs. Mary Louisa Bigler Kohler Midway, Utah Mrs. Rose Rancher Nelson St. George, Utah Mrs. Sharlotte Ann Lemon Pearce El Monte, California Mrs. Lillian Karen Sorensen Perkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Stutzneggar Peterson Manti, Utah Mrs. Ruth Fenn Stevens Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Antonia Van Harten Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Ringel Cooper Ward Logan, Utah —_ LEADERSHIP Today and Yesterday 1. LEADERSHIP AND HUMAN RELATIONS A Handbook for Parents, Teachers and Executives by Neil J. Flinders Improved human relations is one of the world's vital needs today to achieve maximum stability at a time of maximum change. There is a need for unusual and keen leadership at all levels of society, spiritually motivated. Leadership development is the theme of this book. Personal preparation is stressed along with the tools and motivation to accomplish it. Parents... Teachers... Church and government executives can accomplish better leadership through better human relations. Better leaders accomplish more... In less time... For the good of all. $4.95 2. THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY by Robert B. Day Here are stories of leaders whose practice of good human relations led to the successful migration of thousands of people in settling the West. These are stories of a rugged people with determination and courage who battled great odds to protect and nourish = DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 412% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me [] LEADERSHIP AND HUMAN RELATIONS $4.95 (1 THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY $4.95 oialicostipe..............0men. Enclosed find check (7, money order [], charge established account [7]. Reese. C cee cece veteeeesceessessesnscuesneseecsSHARE: eee cece cseece eter seeeseeesZEUS), «gp enoeo0 -20008e R. S. July 69 a treasured faith. $4.95 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Start him right, Gad." To him you ae t. He'll neve W the ci ose catch a ball. And the future will prove the wisdom plan. It'll be there when he needs it for college, or a mission. 7H 4 "" Let your Beneficial Life consultant recommend a plan that grows gf with you and the needs of your family. See him soon! Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah CLIMATE FOR LILIES There is a climate for lilies—in the tomorrows, In a plain, in the fertile loams of the future, In the gray bestowal of rain and intermittent sun, Lavish on the plain. There will be the pale burgundy of buds, The bloom with its trilogy of petals, Its triumvirate of gold. There is that next of summers, With trine of dreams and gold of hopes, And pale, pure satin Spilling gold from heart of gold. Though wind is a wall between, listen... A plea on the prairie strives Over wood fences weathered to pewter, Along the sea with its green, curling leaf of wave: After the winter of want There is a climate for lilies In tomorrow with its tool in hand And a long road leading there. —Dorothy J. Roberts The Cover: Bernkastelkues on the Mosel River, Germany Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Sego Lily in the Desert Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes 561 y ay © Ay ¢ Sum (Z SWE UL ee | have read the serial ''Welcome the Task'' by Michele Bartmess (concluded in the June Magazine) and enjoyed it very much. | have also enjoyed seeing the lovely poems by Pearle M. Olsen (see the Magazine for April and June 1969, and other issues). Sister Olsen's poetry gives me inspiration to keep writing myself. Wilma Morley Despain, Centerfield, Utah | would like to tell you how much | have enjoyed my year's subscription to the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. | have been a member of the Church abouf two years. | am happy that my husband has renewed my subscription to the Magazine, and | hope | don't miss any of the wonderful stories and articles in the future. | first became acquainted with the Magazine by receiving a copy from a Latter-day Saint woman, and now | am always waiting for the next issue to come. | have never enjoyed any Magazine as much as | have this one. Jean Smith, Le Roy, Illinois Welcome Relief Society Magazine! How | have missed you the past three months. Not your fault, | know, but what a joy it was to see you back in my mail box again and to know that once more my friend had arrived—this time three together. How wonderful our membership in Relief Society is. How blessed we are as wives and mothers to have the privilege of walking beside the priesthood of God. How good it is to be guided by the Magazine. | enjoyed the article on the new Giant System in genealogical research. Too often this work is left to a later date. To bring it to life out of the Magazine can help us to. Be mindful of our callings as missionaries for our dead. | find great joy in doing this work (see the Magazine for March 1969). Alvina Shore, Solihull, Warwickshire, England Thanks so much for The Relief Society Magazine. -I always enjoy it and the lessons it gives to us. | want to thank you especially for the story ''Mama and the Teddy Bear" by Lael J. Littke, in the April issue. | am also very hard-headed about accepting help from others, and since reading this story | have been striving to overcome this fault. With the inspiration received from this story, and much help from my Heavenly Father, | feel that | am making progress. It has been a wonderful experience learning to receive, and | thank the Magazine and Sister Littke for helping me to develop this quality. Janie Cooks, Kansas City, Missouri The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of inspiration and aid to many of our young members. Many are attending Relief Society for the first time. We feel the greatest gift one could give a loved one away from home is a subscription to this gem of a Magazine. The articles are adaptable to ail situations and needs. Margaret Perry, President, Junction City Branch Relief Society, Junction City, Kansas The reason | am writing is because | have in my hands a copy of The Relief Society Magazine for January 1968 which was given me by Elder Winston Palmer. As | thumbed through the Magazine | marveled at the rich reading material, the recipes for the kitchen, the stories and reports of activities provided for the sisters of Relief Society. Elder Arturo Arroyo, Los Ralos, Provincia de Tucuman, Argentina 562 The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 August 1969 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 The Law of Tithing LeGrand Richards 570 Literary Contest Announcements 1969 573 \|-dentity—Who You Are Lillian Y. Bradshaw 582 Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed Acting SecretaryTreasurer Fiction 584 The Weather Report A. Dee Applegate 590 In the Way They Should Go Marilyn McMeen Miller 603 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 3 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 562 From Near and Far 579 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 580 Editorial—Leisure for Oneself Marianne C. Sharp 582 Irene Cannon Lloyd Resigns From the General Board 583 Notes to the Field—The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet 609 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 578 Can We Afford Not to be Happy? Celestia J. Taylor 596 Hobby Feature—Siddye B. Smith and Mary Louise Asay 598 A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtub Edythe K. Watson 600 Recipes From the Past—a Box Full of Memories Betty Mazzacano Lesson Department 617 Spiritual Living—Events Associated With the Second Coming of Christ Roy W. Doxey 623 Visiting Teacher Message—The Power of Example Alice Colton Smith 624 Homemaking—''She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out by Night.'" Celestia J. Taylor. 626 Social Relations—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Alberta H. Christensen 631 Cultural Refinement—The Role of Education Bruce B. Clark Poetry Climate for Lilies, Dorothy J. Roberts 561; Mountain Names, Vesta N. Fairbairn 568; To Beauty, Margaret B. Jorgensen 569; Roadside Moment, Summer, Katherine F. Larsen 572; Sarah, Rosemond Purviance 577; Service, Bessie Decker 578; Six of Us, Maxine Jennings 583; Patch Quilt, Hazel Loomis 589; Building a Home, Mary C. Clough 597; Night Fall, Margaret Read 599; Dandelion Alchemy, Norma A. Wrathall 602; Stay, Leora Larsen 608; At the Piano, Bette Saxton 638; Bright Prelude, Margaret B. Shomaker 639. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 563 Law of Tithing Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of The Twelve Apostles Dear Relief Society Sisters: I have been asked to discuss with you the Lord's law of tithing and in doing so, I want to bear my testimony to the truth of this principle. Having served as a branch prestident, three times as a ward bishop, once as a stake president, twice as a mission president, and fourteen years as the Presiding Bishop of the Church, I have had much to do with tithing records, and I am. Convinced that the Lord has not forgotten his promise that if his people would return unto him, he would return unto them. THE LORD'S LAW OF FINANCE | It seems that the Lord had two major objectives in mind in giving to his Church the law of tithing in these Latter-days: First: The most equitable manner of financing his Church, for the burden is distributed according to one's ability to pay, the penny of the widow being equal to the gold piece of the rich man. Second: To test the faith of his people, obedience to the law of tithing being accompanied by a promised blessing. Hence, it is the Lord's law of blessing his people. The Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith this revelation at Far West, Missouri, July 8, 1838, in answer to his supplication: 564 O Lord, show unto thy servants how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing: Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require all their surplus property to be put into the hands of the bishop of my Church in Zion,; For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. And this shall be the beginning of the tithing of my people. And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. Verily I say unto you, it shall come to pass that all those who gather unto the land of Zion shall be tithed of their surplus properties, and shall observe this law, or they shall not be found worthy to abide among you. And I say unto you, if my people observe not this law, to keep it holy, and by this law sanctify the land of Zion unto me, that my statutes and my judgments may be kept thereon, that it may be most holy, behold, verily I say unto you, it shall not be a land of Zion unto you. And this shall be an ensample unto all the stakes of Zion. Even so. Amen. (D&C Section 119.) THE PURPOSE AND USE OF TITHING While the Saints were attempting to establish Zion in the land of Missouri, they followed this requirement as given by the Lord and placed all their surplus property in the hands of the bishop of his Church in Zion. Since that time they have endeavored to comply with the "standing law" given "unto them forever." And after that, those who have thus been tithed shall pay one-tenth of all their interest annually; and this shall be a standing law unto them forever, for my holy priesthood, saith the Lord. (D&C 119:4.) In this revelation, the Lord indicated the purpose for which the tithing shall be used: For the building of mine house, and for the laying of the foundation of Zion and for the priesthood, and for the debts of the Presidency of my Church. (D&C 119:2.) The Lord further directed who _ Shall be responsible to dispose of the tithing:... It [tithing] shall be disposed of by a council, composed of the First Presidency of my Church, and of the bishop and his council, and by my high council; and by mine own voice unto them, saith the Lord.... (D&C Section 120.) The Law of Tithing In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland Ohio, September 11, 1831, the Lord made very plain the importance of observing the law of tithing: Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. (D&C 64:23.) How could one's conscience help but burn within him upon the "coming of the Son of Man," if he realized that he had made no contribution to the expense of establishing God's kingdom in the earth, especially when he came to a realization that all he has he obtained from the Lord, for he created the earth and the fulness thereof, and gave us our lives and our being upon this earth, with a promise that we might "inherit the earth" eternally, if we are faithful. Should we, then, not be willing to pay something for such an inheritance? It is not uncommon for a man in this life to pay money for ten to twenty-five years to purchase a small plot of ground for his use while he lives upon the earth. Should he be less interested in acquiring an eternal inheritance? PAYMENT OF TITHING DEVELOPS FAITH The Lord has always understood that to ask one to surrender, as evidence of religious faith, part of what he has acquired of this world's goods, requires a great measure of faith in obedience. Therefore, in order to develop and test the faith of his 565 August 1969 children, the law of sacrifice has been given unto them even when the Lord did not require their gift for the financing of his Church. Take, for example, Cain and Abel—to them was given the law of sacrifice:... Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the Lord said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? And why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? And if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.... (Gen. 4:3-7.) The Lord did not need the fruit of Cain's land or the firstlings of Abel's flock, for they were 'burned as an offering unto the Lord, but Cain and Abel needed to make this sacrifice to prove their love of God and their faith in him. A careful reading of this text will indicate that Abel's heart was right so he brought "the firstlings of his flock, and the fat thereof," while Cain's offering was made as Satan commanded. (See P. Of G. P., Moses 5:18.) Hence, "the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell,' and darkness entered his heart, and he slew his brother, Abel. Let us now consider Jesus' experience with the rich. Young man: 566 And behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life. And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life keep the commandments. He saith unto him, Which?... (Matt. 19:16-18.) Then Jesus enumerated most of the Ten Commandments, to which the young man replied:... All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? Jesus said unto him, /[f thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. (Matt. 19: 20-22.) It should be noted that the rich young man asked: "What good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?" Then it was that Jesus told him to keep the commandments. When the young man informed him that he had done this from his youth, Mark tells us that "Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) How wonderful! Jesus loves every man who keeps the commandments, but Jesus tried to teach him the law of perfection, so in answer to the young man's further question: "What lack I yet?" Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. (Matt. 19:22.) In this experience, the Savior taught the rich young man that he should be ready to sacrifice all he had, including his time, and follow Jesus in order to obtain perfection. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored to the earth in these latter-days, would not be perfect did it not provide all the requirements for our Father's children to reach perfection, for this is what Jesus taught: Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. (Matt. 5:48.) Our consideration of the experience of the rich young man will better enable us to understand this teaching of the Master: No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. (Matt. 6:24.) Abel chose to serve the Lord, "and the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering." Cain apparently, in his heart, had greater feeling for Mammon, and his offering was not accepted. The rich young man could not part with his earthly possessions, thus exercising his right of choice, and "he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions," thus evidencing the fact that he chose to serve Mammon rather than God, thereby proving that he could not live the law of perfection which Jesus attempted to teach him. The Church of Jesus Christ provides an opportunity for all men to express their choice. Jesus made this plain: The Law of Tithing Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? Or, What shall we drink? Or, Wherewith shall we be clothed? (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. (Matt. 6:31-33.) THE LAW OF TITHING IN ANCIENT ISRAEL The law of tithing was observed by the prophets of Israel. Abraham paid tithing to Melchizedek: For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace;. Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. (Heb. 7:1-2, 4.) The Lord gave this commandment to the children of Israel on Mount Sinai: And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the Lord's: it is holy unto the Lord. (Lev. 27:30.) Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that the field bringeth forth year by year. And thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God, in the place which he shall choose to place his name there, the tithe of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herds and of thy flocks; that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. (Deut. 14:22-23.) 567 August 1969 Thus the purpose was then as it is now: "that thou mayest learn to fear the Lord thy God always." And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly. (II Chron. 31:5.) Honour the Lord with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase. (Prov. 3:9.) Jacob promised a tenth of all the Lord gave him: And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee. (Gen. 28:22.) The sons of Levi were appointed to receive the tithes: And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham. (Heb. 7:5.) OPPOSITION TO THE LAW OF TITHING IN MODERN TIMES When the Latter-day Saints first taught the law of tithing as a part of the gospel of Jesus Christ, they were opposed by clergy and laity alike, on the grounds that tithing belonged to the law of Moses, which was fulfilled in Christ, but that it was not a part of the teachings of the New Testament. It is clear, however, that Jesus taught that they should not neglect the payment of their tithes: Woe unto you, scribes and Phanisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. (Matt. 23:23; see also Luke 11:42.) Opposition, however, has now ceased and many of the churches have attempted to adopt the law of tithing with questionable results. We know that tithing belongs to the gospel of Jesus Christ, for, as we have already indicated, the Lord gave this principle unto his Church by revelation to his prophet of this dispensation, to "be a standing law unto them forever." ESS MOUNTAIN NAMES For mountain flowers, trees, and birds We need the world's most lovely words. Brodiaea, lilies, gentians, clover Are like a song to linger over. Tamarack, fir, and cedar... These Are sounds that label snow-line trees. Flickers, warblers, chickadees, And jays have winged names that please. For mountain flowers, trees, and birds We need the world's most lovely words. 568 —Vesta N. Fairbairn Evening Near Meeker, © photo by Willa In the eye of the be Beauty is; And truth—her twin— Returns the gaze. Then love, in growing bolder, Mirrors joy— And fulfillment sanctifies Her days. What, then, a poet's fate? Espond, interpret—and Literary Contest Announcements 1969 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board will be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. The Relief Society Poem Contest The Relief Society Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1969. Prizes will be awarded as follows: Minst prize -------.---__2 $40 Second prize - - ---------- $30 Third prize - ------------ - $20 Prize poems will be published in the April 1970 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 570 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's. Original work. That it hasnever been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. > 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, _ all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. Literary Contest Announcements 1969 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax Boome 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1969. 11. All — are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. BAB The Relief Society Short Story Contest The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1969 opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1969. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize----~..-------- $75 Second prize ------------ $60 Third 'prize - - - ---------- $50 The three prize-winning stories will be published in the April 1970 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. Also, the General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board— who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. <A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) 571 August 1969 c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1969. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest. 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. SZ ROADSIDE MOMENT, SUMMER Direr the artist etched the growing world As few have paused to see it... Once, Halted by a roadside, | looked out level and deep into his summer world—at blade, stem, blossom, pod, leaf, Whorled and curved, planed and shaped, Divided, yet intricately twined and curled, (Each one an entity individually rising) Diversity in a random plat So myriad, the eye seeking thought by thought For reason, was dazzled by the shades Of light given back from so subtle a variance Of delicate greens. —And these were weeds! Never, no never before had | seen Such wonders springing in so small a space... Great Moses once, in a burning bush, Saw God... | too have looked, and marveled In my small way, at his gifts of grace! 572 —Katherine F. Larsen IDENTITY Who You Are Lillian Y. Bradshaw mt @ At the circus, the lithe tightrope walker gracefully climbed the pole. With breathless excitement we watched him test the wire. A hush fell upon every lip as with slippered feet he glided along the wire—one cautious step after another—his balance measured by every thought and movement of his body. A slip here, a slip there, a quick bend of the body far to the left and then quickly to the right—we gasped with relief as he regained his balance once again to move — swiftly forward. And though we sat taut on the bench below, inside we were keenly aware we were taking every step with him. Now the goal but a few steps more—joyfully and with obvious relief we all exclaimed "Hurrah!" as the platform on the other side was reached in safety. And so it is with children.... Some seem to be thus blessed as they enter in on this tightrope life—well slippered, testing each step, seemingly gifted with a balance all their own. And though they slip to one side or the other and we hold our breath, they always seem to know how to right themselves. It is with excited joy and anticipation we see them perform. And many are the hurrahs. — And then there are _ those children who enter as though wearing hiking boots, and act as the clown who performs clumsily—slipping, sliding, arms and * aK ve fe legs askew. We are at times caused to laugh, yet when we see this young one lose his balance our hearts reach out and achingly we ask ourselves "Oh, what can I do?" "What can I say?" "How can I help, don't you know how important you are?" And then he falls into the net of life and walks about with each step sinking in that net to 573 Pee PR A Se Seca ee August 1969 the height it was before the step was taken—not knowing quite how to get out. And few are the hurrahs. Again, we are caused to ask searchingly of ourselves "What could I have done to prevent the fall?" And then I imagine myself having a rod to hold out for him and others to take hold of until they find firm ground again. While my older children were yet quite young, I taught many Mutual Improvement Association classes and became aware of the fact that those young people whose step seemed so sure seemed always to carry the balance rod with the words emblazoned on it: I know where I came from! I know who I am! I know where I'm going! And I marveled. Otten these young people were either converts or children of recent converts to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day -Saints. And it often puzzled me and caused me to ponder "How, when my children are born under the covenant—how can I instill in them this same strength?" And a prayer would be uttered in my heart. "Oh, Father in heaven, what can I say now while my children are yet pliable and young that will emblazon on their rods who they are and how important they are to themselves and that what they do really counts." They must learn from mistakes, I know, but what can I do now that will give them that innate sense of balance that will help them right themselves as 574 they slip and slide along the tightrope of life? Many years have passed since that prayer was answered. Enough years that in looking back I can now see how it was answered—so subtly and yet with such wisdom. That I am caused to marvel at the simplicity. It all began in sacrament meeting as the speaker—a young woman—told of her conversion to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and of the great joy she felt, while relating the loss of family, friends, and home—all that had been dear to her before. We felt tears sting our eyes and wondered if we really appreciated being born into the Church. How could we be so lucky? Lucky? Was it luck or had someone paid such a price for us once?. We determined as a family to trace back all our genealogical lines and find the one in each line to whom the gospel had been preached first. What had it cost each one to accept the truth? Was it difficult? What an adventure! We divided into four teams—each team determined to trace one of their grandparent's lines. I had most of the histories put away—somewhere.... Others we found through grandparents and relatives. I purchased a large Multigeneration Pedigree Chart, and we began writing in all the progenitor names and the dates we could find. The sheet was large enough (25 x 20 inches) so that all names could be seen at once. Here we did something quite by chance but which made all the difference to the entire evening. We left the first line unnamed —Blair's name was on line 2 and mine on line 3. The evening of July 24th, the anniversary of our pioneers coming into the Valley was the date 'we set aside as a family to disclose what we had found. The interest was as high as if we had been working on a Sherlock Holmes mystery. I can remember the evening we gathered to disclose all we had found. We placed the pedigree chart in the middle of the floor and then as story after story was told a hush descended upon the room. With interest each watched the red check placed by that particular person's name on the chart. We found that most of the red checks appeared under the heading "second greatgrandparents" some four lines away from that first unnamed line. But whose name would be put on that first line they kept wondering? "Many were the stories told of bravery before mobs, trials of faith of families who had had to part because of lack of money so some could travel to Zion and then had worked hard so those left behind could follow and all be together again. Stories of the youngster left alone when his parents died crossing the plains, stories of the mother keeping a family together as the husband went on his mission. And then it all became very real as they heard the story of Sarah Jane Richards—a young girl just about their age. The story told how she and her girl friend went to a Latter-day Saint Identity—Who You Are meeting in Carmarthen, South Wales, about 1848 with the intent of making fun. As they listened to the two missionaries, Sarah Jane believed what was said. After a few more meetings, she told her father she wanted to be baptized. He became very angry and tried many ways to get her to give up the new religion. But she could not—she knew it was true. Her friends threw rocks at her. With tears and heartbreak she was finally forced to leave home without money, clothes, or any other belongings except what she was wearing. She walked eighty miles to a coal mining town where two married sisters lived. When she got there her shoes were worn off of her feet and her feet were bleeding. Ore of the sisters took her in and she started to work in the coal mines, where girls were employed to shovel the coal. While working there, her hand was crushed in an accident. It was so seriously injured that the local doctor advised amputating it. She begged him to delay the operation and he granted one day. She had complete faith she could be healed if the elders could be found, and so prayed constantly for them to come. That night they came, telling her she literally prayed them there. They administered to her and their combined faith was so efficacious that when the doctor arrived expecting to operate, he marveled at the change and decided the operation was unnecessary. After working hard and saving every possible penny, she sailed alone for America. This was only the By/2) August 1969 beginning. With joy she gave her testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel as she had been led to it. Now there came a feeling over the whole room. A soft, warm, penetrating feeling. Our belonging to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints one of luck? No! It had been hard earned by someone who was willing to be lonely, by many who had sacrificed all they had for the precious gift of the gospel. This then led to many more stories of great-grandparents, and grandparents, and their struggles to remain faithful—enduring heartache and disappointments. And then we as parents bore testimony of times of spirit when we had had to decide which path to take. Ever the stories brought the lifeline closer to that first empty line. 576 And now they knew that each one of them would place his own name at the head of the entire sheet. Each generation had remained faithful and now they were the link to keep it unbroken. "Now," we said, as we took our youngest daughter by the hand, "Sue, as you look at this sheet pretend that another sheet just like it is extending into the future on the other side to the left. Here you are as the one with lines spreading from you not only from the past but also to the future—you alone hold both lines. Someday you will be the mother with children and then the grandma. Will your children look back on just such a sheet and have pride and gratitude in their hearts as you have right now for them, because you made the right decisions? They, too, will bless you because you chose to marry in the temple so they could be born under the covenant. Now you know who you are. You know how important you are. You know that what you do now is important." One by one, we took each child through the same route, mentioning perhaps different areas in which they might have to make a major decision—always repeating at the end the same, "Now you know who you are." They stood alone and they felt responsibility weigh importantly heavy upon their own actions. No longer were they to go off and claim it didn't matter what they did. They held hands with the eternities—past and future—and became the link between where they had come from and where they were going. Now they knew, and we knew they knew who they are, and it gave purpose to them to seek out why they are here. Looking only to the past to the deeds accomplished by ancestors can bring a shallow, dangerous false pride. But when they see themselves as a definite part of the future, it brings to immediate focus their own responsibility now. Major decisions—such as the use of drugs or whether going on a mission is important, or what to do with free time in the service of our country, or whom to marry—do not come in one great decision. Such decisions are festered or cured with that cautious tested step forward one at at a time. It is the small slips to the right or the quick one to the Identity—Who You Are left—the decisions which would unbalance my tightrope walker— that I want to reinforce and reinforce again so as to keep that line taut as he carries his own balance rod. With a slack line there can be no sure footing. It has been only within recent years I have been made aware how that prayer was answered. For now my children are old enough that by its fruits it has been tested. Time and time again I have used it and have seen it work on young and old. A subtle way to help them strengthen their own decisions when temptation would seem so _ powerful as to make them sway. When, with small voice or crying out inside, they ask _ themselves, What does it matter? Who cares? It's my life! SS SARAH | had not much to give to her | loved Save love itself, And that was borne in trailing clouds of sand And dust that followed in our stormy way Behind the ceaseless, toiling caravan Wherein she bore her son in winter's years. Her face so fair that ever as we went Did stir the winds of envy, But she clung to me As vines enforce the walls they hold. When she left, the tears | could not bear To see her shed, Washed down the river Of an old man's heart. My Sarah, | shall hold your hand again And walk to music of the camel bells Along another road that goes between The constant fountains Of eternal wells. —Rosemond Purviance 577 Can We Alford. Celestia J. Taylor Not to Be pwn eneral Board of Relief Society Happy! M Happiness is an abstract quality difficult to define because it has sO many Meanings; paradoxical in nature because it is present in the least expected places and absent where it appears most likely to be found; elusivé because, like the butterfly, it alights wherever it so inclines, but escapes the grasp of those who seek to capture it. It is 4 quality much to be desired, the easiest, yet the most difficult to attain. One of the expressions familiar to us and, therefore, often quoted: "Men are that they might have joy," contains both the secret and the key to the attainment of this most precious commodity. Just being here on this earth does not guarantee us happiness, but it offers us the possibility of attaining it. Its possession, as that of any other worthwhile goal, is dependent upon the laws which govern it, and wherever there is a law there is a responsibility. This is the secret. The key lies in the fulfillment of whatever that responsibility may be. How shall we define this responsibility? Certainly not by listing set rules and forms or by quoting high-sounding platitudes, which, though well-meaning, bear little or no relation to reality. Responsibility can only be defined in terms of the individual, for no one person's situation is the same as that of any other. There are certain positive things, however, that we can know or learn which are applicable under any and all conditions. We should know that forgetfulness of self in the service of others is conducive to serenity of spirit, to peace of mind, and to other qualities which are vital prerequisites to happiness. Finally, we should know that the pattern of life set by our Savior leads to happiness and that our acceptance of and adherence to that way of life is our only hope of attaining it. CHD SERVICE When the cares of life Seem too hard for you to bear, Lend a helping hand. Your own load will become light As you stoop to help others. —Bessie Decker 578 Ramona W. Cannon Lilly Peter, a past-seventy poet, photographer, anc fulltime farmer, recently mortgaged 4,000 acres of her Arkansas plantation to bring the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra, with Eugene Ormandy, to play for Little Rock's one hundred and fiftieth celebration of Arkansas' territorial status. She wanted her fellow citizens to hear the best in music, paying $60,000 for this privilege, "Miss Lilly' commissioned, for $8,000, the Pulitzer-prize-winning 'Homage to Haydn" which the orchestra premiered. - It also played selections from Wagner, Debussy, and Brahms. Rose Mary Woods has been President Nixon's intelligent and efficient secretary for seventeen years. Mary Wells, wife of the head of Braniff Airlines, is the head of a large New York advertising agency. Renata Adler, twenty-nine years of age, has become the highly regarded film critic of the New York Times. Mrs. May West, of Pleasant Grove, Utah, in the Memorial Day Regatta on Utah Lake, piloted her own boat, purchased and tuned to perfection by herself. She was the only competitor in the exciting races to win two events, thus winning the regatta. Her husband, Don, holds some world's records, but a mischance disqualified him from the regatta. Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer of Philadelphia, a fifty-four-year-old grandmother, has been appointed by President Nixon as the President's Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs. Former director of the Pennsylvania State Bureau of Consumer Protection, she will suggest ways of making existing programs more effective and will struggle to protect consumers' rights and to keep the public informed. She may even suggest new protective laws. Catherine C. Redadow and Marian Bass of the Buffalo, New York, police department, last April became the first women in the department's 103-year-old history to be appointed to the rank of desk lieutenants. Mrs. Rachel L. Bishop of Los Angeles, California, is the corporate president of Executive Secretaries, Incorporated. She advises business college graduates to get positions with large firms which have good supervisors to train inexperienced employees in up-to-the-minute, practical details of business offices. Sue Ann Davis, a Cree Indian home economics instructor at Intermountain School for Indian Students in Brigham City, Utah, was honored at the April annual meeting of the Utah Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters. She received a Meritorious High School Teaching Award for her excellent teaching, her assistance in student extracurricular affairs, and her own continuing educational achievements. Danish Princess Benedikte, who married German Prince Richard zu Sayn-Wittgenstein, became the mother of a son in April 1969. Gisella Belgeri, a brilliant Italian pianist, is a member of the internationally touring Orchestra Michelangelo de Firenze. When Baroque concertos for harpsichord are included, Miss Belgeri serves as soloist. 579 EDITORIAL / Leisure for Oneself ® To some the words ''relaxation'' and ''leisure'' may contain derogatory undertones, but the meanings in the dictionary give one pause for thought. ''Relaxation'' is stated as ''relief of bodily or mental _ effort.'' Leisure time is ''the condition of having one's time free from the demands of work or duty.'' What a precious commodity these are for a mother with many young children, or a woman burdened with exacting household duties, including that of constant nursing. One woman confided, ''| have been pressuring myself too much. | am beginning to realize that some of my waking moments need to be spent in doing something | want to do. | need to let down and take or make the time to do something to relax myself."' Advertisements of modern appliances sometimes tell of the additional time released to a busy homemaker. Too often the claim reminds the homemaker of the holes she used to make as a child at the seashore which instantly filled up with water and the holes disappeared. Two women were speaking of joys experienced in earlier days of going visiting. One explained, ''Where could you ever find the time today to go visiting, and if you did, what kind of a welcome would you have in the home where every minute seems to be scheduled fully? I'd feel guilty expecting a friend to sit down and take up her time."' Yet Samuel Johnson said, ''All intellectual improvement arises from leisure."' If this is true, or even partly true, depending on one's interpretation of what he meant, should not every woman seek to capture some leisure when she may pursue her own desires? And how Volume 56 August 1969 Number 8 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Acting Secretary-Treasurer — 580 should it be spent? In doing something which will bring her a release from tension, a feeling of fulfillment, the building of her own entity. She may wish to take a walk, to garden, do genealogical research, play or listen to music, study and admire reproductions of paintings, sculptures, study a foreign language, read for pleasure, do crewel work, knit, visit a sick friend, telephone a friend, bake a cake for a neighbor, or just sit still and dream. Others find release and rejuvenation in physical exercise, in tennis, golf, bowling, swimming, or hiking. Sometimes a trip to a lovely store is very satisfying. If one is not too weary, the time before one goes to sleep may be used for relaxing. Perhaps time can be found for reading the scriptures, and even with one's eyes shut, a happy or fond experience can be relived in memory. If no one else is disturbed it is pleasing to sing some songs or recite poetry or scriptures. It is a time to evaluate one's progress and review pleasant events so it will be a time of leisure and relaxation. It is not a proper time to lament one's shortcomings of the day, but rather do that when one is actively pursuing one's work. Sometimes a movie on television will be a source of relaxation. There is no rule that says what one should do with leisure time. It will vary with the individual's need, but every woman needs to enjoy some leisure time, and everyone will do well to rearrange her daily activities, if necessary, so that early or late she can devote some time to herself alone and to view her life as an individual for which life she is accountable. —M. C. S. GENERAL BOARD: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucille P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock 581 Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed Acting SecretaryTreasurer The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announc the appointment of Mayola Rogers Miltenberger, member of the General Board, as acting Secretary-Treasurer, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of former Secretary-Treasurer Evon W. Peterson. - Sister Miltenberger was appointed to the General Board in October 1968. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1969, p. 16.) She will continue as the administrative supervisor of the Relief Society Social Service programs in Salt Lake City, Arizona, Nevada, and Idaho, while devoting a major part of her time as SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Miltenberger has great executive abilities and an abiding love for Relief Society. She desires to serve in any capacity to which she is called and will render valuable service for Relief Society at this time in her new assignment. She has a deep interest in the work of the sisterhood throughout the Church. They will enjoy their association with her. Irene Cannon Lloyd Resigns From the General Board General Board members and sisters throughout the Church will regret the resignation of Irene Cannon Lloyd from the General Board, as of June 4, 1969. She has served on the board since November 1, 1961 during which time she has rendered devoted and important service to Relief Society. While serving on the General Board, Sister Lloyd has rendered capable service on various committees including the Spiritual Living, General Conference, Homemaking, and Music Committees, along with many others. She has also fulfilled conference-speaking assignments both at home and abroad, and her sincere spirituality has enriched the lives of many sisters. Sister Lloyd came to the General Board after serving Relief Society in various executive positions, including that of a stake Relief Society president. In her home she has carried forth a heritage of deep devotion to the gospel, and her family carry this heritage proudly. The united love of the board goes with Sister Lloyd. Her devotion to Relief Society and her faithful service will remain as a tribute to her in all she does. On behalf of Relief Society sisters throughout the world, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Lloyd. May her health improve and may she find much happiness in her future endeavors. Relief Society will continue to be an enjoyment and a fulfilling part of her life. 582 , Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1969. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 1, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 1, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, October 2, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which the four stake board executive officers and mission executive officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 1, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet Out of the Best Books, Volume 5: Community Responsibility, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with cultural refinement lessons for 1969-70, is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and at all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $3.25, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired. (See Deseret Book Company advertisement.) A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the June and September 1969 color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 3, 5, and 6, as designated. It will also contain a 12'' 33% rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons, 1, 4, and 7. The kit is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or at the Deseret Book Company branches in "Ogden, Utah the Cottonwood Mall in Salt Lake City, Utah, or Orange California, at a cost of $3.50 plus 30 cents postage for third class mailing. Overseas should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges, approximate weight 1 Ib. (See advertisement page 637.) RO SIX OF US These treasures, gifts the heart can't jettison, (The six of us being six, yet seeming one, Working together, having time to play Where orchard grass and wild sunflowers sway). Comprise a wealth that years cannot consume. (Our garden has geraniums in bloom, And fruitful trees we planted long ago— They shade us now and sing when soft winds blow.) For time rusts neither joy nor love's largess: (Good friends, good books, a challenge, some success, The chance to be together, sun to sun, The six of us being six, yet being one.) —Maxine Jennings 583 A. Dee Applegate | a & a j U wet? If Aa Aj: we ¢ @ Thesounds of the radio banged into Cally's ears as she tried to remember what came next in her pancake recipe. The baby was crying to be picked up, and her husband was calling for a clean towel. The rain beat a heavy tempo against the window; gray clouds pressed a damper on any cheerful thoughts that might have entered her mind. Over the din she heard the radio announcer presenting the local weatherman for his report and forecast. "Tt's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" he began. "At 7:00 this morning, 45 hundredths of an inch of precipitation...." Click! Cally couldn't bear hearing anyone being cheerful about this muggy weather. "He must be some kind of nut," she muttered. At least now with the radio off there was less competition for her attention. She finally got her husband out the door, the 584 baby fed, the dishes done, and the bed made. She had an awful temptation to climb back into bed, but wisdom and good sense beat back her heavy eyelids, and she smoothed the bedspread over the pillows. "A beautiful day indeed!" she muttered as she settled into her daily routine. The phone rang. "Ts this the Glen MacMillan residence?" a man's voice asked. "Yes — this is Cally MacMillan." "Mrs. MacMillan, your husband has been in an automobile accident and has been injured. The ambulance is taking him to City Memorial Hospital now. Can you meet us there?" Cally's heart fell to her feet and she frozein shock. "Mrs. MacMillan?" The man's voice seemed twenty miles away. Cally had visions of her husband strapped on a stretcher in a whining ambulance. The man's voice reached her again: "If you have no transportation, a squad car can pick you up." Reality flooded over Cally in a wave of nausea. "Oh — yes — please — Glen was driving our car — is he seriously injured? Is he all right? Please tell me!" Cally's panic spread to her voice. The man sounded more quiet and understanding than before. "I'm sorry, I don't know. The driver of the other car has only some cuts and bruises. A child ran in front of the other man, he swerved and struck the driver's door of your car. Your husband had immediate medical attention, so he's in good hands. We'll pick you up in about ten minutes." Click. Cally fell back against the wall.. She felt like crying but the tears wouldn't come. Her mouth was dry and her feet felt like lead. Her jumbled thoughts even included regrets of ever having married—it would have prevented so much pain, sorrow, and difficulty. The baby's wail penetrated the shocked trance and brought her back to the cold truth of reality. Cally lifted the receiver again and shakily dialed the number of her neighbor. "Hello, Miriam? This is Cally. Listen, Miriam, I need help. Could you take the baby for awhile? Glen's been in an accident and I've got to go. Oh, thanks—she's in bed and should sleep soon... No, they're coming to get me, but thanks. See you in a minute. Bye." Cally was surprised at her calm as she assembled baby food and dishes so Miriam would have no difficulty finding something The Weather Report for the baby's meals. Miriam and the police car arrived simultaneously, so Cally grabbed her raincoat, gave a brave smile to her friend's encouraging embrace, and stumbled into the rain. The typical hospital odor brought back to Cally's mind that her husband was _ lying somewhere within, unconscious, maybe dying. Panic once again overwhelmed her. She had hoped to be allowed to be with him, but he was in the emergency room. She was shown to what would be his room. The second hand on the clock seemed to take at least five minutes to complete each cycle around the clock. A doctor leaned into the room and glanced around. "Are you Mrs. MacMillan?" "Yes." "Please come with me." Cally followed him to a small office. "Mrs. MacMillan, your husband has been seriously injured. It is imperative that he undergo immediate surgery in order to save his life. We need your permission to perform this surgery." He took a form from a drawer and pushed it toward her. "If you'll sign this standard form, we'll proceed immediately. This explains that we have your permission to do what we feel is necessary even though this action might result in the death of your husband." "Death?" Cally didn't want her husband to die—and Cally's dulled reasoning abilities heard this man asking her permission to do something to Glen which might result in his death. "Mrs. MacMillan your husband has very little chance of living if we do not operate. This is just a legal precaution to pro- 585 August 1969 tect the hospital and doctors. Please sign it." She took the pen and signed her name. The printing was hazy through her tears as her emotions finally found vent. There were no violent sobs or cries—only one or two tears sliding down her cheeks. The doctor was gentle as he touched her shoulder, signaling that they must hurry. He escorted her back to Glen's empty room, then hurried away. | ally stood at the window and watched the rain continue to pelt the earth. It was the kind of drizzle that could—and probably would—go on all day. The gray ceiling of clouds seemed oppressively low. The doctor had told her that it would be at least an hour and a half before she could have any word. She walked over and closed the door. She didn't like the sounds of people walking and talking as if nothing was wrong. The helplessness of her situation weighed heavily upon her. Cally could only sit and stare at the rain. When the door opened again, Cally didn't hear it, because she was asleep. Glen's bed was rolled in, accompanied by nurses and aides who also wheeled in the standard, bearing life-sustaining blood, liquids, and nourishment. Glen's eyes were closed, too. His head and one hand were bandaged. You couldn't see his chest where broken ribs were held in place with adhesive bandages. There were no other visible cuts or bruises—one wouldn't have thought this man had been near death. Finally, the room was left quiet with only three occupants: one stood and watched; 586 one slept in exhaustive fear, the other in drugged and mercifully painless sleep. Cally, in her subconscious, sensed someone in the room. Her eyes opened, though she couldn't quite place where she was or why. 'She saw the clock—then remembered. And it had been nearly three hours since Glen had been taken to surgery. She panicked, then saw the nurse standing near the bed. "Oh! How is he?" Cally hurried to the bed and felt relief to see that Glen looked all right. "We don't know yet, Mrs. MacMillan. We won't really know for twelve to eighteen hours or more. Everything indicates that the surgery was successful, but we'll have to wait and see." "But what's wrong—where and how badly was he hurt?" "He was apparently hit almost directly. His ribs have been set and will be fine. Our worry is that brain damage might have resulted from the pressure of the blows on the top and side of his head. There may be some paralysis and speech impairment. But he is out of danger, though his condition is listed as_ serious. The doctor said that he should sleep for another four or five hours. So you may go home if you wish and return around seven this evening. You may see him then, though other visitors should be discouraged." The cold efficiency of the nurse's recitation helped Cally to keep the tears under control. She put on her coat and left the room, feeling a little dazed at what she had just been told. When she reached the exit, she realized she had no transportation. She went to the desk and waited for the receptionist to notice her. As she waited, Bishop Dale came down the corridor. "Well, hello Cally. Baby sick?" Apparently he didn't know about Glen. "Oh, bishop, Glen's hurt. The baby's home with Miriam. 1... I...." and Cally fell into his arms and sobbed. He led her to a chair and helped her down. She finally controlled her sobs and tried to wipe her nose with her sleeve. Bishop Dale handed her a handkerchief and sat on the chair next to hers. "Can I help, Cally? Do you need a ride?" "Please—yes. And...." Cally began to have some thoughts she realized she should have had hours earlier. "... Could you— would you administer to Glen?" she almost whispered her request. "Of course, Cally, I'll get another of the brethren and we'll come right up. Come on. I'll take you home." "T can't come back until seven. Could you come then?" Bishop Dale said he could. Cally spent the next long hours at home, waiting. Miriam had taken the baby out, so the house was empty. Too empty. Too quiet. She turned on the radio. The 5:00 news was just finishing, and the weather report was beginning. "It's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" Then click! Cally couldn't stand it. Anyone could see it was raining. The man must not have looked outside. It was a terribly miserable day. At ten minutes before seven, Cally, Bishop Dale, and Brother The Weather Report Arlin met at the hospital.. A call to the hospital that afternoon had cleared the bishop and his companion for a_ short visit. Glen was awake but still under too much sedation to respond to his visitors. The brethren administered to Glen. Cally could feel the Spirit of the Lord present and felt strangely at ease. After they left, she knelt by Glen's bed and offered a tearful prayer of her own. | | ear Father in heaven, please help Glen to recover. Please don't let him be crippled or unable to think. Please restore his health. Thou knowest the love we share—of our efforts to live in accordance with thy will. Please, please remember his faithfulness and bless him with complete recovery. If they be thy will, I pray for these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen." Cally continued to kneel and watch Glen, her face close to his. She took his uninjured hand in both of hers. She felt her heart tug as she realized how much she loved him. A nurse opened the door and asked Cally to step outside to see the doctor. Once again she sat in the cramped little office. Afraid of hearing the worst, Cally asked no questions. She waited for the doctor to turn to her. "Mrs. MacMillan," he shuffled some folders on his desk to find the right one, "your husband shows good signs of complete recovery. He's been too heavily sedated to make accurate tests, so we won't really know for awhile. He has about a seventy per cent chance of complete recovery." 587 August 1969 "Doctor," Cally interrupted him before he could go on, "if Glen doesn't recover, will he — uh — well, what will be wrong with him?" Cally's fear was obvious in her voice and face. She twisted the handkerchief in her hands. "Possible brain damage which could impair sight, speech, hearing and, to a limited degree, intelligence. More complete tests can be made after we see how he has responded to surgery. I don't want to raise any false hopes, so I'll just tell you that if he recognizes people and asks or answers questions coherently, then that's a good sign. You may visit him again around ten tomorrow morning. We_ should know by then. Cally waited for further information but apparently the doctor had terminated the interview. The bishop, having remembered that Cally had no transportation, was waiting for her in the lobby. She gratefully accepted a ride. Ten o'clock tomorrow morning and she would know. How does one go about reorganizing one's life overnight? Cally slept fitfully, grateful at least that the baby was still at Miriam's. Bless her, Miriam had offered her car for tomorrow. Friends were surely wonderful. In fear and anxiety, Cally cried herself to sleep. She arrived at the hospital before ten—the morning had gone far too slowly. It was gray and raining again. The radio had been no help either: there was news of wars and rumors of wars and tornados and earthquakes in diverse places. The 588 weatherman was there with his usual "It's a beautiful day in Fremont County!" Cally failed to see the beauty of it. Glen's door was closed, but the nurse told Cally she could go in. The curtains were open, but it was dark in the room, reflecting the weather outside. Cally closed the door behind her; she feared the moments to come, and she wanted to be alone with her husband. How would he be? Glen was asleep, so Cally brought her chair close to the bed and watched him. His breathing was regular and his color good. The sound of the steady drizzle outside made Cally oblivious of passing time as she waited the verdict on the life of her husband. Though not verbalized, a prayer hung in her heart, and she waited. Glen stirred and his eyelids fluttered. His glance darted around the unfamiliar surroundings. Bewilderment showed on his face, and fear gripped at Cally's throat. "Oh, please, God!" she gasped. The sound from Cally drew his attention toward her, and his eyes focused slowly on her face. The world seemed to stand still as Cally waited and hoped that he would recognize her. His eyes closed for a moment, and with some effort he cleared his throat. He was obviously very weak and groggy. Then as he looked at her again, a shadow of a smile crept over his usually jovial face. Cally clutched his hand and tears flooded her eyes. Glen returned the pressure on her hand and tried to speak. "What..." he tried again to clear his throat, hoarse from disuse, and rested a moment with his eyes closed. Cally couldn't breathe in fear and anticipation. His voice finally came to her in a coarse whisper. "What—kind of day is it?" The gloom of the rainy day, the sound of the dismal drizzle, and the rumble of distant thunder penetrated the small hospital room as understanding flooded Cally's mind. She knelt beside his bed in prayerful thanksgiving. "Tt's a beautiful day, Glen," she cried in a choked whisper. "Just beautiful!" PATCH QUILT Time, brought back, Cut up in pieces And then sewed down In tiny stitches To warmly cover Snow-white batting. Scraps of cloth? No, Dancing daughters, Rowdy sons in sturdy breeches. The wool once worn at skating parties And cotton shirts one festive autumn, The cashmere dress you wore one Christmas, The satin when you sang that Easter, And denim when you dug at ditches. Scraps of cloth? No, Friends returning, Thimbles clicking—smiling—telling. Children underneath the frame Appetite for play and pudding. Scraps of cloth? No— Memories brought forth To bless the home For a time like this. —Hazel Loomis 589 ® The breeze skimming the wisteria below my window brought the sound of laughter into my room. When I turned to snap out my lamp, the magazine I had been reading slipped from my bed to the floor. I could hear her voice above all the others: "You don't know my mom." "Cool it." "Give her the plan." "Bye, kid." "T'll meet you at lunch by the east door." In a moment I could hear the door click and the familiar scuff of her shoes in the tile foyer. Then I waited to recognize the comfortable sounds of her midnight snack: the clap of the refrigerator door, the clatter of dishes. But she did not go into the kitchen. The soft steady beat of her shoes against the carpet continued into the stairwell, up the stairway. 590 uld Go Marilyn McMeen Miller When my door cracked I started forward in the darkness. The moonlight scoured the rug with a hazy pattern of shadows. As the door opened, the light revealed the toes of her leather shoes, the slender white curve of her calf, her knees and the heavy tweed of her wool coat. Her white blouse offset her pale face. "Mama....' "T'm not asleep," I said. "Come " bd in. The colors of the dark room made her cheeks look velvet. The light played in the smooth curve of her straight long hair. She was as beautiful as Paul had been good-looking. The oval face, the high cheek bones and almondshaped eyes. I looked at her and remembered him; sometimes I fought memories I could only see with bitterness: the pale skin against the white satin in the black coffin. "Mama." "What is it, Kimberly? Did you have a good time?" She fingered her purse and the ragged game roster in her hands. "Yes, I had a good time." She lowered her eyes. "Shall I turn on the light?" "No," she said quickly. I waited for a moment. My heart seemed to beat faster. I wanted to quiet it. I thought I sensed what she might ask. And I did not know how I was going to continue to give the same answer without breaking. "Valerie's folks are going to let her go to Rick Johnson's lodge party." I knew it. For a moment I let my eyes focus on the room's hazy light. "Mama." Her voice grew desperate. "Mama, you just can't even know what this means to me." Then there were tears in her throat. '""Mama, I've tried to tell you over and over again, there is nothing wrong. Nothing will happen. We are seniors in high school. We know what life is all about. You don't understand. John is frantic that I can't have permission. Do you think I want him to ask another girl? Mama, why? Why, why are you doing this to me? Why?" For a moment her hands trembled, as though she wanted to lower her face and weep into them. But she controlled herself, and knotted a piece of tissue in her fingers. She had told me they would laugh at her. It was the biggest event of the year: an all-night party in the canyon on Memorial Day holiday, after the parade and the game and the dance— In the Way They Should Go an important affair, the last big party of the season. Only the very elite of the school were invited. She was the cheerleader. She couldn't miss it—not without looking like a nincompoop. John was going and he wanted her to go. The evening would be chaperoned by Rick Johnson's college brother and his gang of alumni friends in town from State for the summer. My voice was somewhere so far back in my throat that I could not seem to make it audible. "Kim..." She guessed my next words. "Just because Valerie Martin's mother will let her go is no reason that I should go. Is that what you're going to say, Mother?" She looked up toward me. The soft light in the room was strong enough to reveal the shimmering streak of tears across her cheek. "Well, I'm not asking that you let me go because Valerie Martin's mother will let her go. I'm asking that you trust me. I'm asking that you will have faith in me." She leaned close to me. "I'm asking you to respect me as your daughter." There was a brief silent moment that did not seem silent at all, but noisy with the furor of my blood rushing against my brain. "Mother... Can't you trust me? Can't you respect and trust me? Can't you?" I could not speak. "Well, can't you?" I had answered all these questions a hundred times. Now there was a flood of tears. "Mama, I don't think you know what you're doing to me. I'll have to go to that party, Mama. Do you want me to go without your permis- 591 August 1969 sion?" She stood now, her hands wringing. "Kimberly, you wouldn't...." Suddenly I sat up and leaned forward. "Kim, please, I know... I know how important this is to you. I've told you a hundred times. I do trust you. I do trust the young people. It's not them I mistrust, but the situation. We just don't do that kind of thing. It's not..." But my words were a volley of meaningless jargon that grew dim to her ears as she turned and streaked out of the door into the hall, and then into her room. I threw my legs over the side of the bed and sat for a moment staring at the shadows of leaves on the carpet. I could hear the mute, mufHled sobbing from her pillows, and my heart leaped inside my ribs. Could I have been wrong? The indecision of that moment tore my soul into frazzled shreds. What was I doing to her and to myself — if she should decide to go against my decision — my better judgment? What would that mean? For her, for me? In that moment I might have gone to Kimberly, put my arms around her shoulders and told her I was sorry; I was wrong, and she should go to this all-night canyon party. But I could not do it. My close friend Olga picked me up at ten. Together we watched the colorful parade and met Kimberly briefly before she went with her friends to a pot luck. She was flushed from marching; her shining straight hair streamed like a wide ribbon away from her smooth forehead. "She's beautiful, popular, in- 592 telligent. What more could a mother want for her child to be?" Olga whispered to me later as the two of us slid under a table at a hotel. "I guess if a mother's going to have to rear a daughter without the father, she had better have a daughter like Kimberly. - You've done so well, Margaret. How did you do it?" Olga had reared three, but all before her husband had died. Oe | ad I done so well in rearing Kimberly? How did I do it? I knew I hadn't done it yet. I remembered in a flash what was to happen tonight. My eyes met Olga's. Her smile was questioning me. What had Olga told her daughters when they had wanted to go to an all-night canyon party? Did she let them go? "Maggie, you've been awfully quiet. Is something wrong? Is there something I can do?" Olga's eyes brightened with concern. I met her gaze with a brave look. "T.... 1 appreciate your compliments about Kimberly, but I.... Everything isn't as fine as it looks, Olga." I swallowed hard. "Frankly, I'm so worried about her that I haven't been able to sleep." I got the words out in a stuttering heap. "What is it, Maggie? Tell me. Maybe I can help." I told her everything: my disapproval of the all-night canyon party, the many scenes of disagreement between Kim and myself over it, the scene in my bedroom after the game in which she had threatened to go to the party without my permission. "Maggie, it doesn't even sound like Kimberly." By this time my eyes were glazed with tears and I was staring at my plate and nearly choking on a piece of roll. "You know, Maggie, you sound almost as though you are afraid of Kimberly. I mean.... You seem afraid... Really afraid of..." Olga stopped and I watched her eyes narrow a bit as she surveyed me analytically. Afraid. I had never thought of it in quite that way. But yes, I was afraid. My heart stuck in my throat. Kimberly was the one in all the world who had the power to hurt me the most. And I was afraid. I was afraid of being hurt. "Kimberly has to try her Wings... To grow up." I looked at Olga. Was Olga going to tell me I was wrong. That I should let Kimberly go to the canyon party? "You're not suggesting... You don't think..." I wavered. "You don't think I should let her go to such a party, Olga. Do you?" I interrupted Olga's train of thought. "What.... What? The party? Oh... No, the party!" Then she laughed a quick laugh. "No... The party. Margaret, you are absolutely right about the party." I watched Olga's gray curls bounce at the shake of her head. I was suddenly relieved. "Oh, no, you are absolutely right about the party. My Dick would pounce harder on those girls than a cat on a rat if they ever came home with such an idea. No, you've got a conscience and you couldn't live with yourself if you gave your daughter permission to go to such a party." I rested my gaze in Olga's In the Way They Should Go soft brown eyes. The tears started again. Somebody understood me. "You've got to live with yourself first," Olga smiled and leaned forward across her salad plate. "The one to fear, Margaret, is not Kimberly, but God. You have your own salvation to worry about even before you have Kimberly's. You would feel guilty had you not already spent every effort you could have spent to train her up in the way she should go. You have trained her in that way and now you would feel guilty if you were to condone something that was against your better judgment." How right Olga was. She had my answers I had prayed for. "You must hope that you've given her enough background that she'll stop herself from disobedience," Olga continued. Then she smiled warmly and reached for my hand. "She loves you. She loves you, Maggie. You're all she's ever had and she loves you." I hoped that was true. How I hoped that was true. "That evening Kimberly came home late after the game. When she dashed upstairs to change her clothes for the dance she did not say a word about the all-night canyon party. The moments passed slowly and awkwardly until John's knock finally shook the door, alternating with a few fisticuffs on the doorbell. "Hello, Mrs. Grayson," he smiled, his white teeth striding his face like a picket fence. "Hello, John..." For a moment I had a wild thought that there might be an opportunity to talk to John—to tell him how 593 August 1969 I felt—to insist that he bring Kimberly in by midnight. But there was only a split second of hello before Kim flashed down the stairs looking like a princess. Her hair was heaped in a shining crown set off by small curls around her face. Her eyes were sparkling. Her chiffon dress flew in a rhythmic cloud behind her. "Wow!" John grinned. SN >: >. Ih (eo J 'G: Se, oy ¥ CZ ) Y, 1 y) AN VA | | Gj FAT ER Ue (/) Z pL, AF ni? Ff 'WA ait 4 j She really was devastating. "We have to hurry, Mama. John is in charge of getting the band set up. Bye." I had time only to smile and say goodbye. But I stopped them at the door. "Tl be waiting up for you, Kim... Midnight?" I smiled, trying to hide my pounding heart, my own fears. She looked at John briefly; her eyes narrowed and dimmed. It was a cold moment. John didn't say a word. She gave me only one last look. I stood at the door while they moved out quiet- 594 ly, quickly. "Bye," was all she managed. "Bye, Mrs. Grayson," John finally said in a thin voice. "Have a good time," I called after them as they swept down the walk and into the waiting chariot drawn by six cylinders and an infinitely noisy horsepower. The house was quiet and empty when I turned into it. Behind the dining room one of the French screens was caught by a slight breeze and clapped the lawn chair out on the patio. I walked to the tall windows and shut them tightly. The clock chimed a noisy 8:30. I looked out onto. The dimly ht lawn and felt a crushing feeling of loneliness and defeat. Olga's words alone seemed to buoy me up. "The one to fear is not Kimberly, but God. You have your own salvation to worry about even before you have Kimberly's." Twenty minutes before midnight I closed the covers of the novel in my lap and grew suddenly conscious of the loud clatter of the living room clock above the fireplace. Its usually quiet tick seemed deafening to me. I switched on the television set to fill up the emptiness. But I could not focus on the blur of black and white figures cavorting on the screen before me. I could think only of Kimberly. I remembered how she cried when we could not bring home one of the little beagle pups at the fair eight summers ago. I saw her turn into a flurry of arms and legs when she lost her four-year-old temper at bedtime. I saw her shaking with sobs when I left her with the baby sitter one important evening. There were many times we had come to grips with one another. And each time we had lost a little, yet gained so much more. We had learned that there were some things we must do, or must not do or have, no matter how much our wants or needs were in opposition. And we had learned that each crisis passes. The music from the television roared blatantly into the empty house. But would this crisis pass? How? What punishment would I mete for disobedience? The usual loss of privileges: no guests in the home, no use of the car? My nerves tingled when I. Tried to relax against the arms of my chair as the clock struck midnight. I strained to hear some commotion in the street, and my throat tightened when I suddenly sensed the crash of a car door shaking the silence. I started. Could it be...? But I stayed fastened to my chair, breathing hard. When the front door opened swiftly and noisily and I heard the brush of Kimberly's soft shoes against the tile in the foyer, I thought my whole head was going to burst with a sense of relief. But I stayed rooted numbly to my chair pretending to be engrossed in the midnight movie. There was not a word of greeting. I heard the shoes scrape across the hall into the kitchen. The refrigerator door opened; the cake pan clattered; a stream of milk gurgled from the pitcher into a plastic tumbler. I waited almost breathlessly while the In the Way They Should Go opening scenes of the old cinema quietly flickered. But deep in my heart I was smiling. I finally heard the faucet rattle and screech, and I knew the dishes had been rinsed. So I turned off the light from the television and rose from my chair, straightening out my wrinkled housedress. I met Kimberly as she sauntered into the hallway. She stopped when she saw me. The chiffon hung limply from her shoulders. Her hair streaked in loose shreds from her forehead. I hesitated when I looked into her eyes. They were narrowed and stern. I could not utter a word. My throat seemed so stopped up. "Well, I got home," she said coolly. "I'm in by midnight." She was tired. I could tell by the shadow of darkness beneath her eyes. "I hope you're satisfied." My heart pounded. "Did you have a good time?" I asked cautiously. "Yes," she turned toward the stairway. "But I'm really tired." At the stairs she stopped and looked back at me as I stood half disheveled in the hallway. We made a grand pair, I with my housedress and she with her streaking makeup and flattened ringlets. I was surprised to hear her voice soften. "Mom, I'm almost glad you didn't let me go... To the party." Her limp arm reached for the banister. "I guess I'm _ really too tired to go. It's been a big day." "Yes it has," I said softly. "Yes, it's been a big day for both of us." I was smiling. 595 fifty-six grandchildren and twenty-five great-grandchildren with many lovely and useful items. She has contributed liberally to bazaars wherever she has lived, and has served as a faithful visiting teacher. Sister Asay's lovely artificial flowers grace the homes of many of the members in her area. She has helped to fill the hope chests of her twenty-five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren with lovely articles which she has crocheted or knitted. She is a delightful visiting teacher, and is always on hand to help with any project undertaken by the ward Relief Society. These two women have been a delight and inspiration to all who have had the opportunity to come in contact with them, and their articles of handwork are admired and enjoyed by all who see or use them. Ramsau in the Bavarian Alps Photograph by Josef Muench 596 BUILDING A HOME A house is made of wood or brick With shingles on the roof; The windows all are made of glass, The doors are weather-proof. A home is different from a house, Although it looks the same; A family can build it With the things we all can name. There's helpfulness, obedience, Cheerfulness, and love; Cleanliness and sharing And a prayer to God above. —Mary C. Clough A Pretty and Practical Use for the Lowly Washtuh Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society @ Summer picnics can be great fun, whether you and your family take to the canyon, the woods, or the beach, or whether you prefer just to relax and enjoy a cookout in your own back yard. What could be more satisfying on a warm summer day than a delicious thirst-quenching cold drink or a slice of cooled melon? But how to keep the melons and the drinks cold is the question. For this practical purpose, and for aesthetic appeal, as well, the washtub in the picture was painted and decorated. Such colorful tubs, when not in use for keeping foods cold, can serve, also, as containers for special arrangements of flowers and greenery for enhancing the attractiveness of the outdoor rest and recreation area. The project of decorating washtubs proved to be one of the most exciting and rewarding homemaking projects sponsored by the Relief Society sisters of the Parley's Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah. Even those with no acknowledged creativity found real satisfaction in wielding a paint brush with such delightful results. Originality was the key word. White, black or red paint was used to cover the tubs, with a variety of colors and designs used for trim. Sisters with some artistic talent painted original, free-hand designs, such as the one shown in the picture. The more timid ones used decals, stencils, or tracings. Some sisters even discovered artistic talents they were not aware they possessed. All who participated were amazed with the beauty and utility they had brought to the 598 lowly washtub. Some coal buckets were also painted in a like manner for those who wanted something a little smaller. These were later used at their bazaar as containers for popcorn balls, apples, and the like. EQUIPMENT NEEDED Tub—these can usually be found in hardware stores. Round bottom tubs are easier to handle. Rust inhibiting paint Enamel paint in the color of your choice Additional enamel paints for trimming— small cans of enamel are available in many colors Clear varnish—exterior, interior, or marine 1 or 1%-inch bristie brush Decals or stencils—available variety stores Small artist paint brushes for trimming and designs in' most PAINTING THE TUB Clean the tub thoroughly. Apply an undercoat of rust inhibiting paint on the outside and down about six inches (to the estimated water line of the tub when in use). When dry, apply a good quality enamel paint. White was used on the tub in the accompanying picture, but almost any color would be attractive. Use one coat of enamel, or more, for adequate coverage. Allow to dry thoroughly, then cover the entire exterior of the tub with clear varnish for protection and durability. APPLYING DECORATIVE DESIGNS When the varnish on the outside is thoroughly dry, apply decals, stencils, or free-hand painting. Interesting designs can be found in children's picture books, magazines, or in wallpaper prints. These can be traced and Photo by Dorothy J. Roberts + * Palm nas Baez ey Aythy ae then filled in with paint, or they can be glued to the tub and covered with one or two coats of clear varnish. Fill the decorated tub with favorite drinks, fruit juice, milk, homemade rootbeer, lemonade, or melons. Pack with ice, and a large part of the picnic preparations have been completed. Ss NIGHT FALL So quietly creeps the evening gray, As the birds' last song floats gently Through the brown beach, copper red by day From the sun's kindly gleam. Softly blend these darkened shadows Rocked in the bosom of the wind, As night falls their brightness fades Into the sleeping dusk. —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England. 599 a a it;; na Pra i tt: 1°, Be if e: —A Box Full of Memories a Mazzacano 'asadena, California 91 do. I own 4 whole box full of them. I ing about 4 x BY. Do to visit with Prim's Re i 'd. Take out a yellowed and smudged card, an "Ss DATE PUDDING MRS. WALSH Yc. Dates, cut up 1 tsp. Vanilla. "Combine brown sugar and warm water in @ deep pan and stir over low heat until dissolved. Set aside. Combine remainder of ingredients in a mixing bowl, and drop I into liquid. Do not stir. Pour into large pan and bake in 325° rvings. By tablespoons fu m. Makes twelve se r. Serve war g Biscuits Supreme, the other in t d some misgivings, put never as hers always did. BISCUITS SUPREME 2 c. Milk sift together flour, salt, baking powder, cream of tartar, and sugar. Cut in shortening until mixture is like coarse crumbs. Add milk all at once, and stir just enough, until dough follows fork aroun bowl. Pat or roll % inch thick on lightly floured sutfor 10 to 12 minutes. 600 1% c. Brown sugar 1% c. Warm water lc. White sugar Y2 c. Nut meats, broken 2 c. Flour VY tsp. Salt 4 tsp. Baking powder face, and cut with biscuit cutter. Bake on ungreased baking sheet | hot oven, lc. Milk le. All-purpose flour 1 tsp. Baking powder VY tsp. Salt Yo tsp. Cream of tartar 2 tsp. Sugar VY C. Shortening S Recipes From the Past Ella's Caramel Never-Fail Frosting is the title of the next smudgy card. Ella was our "girl" once upon a time. She was always there in the kitchen, preparing one of her specialties, which were always loaded with butter, cream, and eggs. ELLA'S CARAMEL NEVER-FAIL FROSTING lc. Light brown sugar 1 tbsp. Water 4 tbsp. Cream 1 tbsp. Butter powdered sugar, sifted Combine all ingredients and bring to a boil. Take off heat, and thicken with sifted powdered sugar until spreading consistency. Mrs. Wilson's Dream Bars reads the tab on the next recipe. With it comes Mrs. Wilson, looking like a well-fed jenny wren, fluttering beside her big bluff contractor husband, who is a dim shadow in the background. They were our town's unofficial hosts, and entertained unceasingly at their country "cabin." MRS. WILSON'S DREAM BARS Y% c. Butter lc. Flour Y% c. Brown sugar » Cream butter and brown sugar, add flour, and mix to crumbly mass. Pat into shallow pan 8 x 13 inches. Bake in moderate oven, 350° for 10 minutes. Cool slightly and cover with the following mixture: 1 c. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Flour 2 eggs \% tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla. 1% c. Coconut '% tsp. Salt 1 c. Pecan meats, chopped Beat eggs. Add sugar, then blend in rest of ingredients, and spread over top of the baked portion. Return to oven and bake 20 minutes at 300°. Cool, and cut into bars. Next I welcome the dainty memory of Dora Briggs, a "joiner."' Mrs. Briggs had no children, and her husband traveled. When Mr. Briggs was home he was not sociable, so Dora wisely expended most of her housewifely talents on preparing delicious luncheons for "the girls," or ward banquets at the church. Her Coral and Jade Salad Platter is as beautiful to look at as it is to eat. And she proudly reminds me that no one could ever stop with just one taste of her Lemon Souffle. DORA'S CORAL AND JADE SALAD PLATTER 2 pkgs. Lime Jello. 1 tbsp. Chopped onion 3 c. Hot water 1 tbsp. Vinegar or lemon juice 1% lbs. Cottage cheese., Y% c. Horseradish 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise Dissolve Jello in hot water and chill until slightly set, then beat until light with rotary beater. Stir in cottage cheese, chopped onion, vinegar (or lemon juice) mixed with horseradish and mayonnaise. Pour into ring mold rinsed with cold water. Chill until set. Turn out on platter and fill center with shrimp salad. Garnish with unpeeled slices of cucumber, whole shrimps, and parsley. 601 August 1969 DORA'S LEMON SOUFFLE a on ' egg — beaten lightly 4c. Flour c. Mi ¥ tsp. Baking powder 3 tbsp. Lemon juice Sift dry ingredients together and mix with the butter. Add egg yolks, milk, lemon rind and lemon juice. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites and pour into lightly buttered baking dish. Bake in pan of water 350° for 40 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cake will rise to top, leaving custard on bottom of dish. Cool. Serve with whipped cream. The memory I call Aunt Alice comes out, smiling her gentle smile. She knows she is my favorite of them all. Our families were the closest of friends, and we were often guests at their big holiday dinners. Uncle Jim was a gentleman of the deep South, and the family lived in the old plantation manner. All meals were served on elegant china with heirloom silver, and usually by candlelight. Her Maple Pecan Creams, her fudge, her divinity, tasted like no other, and could have made her a fortune in the business world. Now, just as the memory disappears, I remember that her secret was that she always kneaded the candy on a marble table top. AUNT ALICE'S MAPLE PECAN CREAMS 2 c. Sugar Y% c. Cream '% c. Real maple syrup Yc. Pecans, chopped Combine all ingredients, except nuts, and stir constantly over low flame until mixture begins to boil. Continue to cook slowly until candy reaches soft ball stage. Cool. Beat until candy begins to thicken, then add pecans. Drop with teaspoon onto waxed paper. Thin with a little more cream if necessary. DANDELION ALCHEMY From melting snow and first bird song Till summer is long past, You only smile at scorching sun, And scorn the icy blast. Men curse you on their broad terrain, While women sigh and yawn, To see your merry face a-glow— Triumphant—on the lawn. Gay dandelion, flaunt your curls! ' Pursued—decried—who knows What inner magic stirs your heart To wink at all your foes? For in warm hands held up to me With words of love, untold, Small field-grown flower, glorified, Your petals turned to gold. —Norma A. Wrathall ¥ tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Butter '2 tsp. Lemon rind, minced 3 egg whites, beaten stiff YY \ — tem Chapter 3 HEART ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey SYNOPSIS: Rosemary Freemian has stormed out of the living room of their Los Angeles home after a scene about her wedding, planned for the coming June, which she had expected her mother to finance. Her parents, Kim and Mary Ann Freeman, have brought her aged grandfather, convalescing from a broken hip, home to care for him, rather than sell his home in Mayville, Utah, and put him in a nursing home. His home is beloved by all the family. Rosemary's mother must give up her job of teaching in order to take on this new responsibility, and it will cut the family income in two. @® There was nothing for Mary Ann to do but leave, but she was near tears when she came out of Rosemary's room, not only at the rebuff, but at her inability to reach Rosemary and at her own question. Kim came to meet her, to put his arm around her. She avoided him, because it did not seem fair to accept comfort for herself when Rosemary had none. "IT told you not to go in," reminded Tommy. "But she's right. Rosemary's right. What are we going to do for her wedding? Isn't a parent's first duty to the children?" Kim was silent under Mary Ann's rebuff, taking it, she knew, as a criticism of him. "It wasn't that," she said later, and explained to him. "Kim, I'm sorry. I love you very much." "Do you, dear? And I love you. Now don't worry about Rosemary. She has a good mind. Give her Sunday to mull it over." There were responsibilities on Sunday—Rosemary with her Sunday Schoo] class, Tommy with his priesthood class, he and his father off early to priesthood meeting, and Mary Ann playing righthand man to everybody's needs. Neither Tommy nor Rosemary opened the subject, busy 603 August 1969 as they were with their teaching assignments, but reverted to their usual Sunday morning activities. Of course, Mary Ann could not go. "Please make my apologies to the class leader," she said. She was president of the gospel doctrine class. "T wonder how soon I'll be able to go?" asked Father Freeman, looking after the men with longing. "Next Sunday, Dad," assured Mary Ann. "We'll be more organized by then. There's no reason you can't go everywhere with two strong men to lift you and a wheelchair to ride in." "That's good," he said. "Beginning tomorrow I am going to start a definite program of exercises. Pretty soon I'll be able to' walk, and then I won't be such a burden on you." It was useless to assure him he was no burden; he could see otherwise. "Kim will help you with your bath when he comes home," she told him, "while I get dinner on the table. And, Dad, we are very glad to have you with us. The children will all be here for dinner. I hope it will not be too much for you." "Just like it was at home when she was alive," Father Freeman said with satisfaction, "the gathering of the clan." He was immaculate, his snowy hair sparkling, when the first contingent arrived—Jennifer and Dick and their pretty little family, three girls and two scrubbed, freckle-faced little boys. | = | ight on their heels came Cary, demanding to know if they _ had any tall, skinny red-heads 604 around, kissing Rosemary unabashedly before them all. "Tiss me, too, Tary," said Jennifer's youngest, Becky, pursing her little red lips. Cary complied, lifting her high. He was courtly, meeting Rosemary's grandfather. "How do you do, sir? I want to hear about that fabulous home Rosemary has been telling me about. How was your trip?" "Here comes Aunt Barbara and Uncle Hank," piped Dennis. "Now we can eat." Barbara's five children were dark-eyed and_ serious, wellmannered and quiet, in contrast to Jennifer's sandy-red and vociferous brood. It was the usual, happy babble at the elongated table, with a dozen conversations going on, interspersed with requests for food and the admonishings of parents as to manners and spilling. "Grandpa, is my little castle still there?" asked Barbara. "T think," said her grandfather, "that a couple of mountain squirrels have taken up housekeeping, but the walls are unhurt." "Your castle?" echoed Tommy. "T'll have you know I fought the battle of Hastings from that castle, and dubbed every knight of King Arthur's Round Table. The moat was real and the drawbridge actually came down, chiseled out of sheer rock, the whole thing!" "Now, Mr. Freeman," put in Cary. "Everybody knows at last why I'm marrying Rosemary —so I can get to your place and revert to my boyhood for all the things I missed." "Tt'satrap,' said Hank. "That's why I married Barbara, and it didn't work. I never get there." "He's right!" abetted Dick. "Tt was part of the deal that I get to fish in Jennifer's grandfather's pond, but it never came through. She keeps my nose to the grindstone just like Rosemary will yours." "T'll tell you what!" said Rosemary, suddenly excited. "Let's go there for our honeymoon—instead of Hawaii. Would it be all right, Grandfather? Oh, please say yes!" "Certainly," said her grandfather, flushing with pleasure. "Of course you may go there for your honeymoon. I'll ask Victor and Emma to make it ready for 39 you. Mi ary Ann caught her breath and looked at Kim. He was remembering, too. It was to that house Kim had brought Mary Ann proudly to meet his parents in their courting days, the pretty new teacher from the Heber Valley, come to Mayville to teach. "The Marriage Bureau," Kim had laughed. "Never a schoolteacher escapes this town. That's why we have such a high rate of culture here. The mothers are all school marms." It was there he had brought her temporarily as a bride and they had been given the whole upstairs in which to set up their new little housekeeping, Rachel generously contributing everything from bedding to bottled fruit, but never intruding on their privacy. That sweet privacy among the treetops, where they could look from their bedroom window into the nests of birds, Heart Room For Home into the petaled hearts of apple blossoms. The beginning cycles of nature had seemed symbols of their own beginnings, and to this day the songs of early robins reminded her of Kim when he was a slim young man, earnest and blonde, when they were newly in love. That house held the Eden days of their early marriage, and it was a fitting honeymoon house for any young couple, secluded as it was between towns, in the mouth of a canyon, its own little entity, and Rosemary's first suggestion brought cries of appreciation from Barbara and Tommy. "T'd like that," said Cary simply, his eyes shining. "Now you're talking sense, sis," Tommy congratulated. "Be a lot easier on the budget, too, than Hawaii." "When are you planning to be married, Rosemary?" Kim's father asked when the excitement died down. "June the third," said Rosemary. Mary Ann sensed Father Freeman's unease and could see him mulling the date in his mind. By his calculations he would be home long since by the first of June. Spring started for him in April or in May, but he said nothing. Any honeymoon should not include an aged grandfather. "They set it for then, Grandfather, so they wouldn't break into my studies, and I could still make it to the wedding. I should be all through with my requirements by then, to graduate a week later." "Oh! Tommy, that's not true!" protested Rosemary. "We set it for ourselves, didn't we, Cary? 605 August 1969 I always wanted a June wedding." "T don't," said Cary, with proper gallantry. "I wanted it the day I asked Rosemary, or the next day—no later." "Cary!" said Rosemary. "You know we can't be ready until June—all the things I want for my wedding. I have it on a timetable, month by month, day by day. It can't be before June." Wasn't Rosemary going to scale down her wedding, in view of their conversation last night? Mary Ann's eyes sought Kim's. "You will be here for it, won't you, Grandfather? And _ well enough to go with us to the Los Angeles Temple?" "You bet I will, darling," her grandfather assured her, but Mary Ann noticed a false heartiness in his voice, and her heart ached. Kim, always sensitive to her thoughts, noticed it, too. Later that night with the day behind them and the children all dispersed to go to their respective wards when Kim's father was resting, Kim brought it up. "It doesn't seem quite honest of us to not tell Dad he can't possibly get back home by spring, no matter what his condition of recovery. We can't let him go back alone, and we ought not to hold out hope." "T think he's coming to the realization by degrees," said Mary Ann, "and it's better that way. Maybe we can wean him gradually to California living." "T hope so," said Kim without conviction. "I wonder' what Rosemary meant, the things she wants for her wedding. Can't she see that now she will have to plan for less?" "Spring is a long way off," 606 said Mary Ann. "As you say, Kim, we'll just have to play it by ear." "What about tomorrow?" "Barbara will come while I get over to school and talk to the principal." Kim fell asleep easily, but Mary Ann was afraid to sleep too soundly, for fear his father might need something during the night. She awakened feeling tired and apprehensive about breaking her contract. "How does it feel to be leaving for work the last time?" asked Barbara when she came. "T'll tell you later," said Mary Ann as she joined Rosemary in the waiting car, because, of course, Rosemary would have to go on substituting until she was replaced. Just now she felt the loss of her job was cataclysmic. How were they going to go on without her salary? It was Rosemary who opened the tender subject as she drove along the boulevard toward San Gabriel School. "You know, Mother, they paid us Friday. The first real pay check I ever had! It's rather a good feeling." "Rosemary, dear, I'm so sorry about your having to scale down your wedding." "Don't be," said Rosemary serenely. "I don't intend to scale it down. I've been thinking. There's no reason why I can't get a job and earn the things I want myself. Do you think they will let me have your class? Or do they have a backlog of teachers just aching to take over?" "If they had they would certainly not have let you substitute for me in the first place, but we can ask," replied Mary Ann, her spirits rising. "T think part of my reluctance to work was fear that I couldn't do it, but this little interval has given me confidence." This was a new facet of Rosemary, who had always seemed so self-sufficient, if not self-satisfied and somewhat supercilious, even critical of the methods of her mother. "T had no idea!" Mary Ann said now, looking at her daughter with new fondness. "It always seemed you were born knowing how to do everything." "Mother! Is that how I really seem to you? That's how you always appeared to me—capable of anything. I've been thinking it over, since I have this experience— oh, student teaching is so supervised—and I have come to the conclusion I was chipping away at you to bring you down to my level." "Could that be true?" Mary Ann asked. "How honest of you to say so!" Rosemary was noted in the family for her analytical mind. When the car pulled into the parking lot of the school the children of the fourth grade swarmed about it. "Hello, Mrs Freeman," they said respectfully to her, but she was astonished to see the little girls vying for the privilege of ( Heart Room For Home holding Rosemary's hand as they walked to the building, their adoring eyes taking in every detail of Rosemary's pretty, flowered dress and accessories. Rosemary dressed immaculately and daintily, with an eye to color combinations. "You held her hand yesterday. It's my turn today," said one. SZ i ~ Vi reereyl | "Via lap! Yesterday." The little boys turned handsprings, their eyes seeking Rosemary's approval. We weren't here 607 August 1969 "Freddie, how nice you look with your glasses!" Mary Ann complimented. "She got them for me, and now I can see everything on the board," said Freddie, but his shy smile was all for Rosemary. Although this was somewhat of a blow to Mary Ann's ego, it gave her courage to face her principal, something she had dreaded, she found now. A contract was a contract; her rating as a teacher was high, and the school board might rightfully hold her to it. "Well, Mrs. Freeman. This is unusual, but I can see your problem. Needless to say, we will not want to lose you. Breaking your contract is not a matter for me to decide, however, as you probably know, and we will need time for the proper replacement." "My daughter, Rosemary, who is substituting for me, would like to continue in my place," Mary Ann replied diffidently. "Really? Her attitude so far has been that she did not want to teach school. I have watched her with interest, and like her work, but she has let it be known she is not interested in a contract. Unless...." "Why don't you talk to her?" "Tl do that. In the meantime you may fill out these forms for resignation. Perhaps we can send her application in with it, along with my recommendation to the school board. It was astute of her to discover little Freddie Williams' eye trouble and initiate his getting glasses. It is this kind of personal involvement we like in our teachers. I see no reason why she can't continue substituting for you until we hear from the school board on your release at any rate." "T don't know whether to feel relieved or deflated," she told the family at dinner that night. "I think they should have put up a token fight at least to spare my ego. And Rosemary! What did you do to get them eating out of your hand like they do—the children, I mean?" "Nothing, Mother. Maybe it is my pretty clothes, or my red hair. I certainly am strict with them, but I try to be just, and I certainly do love them, every one. Do you think Ill get that class? I really do want it." "T hope so, dear," Mary Ann replied. "Mr. Waverly was most impressed and that's half the battle." A few days later twin letters came from the board of education, one addressed to Mary Ann, a gracious release from her contract "in view of the circumstances," and thanking her for her past high-ranking performance, the other to Rosemary. It was all Mary Ann could do to refrain from opening Rosemary's letter. (To be continued) STAY Sister, little sister, In the reaches of my heart Is a wide world set apart That is empty when you're gone. 608 —Leora Larsen FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities rey i | i Hi i i WG i > > y ill] i Idaho Stake, Soda Springs Second Ward Honors Visiting Teachers, March 12, 1969 Front row, left to right: Janice Clark, Secretary-Treasurer, Soda Springs Second Ward Relief Society; Darlene Clegg, Homemaking Counselor; iris Lott, Education Counselor; Norma Jo Vance, President; Lue! La W. Finlinson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Gale Sanders, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society; Ordis Williams, Education Counselor; Beverly Michaelson, Homemaking Counselor; Asa Hatch, High Council Priesthood Representative. Remaining sisters are officers and honored visiting teachers of the Soda Springs Second Ward Relief Society. Sister Sanders reports: ''The theme for the visiting teacher convention in the Soda Springs Second Ward was 'It's a feather in Your Hat to Be a Visiting Teacher.' This theme was carried out in the clever invitations delivered to each sister by the visiting teachers, and in the table decorations. This function was held in celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. "Luncheon was served to eighty-five visitors and guests. Sister Zina Balls was honored for having served forty years as a visiting teacher. Sister Luella Finlinson of the General Board addressed the sisters and praised and encouraged respect for the calling of visiting teacher. "This was a lovely occasion and was enjoyed by all who were in attendance.'' 609 August 1969 Mt. Logan Stake (Utah), River Heights Ward Relief Society Honors Bishop at Birthday Celebration March 1969 Front row, left to right: Darlene W. Smart; Bishop Ross A. Smart, River Heights Ward. Back row, left to right: Orma Jean A. Johnson, Secretary-Treasurer; Evelyn H. Ellis, First Counselor; Maurine N. Miller, Second Counselor; Anna L. Merrill, President. Relda F. Jorgensen, President, Mt. Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The River Heights Ward of our stake honored their bishop and his wife at the Relief Society - Birthday Celebration. A counselor in the bishopric and a counselor in the Relief Society presidency paid tribute to the couple. A lovely quilt made by the Relief Society sisters was presented."' California Mission, Bishop Branch Holds 127th Anniversary of Relief Society Program March 17, 1969 First row, left to right: Viola Dearborn; Ruby Rose; Naomi Burnand;. Vera Critchfield; Ruth Mays. Back row, left to right: Shauna Richards, Homemaking Counselor, Bishop Branch Relief Society; Grace Mayhew, Secretary-Treasurer; Emily Heslington, Education Counselor; Mable E. Bruce, President; past president: Albertha Kollicker, Shirley Allred, Nelva Edell. Marie B. Rasmussen, Supervisor, California Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Bishop Branch in our mission honored two past Relief Society presidents and five other faithful sisters in a program commemorating the 127th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. "A skit portraying the purpose of Relief Society was enjoyed by fifty-two sisters. Twenty-two of them were nonmembers. The spirit of fellowship was manifest. There were displays representing the various aspects of Relief Society. Lovely entertainment and refreshments added to the success of the program." re Sunset Stake (Utah), Sunset First Ward Observes Birthday of Relief Society, March 27, 1969 Ronald Krogh sings '"'Thank Heaven for Little Girls," to his three daughters Shelly, Shonna, and Stacy, in ''Portrait of Women." Nora B. Stephens, President, Sunset Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The First Ward of our stake presented a lovely program in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. Entitled 'Portrait of Women' it depicted in narration, music, tableau, and pictures the growth of a woman from a child to a grandmother, showing the role of the priesthood and the Church in her development. "Seventy people took part in this inspiring performance. Delicious refreshments were served to 120 sisters and their husbands who attended. "Each of the six wards in our stake presented outstanding birthday programs this year, and we are very pleased with all of them." 610 ee a sa sees ssste August 1969 Yuma Stake, Brawley Ward (California) Presents "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way,"' March 21, 1969 Left to right, Brawley Ward Relief Society officers and teachers: Lela Lunceford; Evelyn Mann, President; Alice Mikesell, Secretary-Treasurer; Vivian Willardson, First Counselor; Pauline Lunceford, Second Counselor. Louise S. Westover, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The birthday of Relief Society was celebrated in the Brawley Ward in a most pleasant way. A lovely dinner of Chinese food was served under the direction of Lela Lunceford with suitable decorations by artist Mary Daker. Following the dinner, 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way' was presented under direction of Afton Ellis with singing directed by Verma Schoenfeld. The sisters and their husbands were most appreciative of this lovely evening. A collection of cookie recipes, tied with blue and gold ribbons, was presented to each sister." Concord Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert, ''The Things We Love,'"' March 1, 1969 Front row, sixth and seventh from left: Laura Muceus, organist for Concord Stake Singing Mothers; Lenore Wittwer, conductor. Third row, at left: Fern Pike, President, Concord Stake Relief Society. Sister Pike reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a lovely concert with the theme ''The Things We Love." Seventy-five Singing Mothers from ten wards participated. The program was narrated by Gloria Magleby and consisted of eight choral numbers, and vocal and instrumental solos and ensembles from each ward. "It was an inspiration for the ward groups to participate and many of them participated in sacrament meetings and fashion shows. The Singing Mothers also sang for stake quarterly conference." = a a Minnesota Stake Relief Society Presents Fashion Show, 'Springtime Internationale,'' March 29, 1969 Fay Dearden, Homemaking Counselor, Minnesota Stake Relief Society models gown in fashion show. Artbella M. Basinger, President, Minnesota Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our fashion show was one of the most successful events our stake has presented. The presence of Sister Joan Fisher, the reigning Mrs. America, added much to the program. She and her seven-year-old daughter took part in the program. "The program, through song and dance and decorations took the spectators to Hawaii, Paris, Vienna, Holland, Ireland, Mexico, and many other countries, with clothes being modeled at each stop. Fifty women and children modeled in the show. "Springtime festivals throughout the world were represented in display rooms opened before and after the show. Each ward had a room, and these were truly delightful with demonstrations of home skills, free food samples, and handicraft items and food for sale. The decorations were elaborate représentations of the various countries. "A large room of the building was set apart for missionary work, and more than 100 visitors made contact with the missionaries there. "This program received much publicity in the Twin Cities area, both on radio and in the newspapers. We were thrilled with the results."' 612 aa ea August 1969 Blackfoot Stake (Idaho), Blackfoot First Ward Pays Tribute to Older Sisters at 127th Birthday of Relief Society Party March 1969 Left to right: Jane P. Miles; Abby K. Gooch; Josephine DeWitt; Pearl B. Wooten. La Rue F. Cox, President, Blackfoot Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Society sisters of the Blackfoot First Ward paid tribute to the sisters in the ward over eighty years of age, at the celebration of the birthday of Relief Society. "Tribute was paid to each sister by one of her daughters who told of their family life, and about their mother's talents, experiences, life history, and other interesting points. Several of the daughters had to travel some distance in order to be present. This was indeed a lovely program." | ee eA EER AE TICE TS, EP PR OS Oa Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) Las Vegas Fifth Ward Presents ''Profiles of Pioneer Women" March 1969 Seated in front, left to right: Luana Marshall as Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our prophet, and link between the old and new, having been born two months before the death of Brigham Young; Pauline Jolley as Ellis Shipp, pioneer doctor; Melba Hoffer as Ann Clark Martin, schoolteacher; Racheal Cutler, program narrator; Rosemary Hansen as Emma Hale Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Back row, left ta right: Lydia Victor as Maude Adams, leading actress, Olive Isom as Emma Lucy Gates, opera and concert artist; Le Ann Virchow as Eliza R. Snow, authoress; Ines Larkin as Susanna Goudin Cardon, pioneer of Utah's silkworm industry; Janice Zobrist as Emmeline B. Wells, suffragette and Relief Society leader. Loreta N. Gubler, President, Las Vegas East Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Fifth Ward of our stake presented a lovely and well done presentation entitled 'Profiles of Pioneer Women,' in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. The program was written by Mabel Hansen, and was highly praised by the overflow audience from all wards in the Las Vegas area." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary of the Organization of Relief Society March 27, 1969 Stake board members, front row, left to right: Velda Palmer, spiritual living class leader; Renie Littlewood, cultural refinement class leader; Chloe Sheffield, homemaking leader; Lola Anderson, Secretary-Treasurer; Eva Jeppsen, Education Counselor; Bernice Rasmussen, President; Faye Hansen, Homemaking Counselor; Ethel Poulter, chorister; Thelma Monson, visiting teacher message leader; Jennie Reeves, social relations class leader; Cleo Dixon, Magazine representative. Second row, left to right, beginning directly behind president: Pat Davies, organist; and Afton Rees, chorister for Brigham First Ward Singing Mothers who are pictured. A Sister Rasmussen reports: ''At our stake leadership meeting in March we celebrated the birthday of Relief Society. The program consisted of a brief history of the organization; an original skit by Phyllis Warnick entitled 'The Tribute,' presented by the board members; lovely organ music; and three numbers by the Singing Mothers of the Brigham First Ward." nn ee Ee ad ott Andes Mission Holds Annual Relief Society Conference March 1969 Pictured at left: Elder David Lefevre, a Lima (Peru) Zone Leader, serves sisters from Chimbote. Pictured at right: left to right: Andes Mission Relief Society officers: Esperanza Schwarz, President; Janice Litster, Supervisor; Shirley Ford, Secretary-Treasurer; Clara Vasquez, First Counselor. Sister Litster reports: '"'A very lovely and successful conference was held for Relief Society sisters in our mission. Much useful information was given, however in order to insure continued success and follow-up of the material presented, a series of film strips accompanied by tape recording was prepared for distribution by the mission Relief Society presidency. Much work and time went into this project, as the pictures and tapes had to meet exacting specifications. "A lovely display of handwork from various areas of the mission was enjoyed by all. Perhaps one of the nicest times of the conference was the delicious chicken dinner cooked by the sisters and served by the priesthood, including the missionaries."' 616 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 98—Events Associated With the Second Coming of Christ Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman will resolve to prepare herself for the second coming of the Savior. INTRODUCTION The Church has come into existence to prepare a people for the second coming of Christ. The elect. Are gathered out of the world into the kingdom of. God to prepare themselves for that coming. (D&C 1:8-23; 45: 9; 133:1-10; 10:65; 29:1-8.) These facts were revealed to the Church early in its history. The first compilation of revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith was approved for printing at the conference held on November 1, 1831, over eighteen months after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. When it was decided by the conference that the revelations should be published under the title a Book of Commandments, the Lord gave his Preface to that book. This revelation (D&C, Section 1) contains the Lord's reasons for giving revelations to the Prophet. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 1, pp. 222, 226, 234-36 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC],.) The Lord closes the revelation with these verses concerning the last days: And again, verily I say unto you, O inhabitants of the earth: I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion: And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world. (D&C 1: 34-36.) Finally, the Lord said that the prophecies in these revelations will all be fulfilled, and that the Spirit bears record that the 617 August 1969 revelations are true. (D&C 1: 37-39.) Section 133, the Appendix to the Doctrine and Covenants, gives additional information concerning the last days and the second coming of Christ. The following subjects in the Appendix indicate the importance of this revelation: (1) the principle of gathering; (2) preparation to meet the Bridegroom when he comes; (3) the return of the lost tribes; (4) a description of the second coming of Christ; (5) reasons for the commandments being given in the dispensation of the fulness of times. THE GATHERING Two aspects of the gathering have operated in this dispensation: (1) to be gathered out of the world into the Church (D&C 29:4; 33:5; 38:42); and (2) to assemble to designated areas. (D&C 31:7-8.) By baptism one is gathered out of the world into the Church and forsakes the things of this world and cleaves to the principles of righteousness. (D&C 25:10; 133:14.) The first call to gather in a designated area was to gather in Ohio where the Church had grown rapidly. (D&C 39:15.) At the same time that Kirtland, Ohio, and its environs was a gathering place, the call went out for the saints to gather in western Missouri. (D&C 45:64-65; 57:1.) With the expulsion of the saints from Jackson County, and later from the State of Missouri, refuge was found in Illinois, where the city of Nauvoo became the central gathering place. In 1846, the 618 members of the Church were expelled from Illinois and the © trek across the plains to the Rocky Mountains resulted in a new gathering place. The expansion of missionary work, despite persecution and the many difficulties confronting the saints in building a commonwealth in the West, brought many stakes into existence in fulfillment of prophecy. (D&C 101:20-21.) PREPARATORY EVENTS There are several events which were prophesied and which have already occurred that indicate the nearness of the Lord's second coming. First, the restoration of The Church of Jesus Christ and the gospel that it might be preached to all the world. (Rev. 14:6-7; D&C 133:36-40.) Second, the publishing of additional books of scripture. (Isa. 29; 1 Ne. 13:39; 2 Ne. 29:11.) Third, a messenger to prepare the way before the Lord—John the Baptist. (Mal. 3:1-4.) Fourth, the coming of Elijah to restore the sealing powers of the priesthood. (Mal. 4:5-6.) Fifth, the gathering of the remnants of Israel, the Latter-day Saints, and the return of the Jews to the Holy Land. (Isa. 2:1-4; 11: 11-12; D&C 133:13; 45:25.) Event number five will continue until the second coming of Christ takes place. Other preparatory events which are prophesied are: (1) wars and rumors of wars (D&C 87), (2) natural calamities such as earthquakes, tidal waves, fires, diseases, and plagues (D&C 29: 14-20; 45:31-35), (3) increased wickedness (D&C 29:17; 63: 32-33; Morm. 8:26-41), and (4) the appearance of the sign of the Son of Man. Concerning the sign of the Son of Man, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: There will be wars and rumors of wars, signs in the heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun turned into darkness and the moon to blood, earthquakes in divers places, the seas heaving beyond their bounds; then will appear one grand sign of the Son of Man in heaven. But what will the world do? They will say it is a planet, a comet, etc. But the Son of Man will come as the sign of the coming of the Son of Man, which will be as the light of the morning cometh out of the east. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 286-87; Matt. 24:30; Luke 21:25-27; D&C 88:93.) The Prophet said concerning one Hyrum Redding that he had not seen the sign, for the Lord would make it known to his prophet:... He has not seen the sign of the Son of Man, as foretold by Jesus; neither has any man, nor will any man, until after the sun shall have been darkened and the moon bathed in blood; for the Lord hath not shown me any such sign; and as the prophet saith, so it must be—''Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." (See Amos 3:7); Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 280.) Class Discussion In view of the predicted signs preceding the second coming of Christ, why would you consider that we are living in the last days? THE LOST TRIBES Preparatory to the coming of the Lord-in power and glory is the return of the ten lost tribes. After the death of King Solomon the ten tribes became a kingdom Lesson Department known as Israel. (James FE. Talmage, Articles of Faith, p. 325.) The Assyrians took them captive in 721 B. C., and they were led northward and were lost to the world. (Jer. 3:12.) The resurrected Lord told the Nephites that the ten tribes had been led out of the land by the Father and that they were neither in the land of Jerusalem nor in any part of the land where he had ministered. (3 Ne. 15:15; 16:1.) These tribes are lost to us but not to the Lord. He told the Nephites that the lost tribes have their own scriptures. (2 Ne. 29: 11-14.) In modern revelation it is said that they will bring their rich treasures with them from the land of the north. (D&C 133:30.) It is further given that a highway will be cast up from the deep, and their enemies will be unable to stop their journey. (D&C 133:26-34.) THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST The coming of the Lord to which reference is usually made in the scriptures is his coming in great power and glory when the wicked will be destroyed. There is more than one appearance of the Savior, however, as a part of his second coming. The Prophet Joseph Smith said that in the last days the inhabitants of the world would be divided into the following three categories: (1) the saints, (2) the Jews, and (3) the wicked world. (DHC, Vol. 4, p. 610.) The second coming of Christ will consist of appearances to these three groups. The scriptures indicate that the Lord will suddenly come 619 August 1969 to his temple. (Mal. 3:1.) The Savior came to the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836, as a partial fulfillment of this prophecy. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 3, pp. 12-13.) The complete fulfillment of this prophecy will come with the appearance of the Lord in the Jackson County, Missouri, temple, yet to be built. (D&C 84:1-5; 97:15-16; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 7, p. 142 [hereafter referred to as JD).) Another visit of the Lord with the saints will be held at Adamondi-Ahman, located in Daviess County, Missouri. (D&C 116; Teachings of The Prophet Joseph Smith, page 157.) This conference will be attended by those who have held the keys of the priesthood during the dispensations of the gospel and others invited to the assemblage. It will apparently be unknown to the world and also to the saints not in attendance. (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, pp. 287-91.) APPEARANCE TO THE JEWS AND TO THE WORLD The Savior will appear to the Jewish people when they are sorely beset by the armies of the earth. Almost overcome militarily (Zech. 14:1-2; Rev. 11:1-13; D&C 77:15), the people will have sought refuge in the Mount of Olives, which will have separated, and then the Lord will appear to them as their Messiah whom their fathers crucified. (D&C 45:51-53; Zech. 13:6; 12:8-14; 13:1.) Judah will be redeemed through acceptance of the ful- 620 ness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to dwell in the Lord's presence. (D&C 133:35.) The second coming of Christ in power to destroy the morally wicked will usher in his millennial reign. (D&C 63:54; 101: 23-24; 133:63-64; 45:74-75.) The wickedness of men will prevent them from abiding the presence of the Lord. (D&C 133:41-51.) President Charles W. Penrose describes this coming of the Lord in this manner: He comes! The earth shakes, and the tall mountains tremble; the mighty deep rolls back to the north as in fear, and the rent skies glow like molten brass. He comes! The dead saints burst forth from their tombs, and "those who are alive and remain" are "caught up" with them to meet him. [I Thess. 4:17.] The ungodly rush to hide themselves from his presence, and call upon the quivering rocks to cover them. He comes! With all the hosts of the righteous glorified. The breath of his lips strikes death to the wicked. His glory is a consuming fire. The proud and rebellious are as stubble; they are burned and "left neither root nor branch." He sweeps the earth "as with the besom of destruction." [Isa. 14:23.] He deluges the earth with the fiery floods of his wrath, and the filthinéss and abominations of the world are consumed. Satan and his dark hosts are taken and bound—the prince of the power of the air has lost his dominion, for he whose right it is to reign has come, and "the kingdoms of this world have become the Kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ." [Rev. 11:15.] (Roy W. Doxey, The Latter Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Vol. 4, p. 476.) KEYS TO PREPAREDNESS Wherefore, prepare ye for the coming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him. (D&C 133:19.) Only through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints may one be fully prepared to meet the Lord. (Wilford Woodruff, Young Woman's Journal, Vol. 5, pp. 512-13.) There shall be those among the members of the Church who will not be prepared, some being foolish while the prepared will be wise. (D&C 63:54; Wilford Woodruff, JD Vol. 18, p. 110.) What is there in the gospel that will aid the member of the Church to be among the wise? No other people on the earth _ have the knowledge successfully to be in this class. Some of the important teachings which prepare one for this blessing are: (1) the knowledge that the gospel with the priesthood have been restored, (2) Joseph Smith is a prophet and his successors have held the same high calling, (3) modern books of scriptures, (4) continuous revelation, (5) relationship of man to God, (6) the doctrine of premortality, (7) the purpose of life, and (8) the knowledge of and reality of the future life. Class Discussion Why do you think that knowledge of the foregoing facts helps a person to be prepared for the second coming of Christ? WHAT MUST BE DONE With so much evidence to support the truth as it has been restored, the Latter-day Saint is well fortified to follow the Lord's instructions as they have come from his servants. What specific things should one do to be considered wise? The following are suggestions: (1) remain out of the world, (2) accept priestLesson Department hood programs, and (3) secure one's family. NOT OF THE WORLD Go ye out from among the nations, even from Babylon, from the midst of wickedness, which is spiritual Babylon. (D&C 133:14.) The call has gone forth that Israel is to gather into the fold of Christ in preparation for the Lord's coming. Members of the kingdom have made covenants that they will not partake of worldly influences or practices. (D&C 20:37, 77, 79.) How may one prepare oneself so that he will not be deceived by the blandishments of the world? Be close to the Church; find strength by Church attendance; study and live the revealed word of the Lord so that it will be easier to know the genuine from the spurious; seek the Spirit; and acquire the virtue of humility. Class Discussion What does it mean to live in the world and yet not be of it? PRIESTHOOD ACCEPTANCE Priesthood programs of the Church are: genealogical, home teaching, missionary, and welfare. These programs are as much for the women as for the men. Upon each member of the Church devolves the responsibility to participate in all of them. As an example, although a woman does not do home teaching, she can promote the spirit of this important activity in her home by encouraging the priesthood members to do their 621 August 1969 duty and also to provide the atmosphere for good home teaching in her own home. Class Discussion How does activity in the priesthood programs of the Church help a woman to prepare herself for the second coming of Christ? SECURE ONE'S FAMILY Marriage in the temple provides a stability to a marriage union which the Lord intended. Since the family is designed to be eternal, every step necessary to preserve the marriage bond should be undertaken. Without the sealing ordinance by the priesthood in the temple there is no possibility of exaltation in the celestial kingdom. (D&C 131: 1-4: 132:16-17.) The Lord has said that people are to be saved as families; consequently, he commanded that parents should teach their children true principles that they might be saved with them. (D&C 68:25-31; 93: 47-49.) Two practices stand out prominently as necessary to preserve parents and children in righteousness. Family prayer binds families together, provides spiritual strength for the tasks of the day, and fulfills individual opportunities to acknowledge the Lord's hand in all things. (D&C 59:21.) The second important practice is the Family Home Evening Program. Probably no_ better opportunity is afforded both parents and children to learn together. The outlined course of instruction provided by the Church, if followed, will bring 622 family unity and improved individual character into the lives of all participants. CONCLUSION Latter-day Saints know that Christ will come to rule and reign on the earth in a period when there is great unrest and tribulation in the world. Many signs indicate that his coming is imminent. He will come in power to destroy the wicked. (D&C 101: 23-24.) Before this appearance he will come to the saints and also to the Jews who will have gathered to the Holy Land. The time interval between these three appearances is not indicated in the scriptures. It is probable that the period between the coming of the Lord to the Jewish people and to the world will be short. IMPLEMENTATION The wise Latter-day Saint seeks to learn gospel principles that he may not be deceived by the many ideas which are contrary to the truth. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1: 37.) By this knowledge about his relationship to God and his fellow man, he receives the incentive and strength to prepare himself to avoid the temptations of the world. By the power of the Holy Ghost further strength and knowledge are received for this purpose. Specifically, the member of the Church is then qualified to remain out of the world though he lives in the world. His witness of the truth is such that he accepts his covenant responsibilities by being an active member. He makes every effort to receive the Lord's marriage ceremony and to rear his children in light and truth. (D&C 93:36-40.) The 'Latter-day Saints remember that they are representatives of the ten virgins mentioned in the Lord's parable, who may be either wise or foolish; consequently, they seek to be numbered among the wise. They Lesson Department will not be cast into the fire, for they look to the day when this promise is fulfilled: And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver. (D&C 45:58-59.) VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) — Message 2—The Power of Example Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To understand that one's example can impede or help others. "Children have more need of models than of critics." There is a family of several boys and girls. The father is a leader in the Church in his area. The mother, sometimes active, finds more and more excuses for not attending Church. She is critical of her bishop and other ward leaders. She finds fault with her stake president and many of the General Authorities. She is jealous and envious, belittling others in order to try to enhance her own position. Now the children are grown. The boys, some of whom have gone on missions, follow the good example of their devoted, faithful father. The girls without exception have married outside (Joseph Joubert in Pensées.) the Church, moved to _ large cities where they are inactive, two of them refusing to let their children be baptized. Such problem people are not new. Alma recognized in his day that:. The wickedness of the church was a great stumbling block to those who did not belong to the church; and thus the church began to fail in its progress.... And he saw also that the example of the church began to lead those who were unbelievers on from one piece of iniquity to another.... (Al. 4:10-11.) Once a great sinner himself, Alma perceived that in the Church there was inequality, proud people considering them- 623 August 1969 selves better than others and thus despising them, turning their backs on the needy, the naked, the hungry, the thirsty, the sick and _ afflicted, wearing costly apparel, envying, persecuting others, being full of malice and in conflict, and Alma said, "Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people 2." (AL. 4:13.) There were others who were humble, succored the needy, fed the hungry, and suffered afflictions for Christ's sake. The general condition, however, was so bad that Alma gave up the judgment seat to work solely with the Church. Are there any of these problems among us? If so, what should we do? Jacob, speaking to the Nephites, said: Wherefore, ye shall remember your children, how that ye have grieved their hearts because of the example that ye have set before them; and also, remember that ye may, because of your filthiness, bring your children unto destruction, and their sins be heaped upon your heads at the last day. (Jac. 3:10.) In later years when the dedicated sons of Mosiah were traveling to preach to the Lamanites, the Lord said to them, "Go forth among the Lamanites, thy brethren, and establish my word; yet ye shall be patient in longsuffering and afflictions, that ye may show forth good examples unto them in me, and I will make » an instrument of thee in my hands unto the salvation of many souls." (Al. 17:11.) The Apostle Paul advised, "... Be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity." (1 Tim. 4:12.) Modern and ancient lives teach us that our example can help others lead faithful, charitable lives or can lead them to forsake the counsels of God. CEERI HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness t Discussion 2—''She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise Is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out by Night." (Proverbs 31:18) Celestia J. Taylor - Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that buying wisely and saving regularly are basic to good money management. 624 S———<_— ee INTRODUCTION In the complicated rhythm of today's world, it becomes increasingly evident that these vital,: basic values lie in the home and its management: the patterns which establish our way of hfe and standard of living, the goals which determine the use of our energies and resources, the choices which govern our spending and saving—all originate in the home. Only to the degree that we develop our ability to meet these challenges efficiently and wisely, will we be successful home managers. Since our primary concern this year is a program of family preparedness, we need to know how to utilize our resources to the best advantage by wise buying and regular saving. Not many people are in a position to buy a full supply of food, clothing, and other necessities at once, but by working out a regular program of buying a little at a time, it is surprising how the stockpile will grow. The sense of satisfaction that we feel in seeing food and other needed supplies on our shelves is much the same as that which we feel at having money in the bank. DEVELOPING OUR SHOPPING SKILLS Buying wisely is an art which must be learned and practiced if we are to make the best use of our resources. We need to consider the amount of time, energy, and money we have and decide how best to use them in supplying our needs and achieving our goals. The following Lesson Department suggestions may be used as guidelines: 1. We should anticipate our needs. If we plan ahead of time, we can shop at our convenience, we can take time to find what we want, and we can avoid impulse buying which can upset our budget. 2. We need to know how much we can afford to spend. This will help us to control our spending and limit it to those things which best serve our purpose. It will also prevent indiscriminate spending. 3. We need to make a practical shopping list. This will help us to select the items which we want and need. We should let the list govern what we buy. A. When shopping for food we should consider the likes and dislikes of our family members. Even food which is to be stored should appeal to the appetites of the family. B. When shopping for basic supplies we should buy in quantity and quality suitable to our purpose. 4. We should compare prices and values in different stores. Merchandise, prices, and values vary. 5. We should take advantage of sales. Sales offer us an opportunity to purchase provisions at reduced prices and get good values for our money. A. We should know what we want and need. Aimless shopping often results in waste. B. We should know the original price of sale items to be sure of getting real value. C. We should be sure of the quality of sales goods. Some stores stock merchandise for sales which is not of the same quality as their general run of merchandise. D. We should know when to shop the sales. Watch advertisements for the most advantageous time to buy needed items. End-of-month and end-of-season sales generally offer the best values. Keep in mind that nothing is a bargain unless needed. 625 August 1969 6. We should take advantage of cash buying. A. Buying only what we have money to pay for is a safety control on spending. B. Paying as we go eliminates additional carrying costs. 7. Weshould buy in quantity when possible and advantageous. 8. We should know how and take time to read labels, seals, contracts, warranties, guarantees, and certifications. 9. We should make intelligent use of 10. " reliable consumer buying information. We should establish agreeable business relationships. It helps to become acquainted with the business firms where we shop regularly and to deal fairly and honestly with all who serve us. CONCLUSION Learning to shop wisely not only helps us to add to our store of provisions, but it also represents a definite saving of our resources of time, energy, and money. It is our responsibility as well as our opportunity to be - efficient managers of our financial spending and saving. Ss SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 2—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 6 and.7.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out that understanding the difference between immutable, spiritual and physical laws and the regulations which apply to them, may influence one's attitude toward the regulations. INTRODUCTION Our Heavenly Father, with infinite wisdom and understanding, seemingly reveals admonition and warning to his earth children when that counsel and commandment may be most 626 needed and rewarding. How beneficial the divine counsel may be depends upon our willingness to accept and follow the revealed commandment. In lessons 6 and 7 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark points out several occasions when this divine counsel and warning have been given to us. (Other examples might be cited.) This correlating lesson considers these occasions and also distinguishes between the principle involved in the law and the rules and regulations which make possible the enforcement of the law. Again, much will be quoted directly from the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study since President Clark's clarification of the subject is both logically and interestingly expressed. RESTRAINT—WHEN? Consider the example of ancient Israel to whom the law of the Lord was given, by way of restraint, in the affirmative commandment of the Decalogue, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." (Exod. 20:3.) How needed this commandment was at that particular time is evident when we recall that Israel, newly emancipated from Egyptian bondage, was spiritually weak as a result of having lived for generations in an idolatrous land. The liberated people were now moving into a land (Canaan) inhabited by a people who likewise were idolators, worshipping many gods, and practicing human sacrifice. These environments were not compatible with the life the chosen people were to live if they were to carry out the work which God had planned for them. The idolatrous practices were not consistent with the building of a personal moral life nor with the building of stable homes upon which a Lesson Department righteous and sound society is dependent. President Clark states: God's work could not then, and cannot now, be maintained in partnership with a worship which calls for the heathenish practices of human sacrifice and grossly immoral rites. Our own civilization cannot be preserved in the presence of such heathenish practices, for a moment's reflection will show how human sacrifice would outrage every feeling of humanity that generations have fostered.... In our time when the Western world has come to a worship of one God only, the need for such a commandment, as among ourselves, is no longer necessary, unless it is to be applied figuratively. (It may be parenthetically observed that such an application might not be a strained one, for modern man-chas, in a too large extent, made materialism his god.) (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 6.) Thus we see how important it was for this restraining commandment to be given at that particular time. OTHER EXAMPLES Another example of restraining counsel given in a time of special need, is the law of health known to us of today as the Word of Wisdom. We discuss it here: 1. Asa restraint or forewarning given at a time of special need. 2. As an example that truth, although relating to the physical body, is as unchanging—unless some other law intervenes—as the immutable laws governing other areas of the physical universe. Although the Word of Wisdom was revealed to us before scientific research had given us the confirming facts of which we now are aware, modern _ science 627 August 1969 supports the claims of this law of health. An interesting point of view is clarified by President Clark: It is demonstrated that nicotine, alcohol, tannin, and caffein exert their effects upon the body, and the Lord and modern science say these effects are harmful. These effects are visited upon us whether we wish the effects or not; whether we consent to them or disprove them. These noxious things enforce their own mandates against the body, no other agency is necessary or used. This is the law. Some complain about the Word of Wisdom as if it were a rule of conduct imposed upon them by the Church authorities, and so a rule that could be changed by the Church authorities. In accordance with this idea certain persons have suggested changes or modifications of the Word of Wisdom. But the Word of Wisdom is not a rule of conduct; it is a law — the Lord's law — of health. It was promulgated by him. The law existed before he told it to us; it would exist if the revelation were blotted out from the book. The Church authorities have nothing to do with the law. God, speaking through the forces of the physical world, has prescribed it, and so long as those forces exist, the law will remain. It is therefore the foolish ignorance of a child to assume that the First Presidency can issue a rule that will permit the use of any of these injurious things without their harmful effects. It would be an easy and, in one sense, a pleasing gesture, as satisfying Church members who wish to use these harmful substances to declare the Word of Wisdom no longer existent. But such a declaration would be no more efficacious than a declaration that the law of gravitation no longer operates. (Ibid., lesson 7.) For Discussion 1. Perhaps you are one who has wished thatthe Word of Wisdom might be modified or withdrawn. If so, does the foregoing approach to this law of health add a new dimension to your thinking? 628 2. How may the attitude toward the Word of Wisdom presented by President Clark improve one's thinking relationship to the Church authorities? 3. Would young people be influenced more favorably toward acceptance of this divine admonition if they were taught, from the beginning, that it is not merely a restraint imposed upon them by the Church but an unchanging law of health? ACCORDING TO KNOWLEDGE AND SURROUNDINGS It is relevant to recall that the Lord also gave a law of health to ancient Israel during the days of wandering in the wilderness. It was a dietary and sanitary code, given through Moses, and was founded on scientific principles. One of the prohibitions of that code was that the Israelites should not eat sea foods unless they had fins and scales. President Clark states: Today we eat many wholesome seafoods that do not meet this ancient requirement. Again it must be said that it is not for me to attempt to suggest the reasons why the Lord gave this great law, nor the reasons why he made this and other dietary distinctions. But looking at the matter from the point of view of human knowledge, one reason why the Lord forbade such things to ancient Israel might have been the extreme perishability of certain sea foods which would not be found either in the wilderness or in Palestine, seafoods which rapidly decay, and which, in decaying, generate poisons destructive of health and, indeed, of life itself. Ancient Israel had no such rapid transportation as would enable the delivery of such food materials while they were still fresh, and no refrigerating processes by which they might preserve such sea food materials pending the time they were to be eaten. Under such conditions, even a wise human lawgiver would today enact such a law as was given to ancient Israel, and for the reasons I have suggested. But in our time, with our rapid transportation, our efficient refrigeration, such seafoods may be properly preserved and, so preserved, seem as wholesome as other sea foods that have fins and scales; the Lord has not forbidden these foods to us and we eat them. (Ibid.) Question Does this discussion by President Clark give you a different point of view as to this ancient dietary code? Discuss briefly. BY WAY OF COMPARISON It may be observed in passing that the difference in the character of the two codes of laws given and of the things proscribed in each is an important illustration and example of how God speaks to a people in accordance with their stage of knowledge, their culture, and their surroundings. I do not pretend to say why the Lord gave to Israel some commands and withheld others. But this much may be said. It was seemingly unnecessary to forbid the use of tobacco, tea, and coffee to ancient Israel, for apparently they knew nothing of these things; and alcoholism though forbidden to the priests under certain conditions and discountenanced to the people, had not taken hold of them. It was unnecessary in our day to give the intimate instructions of the Mosaic code concerning sanitation and diet because science was revealing to us the laws relating to such things and we were generally obeying them. But our science had not yet reached, when the Word of Wisdom was given, accepted conclusions upon drugs and narcotics, nor upon the effects of alcoholism which had become almost a besetting sin. In this situation the Lord revealed his modern law of health. So God spoke to each people in the language and terms they understood and in accordance with their needs. (Ibid.) Application Applying this same reasoning to teaching within the home, discuss the following questions: Lesson Department 1. What are some of the important restraints suitable for children under twelve years of age? 2. What are the restraints most needed by teenagers, generally, but not needed by older children in the home? 3. Do mothers frequently wait to give admonition—restraining requests— until it is too late for the child to receive the blessing that obedience would have brought? Discuss. AS A LAMP We frequently fail to distinguish between the principle of the law and the regulations established to help us live the law. If we do not consider the basic purpose and principle of the law we may develop unwarranted, prejudiced attitudes. We may resent the regulations, failing to see that they are as a lamp guiding us to the blessings which obedience would inevitably bring. We also forget that the basic truth of the law, being immutable, does not change although the rules and regulations may change from time to time according to our conditions and needs. ILLUSTRATIONS FROM SITUATIONS IN THIS LESSON Example 1: a. The basic law is "... Evidently the Lord's... People must be healthy and clean." (Ibid.) b. The code of dietary restraints was regulations intended to help ancient Israel remain healthy. Example 2: a. The basic law of health would apply to the Lord's people today as anciently. B. The Word of Wisdom, which implements the Lord's law af health, is intended to help us today remain a healthy and intelligent people. The law of health and cleanliness has not changed but the 629 August 1969 regulation to secure obedience to the law has changed with the change in the manner of our living. ' Implementation 1. Name some restraining laws which are useful and important to you, where the regulations are not now needed because of your increased knowledge. 2. When we were children we were forbidden to eat excessively of certain foods. This was the regulation of our household. The law of moderation is still important to me but, knowing the undesirable effects of excessive eating, I no longer need this household regulation. 3. Other examples of regulations follow: a. When a man in a crowded bus, subway, or other similar situation gives up his seat to a mother carrying an infant, he is carrying out a socially enforced regulation in support of the law of consideration for womankind. B. The code of desirable behavior taught to the Boy Scouts also illustrates the difference between regulations, and such _ specific laws as: honesty, patriotism, kindness, health, first aid, survival. AN IMPORTANT FACTOR There is a difference between the operation of unchanging physical laws of the universe, and the operation of intellectual and spiritual laws. In the latter, the human will is an important factor. The personal will of an individual may modify the exercise or penalty of the law. For example, let us say that the penalties for breaking the law of honesty are: 1. Loss of personal friends. 2. A guilty conscience. 3. Forfeiting the confidence of others. 630 4. The tangible effect of one's dishonesty upon those who suffer loss because of the dishonest action. If, however, this person through personal will power repents and puts himself in a position to be forgiven, the penalty is modified much as the asbestos gloves may modify the burning effects of heat. Other examples may be suggested and discussed. CONCLUSION The concluding remarks of President Clark in lesson 7 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study are a fitting conclusion for this lesson: It is the first duty of... Latterday Saints prayerfully to seek to know the law that they may render obedience to it, and next to learn the rule and regulation that they may diligently and reverently study them, that they may understand, know the reasons for, and live them. Many will be surprised to learn how understanding wipes out prejudice, resentment, and _ rebellion against those rules of life which make for righteousness. This much may be said with certainty and with no possible successful challenge: The.... People of the Church will search in vain for any law or rule or regulation of the Church, obedience to which will not make them better citizens, give them a richer cultural life, and bring to them a greater joy and peace than they have ever before known; they will search in vain for law, rule, or regulation, obedience to which will bring any lasting shade of sorrow or tinge of regret. This cannot be said for much of the new "freedom" which too many unthinking have taken into their lives. For Home Doing Help yourself to freedom by trying to live in harmony with the laws of life, both spiritually and physically. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 2—The Role of Education Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Two By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them.'"' —John Ruskin Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that the development of individual capacity is a primary source of social or community strength. ART "The Girl in White' by Julien Alden Weir (1832-1919) American, Harris Fine Arts Center, Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah. (June 1969 Relief Society Magazine, page 448.) Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University. (June 1969 Relief Society Magazine, page 449.) INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS A close study of "The Girl in White," provides a rewarding educational experience in that one learns about the personality and tastes of the artist. To the more casual observer, however, the picture represents an educational experience on another level—the experience of a lovely child involved in the beauty and wonders of nature. "J. Alden Weir enjoyed the beautiful in life. It became an integral part of him. He also found a technique peculiar to him by which he could pass this on to us in the form of his paintings; a technique which harmonized with his personality and his special way of seeing. Such men of integrity and character play an important role in our education. As John Ruskin says, "The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them.'" Throughout the entire history of the Church there has been an emphasis upon education. From the very beginning schools were established at all levels and Church members were encouraged to cultivate not only gospel knowledge and the skills of 631 August 1969 learning but also the cultural arts. The goal has always been to build in the hearts of Latterday Saints an informed faith, an enlightened testimony. Rather than being hostile to knowledge and the arts, the Church has encouraged and sponsored them —hence the rich program of cultural activities emphasizing drama, dance, music, literature, public speaking, etc., in the auxiliary organizations as well as the vast network of schools, seminaries, institutes, and colleges provided by the Church. Nor are these just modern developments. A study of the pioneer days of the Church will reveal that in spite of the struggle for food, clothing, and homes, priority was given to schools, theaters, and music halls, along with chapels and temples, for the pioneers understood that the mind and the spirit need food for growth just as vitally as does the physical body. Their westward-bound wagons were loaded with books and musical instruments as well as spinning wheels and blacksmith forges. Many of the pioneers were self-educated, but most of them were nevertheless educated, even to the point of consciously cultivating skill in elocution, rhetoric, and penmanship. This is our pioneer heritage! No wonder we look back with admiration and a glow of pride, not only for the pioneers' great spiritual and physical courage as they triumphed over human persecution and the hostile, barren desert lands, but also for their love of the beautiful and the intellectually uplifting. "... Seek ye diligently and _ teach 632 one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith." (D&C 88:118.) Thus the Lord gave counsel through the Prophet Joseph Smith as the gospel was being restored, urging us above all else to study the scriptures but also to study other things. What other things? In Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord instructed us that we are to "... Teach one another... In all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God...." including, in. His words, "... Things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms." (D&C 88:77-79.) In Section 90 he advised. Us to "... Become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people." (D&C 90: 15.) In Section 93, we are counseled to "... Obtain a knowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man, and all this for the salvation of Zion." (D&C 93:53.) We are even promised that "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection," for "... If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D&C 130: 18-19.) Not only Joseph Smith as he was inspired of the Lord but also Brigham Young stressed the need for learning. Listen to the words of President Young: All the knowledge, wisdom, power, and glory that have been bestowed upon the nations of the earth, from the days of Adam till now, must be gathered home to Zion. Every art and science known and studied by the children of men is comprised within the Gospel. See that your children are properly educated in the rudiments of their mother tongue, and then let them proceed to higher branches of learning; let them become more informed in every department of true and useful learning than their fathers are. When they have become well acquainted with their language, let them study other languages, and make themselves fully acquainted with the manners, customs, laws, governments and literature of other nations, peoples and tongues. Let them also learn all the truth pertaining to the arts and sciences, and how to apply the same to their temporal wants. Let them study things that are upon the earth, that are in the earth, and that are in the heavens. (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 245-46, and 252.) Now, as in the past, those we sustain as our living prophets encourage us to develop our talents and widen our intellectual andcultural horizons as evidenced not only by their encouragement of education but also by the breadth of their own reading. All of us know how abundantly President McKay and the other General Authorities enrich their talks and writings with passages drawn from the great literature of the world. Listen also as President McKay counsels us to harmonize learning with character: Lesson Department Wisdom is the right application of knowledge; and true education—the education for which the Church stands— is the application of knowledge to the development of a noble and a Godlike character.... True education seeks to make men and women not only good mathematicians, proficient linguists, profound scientists, or brilliant literary lights, but also honest men combined with virtue, temperance, and brotherly love—men and women who prize truth, justice, wisdom, benevolence, and selfcontrol as the choicest acquisitions of a successful life. (From Preface to booklet on L. D. S. Church Schools, 1968.) Our first responsibility as members of the Church is to study the scriptures and the words of the modern prophets for the fullness of the gospel that they contain. But beyond these we are invited to explore the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At their best both religion and literature are concerned with building faith and affirming spiritual values and with opposing and exposing evil, worldliness, superficiality, and all things base and. False. Space for this lesson allows us to print only three brief selections on _ education: Excerpts from "What Makes a Great Book?" by Mortimer Adler, '"Cipher in the Snow" by Jean Mizer, and "He Ate and Drank the Precious Words" by Emily Dickinson. In the textbook five other selections are printed with questions and comments intended to stimulate thought and discussion about the proper goals of education and about techniques teachers can use to achieve those goals: (1) an essay by Samuel Scudder describing how famous 633 August 1969 Professor Louis Agassiz taught a great lesson about learning through observation, (2) some excerpts from the dialogues of Plato showing how the great Socrates provoked his students into thought by asking provocative questions, (3) a short story by Irwin Edman showing a modern Socrates in action, (4) some excerpts from the writings of the author identifying some of the goals and techniques of good teaching, especially for Latter-day Saint teachers, and (5) ahumorous poem with a point by Leigh Hunt. "WHAT MAKES A GREAT BOOK?" BY MORTIMER J. ADLER In Volume 1, p. 19 of Out of the Best Books, we printed an essay by Mortimer Adler, a distinguished American educator. Because it is such an excellent statement on the power of great books to enlarge and elevate the mind we have decided to reprint it in Volume 5. The following are excerpts from this essay: Great books are those that contain the best materials on which the human mind can work in order to gain insight, understanding, and wisdom. Carl Van Doren once referred to great books as "the books that never have to be written again." They are the rare, perfect achievements of sustained excellence. The richness of great books shows itself in the many levels of meaning they contain. They lend themselves to a variety of interpretations. We need not read other books more than once to get all that they have to say. But we can always go deeper into great books. As sources of enlightenment, they are inexhaustible. =, Great books transcend the provincial limits of their origin. They remain as world literature, the ones men everywhere turn to again and again through the centuries. Mark Twain once remarked that "The great books are the books that everyone wishes he had read, but no one wants to read." Great books are not easy to read. No one should expect to understand them very well on a first reading, nor even to master them fully after many readings. I have often said that they are the books which are over everyone's head all of the time. That is why they must be read and reread. That is also why they are good for us. Only the things which are over our head can lift us up. "CIPHER IN THE SNOW" This dramatic real-life story was written by Jean E. Mizer, a teacher and counselor in Wood River High School, Hailey, Idaho. The story received the first-place award of $1000 in the National Education Association's 1964 Teachers' Writing Contest and was published in the NEA Journal for November 1964. According to the author the story is true but the names and location have been changed. Cipher in the Snow It started with tragedy on a biting cold February «morning. I was driving behind the Milford Corners bus as I did most snowy mornings on my way to school. It veered and stopped short at the hotel, which: it had no business doing, and I was annoyed as I had to come to an unexpected stop. A boy lurched out of the bus, reeled,. Stumbled, and collapsed on the snowbank at the curb. The bus driver and I reached him at. The same mo- ment. His thin, hollow face was white even against the snow. "He's dead," the driver whispered. It didn't register for a minute. I glanced quickly at the scared young faces staring down at us from the school bus. "A doctor! Quick! I'll phone from the hofel...." "No use. I tell you he's dead." The driver looked down at the boy's still form. "He never even said he felt bad," he muttered, "just tapped me on the shoulder and said, real quiet, 'I'm sorry. I have to get off at the hotel.' That's all. Polite and apologizing like." At school, the giggling, shuffling morning noise quieted as the news went down the halls. I passed a huddle of girls. "Who was it? Who dropped dead on the way to school?" I heard one of them half-whisper. _ "Don't know his name; some kid from Milford Corners," was the reply. It was like that in the faculty room and the principal's office. "I'd appreciate your going out to tell the parents," the principal told me. "They haven't a phone and, anyway, somebody from school should go there in person. I'll cover your classes." "Why me?" I asked. "Wouldn't it be better if you did it?" "I didn't know the boy," the principal admitted levelly. "And in last year's sophomore personalities column I note that you were listed as his favorite teacher." I drove through the snow and cold down the bad canyon road to the Evans place and Lesson Department thought about the boy, Cliff Evans. His_ favorite teacher! I thought. He hasn't spoken two words to me in two years! I could see him in my mind's eye all right, sitting back there in the last seat in my afternoon literature class. He came in the room by himself and left by himself. "Cliff Evans," I muttered to myself, "a boy who never talked." I thought a minute. "A boy who never smiled. I never saw him smile once." The big ranch kitchen was clean and warm. I blurted out my news somehow. Mrs. Evans reached blindly toward a chair. "He never said anything about bein' ailing." His stepfather snorted. "He ain't said nothin' about anything since I moved in here." Mrs. Evans pushed a pan to the back of the stove and began to untie her apron. "Now hold on," her husband snapped. "I got to have breakfast before I go to town. Nothin' we can do now anyway. If Cliff hadn't been so dumb, he'd have told us he didn't feel good." After school I sat in the office and stared bleakly at the records spread out before me. I was to close the file and write the obituary for the school paper. The almost bare sheets mocked the effort. Cliff Evans, white, never legally adopted by stepfather, five young half-brothers and sisters. These meager strands of information and the list of D grades were all the records had to offer. Cliff Evans had silently come in the school door in the mornings and gone out the school 635 August 1969 door in the evenings, and that was all. He had never belonged to a club. He had never played on a team. He had never held an office. As far as I could tell, he had never done one happy, noisy kid thing. He had never been anybody at all. How do you go about making a boy into a zero? The gradeschool records showed me. The first and second grade teachers' annotations read "sweet, shy child": "timid but eager." Then the third grade note had opened the attack. Some teacher had written in a good, firm hand, "Cliff won't talk. Uncooperative. Slow learner." The other academic sheep had followed with "dull"; "slow-witted"; "low I. Q." They became correct. The boy's I. Q. Score in the ninth grade was listed at 83. But his I. Q. In the third grade had been 106. The score didn't go under 100 until the seventh grade. Even shy, timid, sweet children have resilience. It takes time to break them. I stomped to the typewriter and wrote a savage report pointing out what education had done to Cliff Evans. I slapped a copy on the principal's desk and another in the sad, dog-eared file. I banged the typewriter and slammed the file and crashed the door shut, but I didn't feel much better. A little boy kept walking after me, a little boy with a peaked, pale face; a skinny body in faded jeans; and big eyes that had looked and searched for a long time and then had become veiled. I could guess how many times he'd been chosen last to play 636 sides in a game, how many whispered child conversations had excluded him, how many times he hadn't been asked. I could see and hear the faces and voices that said over and over, '""You're dumb. You're dumb. You're a nothing, Cliff Evans." A child is a believing creature. Cliff undoubtedly believed them. Suddenly it seemed clear to me: When finally there was nothing left at all for Cliff Evans, he collapsed on a snowbank and went away. The doctor might list "heart failure" as the cause of death, but that wouldn't change my mind. We couldn't find ten students in the school who had known Cliff well enough to attend the funeral as his friends. So the student body officers and a committee from the junior class went as a group to the church, being politely sad. I attended the services with them, and sat through it with a lump of cold lead in my chest and a big resolve growing through me. I've never forgotten Cliff Evans nor that resolve. He has been my challenge year after year, class after class. I look up and down the rows carefully each September at the unfamiliar faces. I look for veiled eyes or bodies scrouged into a seat in an alien world. "Look, kids," I say silently, "I may not do anything else for you this year, but not one of you is going to come out of here a nobody. I'll work or fight to the bitter end doing battle with society and the school board, but I won't have one of you coming out of here thinking himself a zero." Most of the time—not always, but most of the time—I've succeeded. For Discussion 1. What is the meaning of the title "Cipher in the Snow"? 2. If the need to reach the lonely, insecure child is urgent in public school teaching, why is it equally urgent: (a) in our teaching within the Church? (b) to the woman in Relief Society? And (c) for the mother to reach the child in the home? "HE ATE AND DRANK THE PRECIOUS WORDS" We will give Emily Dickinson the final word in. This lesson on education as she talks about the power of books to liberate and give wings to the human spirit. After all that other people can say in essay and in speech, the poet—the great poet—can often say it better and in fewer words as Emily Dickinson does here: He ate and drank the precious words, His spirit grew robust; He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his frame was dust. He danced along the dingy days, And this bequest of wings Was but a book. What liberty A loosened spirit brings! These selections should aid us all in taking advantage of our opportunities for education. And always we have before us the example of the world's greatest teacher, Christ himself, who exemplified in both his life and his words the statement by Thomas Henry Huxley that the ultimate goal of education is "to learn what is true in order to do what is right." Lesson Department Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS. Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces with commentaries... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12'', 33% rpm record) with commentaries Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 lb.) Produced by Educational Media Service of Brigham Young University ————_ May be ordered or picked up from Deseret Book Company outlets in Orange, California; Ogden, Cottonwood Mall and Salt Lake City, Utah PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * Hill Cumorah Pageant 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th * Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 1 8th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 1 2th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 637 August 1969 AT THE PIANO My little girl is practicing At the piano, can you hear? Her tiny fingers falter, The notes are not quite clear. Her head is tipped so earnestly As key is matched with note; She doesn't play the melody That the composer wrote. She'll be no concert artist, There's not talent or the time. Lf she can play the Hymn Book We'll both be suited fine. —Bette Saxton Learn a Career with a future We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest mew and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student approved Send now for, st-%, our brochure #: ey OE Vy oa er ae 5 * 22 N. Country Club Drive, > Mesa, Arizona a 85201 ARE YOU STORING WHEAT? Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN Available in two sizes Easy terms - Write for information Headquarters for breadmixers and Corona Wheat Mills SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main, Smithfield, Utah 84335 U3 IB IS IW MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'"' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos Instruments And Supplies Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Rose Elder Ada Mortensen Lesson Department New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain is prepared to bind your editions into a durable 0 volume. Ou come the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. A whisper Light as thistledown, To rouse a fond Reflection. Beauty beyond thought Bright prelude Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Of reality, — ' Linger, Zone3 ____-.60 Zone6 __..- 85 Breathe moe@5 Zones |95 —Margaret B. Shomaker DESERETEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Travel Agency 1970 Tours MEXICO Only $359 from Provo, Utah Includes entertainment, sightseeing, and ocean cruise Early June 1969—February 1970 January 16 — 24 days — Yucatan, Oaxaca, Veracruz, Mexico City, Mazatlan, Guadalajara, Acapulco, Taxco — $499 January 22—12 days February 20—17 days,$359 February 22—10 days HAWAII CANADIAN TOKYO WORLD'S four islands NORTH-WEST FAIR AND ORIENT only $389 Special rates for groups ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR "TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 639 BRIGHT PRELUDE eta memories' corridor. A And blossom. West's first and finest bindery and printing house Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 _~__-_.-75 Zone8___ - -1.05 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and. Zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 103 102 99 98 97 96 95 Mrs. Annie Catherine Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Sarah Luella Scovil Hendricksen Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Jemima Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Josephine P. Workman Fawcett St. George, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Cluff McDonald Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Wickham Dunkley 'Preston, Idaho Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Montebello, California 93 Mrs. 'Nettie Allred Asay Boyce Powell, Wyoming Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Red Bluff, California Mrs. Mary Foster Jarrell Lapoint, Utah Mrs. Jane Agar Lawton Brainerd, Minnesota Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Wilson Gillette, Wyoming 92 91 90 Mrs. Louise Neilsen Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret McKinley Jensen Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Charlotte Norris Wonnacott Long Beach, California 'Mrs. Elizabeth Ajax Tooele, Utah Mrs. Minerva Olive Allen Biggs Draper, Utah Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Rosa Dale Ashcraft Hudson Filer, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth N. Latham Scottsdale, Arizona Mrs. Marion Nettie Bows Montgomery Twin Falls, idaho Mrs. Margaret Ann Turner Worley Wellington, Utah Mrs. Josephine Larson Hunter American Fork, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Vogel Adams Martin Sandy, Utah Mrs. Lavina Arsula Spencer Olsen Jerome, Idaho Mrs. Rachel King Stutzneggar Manti, Utah Mrs. Carrie Marie Nielsen Larsen Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. June Veach Burt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Ellen Ambler Young Coalville, Utah Order Now For Delivery When Ready OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Volume 5 $3.25 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas The Relief Society's Cultural Refinement course for 1969-70 will be taken from Out of the Best Books, Volume 5. The theme for this volume is "Community Responsibility." Selected from the world's greatest literature, you may learn more about... The Role of Education... The Meaning of Freedom... The Power of Work and The Use of Leisure... And many other subjects. Volume 5 will NOT be available until mid-September, but ORDERS PLACED NOW will be filled in the sequence received. SEND ORDERS NOW! Postage will be paid for SURFACE MAIL anywhere in the world. Customer must pay for AIRMAIL requests. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me............ Copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Vol. 5 Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Address. EC) ey 4 |: cee Aug. R. S. Mag. 69 DESERET BOOK COMPANY Total Cost $... NAME ooo ccc ccccccceccccceceeccceeeeeececececeeeevvececeecerveseeecerseeeteeceteeessseteeeeens "Book..... Lenclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [J oe i Second Class Postage Paid | at Salt Lake City, Utah > |. NO a - a. Ld 7 * lu Nn. Eo = s 4 pee 2 Dithdey Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKay—prophet, seer, and revelator. Over the years the example of his life and his teachings has been a beacon and an inspiration to the saints in every land. His steadfast devotion to the gospel as a way of life has illuminated the pathway for individuals, for the families, and for the Church. In a time of world-wide questioning, in an age of multiple directions, in an era of divided allegiance, President McKay has demonstrated spiritual strength, wise counsel, discerning judgment, an uplifted, though humble spirit, and a living faith that transcends life upon the earth, reaches back into the plans and purposes of pre-existence, and looks forward to the glorious eternal life. President McKay has said: "Faith is the eternal light that will dispel threatening clouds. Faith in man is the power that leads to brotherhood; faith in God, the ladder which men climb toward perfection." In his teachings President McKay has emphasized that reverence for God and sacred observances is characteristic of a great soul. Truly, our Prophet, in himself, is a testimony of the gospel as a way of eternal life. "My faith gives me the assurance that God is indeed my father and therefore I must have inherited his immortality." Spirituality, he has said, is the highest acquisition of the soul. As Relief Society women—homemakers, wives, and mothers—at this time of special remembrance—this day of heartfelt gratitude —we recall the inspired counsel that President McKay has given for us in our time and place. In his home and with his family he has exemplified sincerity and devotion. "The dearest possession a man has is his family. In the divine assurance that family ties may transcend the boundaries of death, and may continue through endless ages of eternity, I find supreme consolation and inspiration. When the union of loved ones bears the seal of the Holy Priesthood, it is as eternal as love, as everlasting as spirit." As Relief Society women, we express thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for giving us a Prophet in these latter days—who speaks and lives as directed and inspired by the Spirit of God. 641 The: Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 September 1969 = Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 641 Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 644 Indians of Guatemala Milton R. Hunter 670 Rome Jean A. Jensen Fiction 654 Gramps' Best Behavior Helen H. Trutton 665 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 4 Alice Morrey Bailey 694 The Universal Language Ardean T. Loertscher General Features 642 From Near and Far 661 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 662 Editorial—Turn to the Fathers Vesta P. Crawford 664! N Memoriam—Mildred Bennion Eyring 696 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 676 Artin the Home Grayce E. Cutler 680 Handicrafts For the Home Annetta S. Mower 682 A Bazaar Designed Especially For Children 684 "Springtime in the Park''—Unique Bazaar in Indianapolis Stake 685 British Women Make a Union Jack Design in Knitting 686 Nut Cups for the Party Alice Elizabeth Oertle 693 Hobby Features—Emily Olsen and Nellie Green Howard Lesson Department 704 Spiritual Living—Government and Laws Roy W. Doxey 710 Visiting Teacher Message—The Compassion of Jesus Alice Colton Smith 711 Homemaking—''The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her'' Celestia J. Taylor 713 Social Relations—The Upward Reach Alberta H. Christensen 717 Cultural Refinement—No Lesson Planned for December 689 'The Blind Girl' by John Everett Millais—for Lesson 5 Floyd E. Breinholt 690 ''Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte'' by Georges Seurat—for Lesson 6 Floyd E. Breinholt Poetry Return to September, Pansye H. Powell 653; Late September, Gladys Hesser Burnham 660; Farewell to Summer, Linda Houston 664; Leaves, Beulah Huish Sadleir 691; First Day of School, Christie Lund Coles 695; Courage, Hazel E. Shaw 719. Shaw 719. The Cover: High Plateaus Above Sanpete Valley, Utah; Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press. Art Layout: Dick Scopes. Illustrations: Mary Scopes. Published monthly by THE GENERAL SOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.© 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsoticited manuscripts. 643 Indians of GDACEMALA Elder Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of Seventy Photographs by the Author w Of the hundreds of different Indian tribes and groups in South America, Central America, Mexico, and North America, none is more colorful than the Indians in Guatemala. There are three and one-half million people in that country. More than fifty per cent of them are full blood Indians. Practically all of these Indians are Mayas, although of different tribes. The Quiché Mayas are the most numerous of the Indians of Guatemala. The Spaniards conquered Guatemala in 1524. As soon as possible after the conquest, the Catholic padres directed the erecting of cathedrals for the Indians. Also, they did all they could to convert the natives to Christianity. A concentrated effort was made to teach the Indians the Spanish language and to replace their religion with the Catholic brand of Christianity. Four hundred years' time have passed since the Spanish conquest and the Indians of Guatemala still hold to many of their ancient religious beliefs and customs. They have even retained their ancient Indian dialects in spite of all the efforts put forth by the Spaniards to change them. The Indian men usually learn 644 Es Elder Milton R. Hunter to speak Spanish in addition to their Indian language. This they do as a matter of necessity in making a livelihood. The Indian women, however, usually know only the Indian dialect such as Quiché or Cakchiquel. The Indians feel that their race and culture are superior to that of the white men whom they consider to be the invaders and trespassers in the land; and so they tenaciously hang on to their ancient language and tradi- Quiché Maya women at Chichicastenango market tions. The Quiché Mayas have an admirable system of family life following about the same pattern as the ancient Hebrews with the father as head of the family. They, as a rule, are a good people. As we travel northward from Guatemala City, we enter the highland regions. Surrounding Lake Atitl4n are a number of colorful highland Indian villages. We observe that in these villages and in the other Indian communities in the highlands farther north all the men in each village are dressed exactly alike and all the women are also dressed exactly alike as to color, fabric, and all details of their costumes, even to the beads the women wear. We note also that the clothing of the Indians of each community is distinctly different from that of any other village. If one stays in Guatemala long enough, whenever or wherever he meets an Indian he can tell what town the native is from by his clothing. The Indians do their own weaving on hand looms. They use many bright colors in their Cakchiquel Indian woman weaving at Santiago September 1969 clothing. They wear the same type of clothing that their ancestors have worn for generations back. I have wondered as I have observed them if their type of weaving went back to Book of Mo; mon days and if the designs in their clothing had been handed down from that period The Book of Mormon claims that the Nephites were expert weavers. A few hours' drive from Guatemala City in the highland region lies the spectacular Lake Atitlan. As we come around the bend in the road we see nestled in a valley one of the most beautiful mountain lakes in the world. For sheer magnificence and beauty, Lake Atitlan is surpassed by no other mountain body of water. A feature which makes it so spectacular is the fact that it is surrounded by four or five majestic, inactive volcanoes, each cone-shaped and extending to a peak up into the blue heavens. The reflection extends the peaks into the clear water of the lake. Of course, we must stay in the hotel on the shores of the lake 4. Quiché Maya woman weaving that night and arrange for a boat to take us across Lake Atitlan to Santiago the following morning, to visit the Cakchiquel Indians and their famous market. It takes a full hour to cross the lake of blue, placid water. The boat ride is an enjoyable experience. Eight o'clock any day of the week is an excellent time to arrive at Santiago, because the Cakchiquels hold their market during the morning hours daily. A few hundred Indians meet on Septem ber 1969 Indians begin arriving shortly before daybreak. They set up their booths and display their merchandise often on the ground. They spend the day until midafternoon in trading, as well as in worshiping in the Catholic cathedral, in the Indian cathedral, and at a pagan idol on the top of a nearby hill. The Quiché men burn incense and kneel on the cathedral steps in prayer, believing that the smoke from the incense will take their prayers to heaven. In worshiping inside of either cathedral, the Indians place their seed corn on the floor. Then they place candles by it and also petals of various colors of roses. Each color represents a different request to God in their prayers. The family kneels around the objects they have spread on the floor. Then one of the older men of the family, or some other man whose prayers the family feels will be answered, offers long supplications for the family in which all blessings are numerated to the Lord. Seven of the Twelve Quiché High Priests re Santo Tomas Cathedral and Quiché worshipers The first time I went to Chichicastenango, I was puzzled when the guide told us that each large group kneeling together— Quiché Indian Cathedral sometimes thirty-five or more people—constituted only a single family. Then he explained that a Quiché Maya family was patterned after the patriarchal order with the grandfather and grandmother and all of their posterity constituting a family. It seemed to me that this was very significant. The family was also organized under the patriarchal order in ancient Biblical and Book of Mormon times. This would indicate another tie between the Quiché-Lamanites and the people of the Book of Mormon. Market day at Chichicastenango There are twelve high priests who. Preside over the religion of the Quichés and direct their religious worship, with headquarters at Chichicastenango. I was informed that the system of having twelve high priests is very, very old, dating back generations, long before the coming of the Spaniards. Definitely it is not Catholic September 1969 in origin. There is only one logical place to look for its origin—the. Book of Mormon period. The Nephites had twelve apostles in the Church of Jesus Christ in ancient America. The Indians of Guatemala retained many teachings and practices which were handed down from Book of Mormon days. Of course by now they are much altered and adulterated, but they have a resemblance to the truth. For example, they claim to have priesthood. They practice baptism, but in many places they baptize by taking the devotees under waterfalls. The priest performs marriage ceremonies for the righteous Quiché Mayas in which they believe he marries them for life and eternity. Those Indians who are not righteous the priest refuses to marry. They are obliged to have a civil ceremony performed which is only for this life. An elderly lady who was a tradition-bearer of the Quiché Mayas told me about fifteen years ago about all of these Indian religious beliefs and practices. She said they all predated the Spanish conquest; in fact, they were inherited from their ancestors. Personally, I agree with her explanation and believe that their origin was the true gospel during the Book of Mormon period. Changes came as the Nephites and Lamanites lost much truth through apostasy, especially after the close of the Book of Mormon period. On a certain occasion I was on a train going from Guatemala City to Quirigua, an ancient archaeological ruin. A good-looking, intelligent, middle-aged Indian woman came over and 650 sat by me. She could speak English. She introduced herself. She said she was a Quiché Maya woman from Totonicapan. She then gave me an account of her conversion to the Church. She said: "When I was a girl about twelve years of age many years before Mormon missionaries first came to Guatemala, two strange men came to Totonicapan. They were dressed differently from our people. They were much larger in stature than our people and in skin color much whiter. They called the people of Totonicapan together in the street and talked to them. I remembered distinctly that their principle message was that the Lord had restored his true church to earth again. It would soon be sent to our people. We would be able to recognize the true Church by the messengers who brought it to us. They would be young men traveling by twos. When the Mormon elders came I was a grown woman. I immediately recalled the experience I had had when I was a child. I knew for sure that the elders were the messengers with the true religion, and so I joined the Church." In January 1959, I toured the Central American Mission with President and Sister Wagner. We held a meeting at Patzicia, not far from Lake Atitlan. We called on Brother Daniel Mich, a Cakchiquel Maya Indian and a recent convert to the Church, to bear his testimony and to tell of his conversion to the Church. He had had a remarkable experience. This is the essence of his story: A few years ago some of the Indians rebelled against the government officials, who were primarily of Spanish blood. The government officials decided to put to death all of the people who had participated in the rebellion at Patzicia, especially those who had instigated it. Daniel Mich had taken no part in the rebellion; however, the government officials thought that he was guilty and had him on the list to be killed. The Spirit of God whispered to him and told him and his brother to flee to the mountains and hide in a certain place. If they did not they would be killed. They followed the instructions of the Holy Spirit. As they arrived in the hiding place suggested by the Spirit they lay on a ledge and looked over the precipice. Below them they could see the government officials searching for them along the mountainside. Many Indians were captured and put to death. Daniel Mich and his brother stayed in their mountain hide-out for two full years. Food was brought to them by friends. Finally they were captured. Conditions had changed during the two years to the extent that the Mich brothers were not killed but were thrown into prison. They lived under the most terrible conditions in prison for four long years. Their clothing wore out. It was cold, and the jail was unheated. They were given very little food; in fact, they nearly starved to death. And to make matters worse, Daniel Mich received word from his wife that she and the children were also starving. During the two years of his hiding and the four years of his imprisonment, Indians of Guatemala they had not been able to make a livelihood. In desperation and in deep grief, Daniel Mich kneeled down and prayed to God, pleading that the Eternal Father would be merciful to him and let him die. He also prayed that the Lord would extend his mercies to his wife and children, that they also might soon die. He pleaded with God to release him and his family members from the misery and suffering that they were having to endure. But the Lord did not answer Daniel Mich's prayer as he had asked it. He did not let him die. Instead, Daniel Mich had a vision, or a dream. In his vision he was climbing the side of a steep mountain on a well-defined trail. He came to a place where a side trail forked off the main one. A man stood on the side trail and said, "Follow me." Daniel Mich replied, "No, I cannot follow you. I must follow this trail straight ahead." He went some distance farther and another man stood on another side trail, and said, "Follow me." Once again Daniel Mich replied, "No, I cannot follow you. I must go straight ahead." This experience repeated itself three or four times. Daniel Mich explained: "Finally I came to the summit and there standing in front of me was a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair. He had a kindly and beautiful smile. This man said to me, 'Daniel, follow me.' I replied, 'I will follow you,' because as I made that remark, the Spirit of God whispered to me and said, 'That man has the truth.' " 651 September 1969 Cloth displayed at market Daniel Mich and his brother were released from jail shortly after Daniel had had this dream or vision. The Mich brothers returned to their homes in Patzicia. Soon thereafter and _ perhaps about a year before my visit to Guatemala, missionaries came to Patzicia. A few days after their arrival, the mayor sent for them to come to his office. When the missionaries arrived, they saw two hundred or more angry Indians crowded in front of the mayor's office. As the missionaries approached, the crowd of Indians opened a pathway and the missionaries walked on into the mayor's office. The elders asked the mayor what he wanted of them. He replied that he had a petition signed by two hundred citizens of the community demanding E52 that the missionaries leave town immediately and cease teaching their religion in Patzicia. The elders replied that they would not leave Patzicia until their mission president transferred them to some other place. One of the missionaries suggested that the mayor telephone the governor and perhaps the governor would instruct him regarding the missionaries. The mayor immediately telephoned the governor and explained the situation. The governor emphatically instructed the mayor to let the Mormon missionaries alone, that they had a right to preach in Guatemala. He explained that they had religious freedom in Guatemala. Daniel Mich was with the people in front of the mayor's office waiting to see what happened to the missionaries. The mayor released the two elders. As they left his' office, Brother Mich invited the missionaries to come to his home and teach him the gospel. They had taught him only three or four lessons when an important event occurred. One day in the midst of one of the lessons, one of the missionaries opened his book and Daniel Mich saw a photograph of a tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair. Brother Mich immediately and excitedly exclaimed. "This is the man! It is he whom I saw!" Of course the missionaries wondered what he was talking about and he told them the story that I have accounted herein. Then Brother Mich asked, "Who is the man whose photograph you have in your book?" "His nameis David O. McKay," the missionaries replied, "God's prophet, seer, and revelator and the President of The Church of Jesus Christ. He holds the keys of the kingdom of God on earth at the present time." Brother Mich told us_ that he replied to the missionaries: "T know that all the things you have told me are true. I know that you are missionaries of the true Church of Jesus Christ. At the time that the tall, handsome man, with beautiful white hair— who you told me was President David O. McKay—said to me, 'Daniel, follow me,' the Spirit of the Lord whispered to me and said, "'wo young men will bring you the truth.' Since you came into our town I have continued to watch you. Now all things I believe have been proven to be true. David O. McKay is a prophet of God and you have the true religion of Jesus Christ, and so," he continued, "I asked the elders to baptize me. This is how I was brought into the Church." Brother Daniel Mich had related the story of his life, his dream, and its fulfillment in joining the Church. While he was telling his wonderful experiences, tears rolled down his cheeks. As he completed his testimony, there was not a dry eye in the house. The Spirit of God was there in great abundance. Neary two years ago Dr. Robert Blair, Chairman of the Department of Linguistics, and seventeen BYU students had been down in Guatemala to study the Cakchiquel language and to transcribe it phonetically, ToIndians of Guatemala ward fall they returned to the BYU and brought with them Daniel Mich and Manuel Ismuel Tay from Solola, a town near Lake Atitlan. These faithful men stayed at BYU for a year. The Cakchiquel is a language in which books are practically unavailable. The purpose Dr. Blair and his students had in going to Guatemala was to study Cakchiquel and get The Book of Mormon translated into that language. The Cakchiquel Indians do not know how to read nor write. Under the direction of Dr. Blair at the BYU, Daniel Mich and Manuel Tay translated The Book of Mormon into Cakchiquel and put it on tape. Also, Brother Mich and Brother Tay translated The Joseph Smith Story and parts of the New Testament and put them on tape. They also recorded stories of their lives. This was a great contribution that these good Cakchiquel men have madein making possible the teaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ to approximately 50,000 Cakchiquels in Guatemala. The Indians of that land who speak Cakchiquel can listen to the recordings and learn the Book of Mormon and New Testament stories. These translations of Cakchiquel should provide a great missionary tool. The Indians of Guatemala have been throughout the past as colorful as any Indians in the Americas. The Spirit of the Lord is working upon them. Hundreds of them are receiving the gospel. They are a humble, a spiritual people, and a_ joyful group to be with. 653 Gramps' Best Behavior m There were a dozen things she should be doing, Naomi thought—icing the cake she had baked earlier in the day and left to cool, the kitchen floor to be waxed, and the porch swept, probably scrubbed. She could go on and on, but she sat with Myra's note spread out in front of her. Myra had always been such a loyal one—it wasn't like her to make such a request. She gathered up the letter and read again slowly. Dear Mom, I'm bringing David and his grandfather home with me to meet the family. Oh, Mom, he's so wonderful, it's important that everything goes well. David means a great deal to me. I want you all to like him, and I want him to like everyone. Mom, would you think I was terribly unkind if I suggested that Gramps visit Uncle Bill over the week end? I'm just 654 Helen H. Trutton not sure if the present is the right time for David to meet him. Don't misunderstand me, you know how I love Gramps. Love, Myra P. S. We should be home late Friday afternoon. Naomi scooped up the letter and tucked it in her apron pocket before strolling to the large French doors that opened upon the backyard. Wonderful Gramps, she thought, he's been a tower of strength to us all. How could she ever have managed without him when Walter died? What was it Walter used to say about his father? "Pa's a discerning one— only the genuine survive him." Naomi thought, Myra's afraid Gramps and David won't hit it off. She hasn't forgotten the Darrel Murch incident. Darrel was her first beau in high school. He had dared to ridicule Gramps and his pioneer tales Gramps loved to tell. Myra had. Never gone with Darrel again. She drew upon the paneled glass doors to let in soft spring breezes scented with lilacs and roses. I'm not going to hurt Gramps—I just can't. If things are serious between David and Myra, he may as well meet all the family at one time. A bushy shock of gray hair appeared suddenly around the rose bush catching her gaze. She smiled—that was really the most distinguishable feature about Gramps, his hair, and next you noticed that his kindly gray eyes were almost the same color. When he edged a little nearer the patio, she called to him. "Gramps, you've worked long enough. I'll get you a glass of cool lemonade." "Wow, thanks, Mom," Mike stuck his head around the other side of the bush. "Gramps sure works a guy—spring vacation, ha!" "It's good for you, boy. Most folks nowadays are too puny. Why, back in my day and when your Pa was young, this was play." Mike grunted. That lemonade?" "T have some fresh made in the refrigerator. I'll get it." "Let me," Mike said, and he disappeared around the corner of the house. Gramps stood up. He was tall, his years had not bent him in the least. "Thought I saw the mailman coming down the street. Did you hear from Myra?" "Yes, a short note." His eyes brightened. "Is she "Mom, about Gramps' Best Behavior coming home this week end?" "Yes, and bringing two guests." "Two, eh?" Naomi walked out onto the patio and sat down in a chair, motioning him to sit opposite her. "She's bringing a young man she met at college and his grandfather, David Stewart, she's mentioned him frequently." "I know. The grandpa's a professor, isn't he?" "Yes, I think he teaches history at the university. David has lived with him since his parents' death several years ago." "History's my speciality." "What about history?" Mike asked as he returned with a pitcher and three glasses. "Myra is inviting her friend and his grandpa here,' Gramps answered. "We should have an interesting time." "T'm glad Ill be away at camp. Girls act so—so silly." "That's no way to talk about your sister," the old man said. "From what I hear, Myra likes him a heap." "Yes, she does,' Naomi answered. Looking directly at Gramps. "We've all got to be on our best behavior." Mike slipped into a chair, sipping his lemonade. "Wow, remember when Darrel Murch came to see Myra, Gramps? You scared him clear off the place." "Mike!" Naomi said sharply. "You're exaggerating." "Maybe he didn't exactly scare him, but he sure never came back." "Tt was just as well," Gramps said. "Yeah, he was a snob. Imagine laughing at Gramps' stories, and 655 September 1969 saying he just made them up." Naomi put her glass down. "Mike, let's change the subject. I'm quite sure David won't be anything like the Murch boy." "Well, I should hope not," Gramps said firmly. "He wasn't right for our Myra." "That was four years ago," Naomi said. "Myra's a grown young lady now." "Not to me... She's still a little girl, but I reckon if she's gone and found the one she wants, I'll do my best to like him," Gramps said as he got to his feet and handed her his empty glass. "I'd better get back to my job so I'll be finished when they get here." "Say, Gramps, you could go camping with me if you want to," Mike said, joining him back at the rosebush. "Then if you don't like him...." "No, Siree," Gramps stated emphatically. "I wouldn't miss meeting the two for anything. Not 'all the king's horses' could drag me away today." "Just thought I'd ask," Mike said, "sorry I have to leave you Gramps, and gather up my camping stuff right away." "And I must get busy," Naomi said, arising from her chair. "Mike, try to get home early enough tomorrow to spend some time with your sister and meet her friends." "All right, Mom." Whi, I have my answer from Gramps, Naomi thought as she returned to the kitchen. He's spending the week end right here, and that was that. She took a dish from the cupboard. Naturally he wants to meet David. She 656 didn't blame him, but Myra had a point, too. For a moment she lowered her head. "Dear Father in heaven, help us to work things out without hurting anyone." She felt better immediately. I've been being too melodramatic she told herself while she beat the cake icing. What could possibly happen? Myra _ was worrying about something that happened years ago when the Murch boy was going through a smarty stage. But supposing Gramps didn't like David? He wasn't exactly the silent type about his dislikes—but Walter was right about his father, "Only the genuine survive him"—and if the young man wasn't fine.... Since Myra had been attending the university, David was the first young man she had invited home. Myra must be fond of him; he must be someone extra special, Naomi reflected. She poured a large portion of the creamy white frosting on the cake and dabbed the sides. If he isn't genuine, Gramps, with his keen insight of human nature, would—why was she crossing bridges she might never come to? She had faith in her daughter's judgment—David would be all Myra had said he was and more. "Can I help?" Gramps poked his head around the kitchen door just as she finished decorating the cake. "I'm through in the yard." "Thank you, manage very well." "Then reckon I'll clean up a bit. I don't want the tyke to be ashamed of her old grampa." "As if she could be,' Naomi laughed. Gramps. [ll The afternoon simply flew; she was glad of that. And surely I haven't even had time to think about David's grandfather, Naomi thought as she sat down on the davenport to relax and await her guests. I just hope Gramps and he will like each other. She didn't have long to wonder. At a quarter to five she saw them turn in at the driveway and stop. She hurried out the door to find Gramps already waiting for them. "Hello," Myra called happily. "How are you?" Gramps opened the car door. "Fit as a fiddle. This must be...." "This is David Stewart, and - his* grandfather—and this is Gramps and my mother," she said. "Well, now it's mighty nice meeting you both," Gramps said, extending his hand. "We're delighted to meet you. Please come in," Naomi said cordially. "I hope you don't mind my tagging along with David and Myra," Mr. Stewart~ remarked as he crawled from the car. -"T should say not," Gramps cut in before she had a chance to answer. "Understand you're a history teacher?" "Yes." "History's my favorite subject." He chuckled. "I've lived through quite a speck of it." "You and Grandfather will hit it off famously," David said. "If it's history, Grandfather is interested." Just for an instant, Naomi saw a frightened look in Myra's eyes, but she quickly recovered and smiled at David. Gramps' Best Behavior "Shall we go in?" "Tt seems like yesterday Myra was a little tyke, and I carried her around piggy-back. Now here she is a young lady,' Gramps volunteered on the way to the house. "Oh, Gramps," Myra said, her face coloring slightly. "It's really been quite awhile." "I guess it just seems that way to an old man," he said sadly. She slipped her arms around his waist. "It's nice to remember, Gramps. And it was fun," she whispered. Naomismiled. How quickly she responds when she thinks she has hurt him! "My father-in-law will show you two to your room," Naomi said, "and Myra can share my room. I'll help you with your load, dear." "Might as well put your bags in your room now," Gramps said, leading the way to the stairs. "Right this way." 'Naomi turned to her daughter when they were alone in their room. "I hope you understand. Gramps wouldn't miss seeing you, and he wanted so much to meet David—I couldn't break his heart." Myra sat down. "I know, Mom. I felt like a traitor asking such a thing: I just don't want anything to go wrong." "Nothing will. You are the last person in the world Gramps would want to hurt." "I know that, Mother. He wouldn't mean to, but I keep remembering—Darrel Murch." "That was several years ago. You didn't really care for him, did you?" 657 September 1969 "No, of course not, but David's different." "Does he mean so much to you?" "T'm—I'm hoping—dreaming he will propose—maybe here." Naomi took her daughter's hand in hers. "Are you sure he's the right one?" "I'm very sure, Mother." She kissed her daughter. "Then I hope he loves you, too. Now we'd better go downstairs and finish dinner." "What's the menu?" Naomi smiled. "Things I thought your guests would like— fried chicken, mashed potatoes, hot bisquits, cake, and all the rest." "Sounds great. Good food, plus pleasant conversation, I trust,' Myra said hopefully. "The evening will go well." She was right, too. Myra and David kept a steady conversation going about school, mutual friends and Church activities. Gramps sat straight in his chair listening to every comment made by David, ready to pounce on any provocative statement, while Brother Stewart, a little more subtle, was just as concerned about the welfare of his only grandson. How she wished she could read their minds, or did she? The two young people didn't seem the least concerned. I was after dinner when they were in the living room that Gramps ran his fingers through his hair, as he often did when he had a point to make, and looked directly at David. "This modern generation, I don't think they have much purpose in life. Why, when I was a boy, we knew...." 658 "Well, Sir, I guess each generation thinks it's the best. I don't agree with you that your generation had more purpose.... I think the young people of today probably both right; each generation has its problems, and its aspirations, too." "Folks are soft today. Believe me in my day you didn't live if....". "We try to meet the challenge of our day, Sir. True, we aren't called to walk across the plains like many of our ancestors, but I'll wager if we were called upon to do that today, we'd manage." Gramps raised his eyebrows. "You don't agree with me on much of anything, do you, Son?" "If you mean about our generation, I'm afraid I don't. Oh, I know there are slackers today, but there were in your time, too." "Let's change the subject," Naomi said. Myra looked worried. "Yes, let's do," she said. "T find the subject stimulating,' Brother Stewart remarked. "You know, Brother Lawes, I have some interesting memories of our day, too." "IT remember when I was a boy," Gramps began, and the conversation continued until bedtime—probably way beyond. Naomi and Myra could hear them talking long after they had retired. "Oh, Mom," Myra buried her head in the pillow. "David will never, never, accept another invitation. He must be terribly bored." "If he loves you, I doubt if a little boring discussion will Gramps' Best Behavior joyed it," Past the two Startled men. "Gramps doesn't like him." Brother Stewart had stopped "Don't be SO sure,"' laughing as he Pointed to the yra_ turned Over in bed. Backyard. "Out there," he Said. "Gramps seems so deliberate,. --" David Stared after her, "He's concerned and | think, he feels needed in protecting his 8randdaughter's interest, Be tolerant, darling. David wil] un- / 7 —- CAIN derstand. Remember, he has a ~!: ey. LL srandfather, too," » S os a Hy | (): "I know, Mom. Coodnight. A a> mm. Puke. | ary the next morning NaGramps never sleeps late." by When they went downstairs a Y few Minutes later, they were surful," Naomi commented. "At least Brother Stewart." yra looked Puzzled. "He jg always Serious at School," "Something has struck him funny." Naomi followed, then stopped Myra watched them for severa] abruptly When she Saw Gramps more minutes, then she turned to Sitting forlornly in an old chair her, "Maybe they're laughing at at the edge of the yard whittling Gramps." On a piece of wood. "Oh, no," "Of course they're not." She cried. Myra was right; "Then why isn't Gramps with Gramps had been hurt again— them? I¢ | thought they were and it was her fault; she should ridiculing his Stories—like Darre] have insisted,. __ She watched, urch did—['q__pq__» Unable to Move, as Myra ran "T'm sure they aren't." to his side and knelt beside him, "Poor Gramps." She flung the resting her head on his knees. Apron she had Just started to put "Gramps, " she Whispered. "Dear On across the room and banged Gramps, I'm Sorry," 659 September 1969 Absent-mindedly he ruffled her hair. "Don't bother me, tyke," he said. "What's wrong?" Naomi managed to ask. After a long wait, he looked at her through his kindly gray eyes. "That young man_ has asked for my granddaughter's hand.... Tm deciding." Then he turned toward the patio. "Come on out here, David," he called. Myra appeared stunned as she stood up, looking from Gramps to David. Brother Stewart joined them, holding up a piece of paper. "Your Grandfather and I have been collaborating a big share of the night on a book on pioneer life. He told me some humorous accounts that should make our book invaluable. I've never laughed so much." Naomi saw the color come back into her daughter's face. She swallowed several times, then bent down and asked in a low voice. "What are you deciding, Gramps?" "Well sir," he grinned up at her. "I reckon if I'd personally looked the whole university over, I wouldn't have come up with a better grandson." "Thank you, Sir," David said. "Could—could I talk to you,. Myra?" Brother Stewart smiled happily at the two as he returned to the patio with his notes, and Naomi was alone with Gramps. He glanced up at her with an impish grin, his bright eyes shining. "By the way, Naomi," he asked, "how's my behavior? Personally, I don't think it's so bad." She laughed. "Not bad, but I'll admit I was rather worried last night. You gave that young man a rough time." He slipped his whittling knife back in his pocket. "Well, now," he drawled, "how you going to know what a fellow is really like —if you don't have a little friendly discussion? You can't get anywhere with just plain parlor talk. Leastways, I never could." She gave him a big hug as Walter's words flowed back into her mind. "Pa's a_ discerning one—only the genuine survive him." Well, David Stewart had survived him, and she was glad. ES LATE SEPTEMBER This day is tangy sweet with ripening fruit, Shade-cool, but blazing hot in open sun. Such tawny autumn colors, glowing warm, Hold all of summer's loveliness, as one Arrayed in beauty flings her charms about Or scents the ditchbank, field, and streams. Late roses vie with apples, red and gold, To rouse nostalgic thoughts. It often seems Through winter cold and snow, let us remember, This time of dreams and warmth in late September. 660 —Gladys Hesser Burnham — Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, in June was given special honor and a gold pendant in recognition of her leadership in supporting the March of Dimes program of the National Foundation, which sponsors clinical research, a nationwide network of Birth Defects Centers, professional and. Public education, and other well organized and important activities. In presenting the pendant to President Spafford, Mrs. Elaine Whitelaw, National Director of Volunteer Service, emphasized the influence and leadership of President Spafford in writing letters, promoting programs, and supporting a wide publicity for the Foundation. Mrs. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, and State Director of Volunteer Services, sponsored the special honor for President Spafford. Mrs. LaVern W. Parmley, President of the Primary Association of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who, last year was named a member of the National Scouting Committee, has been named a member at large of the National Council of Boy Scouts. She is the first woman appointed to a National Scouting Committee. She was also invited to serve on the Cub Scout Committee and the Relationships Committee of the Boy Scouts. Mrs. LeGrand B. Pratt (Kathryn Kay), Claire W. Noall, Lael W. Hill, Alice Morrey Bailey, Christie Lund Coles, Olive W. Burt, Dora D. Flack, Marilyn McMeen Miller, Ruth G. Rothe, and Hazel Loomis, all contributors to The Relief Society Magazine, won awards in June in the annual Utah State Institute of Fine Arts Original Writing Contest. Mrs. Ann W. Hafen, Latter-day Saint historian, author, and critic, delivered an address ''Poetry for Pleasure' at the annual convention of the National Federation of State Poetry Societies, in Boise, Idaho, in June. Other Latter-day Saint women participating in the convention were Mrs. Chrissie Tullis, President of the Gem State Writers Guild, and her daughterin-law Katie Tullis who played two of her own piano compositions at the banquet. Vesta P. Crawford, President of the Utah State Poetry Society, and Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine; Alice Morrey Bailey, Vice-President of the Utah State Poetry Society and Kathryn Kay, Director of Publications and Public Relations, represented Utah as delegates. Mrs. Jean Jenkins, Provo, Utah, was the dramatic reader for the meetings and the awards banquet. Much appreciation was expressed by visiting delegates from other States for the leadership displayed by Latter-day Saint women in the creative arts. Senator Margaret Chase Smith, ranking Republican on the powerful Armed Services and Aeronautical and Space Science Committees; Virginia Mae Brown, of Washington, D. C., chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mrs. Bruce Benson of Amherst, Massachusetts, President of the League of Women Voters, all feel that the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to -the Constitution of the United States fifty years ago, on June 4, 1919, giving women the right to vote, has had a great effect for good in the United States. Anne Pelilowski, Director, Center of! Nformation on Children's Cultures for UNICEF, feels that children today ''have become prone to television sickness. It is difficult for them to sit and listen." Children seldom get stories told or read to them. She feels there is a great need for children's literature, which must be of equal literary excellence to the best of adult literature. 661 EDITORIAL / TURN TO THE FATHERS "And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers."" (D&C 2:2.) @ A well-loved poem speaks of the enduring influence and the continuing blessings that illuminate the world from the deeds and the words and the faithfulness of the fathers—''... For there was grandeur where the fathers stood."' When the hearts of the children turn to the fathers—whether or not the ''children'' are far beyond childhood—and whether or not the fathers still live upon the earth—there are memories and impressions and abiding direction which the fathers have given. Their strength, their leadership, their unselfish efforts, the blessings of their priesthood, are often vividly recalled. And superimposed upon the children forever from the past are those deep and subtle influences which, over the years, still protect and bless them. One woman still remembers and feels the sunlight and warmth of a summer day when she stood with her father in the doorway of an adobe ranch house, looking northward to a far expanse of wheatfields in a time of harvest. The father said, ''There is your college education.'' The father then remarked that he knew little about the courses of studies offered in the universities, but he had heard that the learning and the development were good, and therefore necessary for his children. They would be sent to a university where spiritual enlightment would be a lamp for the years to come. His words were expressed in a moment of time, but the moment became forever in the memory of the daughter—love and sacrifice and strength and a plan for the future all joined together and made into a lasting commitment. Another woman who was devoted to genealogical research and who found great joy in the patterns of the generations, wrote for her family and for the future families of her children the record of Volume 56 September 1969 Number 9 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miitenberger, Acting Secretary-Treasurer i' 662 the fathers back along the years—the decisive events in their lives and the teachings that guided them ''in every wilderness.'' The grandfather, who had lived as a boy in the river city of Nauvoo, had seen almost daily the Prophet Joseph Smith and had heard inspired doctrine and direction ''in the grove.'' The father of this grandfather, in the green hills of Vermont, had seen an early copy of The Book of Mormon, and had read it over and over by candlelight—the history of the long-ago fathers in the Western Hemisphere. From the book he learned much wisdom and instructed his family in the eternal verities of faith and righteousness. Then he told them of his own ancestors in Plymouth, England, and how one of them was captain on ''the ship of destiny'' as he called the Mayflower, the ship that helped to part the waters for a journey to the promised land where the gospel would be restored. The families of the fathers, reaching back into the early centuries, have become known to the families of the people who dwell in the 'fulness of times'' and who look forward to a reunion of those related by the flesh and sealed together by the Spirit. It has been said in olden time and continues to this day ''... They judge not the fatherless'' (Isaiah 1:23), expressing the deprivation and limitations which those bereft in early years of an earthly father encounter. It is then that the written record of the father in his time gives comfort, and all the forebears stand as a legion for the years that one must walk with no visible father to smooth the way and offer protection. The arm of faith, also, is extended to the fatherless upon the earth, and the Father in heaven ''keepeth well' the loved ones, for ''Have we not all one Father? Hath not one God created us?" As women of the Church, blessed with the heritage of our fathers, considering their counsel and the line of their authority, it is now a time for us to rejoice in the ''ordinances of heaven." —V. P. C. THE GENERAL BOARD Leone G. Layton Fawn H. Sharp; Verda F. Burton Amy Y. Valentine Aleine M. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Marian R. Boyer Alberta H. Christensen Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Orlene J. Poulsen Winniefred S. Manwaring Oa J. Cannon Lucile P. Peterson Marjorie M. Reeve Mary R. Young Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Fanny S. Kienitz. Lenore C. Gundersen Zelma R. West Helen E. Lach Elizabeth B. Winters Marjorie C. Pingree Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond trene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore 663 IN MEMORIAM Mildred Bennion Eyring May 23, 1896—June 25, 1969 Mildred Bennion Eyring, member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away June 25, 1969 in Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Eyring had served on the General Board for nineteen years, being appointed in 1950. While serving on the General Board Sister Eyring endeared herself to thousands of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. She was an excellent speaker, and devoted her talents to the needs of the General Board, giving service to education and other committees _as well as to the work of conferences in the stakes. Sister Eyring was born in Granger, Utah. She was the daughter of Marcus and Lucy Smith Bennion. She married Dr. Henry Eyring, noted educator and physicist, August 25, 1928. They are the parents of three sons. There are six grandchildren. Sister Eyring was educated in the Granite School District in Salt Lake City. She was graduated from the University of Utah, where she headed the physical education department for women. She also did graduate work at the University of Wisconsin where she met her husband. She has been a member of the Sunday School General Board and has served loyally in ward organizations and sung in the choirs. She and her husband taught a Sunday School class which was especially appreciated and had a large attendance. At the time of her call to the General Board of Relief Society she was a counselor in the Monument Park Ward Relief Society. She was always devoted to Relief Society and has attended the meetings regularly, giving spiritual encouragement and the blessings of her inspirational companionship to all the women in the ward. The General Board of Relief Society and members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Eyring extend heartfelt sympathy to her loved ones at her passing. FAREWELL How precious these last few Days of hummingbirds and fields TO SUMMER Of tall corn; Large cottonwood trees laden with Leaves; sunflowers by the side of The road. All too soon the frogs and crickets Are silent, and mothers are alone When the first school bell rings. —Linda Houston 664 ks As ( ¢ Kae WAX HEART ROOM FOR OME Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 4 SYNOPSIS: Mary Ann and Kim Freeman have taken Kim's aged Father from his home in Mayville, Utah, to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident. Mary Ann has submitted her resignation as a teacher in the grade school. This will cut their income in half at the time of their children Rosemary's wedding, and Tommy's graduation. ® Rosemary was ecstatic when she opened her letter from the board of education. "I got it! I got the class!" she said, racing to kiss her mother, hug her father, and lay her cheek against that of her grandfather, who responded with a squeeze of her other cheek. "I draw the line at you, Tommy," she said, stopping in front of her brother in mock rejection. "This can't be the family clinging vine who only last week still insisted she didn't want to work," jeered Tommy. "Clinging vine! Look who's talking!" accused Rosemary. "I was just waiting for all the chatter to calm down before I told my big news. I accepted the scholarship my dean has been trying to thrust upon me for the last two quarters, on the basis of need." "Ha!" said Rosemary. "What if you hadn't had that to fall back on when Mother withdrew her support? What then?" "I'd have gone out and borrowed the money," replied Tommy calmly. "I didn't know you had a scholarship in the offing," said Kim in surprise. Tommy turned his beautiful, blonde giant look on his father. "I turned: it down so some 665 September 1969 less fortunate fellow could use it, but there were no takers." Mary Ann smothered an ejaculation. It was obvious' she had spoiled her children by rushing to their aid whenever they needed money—Tommy for books and _ tuition, and Rosemary for the lavish wedding she had planned. And Tommy could have had a _ scholarship all along! "What will it pay?" she asked. "Books and tuition and a small stipend, which will pay my gas and date bills," said Tommy. "I could have taken a part-time job, but it would cut me out of my study time, just like too many dates would, so I'm cutting out dating for the duration. Period. It's the nose to the _ grindstone—not that it hasn't been there. Of course, I could have borrowed against my degree and paid it back later with no sweat. There is a student loan fund—forgivable loans, at that." Kim looked at Mary Ann and she read his mind. It was simply too easy for young folks! High time they were thrust onto their own resources! "Congratulations on your new positions," Grandfather Freeman offered in his courtly way. "She would have liked to hear that news." He was referring to his departed wife, of course. "Rosemary can thank you for that new job of hers, Grandpa, and I can thank you for my scholarship." "Oh, no! Not me," replied his grandfather. "You are a very fine scholar to merit a scholarship, and Rosemary earned her position with her own initiative. 666 Helping out that little boy with his glasses—I had nothing to do with it." "Didn't you? Now look, Grandfather. Would either one of them have happened if you hadn't come to live with us? Already three sweeping changes have been made. Mother has quit her job, Rosemary has a position to teach, and I have taken myself off the welfare state— family speaking, that is. To say nothing of my resolve not to fall in love with some girl and get married." "I can hardly wait, Tommy Freeman, for you to begin eating your own words." Tommy ignored Rosemary. "See what an impact you have had already on this family, Grandfather?" "I didn't want—I _ didn't mean...." his grandfather began in great agitation. "Grandpa! This is good. Can't you see how important this is —sociologically speaking—how we all needed you?" "If you say so," his grandfather said uncertainly. "We all say so, Dad," said Kim. "Why, you should have heard the men at the shop today, when I told them I had brought you home to _ stay awhile with us. One of the men said that is exactly what he would like to do with his father, but his wife wouldn't hear of it." "Did you tell him it is only till spring?" asked his father. "I told him you expected to go home in the spring," said Kim evasively.; "Spring?" said Rosemary, suddenly interested. ""What time in the spring? Not before we have our honeymoon in your sweet house? Cary and I. We really do mean it, Grandfather." "Summer," amended her grandfather. "Not until you are through with the place, of course." Neither Rosemary nor Tommy seemed to notice the little slump of despair in their grandfather's shoulders, but their parents did. Mary Ann wished the conversation had _ never taken place. "IT must exercise more," was all Kim's father said. Tommy was right. His grandfather's coming had made an impact on their family. Repercussions were felt almost immediately in the budget department. Kim's check exactly covered the house payment, the utilities, and the food, just as it always had, with a little left over for the upkeep of the car and his Church obligations. There was nothing for the one-hundredand-one items never counted in any budget, and Mary Ann was left immediately without a car—Rosemary drove _ the little car to work, Tommy dropped his father off in the station wagon, and drove on to school. Not that Mary Ann needed a car during the day, as she was tied close with Kim's father. It was the little things —a new pair of stockings, cosmetics, reading matter, medicines, and drugs. Mary Ann_ began planning ways to save in her cooking and sewing. "This is something!" Tommy said appreciatively the first time he came home to find her pulling new-baked bread from the Heart Room For Home oven, and forthwith demolished the better part of a loaf with melted butter, milk, and jam. "When I marry—if I marry— I will pick a wife with all the homey virtues." "I can just see it," chided Rosemary, "healthy and docile, like the women the earlier settlers sent for—home-raised girls." "She was the most beautiful one of them all," remembered Father Freeman. "But she was the best cook, the best seamstress, and she used the best grammar." Mary Ann found time now to do many things at homemaking she had been unable to do as a working woman, to sew some of the material she had been tempted into buying in her more lucrative days. "Mother, I didn't know you were such a wonderful seamstress," Rosemary exclaimed when she modeled her first dress. "How about making some of my trousseau?" Mary Ann was thrilled at this invitation, and they huddled over patterns and materials, while Kim and his father worked at genealogy, a project Kim had long wanted to do. With his father's wonderful memory and tendency to reminisce, he was able to fill in many details hitherto missing, and it was a joy to them both. "You'll have to rest during the day, Dad, and we'll take in some evening sessions at the temple, get some of these names taken care of." "Yd like that," said Kim's father, and redoubled his exercise time in the walker. He refused all help at getting about 667 September 1969 and did his own small errands about the house. By Thanksgiving he was spending much of his time on his feet. Thanksgiving was another "Gathering of the Clan," this time with the boys, Robert and Heidi and their three, James and Carol and their four, present, making a total of twenty-four at the long dining table, which had been augmented by folding sections. The weather was so lovely it was possible to eat on the patio, a novelty to Grandfather Freeman. "That's nothing," assured Kim. "We quite often eat Christmas dinner out here, too, with the poinsettias and the calla lilies bordering the path, all in bloom." His father, later, painstakingly wrote the details of this wonderful dinner to Francine and Emily, and received a contrite note from Francine in return: Dad, I am so ashamed to have wanted you to sell your house and put you in a rest home. I can tell it is wonderful for you there, but we could have managed if you had stayed here. Melanie had her baby the next week after you left, a little girl, and if we had only thought of it, she and her husband could have kept our house and Jack and I could have moved in with you until you were better. Emily was so sure it was right to sell the place, that it seemed right to me at the time. We're taking good care of everything. Absent from her letter was any offerto makesuch an arrangement now, but Mary Ann and Kim were content. It was "working out" as Kim had prophesied, not without adjustment pains. Their course was plainly to make life so pleasant for Kim's father that he would relinquish his 668 desire to return to his home and resign himself to a new way of living. They took him driving and showed him the ocean, seeing it again through his eyes, because he was profoundly moved by the sight of so much water when he had fought to keep the water on his land among the mountains. They took him to Palomar to see the Bethlehem Star show as a prelude to Christmas, and he was excited as a child at the wondrous knowledge and ability of men to reproduce such a point in history. They took him to Marineland, and he was reminded of the beasts at home by the animals of the water. "That whale was as proud of her performance as our race mare, Star. Remember how she arched her neck and _ pranced when she won the race at the county fair?" Kim and Tommy took him to priesthood meeting on Sunday mornings, and he came home appreciative of the gospel and their efforts to get him there. Kim and Mary Ann managed a weekly session at the temple, wheeling him through in his chair and he was nearly overcome with pleasure. It was working out, they told each other, and Kim was appreciative of all Mary Ann's efforts to make it so. As for himself, Kim took on a new air of confidence and authority Mary Ann had missed _ before. As a man who was filling his obligation to his father, Kim felt a glow of happiness, and as the total wage earner he felt new strength as the head of the house. When Mary Ann tried to put it into words in the pnvacy of their room, he said, "I feel different, somehow. I always felt a little ashamed before, as if I was not filling my complete place. It is a man's work to furnish the money, to be the provider. You don't know what it did for me when you said you would be glad to quit work, that you didn't really like your job. It was something I felt all along." This was a wrong premise. Mary Ann had liked her job, and the freedom of her own income, but she kept this reservation to herself in order to preserve this new feeling in Kim. She had to admit it was unpleasant to contemplate consulting Kim on every small purchase, after, of course, taking a close look at the budget. Under the joint pressure of her diminished reserve and the coming of Christmas, wasn't it possible, © even inevitable that she should develop self-pity, come to consider herself the family martyr, the unpaid family servant? It was all right for Kim and the children to feel the new power of their independence and to be in the ascendency, but what about her, now in the descendency of importance? To carry this further was CORRECTION ON PAINTING TUB (August Relief Society Magazine, p. 599) In painting the tub it is better to complete the painting and apply the decals, etc. Before applying the varnish. Heart Room For Home painful, but Mary Ann had to be fair—and thorough. Had she not, in times past, herself held her family in similar subjugation? Had she not been the shortest route to supply for the demands of her two youngest children, thereby smothering their initiative to fill these demands by their own efforts? The more she thought of it, the more certain she was that this was true. The latter analogy was the best deterrent to the self-pity and martyrdom she feared, but it did not solve the problem of Christmas, fast approaching now. Previous Christmases had run into the hundreds of dollars, with twenty-five of the immediate family to be thought of, to say nothing of other relatives and friends. "Kim, there is a sale on applesauce, and there has been quite a drain on our year's supply. Do you think we could—? Could you spare a little to...." she asked hesitantly. At first she thought Kim was asleep, there was such a long silence. "You have asked me _ for money, Mary Ann," said Kim with a. Little choking sound. "T never want that to happen " again! (To be continued) 669 r) Yieas Wail we Jean A. Jensen @ "All roads lead to Rome!" Rome—the Eternal City, Rome —built on seven hills. Rome— the ancient city — the ultramodern city. Rome — the pagan city, the Christian city! Rome —the sculpture center of the world, the adopted city of Michelangelo. We visited Venice, the fabulous city of the merchants which is slowly sinking into the sea, and bustling Naples, before Rome. We were stranded in Naples because of a general railroad strike. An unforgettable memory is the pandemonium of the bus station with peoples of many countries worrying, gesticulating and shouting. We were finally put aboard a chartered bus full of girl students late at night. We all slept fitfully after our strenuous day and, as a street clock struck midnight, we gratefully arrived in Rome and registered to take four comprehensive tours of the city in the next two days. We surely fell into the category of the typical Americans who 670 race through Europe spending only a few days when they should be spending at least a week in each place, or better still, a month. The first thing we recognized was the oldest thing in Rome, there long before Rome was built—the "golden" Tiber River, still serenely winding its way through the city as it has done for centuries. The legendladen Tiber flows like molten gold toward the setting sun. We knew if it could speak it would tell us the history of. Rome. The French once offered to divert its channel so that its depths could be explored for treasures but the authorities of Rome, fearing an increase of malaria from such a_ procedure, would not give their consent. The Aqua Marcia built in 140 B. C. And restored in 1869, brings water from the Sabine Mountains, a distance of about fifty-six miles. Although the water is strongly impregnated with lime, it is pure and excellent. Ay ny The panoramic view of Rome from Pincian Hill helped _ to orient us, and the Borghese Gardens which are now turned over to the city for a public promenade, fascinated us as we saw avenues of white marble busts of the great men of Rome as they stood out against a background of dark pines and cypresses. The Vatican Palace, with over a thousand rooms, was of great interest as we toured its museums, the apartment of Pope Julius the Second, which was designed by Raphael, and a few main galleries filled with art treasures. The Vatican Library, with its 350,000 volumes and 50,000 manuscripts, was impressive. The highlight of the tour was the visit to the Sistine Chapel. I will never forget what they said was Michelangelo's self-portrait as a grotesque bag hanging in the fresco of "The Last Judgment." It depicted his feeling at having to lie on his back on high scaffolds with paint dripping into his eyes for four years in the cold dampness of this chapel, as he painted this masterpiece of a ceiling depicting God, the Twelve Apostles, and other Biblical characters, while he longed to be working as a sculptor with his beloved marble. We learned that the Vatican City has its own separate government and its coins and stamps, so we purchased stamps for cards. The second tour of the day included the summer residence of Cardinal Borghese which is now a museum featuring masterpieces by Bernini. Then we Rome went to Janiculum Hill, the highest of the seven hills of Rome, and saw the great monument, one section of which shows Romulus and Remus being suckled by a she-wolf and we recalled the legend of the origin of Rome, founded 750 years before the birth of Christ. We wandered around in the - ruins of the Roman Forum and the old Roman senate building and remembered that here was the cradle of government and that many laws we have today had their origin amid this group of ancient ruins. It is like a sunken square—holding columns, arches, pedestals, and crumbling walls. We stood in awe as memories of the past swept over us and we realized that we were seeing the spot which for centuries had been the heart of the Roman Empire, the stage on which the great dramas of Roman history were performed—the stabbing to the death of Julius Caesar and the resulting speech by Mark Antony being to us the best known. The great white marble monument to Victor Emmanuel, the Bismarck of Italy, is two hundred feet high. The columns, raised figures, and Victor Emmanuel, unifier of Italy in the center sitting astride a_ horse, fascinated us as did the Venetian Palace which had served as headquarters for Mussolini. We had glimpses of the palaces of Rome or "palazzos" and saw galleries and gardens which have been decorated with the most precious works of antiquity. In spite of great sheets of rain we got out of the bus to see the gorgeous fountain of Trevi 671 September 1969 (of "Three Coins in a Fountain" fame) and threw our pennies into the water and made our wishes. Then, while the rain beat down, we entered the Church of St. Peter in Chains where we saw Michelangelo's great statue of "Moses" and marveled again at the wonder of the figures which Michelangelo could see in a block of marble and release with his skill. The next day we saw the Piazza Navona (Navona Square), an ancient square with an ornate fountain and an obelisk, one of a group brought from Egypt. Then we went into the Pantheon whose porch was built in 27 B. C. The Pantheon, with a dome in the center which lets the rain and sunlight in, dates back to the time of Hadrian in 125 A. D. It contains the first unsupported dome ever built and the model for all domes that have capped public building ever since. One of the most beautiful sights was the Marble Stadium, a stadium surrounded by white marble figures depicting some thirty sports. In the period of Rome's glory it was said that the number of Rome's statues equalled that of her inhabitants. We learned about the ancient wellbuilt sewer system which is still used and the Golden Milestone erected by Augustus, from which distances were reckoned to every province of the Roman Empire, and roads were built which joined them in swift, sure communication. We saw the Arch of Titus, erected to commemorate the conquest of Jerusalem and saw, in imagina- 672 tion, long triumphal processions as they passed under this arch. Now the moment had come when we were to visit St. Peter's basilica, the crowning work of Michelangelo, Antonio Sangallo the younger, Peruzzi Bramante, Raphael, Guido Reni, Domenichino, and many other geniuses. We were instructed not to stray or lose our guide or we could easily become lost in this huge structure. We: kept together as we walked toward the reputed tomb of St. Peter which is directly under the great dome which Michelangelo planned. We were told three ordinary churches, spires and all, could be placed side by side beneath the dome alone, with two hundred feet to spare between the tops of the spires and the keystone of the arch. We drove along the Appian Way and saw many ruined sepulchres. It was the fashionable burial place of ancient Rome and the statues and other treasures have long since _ been stolen. We recalled reading "Quo Vadis" and the visits of Peter and Paul to Rome. It is said that from the Appian Way Paul first gained a view of Rome. We visited one of the fortyfive groups of catacombs along the Appian Way. As we entered into their eerie darkness, there was a priest to light the way with a lamp into some of the maze of labyrinths in which the early Christians had found refuge from their persecutions and had also used as their burial grounds. I was impressed as he pointed out to us the Christian sign of a "fish" carved upon a wall. (Continued on page 691) The Golden Tiber River of Rome Panorama View of Rome Roman Forum Statue of Jesus and Pilate by the Holy Stairway ' ~ iy ss a &. X -; ' (4 '.; / ' i; ZT, - Stadium with Statues St. Peter's—View From the Tiber River Art in the Home Grayce E. Cutler Transparencies by the author > ~ ~- Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah, from a painting by John Hafen Swiftly the changing lights reached the level of our top window, where the cutglass prisms were. A cheerful grate fire crackled in the open fireplace and music from our old phonograph played a soft accompaniment. This was the moment I waited for: the hour of sunset when our living rooms glowed and the original oil paintings on the walls were pools of light. Red, blue, and gold shafts of sunlight filtered through the diamond panes. Urgently, I cried, "Mother, come quickly or you will miss it." A voice came from the kitchen, "Just a minute, dear, the pies have to be taken out of the oven first." I ran over to the corner of the room, to change the record on the phonograph,. Hurrying back to the settee. "Hurry, hurry, now, Mother, the lights are on the rocks now." This was the crucial moment because to wait much longer, one would miss the whole show. Soon Mother came running in, apron flying, trailing spicy odors of black-currant pies fresh from the oven. She sat by me, wiping her hands on the towel in her lap, and, together, we watched a miracle of light play on the many original paintings, following one after another with liquid sunshine. From the red rocks on down with the setting sun, blue and gold lights sparkled into the open sea, making it truly a sea of gold. This was my favorite painting, the one of Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, in a storm, by Alfred Lambourne, Utah artist and writer, who lived in a little house on this lonely island in certain seasons of the year and painted its many moods. Uncle Fred was mother's brother. She was the heroine "Plet" in his epic tale of the Wasatch Mountains, the year of the big avalanche. 676 Gunnison Island, Great Salt Lake, from a painting by Alfred Lambourne The shadows grew longer now and the colors deepened, "Mother, just look at that gold-dust on the desert!" A large desert oil by John Hafen filled one end of the living room, an authentic scene of covered wagons trailing gold dust at the end of day. The setting sun shone blood-red on the strange sculpture of Monument Valley. We looked with anticipation around the room, as every evening was a different experience, changing with the seasons and weather. In the corner, a small landscape by George Ottinger, a pastel of Liberty Park by Hafen, and on the opposite wall, an oil of my grandfather, John C. Cutler when he was Governor of the State of Utah. As the sunrays reached his eyes, we exclaimed "Doesn't he look as if he could speak to us?" We watched with awe as his blue eyes sparkled and smiled a little. Imagination can run riot at such times, later to become inspiration for expression or just priceless memories. - A few moments now and it would be all over; the red sun dropped quickly behind the dark filigree of trees in front of our home. The soft wind blowing the lace curtains seemed like a whispered goodnight. Little did I realize the same principle would apply in later years to my own paintings in my little home. Vivid memories return as I frequently walk through the modern galleries and museums of San Francisco and experience the avant-garde art of psychedelic light. It seems as if a stage had been set for the art of tomorrow. Through centuries of painting, true artists worked endlessly, seeking the mystical quality of light. One of the great masters, William Turner (1775-1851) became fa- 677 mous for his insight and genius in depicting pure light. As one views his retrospective exhibition in the Tate Gallery, London, the impact of an inner light on one after another of his great works (filling three galleries) was like an unknown spiritual source. The French Impressionists later attained light more than any other school and will live forever. The early Utah painter, Lee Greene Richards studied this school of painting in Europe and was greatly influenced by it. One day Mother took me to his studio to show him my first little watercolors. It was a beautiful studio with windows facing South Temple and a real skylight. He showed me his fine paintings. (Continued on page 692) 678 Look to November from a painting by Grayce E. Cutler Asters In the Autumn Garden Transparency by Luoma Studios 679 Handicrafts for the Home Annetta S. Mower @ Perhaps' there is nothing quite as enjoyable for a woman as decorating her own home, and even more enjoyable if she. Can use a little of her own ingenuity and _ talent. Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts A BENCH FOR THE HALL Recently, my husband built a dining-library room on our house leaving our hall, which had previously been filled with books, looking empty and colorless. As our hall is small we decided on the amount of space we could devote to a bench without interfering with the passageway. We then cut a pine board that size and stained it walnut. We stapled on a piece of foam in the middle of the board, being sure to tuck the top edge of the foam underneath to give it a tufted look. Then it was covered with upholstery material and tacked down with brass upholstery tacks. Painting chains black to match our black wrought iron rails on our stairs, we fastened them to the stubs in the wall and to the front of the board. Underneath the board small braces were attached so that the bench was serviceable as well as attractive. This stayed within our budget, costing $6. THE ANIMALS ENTER THE ARK Model, Marguerite Mower Covering another piece of masonite with burlap, we made a background with a felt ark for Noah, his wife, and stuffed animals that were sold at a Relief Society bazaar. The animals were so attractive, I wanted to show them off, yet at the same time allow the children to play with them. I sewed a large snap on each animal and small holes were drilled through the masonite for wiring on the counterpart of the snap, allowing for the animals to be played with and then snapped back on the picture. The white dove is beautiful on blue burlap sky, and the orange and yellow ark seems ready for its long voyage upon the waters; the striped zebra, the bearded lion, the pink pig, the mottled snakes, in curves of grandeur, a blue elephant and a pink elephant, and the wooly sheep, with the flapping ears, seem real enough to enter into the ark and make a safe return trip without being lost. Our own handicraft has given us pleasure in the planning and the doing and now offers continued enjoyment for the whole family. 680 Models, Megan and Michael Mower RHYMES AND STORIES AND CASTLES My mother read to my sisters and me from a lovely old nursery rhyme book. When I began reading to my children from this same book the pages were worn and beginning to tear. Loving the characters from the book and wanting my children to enjoy them as I had, I made a picture of these characters drawing them on paper and then cutting them out of felt. My husband covered a masonite board with burlap on which the felt pictures had been sewed. Among the colorful characters which now appear in the picture, which occupies a place of interest on the nursery wall, are Simple Simon, the Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe, Mistress Mary, Wee Willie Winkle, and others of the cherished people loved by generations of children. They are now giving continued pleasure to Megan, Michael, and Marguerite who greet their storybook friends each day, and sometimes tell them goodnight. i La co. A la te u eal an ~ee The Hawaiian booth was a delight—colorful and inviting. A Bazaar Designed Especially for Children Helen M. Dall, President, Kearns North Stake Relief Society Karen Sorensen, President, Seventeenth Ward Relief Society ® Our whole Bazaar was especially focused on items of interest for children and this plan turned out to be a great success. A special booth was prepared to illustrate helps for Family Home Evening. Assignment charts, flannel boards, plaques, lap boards, and activity sheets were prepared. Items for children were attractively displayed. The items for sale in the varous displays were all donated. Sister Sharon Seamons was chairman. She had made up a sample item and then assigned several sisters to make the desired number of each item. Over thirty sisters were involved in one single booth, and all seemed willing to help. Several sisters who do not sew or do handwork were especially willing to help with decorating the booths and ar- 682 ranging the displays. Many sisters who are a little timid seemed glad when they were shown what to do. The items were unusually attractive and included: 4 turtles (made out of round rocks and glued together and painted); 10 handkerchief dolls (top half made and decorated from felt, the bottom half was a handkerchief); 20 dress-up formals (these were sold quickly, materials were scraps of silks and satins and discarded curtains); 3 cow-girl outfits; 8 soldier banks (made from detergent bottles); 20 wall pictures; 6 large bulletin boards (shaped like animals); 4 large playhouses (big enough for little girls to play in, made from cardboard boxes, painted and with curtains added); 10 dress-up hats (made from clorox bottles and net); 12 wigs (made from yarn); 20 toy guns (cut from wood and painted brown); 6 doll houses (made from garment boxes and decorated); 20 sets of doll furniture; 15 paper dolls and clothes; 20 purses, and many other attractive articles. As a theme on Hawaii, the girls were invited inside a thatched hut (an old pasteboard box covered with strips of cut paper and painted). Each girl received a skirt, lei, and flowers for her hair. Variety of smiles and costumes in the dress-up booth. "Springtime in the Park" — 7 ty lb Y ie im load a woken.;: 'cm ©; + e Handicraft Display... Clothing - Dolls - Toys Unique Bazaar in Indianapolis Stake Norma L. Whitehead, President, Indianapolis Stake Relief Society The center of the cultural hall was decorated with trees, flowers, lawn, benches, and lamp posts. Each of the fourteen wards and branches had its own booth, attractively decorated and following the same theme. The stake board prepared a handicraft booth and was in charge of the bake sale and dinner, aided by sisters from the wards. Decorative Features for the House and Patio 4 ee British Women Make A Union Jack Design In Knitting Submitted by Norinne R. Callister, Former Supervisor, British Mission Relief Society This unique "Union Jack" blanket was knitted by Sister Louisa Ridley (in the picture) and Sister Eda V. Longbone for Elder Dean Orton who took it home to his mother. It took the two women three weeks to make the blanket, working three to four hours a day, and lining the blanket took six hours. Sister Ridley and Sister Longbone belong to the Eastbourne Branch, Sussex, England. Joyce H. Walker is president of the branch Relief Society. 685 Nut Cups for the Party Alice Elizabeth Oertle TO MAKE Dorothy J. Roberts MATERIALS NEEDED Scraps of cotton material (printed, plaid, or plain) Nylon or wool yarn Large darning needle Melted canning wax Ice tongs A pattern may be made by marking a circle with a saucer (about six inches in diameter). A bowl or drinking glass (about 3 inches in diameter) can be used for the smaller inner circle. Cut the material from the larger circle and mark the smaller circle. With adhesive tape, glue, or a stapler, attach a double strand of yarn across the middle from edge to edge of the smaller circle, leaving about an inch excess for attaching the handle. Stitch around the inner circle two rows about an inch apart, drawing the circle up to resemble a cup. The stitching may be on the inside or the 686 (Continued on page 692) "SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND OF LA GRANDE JATTE" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago Commentary on page 690 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Power of Work Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 THE BLIND GIRL" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English Transparency by Three Lions Commentary on page 689 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting March 1970 iA Southerr Hemisphere July 1970 688 "THE BLIND GIRL" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English Transparency by Three Lions Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 John Everett Millais was a precocious child. He was recognized as having great talent at age four. At seven he was drawing amazing likenesses of family and friends. At eleven he was accepted into the Royal Academy as its youngest student and was later elected to membership. Early in his career as an artist he and several friends formed a group known s Pre-Raphaelites, who set principles of painting somewhat contrary to the accepted manner of painting of the time. They believed art should be based upon and be true to nature and represent sincere expression of sincere beliefs and adhere to the gospel of thoroughness. As a result, Millais' work was full was most condemned. One said, "We must protest against sweet, lollipop colours, Taw green fields, and lace-up boots ostentatiously large." In Millais' time, he was a revolutionist and it is chiefly because of his revolutionary works that he lives today. Most creative people seem to have a certain driving force which might be termed a "feeling of destiny"—a conviction that what they are seeking is of worth and importance and they must "get on" with it, which in itself is a service to those who follow. They seem converted to the "rightness" of what they are doing. Perhaps this is what gives the artist direction and a tenacity in spite of obstacles and criticism from others. Anyone out in the forefront runs the risk of being misunderstood. This was true of Millais. If we were to judge his works by present trends in art, he might be considered very conservative, yet during his day he was a revolutionary. "The Blind Girl" is not difficult to understand. It could be said to be true to nature with an obvious message. Try asking a group of people of any age to look at the painting and tell the story. Abstract the story into one word and see how often it will be "service." 689 "SUNDAY AFTERNOON ON THE ISLAND OF LA GRANDE JATTE" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French - Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago Painting on page 687 Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Power of Work Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 When families are united in their work and play, work becomes more meaningful and leisure more enjoyable. A casual observer might say that this painting "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat illustrates-a popular leisure-time activity—strolling in the park. However, as one looks and reflects, he may find that there is much more to it than that. The reality of the subject has been subjected to stringent refining—not necessarily to improve it—but in order to yield its essence. The unessentials have been dropped away leaving only images of incisive clarity. A heat haze blurs the detail and gives a static quality. One feels as if he had captured a moment suspended in time, in which order reigns. Georges Seurat lived at the time Impressionism was at its height. However, he believed that this system of painting was too haphazard, so he developed a systematic method of painting, which was highly intellectual, methodical, and almost scientific in approach. He carefully organized the space on his canvas by using horizontal, vertical, and diagonal lines in perfect balance. Then with careful, almost artificial, precision, he placed the confetti-like, round spots of color next to each other, until his canvas was covered in such a way that the colors, being mixed in the eye of the observer, give a sensation of shimmering vibrancy. He called this method Divisionism. Others have called it Pointillism. This painting was first shown in 1886, and it marked the painter's arrival at a maturity in the use of the method he invented. His departure from the established way of painting, and from the Impressionism of his time, opened the way for later, so-called "Modern" art. Seurat must have worked hard to accomplish what he did at such an early age. (He died at the age of 32.) And, as is the case with many highly creative people, he found his recreation in his work. He said, "Art is harmony—harmony comes from placing, side-by-side, contrasting elements and similar elements in tone, in color, and in line." 690 ROME (Continued from page 672) The last thing on our tours was the ruin of the Colosseum which held 50,000 people. Near the arena there used to be a marble platform with marble thrones for the vestals, senators, and other dignitaries. Above this platform was the emperor's throne under a canopy. The ancient heated baths were the social centers of Rome and there were shops surrounding them for every purpose to please men and women. The Baths were the meeting places of literary men, where lectures were delivered, poems read, and philosophical themes debated. Athletes gave exhibitions there of their skill and strength, musicians showed their talents, and every form of physical improvement was taught. It was cal- © culated that 62,000 people could have bathed at any hour in the public baths in Rome. Many noted works of art were in these areas. Modern Rome has a population of over 2,000,000 and is LEAVES Wind-loosed they fell upon a waiting earth retaining veins of summer's green: they lay as other years of leaves have lain released from parent stem, they knew the early light of spring, the summer strengthening, emblazoned color, and the fall. As leaves do, children will outlive the parent tree many seasons after: Rome spread over 62,000 acres. It has about 2,000 restaurants. The delicious over-size pears, apples, peaches, and grapes served to us with our meals for dessert were a delight to see and eat. We saw the famous "Spanish Steps" before we left and a street with magnolia trees on either side just about to bloom. We learned that Rome is a little farther north than the city of New York, and we reluctantly left the magnificence of this amazing city and hoped that some day our road would lead us back to Rome. In 1850 the Italian Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was opened and in 1854 it was combized with the Swiss Mission. The SwissItalian Mission was divided in 1966 with the Italian Mission headquarters in Florence and is progressing among thosé wonderfully gifted, warm, and friendly people. A new era is opening for those who will listen to the gospel to show them the way to peace and salvation. Against the winds nor fear the wrath of storms, aware of radiance wrought by morning's sun and the regenerative power in the cycled harmony of birth. —Beulah Huish Sadleir 691 parent-taught, they have learned to lean | September 1969 ART IN THE HOME (Continued from page 678) As we were leaving, he said, "Graycie, keep painting all your life for your own enjoyment, as I have advised my own children; but never take up painting seriously as a vocation; it is too heartbreaking." He hesitated and, even at that early age, I caught the struggle of an artist's life especially in an isolated community. I did not heed his advice, as the urge to express in paint, plus early exposure to good art, held me forever. My most precious recollections were in Alfred Lambourne's modest studio on North Main Street, where I sat in the bay window on some rainy days and listened breathlessly to his true tales of pioneer days and the lonely beauty of the plains as the pioneers made their tortuous trail to this unknown land. He was a mystic and poet, as was his pioneer father, John Lambourne, and his descriptions of his research into space, the stars and the "music of the spheres" he had actually heard, held me spellbound. He instinctively knew about matters not of this earth, and was host to celebrities and Eastern men of thought in his modest studio—all seeking, as man will seek forever, his own destiny; as Paul Gauguin asked in one of his famous last paintings, "Where do we come from? What are we? Where are we going?" I am grateful indeed to my parents and the circumstances surrounding the unique cultural life of this then-isolated community in the mountains, on the edge of the desert and the inland sea. If one does not have the advantages of being surrounded with artists in his own family, there is a renaissance of art the world over and good art is available in city galleries and even in small communities. Traveling exhibits, art schools, and art books are plentiful where one can learn and discern a good work of art and truly determine what he likes when the time comes to add a painting or a piece of sculpture to his valued possessions. If I could be given a wish for beauty and contentment, I would choose a good work of art to live by. NUT CUPS FOR THE PARTY (Continued from page 686) outside of the basket; the handle should be on the inside. When you have the cup roughly shaped, dip it into the melted wax using the tongs. When the cup is cool, push it into the desired shape. To add variety, staple small rosebuds or other plastic flowers at the places where the handle is attached. The cup is now ready to fill with candy and nuts for a party. Other patterns may be used and dipped in wax for other parties or for showers or socials. Double yarn Outside or inside of basket Pattern for nut cups made from scraps 3" circle 6" circle 692 i Se ied i | a2) WYO Emily Olsen, South Blackfoot Stake, Idaho, has used her talents to create beauty within her own home. She is an expert at making rugs, quilts, lace, and embroidered bedspreads, doilies, and other decorative items. Her yard is also very lovely because of the tender care given to the violets and other varieties of flowers. Her vegetable gardens are rarely surpassed. She has been active in all of the auxiliaries of the Church, having served for nine years as a Relief Society counselor, and more than fifty years as a visiting teacher. She has also rendered faithful service as a teacher and executive in the other organizations. Sister Olson is the mother of three children and grandmother to three. At eighty-five, she still seldom misses a Relief Society meeting. — - Boe, _\§ soll ei acd Nellie Green Howard, Portneuf Stake, McCammon, Idaho, has made many lovely articles of handwork. Her specialty is quilts, but her crocheted afghans, lace tablecloths, doilies, and bedspreads are very lovely. She started counting the quilts she had made in 1955. Since that time she has quilted 130 full-sized quilts and twenty-one baby quilts. She has given quilts along with a pair of embroidered pillow cases to each of her five children, twenty-one grandchildren, fifteen step-grandchildren, thirty-five great-grandchildren, and four step-great-grandchildren, and to countless friends and neighbors. Sister Howard has served as a counselor in Relief Society, and as a teacher and executive officer in the other organizations of the Church. She is eighty-four years old and still attends her meetings, does gardening, and makes quilts. 693 le; ~_ " os & - 4 ' B et! 4 \ wo _ ee tee: ae OW il * = The hot Japanese sun smiled down on Angie's short blonde hair, making it shine. But the shine was soon gone when a handful of sand lit on her head and sifted through the golden curls. Angie looked around to find who had thrown the sand. Standing behind her were three Japanese children about her own age. Their dark slanted eyes looked strange to her. Angie hadn't seen anyone with eyes like theirs back in Salt Lake City where she used to live. The children's ebony hair hung straight down and was chopped off right below their ears. "Hi! What's your name?" chirped five-year-old Angie, who was happy to see someone to play with. The Japanese children didn't answer but stepped into Angie's sandbox and began sifting the sand through their fingers. The three started talking to one another with sounds that Angie couldn't understand. 694 THE UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE Ardean T. Loertscher "Tl get you some buckets," declared Angie, as she jumped up and ran into the garage. In a few seconds she reappeared with an armful of brightly colored tin buckets and shovels, and some tablespoons she had borrowed from the kitchen. The Japanese children grinned and giggled as they each received their allotted playthings from Angie. One little girl, whom the others called Keiko, tenderly caressed Angie's bare white legs which emerged from the ruffled bottom of her pink sunsuit. The girl seemed to marvel at the skin that was at least two shades lighter than her own. Large mountains and valleys began to take form in the sand pile as the foursome repeatedly filled and emptied their buckets. Aminiature car was buried and uncovered. Ribbons of roads, made by tractors, steam shovels, and trucks, wound around the mountains and through the valleys. "Let's make a farm," cried Angie. "My uncle has a farm. I'll go get some cows." The screen door banged behind her as she skipped into the house. She was greeted with "ohs" and "ahs" when she returned with a plastic bag full of horses, cows, chickens, ducks, pigs, sheep, dogs, and cats. The girl named Keiko fingered a cow and repeated a strange word Angie couldn't understand. "No, it's a cow," Angie corrected. But Keiko continued to say the strange word. Not being able to quite understand what this meant, Angie decided to build a field for the cows. She ran to the tall maple tree which stood at the end of the long back yard. There she picked up dry twigs and sticks. When she had all her chubby hands could carry, she returned to the sand pile. One by one, she pushed the ends of the sticks into the sand next to each other. Her three playmates joined her in the task, and soon an area about a foot in diameter was encircled by the fence. "The ducks need a pond to swim in," declared Angie as she ran for the sprinkler hose. She tugged the hose to the sand pile and carefully placed it in a ravine. Back she ran to the water tap on the side of the house. FIRST DAY OF The Universal Language As the water came on full force, the end of the hose flipped up, drenching the make-believe land in an unexpected shower. The three Japanese friends were also caught in the sudden sprinkle, but screams of delight and laughter escaped their mouths as the water cooled their skin. Just then the sound of a car in the driveway drew their attention. "That's my Daddy," revealed Angie. '"He's a mission president." Angie ran to greet the tall man 'who stepped out of the car. "Daddy, comelook at my farm," she coaxed. "My! You're a dirty, wet girl! You better come in the house and get cleaned up for dinner," replied her father. "Who were your friends in the sand pile?" her father asked when they reached the bathroom. "T don't know their names," Angie replied. "Can you understand them?" he asked. "No, they talk funny," she declared rather puzzled. "Isn't it hard to play if you can't understand them?" he continued. Angie's face darkened for an instant, but ht right back up again as she replied: "But Daddy, we all laugh the same." The leaves are scurrying across the street, SCHOOL and little children run on new-clad feet. Swiftly the years are hurrying colorful, wind-spun. Soon, the brittle leaves are gone, and school-days done. —Christie Lund Coles 695 " fearon RO THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding. Pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Tongan Mission, Suva Branch, (Fiji Islands) Sisters of Many Rz: cs Work Together in Sisterhood of Relief Society Jean S. Groberg, former Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports: ''One would have to be a linguist to understand the conversations which take place during a homemaking meeting in the Fiji District of our mission. As the sisters are busy working with their hands, they may be discussing the thoughts presented in the lesson in Hindi, Fijian, Tongan, Samoan, Rotuman, or Maori. 'Meetings are conducted in English, but the language common to all is the language of the soul—a testimony of the restored truth, a common desire to be better wives and mothers, to be led by the priesthood of God. "These sisters in the Suva Branch conduct a full program of Relief Society, even conducting double meetings so that sisters who must work may still attend Relief Society. They are strengthening their visiting teaching program, conducting bazaars, and constantly inspiring those of us at mission headquarters to better works. We are very proud of these dear sisters, and appreciate their good works." The new Supervisor of the Tongan Mission Relief Society is Metta H. Christensen. South Blackfoot Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present '"'My World,"' April 11, 1969 In front, left to right: Cherril E. Dygert, accompanist; President C. Dean Packer, soloist; Irene H. Kelly, director; Inez S. Pendlebury, Elizabeth K. Clark, Homer R. Evans, narrators. Edna C. Felt, President, reports: ''Our concert, 'My World,' was both delightful and inspirational to the large and appreciative audience. In addition to the choral numbers, the program included solos, duets, trios, and a narration written by Della T. Stander. A beautiful three violin obligato added a special touch." a a a September 1969 Andes South Mission, La Paz (Bolivia) District Holds Relief Society Convention February 15, 1969 Singing Mothers from La Paz Branches | and I! Who performed at Relief Society convention. Myrna T. Gibson, former Supervisor, Andes South Mission Relief Society reports: "The first annual convention for Relief Society sisters was held recently in the La Paz District. Lt was a very spiritual meeting and built much enthusiasm among the sisters of the ten branches in the district. "The theme, 'Charity Never Faileth' was chosen for the convention, and the colors of blue and gold were used throughout the hall. The 127th anniversary of Relief Society was commemorated with a program and birthday cake decorated by Sarah S. Daines. "Beautiful music was presented by the Singing Mothers and several inspirational talks were given. The skit 'Thou Art in the Service of the Lord,' by Luacine Clark Fox was presented and enjoyed by all. "We felt that the spirit of sisterhood was enhanced so much by this convention, in spite of rains reaching flood proportions causing difficult passage. There were eightyfive in attendance." Zella O'Neta Roberts is the new supervisor of the Andes South Mission. Palmyra Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers in Program, "To Serve With Love,"' February 27, 1969 Seated in the front row at right, left to right: Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society; Donna Anderson and Florence Cope, Counselors. Back row, left to right: Eleanor Olsen, Leona Sorensen, and Janet Hales, who directed the tableaux. Sister Swenson reports: ''We honored our visiting teachers with a program themed, 'To Serve With Love.' Tableaux representing various nations of the world with visiting teachers in native costumes represented the scripture 'Go ye therefore and teach all nations....' (Matt. 28:19), from which our theme was taken. "An inspiring narrative was written by Ruth Pinegar, stake social relations class leader. The tableaux were under the direction of Eleanor Olsen, Leona Sorensen, and Janet Hales. "Over 200 Singing Mothers from the ten wards in the stake performed to a record audience of 500 Relief Society sisters, their husbands and friends." Salem Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Presents Homemaker's Day, April 12, 1969 Members of the Salem Stake Relief Society board, left to right: Margaret G. Lee, Spiritual living class leader; Aileen Brown, visiting teacher message leader; Helen Wells, social relations class leader; Jean W. Garrett, secretary-treasurer; Carol Jarvis, organist; Karol Brown, homemaking counselor; Ruth Greaves, cultural refinement class leader; Julia Nelson, homemaking leader; Lorraine Nichols, president. Sister Nichols reports: ''The theme for our very successful homemaker's day was 'Mardi Gras.' This was the eighth annual homemaker's day we have held, and although each has been very successful, this has been described by many as our most successful. A fashion show highlighted the afternoon. 'From the newspapers we received some very excellent coverage, which aided us in having a large turnout. A luncheon was served." 698 ae September 1969 --:. Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Spring Festival and Fashion Show, March 29, 1969 Madge Parks, former president, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our spring festival and fashion show was the highlight of the year's activities. Each of the ten wards and the Lamanite Branch participated. There were 112 models ranging from grandmothers to small children. "The variety of clothing was amazing, and all was well styled and made by the Relief Society sisters. Each ward had chosen a theme and prepared its own script, all of which were well presented and cleverly written. Appropriate music was played throughout the program by Louise Miller, stake organist. "Each of the wards had prepared a display table under the direction of Marguerite Hatch, homemaking leader. These displays were attractively arranged for viewing after the show. "Light refreshments were served by the stake board. All in all, it was a delightful afternoon for the nearly 500 people who attended." The new president of Sevier Stake Relief Society is Edna J. Haynie. Summit Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''Let Music Fill the Earth,'' May 1, 1969 Seated in front, left to right: Alice J. Wilde, President, Summit Stake Relief Society; Thelma Brown, First Counselor; Elda F. Pace, chorister. Directly behind Counselor Brown: Esther R. Brown, organist. Sister Wilde reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a very lovely program with the theme. 'Let Music Fill the Earth.' Approximately seventy-five Singing Mothers participated along with three brethren and a group of Primary children. The script was written by Luceile R. Taylor. "The purpose of the program was to illustrate how music represents every phase of life—motherhood, nature, happiness, courage, valor, and brotherhood. "Each ward was given an assignment of special songs to prepare. Much effort was put into learning these songs, and the final performance was outstanding." East Los Angeles Stake (California), Ditman Branch Holds Bazaar and Observes Birthday of Relief Society March 19, 1969 Iram Olivas at one of handicraft displays of the Ditman Branch bazaar. Margaret W. Clark, President, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Ditman Branch of our ward is made up of Spanish-speaking families. Their Relief Society activities have been well-planned and an inspiration to all of us. "In December a lovely bazaar was held, with an abundance of lovely handicraft articles, much of it reminiscent of their Mexican heritage. Sister Aleine Young and Sister Reba Aldous of the General Board of Relief Society attended the bazaar. "In honor of the birthday of Relief Society, the visiting teachers of the ward encouraged the members to attend a gala celebration. As a result, refreshments were served to 130 people, all of whom had enjoyed a well-planned and executed program." 700 TTL SGT inn RESET a ne TT PS a ABBE? BES Aa os we 7 G '2 ime ca 'aw SSS aa i I September 1969 Glendale Stake (California) Presents ''Carousel of Creativity,'' March 14, 1969 Winners of Glendale Stake creative writing and music composition contest, seated, left to right: Barbara B. Moffat; Grace B. Brown; Jane S. Jamison; Lola M. Sandbloom; Mardy M. Starman. Standing, left to right: Marcia Bridge; Mariel T. Anaya; Floy Daun Mackay; Sandra S. Fraser; Ruth B. Powell. Unita W. Welch, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society reports: ''The thirteen wards in our stake combined to present a 'Carousel of Creativity,' in honor of the 127th birthday of Relief Society. This was an all-day event, with an arts and crafts display arranged in an attractive carousel setting. There were demonstrations of hand loom weaving and soap making. "The Singing Mothers performed the winning entries in our year-long music composition contest, and the writing compositions were presented by the authors. "Each sister in the stake received a printed invitation and guests were encouraged. The programs were presented twice, and an estimated 1200 people were in attendance.' CON Ee Ta Fresno Stake (California) Relief Society Sponsors '"'Happy Homemaker's Seminar-Workshop'"' March 15, 1969 Norma G. Boswell, President, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: ''One of the most successful programs ever carried forth by our Relief Society was our 'Happy Homemaker Seminar-Workshop.' We were fortunate that advance ticket sales and reservations indicated that our expectations would be doubled, and we were able to accommodate the more than 600 who attended. Good weather enabled us to serve the luncheon out of doors. "Each ward in the stake was responsible for one demonstration, and each presented a very lovely and informative display. Also participating were several arts and crafts distributors from our area, and several individuals presented their talents in display and seminar. "Among the many helpful demonstrations were gold leafing, ceramic making, cake decorating, food storage, table settings, and many other crafts. This was indeed a helpful day for the sisters in our stake and for the many nonmembers who attended. We hope this will prove to be a missionary endeavor. We were fortunate to have good publicity coverage, which added greatly to the success of the event." TO SS SS SAAT a a a a Mill Creek Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'The Lord Has Given Me a Song," April 25, 1969 Directly behind pulpit, left to right: Bernice Hamilton, President, Mill Creek Stake Relief Society; Olive Partridge, chorister. Sister in the dark dress by the piano to the left: Lillis Spencer, organist. Sister Hamilton reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program portraying the songs that have inspired us in life. This was done through song, narration, and tableau. The narration was written by Jennie Bauman, First Counselor, and read by Florine Simmons, cultural refinement class leader. | 'Each ward presented a special number together with three numbers with the combined stake chorus. Approximately 150 participated including twenty Primary children. "After the concert refreshments were served and a bazaar based on the same theme was held. Each ward decorated around a song title. This was under the direction of Inez Nash, Second Counselor and Ella Nielsen, homemaking leader. More than 500 were in attendance, making this a very special event." 702 ER .] { 4 4 mas ' i ' f ¢ a A arsell i = les Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 99— Government and Laws (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 134) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to uphold the law and work within the law in seeking any desired change. INTRODUCTION Latter-day Saints are known as loyal citizens of the countries in which they live. About eighteen months after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord commanded his people not to break the law of the land, for if they kept the laws of God there would be no reason for breaking the laws of the land. (D&C 58:21-22.) Before this time, instructions were given to the authorities of the Church that in cases of infractions of the moral law, the guilty should be delivered up to the law of the land. (D&C 42: 84-87.) Later, in two revelations, the saints came to know that the Constitution of the United States was an inspired document and that they should uphold it. (D&C 98:4-7; 101: 76-80.) 704 PROPHECY FULFILLED An incident in American political history involving the Prophet Joseph Smith and Stephen A. Douglas, a political figure, emphasized the point that the Lord respects his people when they conform to his laws and to the laws of the land. The prophecy also affirms the truth that Joseph Smith enjoyed the _ prophetic gift. (B. H. Roberts, New Witnesses for God, Vol. 1, pp. 304- 13.) On May 18, 1843, the Prophet gave the following prophecy to and about Stephen A. Douglas, a little known judge in Illinois at that time: Judge, you will aspire to the Presidency of the United States; and if you ever turn your hand against me or the Latter-day Saints, you will feel the weight of the hand of the Almighty upon you; and you will live to see and know that I have testified the truth to you; for the conversation of this day will stick to you through life. (/bid., p. 305.) By 1857 Judge Douglas, United States Senator from the State of Illinois and then aspirant to the presidency of the United States, delivered a speech in which he alleged that the Mormons in Utah Territory were disloyal to the federal government and that they incited Indian tribes against that government. He then referred to the saints as a "pestiferous, disgusting cancer which is gnawing into the very vitals of the body politic. It must be cut out by the roots, and seared over by' the red hot iron of stern and unflinching law." (Ibid., p. 308.) Although Senator Douglas knew the Latter-day Saint people as a law-abiding people and knew about their persecutions in Missouri, he disregarded the voice of prophecy and, in the presidential election of 1860, was defeated by the Republican candidate,. Abraham Lincoln. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS—1835 When the Church sought to print a compilation of the revelations received by Joseph Smith by 1833, a mob destroyed the - printing press and_ practically all of the printed material. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, Vol. 1, p. 390 [called Documentary History of the Church, hereafter referred to as. DHC].) Consequently, the Book of Commandments was never available to the members of the Church, except for a very few copies. Lesson Department On August 17, 1839, a general assembly of the Church met to agree on publishing a second compilation to be known as the Doctrine and Covenants. The priesthood members _present testified to the truth of the revelations. Oliver Cowdery read an article entitled "Governments and. Laws in General." The article was approved and ordered printed in the volume. (DHC, Vol. 2, pp. 243-47.) In order to present the truth concerning the Church's belief about law, because of accusations that it did not uphold the law, it was felt necessary to prepare this article. "QUR OPINION" It was printed in the 1835 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants and appears as Section 134 in the current edition. The following preamble to the article is not a part of Section 134: That our belief with regard to earthly governments and laws in general may not be misinterpreted nor misunderstood, we have thought proper to present at the close of this volume our opinion concerning the same. (D&C 134 introduction.) This article is an "opinion" and not a revelation, and therefore "does not hold the same place in the doctrines of the Church as do the revelations." (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1965, p. 852.) On the other hand, Section 134 was presented to the Church assembled in 1835 and several times since that year as binding upon the members of the Church. 705 September 1969 The laws that now govern the nations of the earth will be supplanted by laws instituted by the Savior when he takes his place to reign as King of kings. (Ibid., pp. 204-05; D&C 38:21-22.) GOD-ORDAINED GOVERNMENTS The Lord raised up men to formulate the Constitution of the United States that principles of freedom might be exercised in this promised land. Only in this kind of political climate could The Church of Jesus Christ be established in the last days. The land of America was kept hid from the nations that this land might indeed be a place where divine prophecies might be fulfilled. (Ezra Taft Benson, Conference Report, October 1961, p. 69.) The perfect form of government was instituted in the days of Adam, but later the sons of men rebelled against these principles of righteousness. (Moses 5:12-13.) Although Section 134 suggests that governments were instituted for the benefit of men, it is evident that all governments are not in this category. (D&C 134:1.) The Lord does not originate laws contrary to eternal principles such as free agency. As Elder Erastus Snow said, all forms of government are bettern than none at all in that order is maintained by governments though some of them may not be the best forms. (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 22, p. 151.) Nonetheless, God controls the nations though he is not the originator of those governments. (Brigham Young, 706 6, p. 342.) of Discourses, STANDARD OF JUDGMENT The governments set up by men serve a purpose in the eternal plan by requiring men to govern their lives according to law. (D&C 76:111; 134:1.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said: He [God] will award judgment or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family.... (DHC, Vol. 4, p. 596.) This statement is recognized to be true when one realizes that God is the author of righteousness and that, woven in the various laws of the nations, there are laws which are also found in the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Stephen L Richards, Conference Report, October 1923, p. 47.) Also, there are many laws which are contrary to righteous principles. The framers of laws and governments are held accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making and in administering them. (Smith and Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1965, pp. 852-53; D&C 134:1, 6.) SECTION 134 By 1835, when Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants was prepared, the saints had suffered persecution, loss of property and lives, and their freedom of religious belief had Journal Vol. been challenged. It is understandable why they would want their own beliefs concerning law and governments made known. This section might be divided into the following parts: (1) basic rights, (2) governments and officials, (3) religious societies and beliefs, and (4) noninterference in the rights of others. BASIC RIGHTS After the statement that men are accountable to the governments under which they live, man's fundamental rights are stated in these words: We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and _ control of property and the protection - of life. (D&C 134:2.) President David O. McKay has called attention to the fact that "there is innate in man a feeling that will rebel against tyranny." (Deseret News, Church Section, January 2, 1952, p. 3.) Men have come up from oppression to overthrow coercive governments. The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States are examples of the declared rights of men and the protection afforded. Where there is an infringement of these basic rights, the following belief is expressed: We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same; but we believe that all men are justified in defending themselves, their friends, and Lesson Department property, and the government, from the unlawful assaults and encroachments of all persons in times of exigency, where immediate appeal cannot be made to the laws, and relief afforded. (D&C 134: 11.) Class Discussion Under _ today's conditions, what can we do to help preserve the three basic rights mentioned in D&C 134:2? GOVERNMENTS AND OFFICIALS Latter-day Saints during this dispensation, and especially during the time of Joseph Smith, have had many unfortunate experiences with government officials who had not upheld the constitutional rights of the saints. The following verse points out the obligation of civil magistrates upholding the law of the land in their decisions: We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign. We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience. (D&C 134:3, 5.) In an earlier revelation the saints were counseled to uphold wise and honest men in public office; otherwise, evil would result. (D&C 92:8-10.) It may not 707 September 1969 always be possible to determine between the wise and the unwise, but the Lord has given some standards by which to make decisions about principles' or political issues. Laws which deny men their agency (D&C 98:4-8) and those which permit them to do evil should be changed. (Moro. 7:14-19.) Class Discussion What measures should a people take to insure that their liberties are held inviolate? The history of the Church provides the answer. Despite the plunderings, mobbings, acts of rapine, and loss of property and lives, the saints followed the counsel expressed in D&C 134:11. By divine commandment the Prophet Joseph Smith appealed to the President of the United States and the Congress for redress of crimes committed against them in Missouri. (D&C 101: 81-95; Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 287-94.) One is reminded that the Lord counseled his saints who had been driven from Jackson County, Missouri, in 1833 and 1834 that they were not to fight for the redemption of Zion, but that he would, in his time, fight their battles. (D&C 105:14-15.) BREAKERS OF THE LAW Those who break the law should be punished according to the seriousness of the offense. Governments have the right to regulate their societies for the preservation of peace and order. Latter-day Saints are enjoined to bring offenders against the law to justice. (D&C 134:8.) They should also sustain the 708 law enforcement arms of government that all might have justice. Class Discussion Do we as Latter-day Saint women by example encourage our children to uphold the duly appointed officers of the law? RELIGIOUS SOCIETIES AND BELIEFS Eleven years after Section 134 was written, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote the Articles of Faith. The eleventh article is as follows: "We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dictates of our own conscience, and allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may." This same statement of belief lies at the basis of what is contained in verse 4 of Section 134. The privilege of religious worship is the right of every man, provided it does not infringe upon the rights and liberties of others. Equally so, Latter-day Saints believe that government does not have the right to prescribe rules of worship, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion. (D&C 134:4, 7.) There should not be favoritism shown for one religion over another. (D&C 134:9.) The following principles were given by the First Presidency of the Church: We declare that from principle and policy, we favor: The absolute separation of church and state; No domination of the state by the church; No church interference with the functions of the state; No state interference with the functions of the church, or with the free exercise of religion; The absolute freedom of the individual from the domination of ecclesiastical authority in political affairs; The equality of all churches before the law. ("An address, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to the World," Conference Report, April 1907, p. 14.) EXCOMMUNICATION AND DISFELLOWSHIP The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains that religious societies have the right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, but the punishment should not extend to taking their property or jeopardizing their lives. The penalties for misconduct in the Church are excommunication and disfellowship. (D&C 134:10.) To be disfellowshiped means that the person remains a member of the Church, but he is limited in what he may do. He may attend meetings, but he may not participate in the activities of the Church. Excommunication removes one from the records of the Church and thus he loses all of the privileges of Church membership. There are three offenses for which one may be punished: (1) the breaking of the moral law, (2) deliberate disobedience to _ the regulations of the Church, and (3) incorrect interpretation of doctrine when the correct teachings have been explained and the person is unwilling to accept them. (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, 1954, p. 209.). IMPLEMENTATION Not long after The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Lesson Department was organized, a conference of the Church adopted a set of principles regarding governments and Laws in general. (D&C 134.) Since then the members of the Church have accepted these beliefs as binding upon themselves. To indicate the consistency and application of that early document to the present, the following statement from President David O. McKay is given:. I repeat that no greater immediate responsibility rests upon members of the Church, upon all citizens of the Republic and of neighboring Republics than to protect the freedom vouchsafed by the Constitution of the United States. Let us, by exercising our privileges under the Constitution— (1) Preserve our right to worship God according to the dictates of our conscience, (2) Preserve the right to work when and where we choose. No free man should be compelled to pay tribute in order to realize this God-given privilege. Read in the Doctrine and Covenants this statement: "... It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another." (D&C 101:79.) (3) Feel free to plan and to reap without the handicap of bureaucratic interference. (4) Devote our time, means, and life if necessary, to hold inviolate those laws which will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life. To sum up this whole question: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, liberty-loving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and... The necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ—only thus will mankind find peace and happiness. (Conference Report, April 1950, p. 37.) 709 r VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 3—The Compassion of Jesus Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that Jesus' compassionate acts are a standard for us all.... Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not....(Mark 10:14.)... O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. (Matt. 15:28.) Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn thou not away. (3 Ne. 12:42.)... Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who despitefully use you and persecute you. (3 Ne. 12:44.)... Do alms unto the poor.... (3 Ne. 13:1.)... [Jesus] healed all their sick, and their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among them, and raised a man from the dead....(3 Ne. 26:15.) We are deeply moved by Jesus' compassion shown to all those in need. The joy of the parents of the healed child vibrates in every heart. We marvel at the healing and ministering to those in need when Christ visited the Nephites after his resurrection. We sense their spiritual awakening and commitment as he taught them. Compassion, love, mercy, forgiveness—the scriptures bloom 710 with the flowers of Christ's teachings and love. As he looked upon the multitudes he had compassion on them for they had no shepherd. He healed the sick and raised the dead and dying but, perhaps more important than this, he fed the soul in need. To the sinner who would drink he gave the healing waters of the Spirit. The poor, the persecuted, the injured, the sinner, the prisoner, the despised, and outcast—all victims of evil felt his lasting concern. Compassion with Jesus was not a sometime thing but a way of life, a constant, instant response to need. His parables glow with his sensitivity, his empathy, his discernment, and with action to relieve. Even in the agony of death his inner light did not fail. His thoughts were of the welfare of others, "... Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." (Luke 23:34.) What greater expression of compassion exists? The teaching "... Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit...." (John 3:5), speaks to us of the necessity for fundamental change. One's inner life Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her So That He Shajj Have No Need of Spoil."' ( Proy. 31:11.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere. May 1970 and financial Securit INTRODUCTION. His taskmaster his js 4 truth He who Spends what he d at some US fail 'to realize Not have Urchases Only ¢ 41NS as we allow Our wants and de. That bj him. Comes a Sires for £00ds and Services to Slave to future he Teedom exceed our ability to Pay for Ich h Ofesses to Cherish ie % em, relinquish and deb €comes OBJECTIVE Te Snize that debt Must be Controlled to insure family happiness September 1969 record of the folly of overspending—whether it be of our time, our energy, or our money. Benjamin Franklin, the well-known exponent of common sense in all practical affairs, made the following comment: "Think what you do when you run into debt; you give to another power over your liberty." Our Church leaders have had no hesitancy in admonishing us to keep out of debt. Following are some of their instructions: The Prophet Joseph Smith: Let thy hand never fail to hand out that thou owest while it is yet within thy grasp to do so.... (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 317.) President Brigham Young:. Be prompt in everything, and especially to pay your debts. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 14, p. 279 [hereafter referred to as JD].) Also: It is an old saying that a woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel; but a good housekeeper will be saving and economical, and teach her children to be good housekeepers, and how to take care of everything that is put in their charge... (JD, Vol. 12, p. 195.) President John Taylor: We are told to pay our debts... To keep out of debt and meet our obligations day by day. (JD, Vol. 20, p. 103.) President Joseph F. Smith: "Get out of debt now... And let your income hereafter always be greater than your expenses." That is the only safe way to be independent... The advice of Benjamin Franklin should ever stand clearly before you: "Pay as you go." (The Improvement Era, Nov. 1938, pp. 668, 673.) President George Albert Smith: We have been taught by those whom the Lord has raised up to instruct. Us 712 that we should live within our income, that we should not spend as rapidly, and certainly not more rapidly, than we can earn the money that comes into our hands, to take care of ourselves and our families. (Church News, August 8, 1959, p. 2.) A THREAT TO FAMILY HAPPINESS AND SOLIDARITY It is common knowledge that more family problems and difficulties stem from the mismanagement of financial affairs than from any other source. In an address given during the 136th Semi-Annual General Conference, John H. Vandenberg, the Presiding Bishop of the Church, said: Unwarrantable indebtedness is one of the curses of this day and age. It causes many people to live their lives in bondage. The lure of buying on time under the ''easy payment plan" too often puts the millstone around the neck of the purchaser; and when once in the credit rut, it is very hard to get out... When a family finds itself too far in debt, the atmosphere of discouragement enters the home, relationships become tense, tempers become short, and marital trouble begins to erupt. To meet the indebtedness, the mother may frequently leave her children to themselves while she finds employment out of the home. Irregularities in the home follow: service to God is disregarded, tithing is neglected, prayers become less frequent, persons begin to feel separated and apart from God and church.... (Conference Report, Oct. 1966, p. 66.) WHY DO WE GO IN DEBT? The most common reasons for serious financial problems which result in family indebtedness are: 1. Lack of careful and adequate planning. A. Careless, unplanned day-to-day spending. 2. Spending in excess of the income. 3. Failure to establish future, long-range goals. A. No reserves for future expenditures. B. Lack of incentive as a curb to spending. 4. Emotional immaturity—lack of selfdiscipline. A. Allowing wants to take precedence over needs. B. Buying impulsively and heedlessly. C. Demanding unwarranted luxuries. 5. Too much installment buying. 6. Overuse of credit cards. 7. Unexpected illness requiring hospital and doctor care. 8. Loss of employment. HOW CAN WE AVOID DEBT? 1. We can avoid going into debt by first eliminating whenever possible the foregoing reasons for it. 2. We should become informed in regard to wise buying and spending. (Consult previous "Homemaking" discussion.) 3. We should avoid so-called easy credit plans. Lesson Department 4. We should make sure that credit cards are used only when they fit into our planned spending. CONCLUSION We, the homemakers, are responsible to a large degree for the expenditure of the family funds. When we mismanage our financial affairs and allow ourselves to go into debt, we place upon the balance wheel on one side the unjustified fulfillment of immediate wants and _ desires and on the other side the peace of mind of our husbands and the happiness of the entire family. By following the advice of our leaders and by planning with our family members a wise program of spending and saving, we can avoid financial problems that could end in debt and disaster. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 3—The Upward Reach Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 20 and 22.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1969 Southern: Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To illustrate that all may enjoy man's material progress but our spiritual achievements must be individually attained. INTRODUCTION ce a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for?" wrote Robert Browning in "Andrea del Sarto." This idea—the reach of man for that which is beyond his present grasp, the goal yet to be obtained—is central to this lesson. Nothing identifies with the 713 September 1969 inherent upward reach of man as does the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the cause of his being earthborn, it is the road by which he may ascend higher and _ higher through endless time. Whether he accepts all of its divine principles or not, he is the recipient of the essential blessing of immortality that gives him opportunity for his endless upward reach. This lesson, which will be used in December in the Northern Hemisphere, will discuss (1) our efforts to triumph over the limitations of the physical laws that we encounter in everyday living and (2) our inherent desire to go beyond our present toward a higher spiritual self. It will speak briefly of Christmas as an occasion for motivating love, compassion, and charity for others. It will use a long excerpt from an impressive writing by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Entitled "The Upward Reach" and statements from other Melchizedek Priesthood course of study lessons, as indicated. THE UPWARD REACH This lesson primarily is one of relationships—of relationships one to another and of our individual relationship to our Heavenly Father, for man does not walk alone as he reaches out from himself and upward through life experiences. Class Participation—Questions and Discussion Statements 1. What does the phrase "upward reach of man" suggest to you? 2. How does this affect you individually? 3. If it means that you individually are reaching toward a goal that is 714 higher than your present state, then the important thing is that the moving be upward toward that goal. 4. It means that you are not a finished product today, and since you are not, how should this affect your attitude toward: a. Yourself b. Your children c. Your neighbor d. Your class leader e. The writer of the lesson? 5. Do you think mothers often may discourage children by expecting finished-product perfection too soon? President Clark states: The days of our infancy and early childhood are filled with a growing awareness of time, space, gravity, the elements, and _ bodily well being; and thence to the grave is a constant struggle to overcome the handicaps, the inhibitions and limitations, imposed by these physical incidents of our being. To the gaining of the experiences of mastering them must be added the experiences having to do with making the biological part of man articulate and the cultivation and interchange of thought. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 22.) Class Participation Read the following statement by President Clark. Discuss it briefly, keeping in mind our present efforts to understand the peoples of the world. The nearer comes the conquest of these [the cultivation and interchange of thought], the nearer come men together, and the nearer men approach one another, the nearer comes the universal brotherhood of men and their ultimate perfection. (Ibid.) Question How important is man's struggle to triumph over such obstacles as time, space, disease, and the elements to his general upward reach? Discuss. WITNESS THE CONQUEST In the following quoted ex- cerpt we trace through vivid description the efforts of man to conquer and to utilize the forces that would restrict him, as President Clark takes us swiftly through the ages: Of House From the shelter of a tree or cave, through the lean-to, the log hut, the adobe house, to the giant structure of steel, concrete, and glass, housing a city within its four walls; Of Road... From the lone foot path in the forest, through the dirt road, the dust and mud of the city street, the paved sidewalk, the paved thoroughfare, to the great concrete ribbon spanning a continent; Of Transportation and Communication... From the pack of a few pounds on a man's back, through the oxcart, the horse and buggy, to the railroad with its thousands of tons, the autotruck; from the fleetest runner through the pony express, the fast mail train, to the airplane traveling half as fast as the earth revolves on its axis [1940]; Of Voice... From the shout that, with fair air, carried a few hundred feet, through the telephone linking cities, to the radio carrying the voice round the globe with the speed of light (we have yet to reach the speed of thought); And— Word of Man... From the passing down of story and song by word of mouth, through the invention of written characters, the writing by hand on bulky scrolls of parchment, on rushes, on paper, then to the printing press with its plain black letters, Of Art... Through woodcuts, steel engravings, lithographs, photogravures, and gorgeous pages in natural colors; Of Medical Skill... From the mangled, gangrenous broken leg demanding a life, through amputation with hideous pain without anesthetic, to the most refined and delicate painless operation upon the very seat of the mind itself—all these but indicate man's Lesson Department conquest of his inhibitions and limitations.... However stable or unstable, however complete or incomplete these conquests may be, they mark human progress—how great relatively we may not measure for we do not know the ultimate. But man seems to have come great distances. But these conquests of energy and force, which make human progress, add to human comfort and well being, increase knowledge and quicken intelligence, and, above all (and this the end of it all), promote human happiness, for the ancient prophet declared, "... Men are that they might have joy." (Ibid.) Class Discussion In the light of the foregoing description of human conquest discuss the following statements: Happiness comes in proportion as we lift ourselves beyond the reach of the penalty of earth law; and _perfection comes nearer with happiness. (Ibid.) An ancient psalmist sang, "The law is the truth." Equate this statement with the performing of a miracle. As we make these truths our own, so perfection approaches. It was by his perfect knowledge of truth... That Jesus turned water into wine, multiplied the loaves and fishes, escaped from the threatening mob on the edge of the cliff at Nazareth and again within the temple walls at Jerusalem, that took him into the room with closed windows and doors to visit the fearsome, questioning, doubting apostles, indeed that brought him forth from the tomb the first fruits of the resurrection. ([bid.) NOT BY THE MATERIAL ALONE For Class Discussion 1. Why are many individuals not content with conquest over the material things only? 2. In your opinion, what is one major difference between the conquest over material things and conquest over the intellectual and spiritual limitations? 715 September 1969 President Clark points out a very important difference. He states: But the things already spoken of {mastery over the physical limitations] only lead out toward perfection but not to it, for perfection may not be reached by mastery over the material things alone. Perfection means also the subjugation of the intellectual and spiritual limitations and inhibitions which are incident to the flesh. But there is an essential and fundamental difference between conquest and achievement in the physical and in the spiritual world. One need not do the works of Morse or Edison or Marconi in order fully to enjoy and use the telegraph, the telephone, the gramophone, or the radio; nor need one do the works of the Wrights in order to enjoy and use the airplane. The most ignorant and depraved of men may use all these things for his own purposes, to serve his own ends, good or bad, for the benefit or injury of others, as fully as they who made them. So likewise it is with the works of the great artists, sculptors, musicians, dramatists, and men of letters. Save only the creative joy which those alone who make may know, these masterpieces may be fully understood, appreciated, and enjoyed by any one without doing the works of the creator. But it is not so with the things of the spirit. ([bid.) THINGS OF THE SPIRIT Class Discussion 1. What do "things of the spirit" mean to you? 2. Enumerate several specific things. President Clark makes this clarification, referring to things of the spirit: One must do the works of Elijah if one would know his joy, have part in his blessings, share his glory, exercise his power and authority, and do the things he did. And surely the power to bring rain to a famine stricken land, to call down fire from heaven, 716 to cause the starving widow's barrel of meal not to waste, her cruse of oil not to fail, to restore to life her dead son, to declare the past and foretell the future—surely these things are beyond compare; they may not be valued, nor purchased, nor hired; they are beyond price. Here the works and the use are companions that never part. (Ibid.) Save for the atoning sacrifice of the Son and the doing of certain initiatory rites for the dead, (and even these must be accepted and adopted by the dead) nothing can be vicariously done, in matters of the spirit, by one for another. (Ibid.) The truths stated and illustrated by President Clark are important to this lesson and of vital importance to our individual lives, even to the relationships in the home, in the neighborhood, wherever individuals live together. Numerous situations illustrate the fact that for full development of that which we consider spiritual, a relationship with others is essential. Let us name a few of the qualities that we must develop within ourselves if we are to grow spiritually. Our spiritual guidance comes from the Father and his Son, whose life exemplified that perfection for which we strive. Class Questions 1. What are some of the spiritual attributes which Jesus possessed that we are striving to develop? 2. Do the qualities you have suggested involve human relationships? Discuss. 3. Do not love, compassion, unselfishness, service, forgiveness apply to human relationships in every woman's life? If they do, then surely we need one another in order to grow spiritually. Discuss briefly. FUNDAMENTAL TO CHRISTIANITY Although we may thus assist one another to grow in spirituality, it is fundamental to Christianity that each individual is responsible for his own life, his own upward reach, his own soul. A mother's faith and unwavering testimony belong to her, my neighbor's readiness to forgive does not make of me a forgiving person. Each must earn these blessings for herself. President Clark states: Thus every person shall make his own mind [as to] what his life shall be. None shall make it for him. Whether he will be satisfied with that part of salvation which pertains to the physical world, or whether he shall go on and add to this the salvation and exaltation of the spiritual universe, is for his own choice.... For him indeed who would conquer the flesh for the blessings of the spirit, there is a joy awaiting which exceeds all power of description.. (Ibid.) OF OUR BETTER SELVES As we travel the upward road toward those higher goals for which we reach there may. Be periods of accelerated growth. Certain individuals, special situations, and occasions may motivate us to a better performance than usual, to wider horizons of thought, where we may understand what we have never known before. These we should not forget. These we should cherish always. Christmas can be one of these occasions. During the kindly yuleLesson Department tide, we reach out beyond ourselves with compassion for others, motivated to a generosity of thought and deed. In this season of good will the lonely, the poor, the forgotten become our individual concern. If we will close our ears to the sounding brass and the tinkling cymbal of material things we may hear wise voices reminding us not to seek for the riches of earth. Voices saying such as this: After all, this existence of ours here is temporary. It is smaller than a drop in the ocean, as compared with eternity. We were before we came here; we are here; and we shall be after we go hence. This life is but one tiny line in this vast extension of existence. Do not forget,... The goodness and the mercy and the kindness of the Savior. Do not forget the blessings which the Gospel has for you. Do not overlook the joy of the spirit, the joy which comes from living as the Savior has taught us to live.. Seek after the treasures of the spirit, seek after the riches of goodness and mercy and righteous living. Go always after those things which are good.... Discard the dross, cast it aside, trample it underfoot; cherish always and guard that which is beautiful in your lives. (Ibid., lesson 20.) Such counsel is for the upward reach of man. Listen to it through this season of remembering the birthday of our Lord. For Home Doing Bring as much spirituality into your home this Christmas time as _ possible. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 717 September 1969 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2...55 Zone5.~.-_..75 Zone3 -.-._-_.60 Zone6 __-_-- 85 Zone4 __---.65 Zone7.~_-__-.95 Zone8__- - -1.05 —=— DESERET PRPEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Learn a Career with a future We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved stn tee Send now for i our brochure (ey 3 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 TS IES Www MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers"' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours o>) HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 12th-26th ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego cm™ Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 718 Rose Elder Ada Mortensen COURAGE Have you shed some love Upon your faith today? Have you spoken kindly To the one who went astray? Has your faith grown stronger Through the trials you've had to bear, Or have you bowed down In deep despair? Burdens are sent to try us, To purify as gold. That we may enter The glories still untold —Hazel E. Shaw Subiaco, Western Australia Lesson Department fotal Glectric living UTAH POWER 2. LIGHT CO. Four islands only $389 Travel Agency 1970 Tours MEXICO Only $359 from Provo, Utah Includes' entertainment, sightseeing, and ocean cruise Early June 1969—February 1970 January 16 — 24 days — Yucatan, Oaxaca, Veracruz, Mexico City, Mazatlan, Guadalajara, Acapulco, Taxco — $499 January 22—12 days February 20—17 days,$359 February 22—10 days NORTH-WEST Special rates for groups ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 TOKYO WORLD'S FAIR AND ORIENT 719 HAWAII CANADIAN 99 97 96 94 93 92 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg West Point, Utah Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff Salt Lake City, Utah 'Mrs. Clara Munk Anderson Manti, Utah 91. Mrs. Ellen Brown Barrett North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rosa Bell Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Euphemia. McKenzie McGregor Morgan Sandy, Utah.: ": Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson 'Rael Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Bertha Reidel Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Clark Dowdel Woolsey ' Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Taylor Flinders Ogden, Utah "Mrs. Ellen Kap Hansen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Adelaide Snow Killpack Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Whitehead Oliverson Lava Hot Springs, Idaho Mrs. Margaret Field Baird Ogden, Utah Mrs. Alice Ann Broadhead Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lyle Young Gates Salt Lake City, Utah 90. Mrs. Martha Ann Henline Glasscock Azusa, California Mrs. Georgiana Cropper Johnson Aurora, Utah Mrs. Adelaide Prestwick Shaw Orem, Utah Mrs. Lettie A. Stephenson Stevens Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen (Nellie) Thomas Wanlass Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Centerville, Utah Mrs. Olene Hansen Carson Manti, Utah | Midvale, Utah Mrs: Sarah Groves Crosby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Hattie Burgess Spanjersberg Emmett, Idaho | Mrs. Emma Janet Anthon Mrs. Effie Lulu Roberts Emery Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Cordelia Andelin Farnsworth Mrs. Emma Butehorn Hahl Edison, New Jersey Mrs. Hattie Elizabeth Walton Heningen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Peary Jacobsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Ada Frances Bryson. Jardine Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Effie Busenbark Johnson Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Olga F. L. Peterson Larsen Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Viola Smith Petker Arroyo Grande, California Mrs: Mary (Molly) Toponce Story Ogden, Utah Mrs. Olive Vilate Campbell Wilson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ellen Lundberg Chiverall Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah e. - Available in Mid-September Order Now For Delivery When Ready OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Volume 5 $3.25 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas The Role of Education... The Power of Work... The Place of Entertainment... The Meaning of Freedom... The Problem of Communications... These are but a few of the topics covered in the latest edition (Volume 5) of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS. This is the text for the 1969- 70 Relief Society Cultural Refinement course. All topics follow the theme "Community Responsibility." In a day of so much dissension in so many communities, this book presents valuable information on the problems which can lead to such dissension. You may | Volume 5will NOT be available until mid-September, learn more about your part but ORDERS PLACED NOW will be filled in the in community responsibility Postage will be paid for SURFACE MAIL ANY. The world's greatest literaVHERE IN THE WORLD. Customer must pay for Air ture. Aail requests. ' N \: \. DESERET BOOK COMPANY. Ook 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, | or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 | Please send me............ Copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Vol. 5 Total Cost $0000.| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Sept. R. S. Mag, 69 equence received. SEND ORDERS NOW! Here in these selections from Dersine NeW, packages. Besides a new 'face' on each package, full-color food illustrations lead right around to a brand new selection of Cynthia Scott Family Tested'' recipes on the back of each of our new powdered, brown, fine granulated Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Ab and superfine cartons It's U and {... Grown nearby! The Relief Society Magazine OCTOBER 1969 dal ( i Wi mv ' i ey 4: ' ft # i The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: AUTUMN SEASON The aspen leaves fall to the fallow ground, | Rustling on the air, soft as a sigh; The red of maples form a contrast, bright As some flamenco dancer's eager cry. The hills in petit-point of varied hues, From mauve to umber, to a lavish grape, Make backdrop for an earth richly endowed With new-found shades and sounds, a richer shape: This is a scene for briefer, cooler days, For scents of harvest.. -apples, pungent, sweet: For pumpkins ready for the harvesting, And for the song of summer birds' retreat. This is as beautiful a time, and season As ever 'comes, although it breathes of sorrow. Its bounty is enough. Enjoy it now. Skies brood; leaves fall, snow comes tomorrow. - Christie Lund Coles Gold Poplars and Blue Mountains, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Meadow in the Mountains, Near Steamboat Springs, Colorado Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Illustrations: [J Mary Scopes Tf What a thrill it was to see my story ''Missionaries to Dinner," in the July Magazine, and special thanks to Mary Scopes for her appropriate illustrations. | have read and enjoyed the Magazine for nearly seventeen years and am truly grateful for the literary contests that give the sisters an opportunity to develop their writing ability. Joan N. Ahiman, Huntington Beach, California | wish to express my appreciation for such a fine Magazine. All of us sisters in the Servicemen's Branch in Giessen find the messages enjoyable to read. The Magazine helps to keep us from getting lonely and depressed. Virlee Baker, Butzbach, West Germany The article ''Keys to Child Guidance'' in the July Magazine seems so helpful to wives and mothers and | would like to see other similar articles. Beverly Robinson, Soda Springs, Idaho | thank you very much for the Magazines. There are many good things to learn from them. They are a part of our living. Harriet Fish, Portland, Oregon Here in Scotland we enjoy the Magazine—all the lovely stories, poems, pictures, lessons, and particularly the editorials. Many times | find that the editorials seem to be written especially for me. | have had the privilege of going to the temple and being sealed to my husband, having also done some work for my kindred dead. Now it is up to me to build for a better and sweeter life. | enjoy my work as Relief Society secretarytreasurer and am also working in Primary. Mary Graham, Overton Mains, Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland | take this opportunity to express my enjoyment of The Relief Society Magazine. The subscription was a gift from my mother and | really needed the uplifting stories and spiritual lessons. It is a perfect gift. JoAnn Meadows, San Antonio, Puerto Rico What a wonderful Magazine! When it arrives my wife gets nothing done until she has gone through it. Also, | enjoy the Magazine very much. | have other reading material but would rather read the Magazine. Paul L. Hardy, Provo, Utah | would like to thank you for publishing such a wonderful Magazine, but more especially | want to thank the Logan Square Relief Society in Chicago for sending me this great Magazine. | am a missionary in the extreme northern outpost of the Western Canadian Mission. Every time | receive a new issue | read it from cover to cover before | lend it to our investigators. | am thrilled with the wonderful stories in the Magazine, and our investigators enjoy them also. Elder Bob Miller, High Level, Alberta, Canada Only those who live so far away from the center of the Church can know the great hunger and thirst for the spiritual food that comes to us each month in the Magazine. It is truly a feast for us, and we thank you from the bottom of our hearts for the care and the love that you put into this beautiful Magazine. Though English is our mother tongue, we teach the lessons in Spanish and appreciate both issues so much. It would be almost impossible to have our Relief Society functioning here without both copies. Helen Q. Milligan, President of Relief Society Colombo-Venezolana Mission, Merida, Venezuela It is a blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually | am a long way from our home ward. We move so often—so | especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief Society organizations | visit, for | never feel alone or as a stranger. Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona 722 The ReIief SOCICty Magazine Volume 56 October 1969 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 Testimony Hugh B. Brown 732 Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed General SecretaryTreasurer 733 New Members Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 739 Song Contest Announcement 1969 748 General Board Members Released Fiction 741 The Princess Part Lael J. Littke 763 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 5 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 722 From Near and Far 745 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 746 Editorial—What Shall the Harvest Be? Louise W. Madsen 769 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 751 Thoughts on College Beginnings Marcella H. Morley 752 Casserole Cookery Edythe K. Watson 756 Black Walnut Gathering Pauline J. Jensen 758 Make Your Own Baby's Book Grace Diane Jessen 760 Granny Nancy D. F. Tuddenham 762 Hobby Feature—Mary R. F. Burnett and Eva E. H. Gledhill Lesson Department 777 = Spiritual Living—Joseph Smith Evaluated Roy W. Doxey 783 Visiting Teacher Message—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not Alice Colton Smith 784 Homemaking—''She Considereth a Field and Buyeth it: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard."' Celestia J. Taylor 786 Social Relations—Work—a Road to Personal Fulfillment Alberta H. Christensen 792 Cultural Refinement—The Problem of Communication Robert K. Thomas Poetry Autumn Season, Christie Lund Coles 721; With These Hands, Mary Jo McEwan 731; Autumn Reminds Me..., Nola Marilyn Hansen 738; Patterns, Vesta N. Fairbairn 744; Nauvoo, Sadie O. Clark 749; Home Again, Alta L. Turner 750; Seedtime and Harvest, Zara Sabin 755; Autumn, Ruth G. Rothe 757; Tapestry of Deeds, Margaret B. Shomaker 768; Ingeniously Adept, Remeida Gibson 791, Bristlecone Pine, Joanna Brown 797. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rej ipts will be retained for six ths only, The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 723 \—~ « M. F, rc m ¢ Be tt tm iy SET eae) ~_ fa ea /: sa fd T=. X RR ay EGIND RD BAD ARD Cestimonp President Hugh B. Brown Of the First Presidency. BEY? ® When one gives evidence as a witness in court, he may either make a solemn declaration or affirmation, or give evidence under oath. In the latter case, if he does not tell the truth he may be charged with perjury. When one bears testimony to the truth of the gospel he also makes a solemn declaration or affirmation, but the source of his knowledge is not the same as that upon which he depends as a witness in court. It may have little or nothing to do with the five senses. In fact, a real testimony of the gospel, a testimony that God is real and personal and that Jesus of Nazareth is his Son, results from revelation and is a serious and sacred matter. In a court of law, hearsay, or secondhand evidence is not admissable regardless of the integrity of the witness submitting it. He must confine his evidence to what he personally knows to be true. While all members of the Church should respect, support, and heed the teachings of the Authorities of the Church, no one should accept a statement and base his testimony upon it, no matter who makes it, until he _ has, under mature examination, found it to be true and worth- 724 while; then his logical deductions may be confirmed by the spirit of revelation to his spirit because real conversion must come from within. By the same token, members of the Church should not become disillusioned and throw the Church overboard because they have not satisfied themselves concerning every principle of the gospel. All blessings from God come as a result of obedience to the laws upon which they are predicated. This rule, or law, applies to the acquisition of a testimony of the gospel or any related subject. Any accountable person can gain a testimony if he will obey the laws upon which the receipt of such knowledge is predicated. But here, as elsewhere, there are certain prerequisites, which may be listed roughly as follows: 1. The seeker must desire to know the truth of the gospel or whatever is involved in his quest. 2. He must study and learn everything possible with relation to the matter involved. In John 5:39 we read: "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life." And we are directed in the Doctrine and Covenants 1:37 to "Search these commandments." 3. The applicant must practice the principles and truths which he learns and bring his life into harmony with them. The Savior said: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." (John 7:16, 17.) 4. He must constantly pray to the Father and exercise faith that the truth will be manifested by revelation through the Holy Ghost. Moroni tells us that by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. (Moroni 10:3-5.) When the Apostle Paul answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: "Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 16:17.) This bears out the claim that direct and personal revelation is available to men if they will learn the necessary prerequisites and conform their lives thereto. In speaking or writing to memTestimony bers of the Relief Society one is addressing. The builders of the homes of our communities and of the Church. Every home has a spirit and that spirit will depend in large measure upon the testimony which the mother has of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. This emphasizes the importance of her gaining a testimony and under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit guide and direct the affairs of the home and the lives of her children, having in mind always the relationship which exists between the Lord and his children. In other words, the mother must have great faith—faith in God, faith in herself and in her companion, and faith in the ultimate triumph of righteousness —a faith which ventures beyond knowledge and by which she may be able to meet the tests of practical life and_ religious experience. She will be guided by intellectual as well as moral imperatives. A mother who has a testimony will, therefore, live a righteous life—one which the children can emulate with safety; the kind of life which is inspired and directed by the Holy Ghost, whose companionship she will constantly. Seek. Of course the knowledge which the mother gains in her search for a testimony will be most helpful in her presiding over her home. But that knowledge must be observed and incorporated into the daily life of those concerned. He who knows the precepts and neglects to obey them is like one who lights a candle in the darkness and then closes his eyes. 725 October 1969 A house is not a home unless it contains food and fire for the mind and spirit as well as for the body. In order to supply that food and fire the maker of the home must have the ingredients which include and depend upon the strength of the testimony of both father and mother. The Apostle Peter gave us a list of virtues in II Peter 1: 5-7: And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; And to virtue knowledge; and to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; and to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. Alma bears testimony as follows: And this is not all. Do ye not suppose that I know of these things myself? Behold, I testify unto you that I do know that these things whereof I have spoken are true. And how do ye suppose that I know of their surety? Behold, I say unto you they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God. Behold, I have fasted and prayed many days that I might know these things of myself. And now I do know of myself that they are true; for the Lord God hath made them manifest unto me by his Holy Spirit; and this is the spirit of revelation which is in me. (Alma 5:45-46.) In this age when there are so many broken homes, it is about time to stop building mere houses and begin rebuilding broken homes, and laying foundations upon which future enduring homes may be established. When grandfather and grandmother took each other for better or for worse, when things got worse, as they usually did, the two of them worked it out for the better. Their marriage lasted sixty years or longer be- 726 cause they knew the darkest hour would be only sixty minutes long. Too many today enter marriage with the door of escape wide open and that door leads to the divorce court. The extended freedom which is enjoyed today requires a stabilizing self-control and _ constancy just as branches demand roots. In this complicated age of restlessness and speed we are all oppressed at times with tension and strain. Tension needs tenacity, and strain requires steadfastness. A testimony of the gospel supplies _ spiritual underpinning without which human life leads but to shipwreck. The most effective and lasting impressions of life are made in the home where it is presided over by parents who know and bear testimony that God is real and personal, that Jesus is the Christ and that the gospel has been restored. Testimony is like an arrow shot from a long bow. The force of it depends upon the strength of the hand that draws it. (Bacon.) The Apostle Paul, writing to the Hebrew saints, said: For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. (Hebrews 4:2.) It was said of the Master, when he returned from Nazareth, that he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. All the hopes, the horizons, the motives that have been given to men depend upon faith in God. Our convictions are more important than our lives, if those convictions result from revealed testimonies. We need the type of courage, a product of faith, which will enable us to turn triumphantly toward the east at nightfall, with the calm assurance that dawn will surely follow dusk. We must regain and retain that rugged self-confident faith of our pioneer fathers. A torch is given to each of us as we seek to see the road ahead that we might light the lamps of others. This excerpt from the pen of one whose name I do not know is an appeal to all to keep the light of their faith still shining. THE LIGHT OF FAITH When the dark days come and the clouds grow gray All men must brave them as best they may: With never too much repining; And bravest is he, when the shadows fall, Who sees in the gloom of his darkened hall The light of his faith still shining. All great enterprise begins with and takes its first forward step in faith. Our job must be done with faith in the future, because very little of the fruit of one's work shows above the ground during a lifetime. We constantly need the warmth and glow and power of faith which will support and be supported by our testimonies of the gospel. Tennyson said: Faith sees the best that glimmers through the worst; she feels the sun is hid but for a night; she spies the summer through the winter bud; she tastes the fruit before the blossoms fall; she hears the lark within the songless egg; she finds the fountain where they wail "mirage!" Testimony And again: Think not the faith by which the just shall live is a dead creed, a map correct of heaven. Far less a feeling fond and fugitive, a thoughtless gift withdrawn as soon as given. It is an affirmation and an act that bids eternal truth to present fact. Faith is holding reasonable convictions in realms beyond the reach of final demonstration and thrusting out one's life upon those convictions as though they were really true. A testimony of the gospel develops and sustains such faith. Robert Louis Stevenson said: "I believe in the ultimate decency of things and if I woke in hell I should still believe in ite" There are plenty of people to do the possible. You can hire them at one hundred dollars a month. The prizes are for those who perform the impossible. If the thing can be done, experience and skill can do it—if it cannot be done, only faith can do it. Both science and religion rely on faith to inspire each forward step. All divine help depends on the presence of man's faith. Words like these were continually on the lips of the Savior: Be of good comfort, thy faith hath made thee whole. According to your faith be done unto thee as thou wilt. Thy faith hath saved thee. Man's life interpreted and motivated by religious faith is glorious, but shorn of faith's interpretation, life loses its highest meaning and its noblest hopes. Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us to the end dare to do our duty.... (Abraham Lincoln) 727 October 1969 Whether on the first of January or on the thirty-first of December, faith is a good word to end on. (Robert Louis Stevenson) Poetry is faith, faith that the converging sides of the pyramid slope to a summit whether we can see it or not. (Ralph Waldo Emerson) With all our science we must face each day as Paul faced his journey to Rome, "not knowing the things that shall befall me there." Paul's continuing and sustaining faith was supported and buttressed by his inspiring testimony. Every member of the Relief Society, every mother in Israel, needs and may obtain a testimony that God lives and that she is a member of a living Church, a_ growing, forwardlooking Church, where new ideas and new ways of doing things predominate their lives and leave no room for littleness of living nor for the paralysis of skeptical doubts in thinking. The testimony of Peter is inspiring as he responds to Christ's question "... Whom say ye that I am?" He said, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This testimony welled up from an overflowing heart, made humble by his recent denial and made more glorious by his own indomitable spirit. It is this stirring desire to do the will of our Father which caused the pioneers to endure the contumely and reproach of their fellow men and associate themselves voluntarily with the people denominated Latter-day Saints. Or Mormons. The Savior was pleased with Peter's testimony which was revealed to him, not by flesh and blood, but by our Heavenly 728 Father and was evidence of his love and of his unfolding mind as he comprehended the gospel plan. We also pass through valleys of weakness and _ hills of doubt as we attempt to climb the mountains of faith and get a testimony of truth. An abiding and oft repeated testimony of the truth of the gospel, borne by the mothers in the home; is a bulwark not alone to them personally but to their families and to all whose lives they touch. Because of the testimonies of the officers and members of the Relief Society that God is real and personal and their understanding of the relationship of God and man, this world-wide women's organization adopted charity (love) as a slogan. (See 1 Cor. 13.) Said Frank Crane: Conventional charity drops pennies in the beggar's cup, carries bread to the starving, distributes clothing to the naked; real charity, which is another name for love, sets about removing the conditions that make beggary, starvation, and nakedness. Conventional charity plays "Lady Bountiful;" love tres to establish such laws as shall give employment to all so that they need no bounty. Conventional charity piously accepts things as they are, and helps the unfortunate; active love goes to the legislature and changes things. Charity may swat the fly; love impels us to remove the dung-heaps that breed flies. Charity gives quinine in the malarial tropics; love drains the swamps. Charity sendssurgeons and ambulances and trained nurses to the war; brotherly love struggles to secure that internationalism that will prevent war. Charity assumes evil institutions and customs to be a part of Divine Providence, and tearfully works away at taking care of the wreckage; love regards injustice everywhere, custom-buttressed and re- spectable or not, as the work of the devil, and vigorously attacks it. The best part of the human race does not want help, nor favor, nor charity; it wants a fair chance and a square deal. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow said: The little I have seen of the world teaches me to look upon the errors of others in sorrow, not in anger. When I take the history of one poor heart that has sinned and suffered, and think of the struggles and temptations it has passed through, the brief pulsations of joy, the feverish inquietude of hope and fear, the pressure of want, the desertion of friends, I would fain leave the erring soul of my fellow man with him from whose hands it came. Some of us have sometimes, when in presiding positions in the Church, executive positions in business, while practicing law, or commanding men in the army, found it necessary to _ hold trials, make investigations, and pass judgments on our fellow men. Often in such cases when associates or counselors have insisted on microscopic examination of the lives and faults of the accused, I, myself, have been deterred from hasty judgment by imagining a slide film of my own life had been slipped beneath the glass. How often at such times has the "beam" eclipsed the "mote" and the "first stone" been withheld because I could not qualify to cast it. S. E. Kiser imagined that one day in paradise two angels, beaming, strolled along the amber walk that hes beside the streets of gold. They met and gazed into each other's eyes, then dropped their harps, amazed, and stood in mute surprise. Testimony And other angels came, and as they lingered near, heard both exclaim at once, "Say, how did you get here?" Dr. Benjamin Johnson adds, "God, himself, sir, does not propose to judge man until the end of his days, why should we?" And Dante queries, "Oh, mortal men, be wary how you judge." WATCH YOURSELF GO BY Just stand aside and watch yourself go by; Think of yourself as 'he' instead of "TIT". Note closely, as in other men you note, The bag-kneed trousers and the seedy coat. Pick flaws; find fault; forget the man is you, And strive to make your estimate ring true. Confront yourself and look you in the eye, Just stand aside and watch yourself go by. And then, with eyes unveiled to what you loath— To. Sins that with sweet charity you clothe— Back to your self-walled tenement you'll go With tolerance for all who dwell below. The faults of others then will dwarf and shrink. Love's chain grows stronger by one mighty hnk— When you with "he" as substitute for "yp" Have stood aside and watched yourself go by. Relief Society workers should be unwilling to choose between flaming fanaticism and _ sentimental surrender. Let personal conviction and generous tolerance meet and merge. The spirit of testimony makes one tolerant of the weaknesses and mistakes 729 October 1969 of others as it emphasizes the brotherhood of man. A book on tolerance by Phillips Brooks, mentions six brands of tolerance: First, the tolerance of pure indifference. We may be tolerant because we do not care, because the issue at stake does not concern us. Second, the tolerance of policy. We may be tolerant because we think we would lose more than we gain by fighting the man or the measure. Third, the tolerance of helplessness. We may be tolerant because we realize that the enemy holds the field and that resistance will be futile. Fourth, the tolerance of pure respect for man. We may be tolerant because we respect even a man's right to think wrong, because we agree with Voltaire when he wrote to Helvétius, "I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say Te Fifth, the tolerance of spiritual sympathy. We may be tolerant because we feel a spiritual comradeship with the man whose purpose is fine even if his proposition is false. Sixth, the tolerance of an enlarged view of truth. We may be tolerant because we have come to realize that truth is larger than any one man's concept of it, even if we are the one man in question. The first three kinds of tolerance are mean; the last three are magnificent. "True tolerance," says Brooks, "consists in the love of truth and the love of man, each brought to its perfection and living in perfect harmony with one another." But this is no easy achievement. In this age of selfishness and greed, of birth control and barrenness, of easy divorce and broken homes and juvenile delinquency, in this age of cheap amusements, idleness and lack of discipline, it is well to search for basic values, to call attention to the fact that the home is 730 the nation's most fundamental institution and that mothers are the first professors in that character building school. Let us teach the young women of the land that womanhood is glorified by motherhood. A woman who has a testimony of the gospel will meet the demands of home building with poise and dignity. Motherhood is the _ inscription on the gate through which the spirits pass to enter the realm of mortal men, and it will be woman's password for admittance into the highest realms of glory. The Son of God hallowed and glorified that inscription when he bowed through that gate and called a mortal woman, "Mother." How important it is that every mother have a testimony of him and cooperate with him in the continuing work of redemption. President McKay said: Motherhood is the one thing in all the world which most truly exemplifies the God-given virtues of creating and sacrificing. Though it carries the woman close to the brink of death, motherhood also leads her into the very realm of the fountains of life and makes her co-partner with the Creator in bestowing upon eternal spirits mortal life. Artists may make new visions real; poets express thoughts never known before or dress old ones in a more becoming garb; engineers may transform deserts into bounteous fields and fill them with prosperous towns and thriving villages; scientists may discover new elements, and by various combinations thereof create means contributive either to progress or destruction—all these are in a measure revealers of unknown things: but the mother who, in compliance with eternal law, brings into the world an immortal spirit occupies first rank in the realm of creation. (Gospel Ideals, page 656.) All who have received a testimony of the gospel through revelation are authorized, commissioned—required—to teach the gospel under the inspiration of that spirit through which it came. I quote and commend the appeal made by Sister Zina Y. C. Brown in her prose poem, "Woman Exalted:" Daughters of Zion, ye mothers of men, hold fast these gifts of thy calling great, Yesterday is gone, WITH THESE HANDS The canvas of my day is yet empty. And the pallet is clean. My beloveds still slumber— And God awaits my prayer. | offer my hands this day unto their Creator, To fashion a thing of beauty From these virgin hours awaiting color and form. Strike away the temptation to blotch and blurr, Testimony Lest they be lost—these priceless pearls of purity and purpose holy. Know ye not that thy place is at the side, and not below, This companion to whom thou art given of the Lord? Thou woman exalted, thou first to forgive and last to forsake, Thou pnestess, queen, Thank thy God who made thee thus, That thou was born A woman. That the canvas may be vibrant and clean With the work of loving hands. Hands that will comfort, protect and perpetuate. Hands that will discipline and adhere, That the work may form in order and beauty. Hands that will build, give, and guide, Strengthening each fiber of importance, And shunning the rest. When the canvas is completed In detail and deed, May | hopefully seek my Lord again. Then, in humility and with thankfulness, May | ask for his refreshment And begin anew with these hands he has given me. —Mary Jo McEwan 731 Mm Mayola R. Miltenberger Appointed General reasurer The General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce the appointment of Mayola Rogers Miltenberger as General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society. Sister Miltenberger has been serving as acting SecretaryTreasurer since June of 1969. Sister Miltenberger brings to this office devotion to the gospel and Relief Society in addition to her fine training and experience. She possesses grace and dignity and endears herself to those with whom she works. She is capable in meeting the requirements of any assignment given her, and finds joy in her work. Sister Miltenberger was named to the General Board in October of 1968. Prior to her appointment as acting Secretary-Treasurer she had rendered valuable service in the field of social service. She was no stranger to Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the Board, for she had served as director of the Relief Society Social Service Program for Arizona. Sister Miltenberger is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. She was married in 1937 to the late Edwin John Miltenberger. Sister Miltenberger attended Brigham Young University and was graduated from the University of Arizona. She obtained her Master's degree in social work from Tulane University, where she also served as a field instructor. She is a member of the Academy of Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers. Sister Miltenberger has served as a ward and branch Relief Society president, as MIA president, and as a Sunday School teacher. She is always willing to bear testimony as to the truthfulness of the gospel, and is unselfish in her devotion of time and energy to the work of our Heavenly Father. In her new appointment, she has the love and confidence of the General Presidency and her associates on the General Board. Her service will be a blessing to the sisters and to Relief Society organizations throughout the world. 732 New Members Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society Amy Young Valentine, Provo Thirteenth Ward, East Provo Stake, Utah, is a daughter of Cecile Virginia Skousen and W. Ernest Young. She was with her parents in Argentina for three years while her father was president of the mission. In 1952 her husband Lee B. Valentine was called to Argentina to be mission president. Sister Valentine served as the Relief Society supervisor. A graduate of Brigham Young University, Sister Valentine has been active in education and community ee affairs and has been a teacher — of music and languages. She now teaches Spanish at Brigham Young University and served as president of BYU 7th Stake Relief Society at the time of her call. Sister Valentine, now a widow, has four children: Mrs. Colin L. Corbin (Amy Lee); Robert Y. (married to Shauna Burgon); Christina Ruth, working on a Master's Degree at BYU, and Angela, a high school student. There are two grandchildren. Marian Louise Richards Boyer, Monument Park Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, isa daughter of Ina Ashton and Elder LeGrand Richards. She is the wife of Harold R. Boyer and mother of five children: three married daughters, Mrs. O. Don Ostler (Barbara), Mrs. J. Field- _ ing Nelson (Carolyn), Mrs. John S. McMaster (Janet); one married son, Roger (married to Sara Stohl), and Richard, who is a student at the University of Utah. There are seventeen grandchildren. She has served in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church and was Relief Society stake president of Monument Park at the time of her call to the General Board. She is skilled in homemaking arts and many crafts—knitting, sewing, candle making, home decorating, and many types of needlecraft. Sister Boyer is a hard worker and inspirational leader, well qualified for her new responsibilities. 733 October 1969 Marjorie Merrill Reeve, Kansas City First Ward, Kansas City Stake, Missouri, is a daughter of Idetta Ellsworth and Nathan D. Merrill. Her husband is Wayne L. Reeve. Sister Reeve is a graduate of Brigham Young University and has served in several positions of leadership in Seminary, and in the auxiliaries. Her devotion to Relief Society has made her an outstanding leader as teacher and ward president. For the last eight years she has served as Relief Society stake president of Kan- | sasCity Stake. Shehasendeavored to teach her children the basic pitta of Latter-day Saint family living. She has encouraged her sons in their scholastic and athletic interests and her daughters in music. The Reeves have two married daughters, Mrs. David Wade (Kathryn), Mrs. Lynn Southam (Lee Ann); a son Dan on a mission in Japan; two sons, Gerry and Craig and a daughter Merrilee at home. Ada Jones Jones, Chandler Second 7 Ward, Mesa Stake, Arizona, is 7 a daughter of Sarah Jane Hurst = Jones and John Barker Jones. Her parents were colonizers in | Mexico and Virden, New Mexico. Her husband is Archie Lavar Jones. They have six children— two married daughters, Mrs. Norman H. Jackson (Ada Ruth) and Mrs. Charles Carpenter (Sherilyn); three sons: Keith L., D. Lynn, and Gordon W.; and a daughter Kathleen who is a student at BYU. There are four grandchildren. Sister Jones is a and attended New Mexico State Teachers College. She has held teaching and executive positions in the auxiliaries. She has been a ward Relief Society president and was president of Mesa Stake Relief Society at the time of her appointment to the General Board. Devoted to her home and family, Sister Jones has encouraged her children in Church activities and educational pursuits. 734 graduate of Gila Junior College: Helen Gygi Lach, Monument Park Eleventh Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Liesetta Reidelbauch and Rudolph Gygi. Her husband is John Edward Lach. They have a_ son, David L. (married to Kathryn Lloyd), and two daughters, Mrs. Stephen C. Oswald (Bonnie) and Kathleen. Sister Lach has served in several capacities in the Church auxiliary organizations. She served in the ward Relief Society presidency in two different wards and has been an_ outstanding sewing instructor, quilting chairman, and homemaking leader. She is especially skillful in all the homemaking arts and crafts, including interior design and decorating. She has imparted her gifts and talents in sewing, needlecraft, doll making, designing gifts and articles for bazaars to many Relief Society women, who, in turn, have beautified their homes and served Relief Society. Sister Lach was a member of the Tabernacle Choir for eleven years. Orlene Jones Poulsen, Monument Park Third Ward, Monument Park West Stake, is a daughter of Louie Orlene Thomas and Vv. Ashton Jones, and was born in Cedar City, Utah. Her husband is George Poulsen Jr. They have four daughters, Lou Ellen and Lana Rae attending | the University of Utah, Rosalie | and Sharon. Sister Poulsen is a © graduate of the University of 7 Utah and has been a school- © teacher. Her Church work has 7 included teaching in the auxiliaries. She has been a class leader in spiritual living, cultural refinement, and social relations, as well as serving in Relief Society while her husband was Hawaiian Mission president. She was serving as Relief Society president of Monument Park West Stake at the time of her call to the General Board. She is international president of Lamba Delta Sigma (the Church organization for women missionaries). Her special interests are her home and family, and she enjoys homemaking, sewing, reading, and music. 735 October 1969 Aline Rawson Pettit, Monument Park Seventh Ward, Monument Park West Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, was born in Provo, Utah, a daughter of Lydia Knudsen and William K. Rawson. Her husband is Lynn A. Pettit, and they have four children, Mrs. Ole Dunn (Kathleen), Mrs. Robert Bohn (Peggyanne), Lynn A., recently returned from the Southwest Indian Mission, and Marilyn. Sister Pettit is a graduate of the University of California, and has studied three years at the University of Utah as a graduate student. She is a professional hbrarian and has worked in several libraries. She is a former member of the General Board of the Primary Association, and has served as a cultural refinement class leader in two stakes and also in Libya, North Africa, for the wives of Air Force personnel at Wheelrus. Sister Pettit has been active in the field of literature, teaching adult education classes. Johna Mary de St. Jeor, Holladay Eighth Ward, Holladay Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Melva Adamson and Wallace Bramwell de St. Jeor. She is a graduate of Brigham Young University and_ has studied in the graduate schools at the University of Mexico and the University of Utah. She has been stake speech director in San Bernardino Stake, attendance secretary in Mexico City Stake, and mission MIA board member in Montevideo, Uruguay. She served as Relief Society coordinator and _ interpreter in Uruguay. She has been employed as an airlines reservations agent and as a social worker. Her special interests are sewing and many different homemaking and decorating crafts. She is widely traveled and speaks and reads several languages and is interested in music and art. She has enjoyed working with the Indian people and other peoples of Mexico and South America. She is a teacher of history at the present time. 736 Beverly Jensen Pond, Monument Park Thirteenth Ward, Monument Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a daughter of Edith A. Hoagland and David Jensen. Her husband is Farrel Smith Pond, and they have five children: one married daughter, Mrs. Samuel E. Burggraaf (Farelyn), and returned missionary son Nicholas, and three other sons, Marden, Kevin, and Talmage. There are two grandchildren. Sister Pond attended the University of Utah © and graduated from the McCune ~*° at School of Music. She has seve as organist and chorister in all the ward auxiliary organizations, and has been a stake Relief Society chorister and ward president. She is a professional piano teacher and a charter member of the Utah Teachers National Association, accredited with the Music Teachers National Association. She is a devoted homemaker and extends her many gifts and talents to her family, her Church, and the community. Inez Tolman Waldron, North Logan Second Ward, _ East Cache Stake, Utah, was born in Murtaugh, Idaho, a daughter of Emerett Bates Tolman and J. I. Tolman. She has a teaching certificate from Utah State University. Her husband is Eldred Logan Waldron, and they have six children: John, who is completing the requirements for his Master's Degree at Utah State University; Marcia, Anita, Eileen, Charles, and Barbara. In addition to teaching and being a chorister and music director in the auxiliaries, Sister Waldron has served as Relief Society supervisor in the Hawaiian Mission and as president of Waikiki Ward Relief Society. She has been Singing Mothers director in Mount Logan Stake and director of a ward choir. Sister Waldron's special interests are her family, homemaking, music, and promoting an interest in and appreciation for the fine arts in her community and at the Utah State University. 737 October 1969 Anna Jean Bullock Skidmore, of the Twentieth Ward, East Cache Stake, Logan, Utah, is a daughter of Nora Poulton and James A. Bullock. She is the wife of Dr. Charles J. Skidmore. There are five children, three girls, Norma Jean, Sally, and Jill, and two boys, Chad and Jon. Sister Skidmore is a graduate of Brigham Young University and has her MFA degree in choral music from Utah State, where she is a vocal instructor part time. She also teaches private students in vocal and_ piano music and has presented musical reviews. She is a member of the Utah State University Chorale. She has been a Singing Mothers director, a ward chorister, and has served as a teacher and director of music in the auxiliaries. She finds enjoyment in cooking, sewing, and crafts and is interested, also, in community service. \ YA Swe A! = } ni \ ae i 4 RY I) W AUTUMN REMINDS ME.... EA 1 yy S V4 IAN hay Of rains washing the earth of dust AY. T 7 \ q' to make ready her winter sleep. LAOS SA\O; Of lasting autumn flowers = a pe F ») Bays a, bursting with the giving of themselves _—"< >i) pt f& Into full blooms of perfection, c a) S35 [RS bronzed copper and scented gold. A - OSS w/ Dw nS Of cold cement sidewalks Go oS, 7 | ye.: ' WU too deep for summer's frivolity.; ZA S/ i) | innocent of the hardships ahead, ( ac =4 ——s But filled with the courage of youth = ws =~ and trust in the love of God.: = "ST nS —Nola Marilyn Hansen o And mothers washing the summer's play from the necks of squirming children. Warmed by bright falling leaves, Capped with a cloudless violet sky Of the fresh crispness of young love Por NY) \ sn line Sy) Ss p && oY Lol Sony We yy <a Lah hp fh! LAnn\' ee) |= $f Relief Society G( DV ) Con esc General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the second contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest This contest is to be known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1969-70) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1970. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1970. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First Prize $100 Second Prize $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty per cent to the composer and forty per cent to the author. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board and public announcement of the awards will be made in the June 1970, issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. Duplicate copies of all submissions should be retained by the contestants to insure against loss. 3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks or signature upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society. Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 739 October 1969 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the "work" certifying: a. The composer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a biography of 150 words, or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society reserves the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty per cent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten per cent of the marked selling price. If an author collaborates with a composer a division of the royalties will be made agreeable to both of them. 9. The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural flow—with a happy placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size to be preferred is octavo or 9" by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, in SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, as may unison. The accompaniment should be suitable for piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society Song Contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again. ICRS Judges All manuscripts will be reviewed by a competant team of judges composed as follows: A representative of the publishing business, a member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competent directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. 740 SMU Lael J. Littke @ Mama said I shouldn't really count too strongly on being the fairy princess in our fourth grade spring operetta, but I knew I would get the part. After all, hadn't I prayed for it with all the faith in my nine-year-old heart? Just because I had straight brown hair and freckles wasn't any reason why I couldn't be the princess, was it? Mama didn't say anything about the straight hair and freckles, of course, but she did remind me gently that there were eleven other girls in my class who would like to be the princess, but I knew they all expected Lauramae Van Skiver to get the part. Ever since we had all been in the first grade, she had always been the princess. Lauramae didn't know how to spell Mississippi, but no one cared, least of all Lauramae. She had fat blond Sausage curls and blue eyes Shaded by long, curly black lashes. She giggled a lot, but she took dancing lessons and could sing like an angel. It would take practically a miracle for me to get the part when Lauramae was around, but miracles had happened before, hadn't they? My Sunday School teacher said they had when a person's faith was strong enough. The fairy princess got to wear a crown anda white costume with a fluffy skirt all spangled with sequins. She was to carry a glittering wand which, when she waved it, would bring all the flowers to life. Playing that part seemed to me to be the most beautiful thing that could happen in a young girl's life, especially one who had read every book of 741 October 1969 fairy tales in the school library. For months I had worked to get the best grades in our class hoping that Miss Ellerbee would take that into consideration when she assigned the parts. And then, of course, there was the praying. Heavenly Father couldn't possibly ignore a small person who had such a big want that for weeks she had washed dishes and done her piano practicing without being prompted, and who didn't hit her brother even when he took her doll buggy and used it to mix mud in for a fort he was building. | On the day Miss Ellerbee assigned the parts I sat with my eyes closed and my _ hands clasped, knowing she would say, "Jenny Bennett will be our princess," and then I would give the little squeal of surprise I had been practicing. But what Miss Ellerbee said was "The part of the fairy princess will be played by Lauramae Van Skiver." Lauramae didn't even scream with pleasure as any other girl in the class would have done. She had known all along she would be the fairy princess. The squeal I had prepared died in my throat and almost choked me. I wished that it had. What good was it living in a world where people who didn't even care got the best things and where your most fervent prayers went unanswered? I felt betrayed. Next time I went to Sunday School, I thought, I would tell my teacher a thing or two. No, on second thought I wouldn't, because I wasn't going to go any more. Feeling dismally wicked, I half listened as Miss Ellerbee 742 went on to read the rest of the parts. "Daffodil will be played by Ruby Raymond." I waited, not eagerly any more but still with a little curiosity for my name to be called. After all, the flowers had pretty costumes, too, although not as beautiful as the fairy princess. It would be nice to be the rose. "Rose," said Miss Ellerbee, "will be played by Merna Bell. Freddy Hopkins will play the part of Spider." She went on down through the list of flowers, bugs, and birds until she came to the last part. "The part of Toad will be played by Jenny Bennett." I hadn't even thought about being the toad. It was beyond consideration. I hardly heard what else Miss Ellerbee said—something about the toad being just about the most important part in the play since it was the toad who hopped around protecting the lovely flowers from the bugs and birds, and it was the toad to whom the fairy princess said at the end, "Despite your homely appearance, oh, Toad, you have a truly beautiful spirit." I didn't care what Miss Ellerbee said. If you were a toad, who would notice how beautiful your spirit was? On the school bus going home Lauramae Van Skiver sat. By me. "I wish I could be a toad sometime," she said. I knew she was just being nice. Lauramae was always nice. That's why everyone liked her. I didn't like her. I didn't like her at all, with her fat curls and long lashes and nice ways. "You'd make a terrible toad," I said. "Maybe I would," she said, "but it would be fun to try. I always have to be the princess." It just wasn't fair. I wanted to cry right there on the bus, but I managed to wait until it stopped to let my two brothers and me off. Instead of going into the house, I crawled into a clump of lilac bushes and wept. I wished that a bolt of lightning would hit me, and then when I was all fixed up in a white dress in my coffin people would say, "Poor little thing. See how pretty she looks—not like a toad ° at all." I was so involved with my fantasy, which made me. Weep even harder, that I scarcely noticed Mama crawling under the lilacs beside me. "Tom told me you went in here," she said. "I thought maybe something was wrong." "Il have to be the toad," I blurted, fresh tears flooding my face. Mama patted my back and rubbed my head until I stopped bawling. "I wanted so much to be the princess," I sobbed. "And Lauramae would rather be the toad. She really would, Mama." Mama thought about it. "Maybe I could speak to Miss Ellerbee," she said. "Oh, Mama," I cried hopefully, "would you? Please would you?" "Let's think about it," Mama said. "What does the princess do?" "Well, I said, rubbing my nose with my forearm, "she sings five songs all by herself." The Princess Part "You could do that," Mama said. "T really can't sing very well," I said. "I don't know whether I'd dare even if I could." "We could take care of that," Mama said. "Maybe Lauramae could sing backstage and you could just move your mouth." "That would work fine," I agreed. "But what about the dancing? I can't dance." "You could learn some steps." "Or maybe Lauramae could be a dancing toad," I suggested. Mama nodded. "I don't see why not." "Oh, Mama," I said, "the princess gets to wear the prettiest costume you ever saw. It's all spangled and it's got a little short fluffy skirt like a ballet dancer wears." I looked down at my long thin legs with the knobby knees. Mama looked, too. "We could make the skirt clear to the floor," she said gently. October 1969 I had never pictured the fairy princess in a full-length dress. "That wouldn't be quite as pretty, but we could put lots of spangles on it," I said. There was. Still wrong. "Mama," I said, "what about my hair? A princess should have cule: " Mama laughed. "That's no problem. We'll get you a_ permanent." I remembered the last time I had a permanent. My _ hair had stuck straight out in eight inches of frizz. I couldn't imagine a fairy princess with a head of frizz. I looked down again at my knobby knees. "Mama," I said. I cleared my throat so I wouldn't start crying again. "Mama, I wouldn't make a good fairy princess at all. I'd be a mess." Mama was loyal. "You'd be sweet," she said. I shook my head. "Td just look silly. 11 make a better toad." Mama smiled at me. "If someone has curls and can sing, it's easy to make the audience believe you're a fairy princess," she said, "but it takes much more real effort to be a_ believable toad." I thought about that. Sudsomething denly I didn't want to cry any more. "Maybe Lauramae really meant it when she said she'd like to be the toad," I mused. Mama nodded. "Maybe," she said, "but Miss Ellerbee thought you could do it better. You know, if you learn your part well and work very hard, you can make the toad the most interesting character in the whole show." "Will you help me?" I asked, and Mama nodded again. I crawled out of the lilacs and stood up, raising my face to the bright afternoon sunlight. "Tl be the best toad Miss Ellerbee ever saw," I said. "She'll be glad she gave me such a good part." Mama crawled out, too, and stood beside me, smiling down at me. "I just know she will," she said. "Let's go in now and plan your costume." "Let's make it orange with green and purple spots," I said. Oh, there was so much to do. And I would have to remember when I went to Sunday School on Sunday to tell my teacher that sometimes prayers were answered in a much different way than you expected them to be. In the meantime I must practice hopping and speaking in a croaking voice. Poor Lauramae, I thought. She never gets the fun parts. PATTERNS Windy Headland grasses— Sun-silvered blades and grains— Blow against an endless backdrop Of sky. 744 —Vesta N. Fairbairn = Ae i, ¢ Mrs. Mara K. Culp, twenty-seven, of Newport Beach, California, a small blond native of Riga, Latvia, who has lived in America the last twelve years, won the twenty-third annual Powder Puff Derby, women's cross-country - air race, last July. She has two thousand flying hours to her credit and flew from San Diego to Washington in eleven hours and fiftyseven minutes. Mrs. Sharon Sites Adams, whose husband is a sailing instructor, has become the first woman to sail alone the six thousand miles across the Pacific Ocean (from Yokohama, Japan, to San Diego, California). During the 75-day crossing in a 31- foot ketch, the 37-year-old housewife weathered severe gales, lost her rotator (which drags in the water and measures distance), to a shark and was becalmed for one week. Her radio transmitter became inoperative. Letitia Baldridge has been social secretary to Ambassador and Mrs. David Bruce in Paris, to Ambassador Clare Boothe Luce, and to President and Mrs. John F. Kennedy. She became the first woman executive in Tiffany's history, and is currently public relations consultant for Chicago's Merchandise Mart, and for Sears, Roebuck. She is married and is a mother. Mrs. Elaine Whitelaw, director of volunteer services for the National Foundation, said the Rubella vaccine to prevent German Measles, which was licensed in midJune, will soon be administered in the United States to children below ten years of age. Pregnant mothers with rubella have given birth to thousands of deformed children. Mothers will be protected if epidemics are not started by children, so the young will receive the first shots available. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Jan Armstrong, Joan Aldrin, and Pat Collins, wives of the three astronauts of the Apollo XI Mission, and the spacemen's mothers: Mrs. Stephen Armstrong, Mrs. Edwin Eugene Aldrin, Senior, and Mrs. James Collins, were the focus of interest, sympathy, and prayers of women of the world last July as their husbands and sons flew through boundless space. Humanity waited with almost unbearable suspense until Neil Armstrong planted the first human footprint on the moon, remarking, '"'(One small step for a man, a giant leap for mankind.''We salute these women whose lives and examples have influenced their famous sons and husbands. The women displayed great courage and patience while waiting. Princess Sophie of Greece, wife of Prince Juan Carlos de Bourbon y Bourbon, grandson of the last King of Spain, will presumably become Queen of Spain upon the death or incapacitation of Generalissimo Francisco Franco, dictator of Spain. Franco and the parliament have agreed that Prince Juan shall become King of Spain as a_ constitutional monarchy, greatly modified in power and plan from the former Spanish monarchy. Sophie's son, one and one-half years old, will become next heir to the throne. Nea Norin, an Englishwoman who has climbed mountains in all parts of the world, eloquently narrates her extraordinary adventures in ''A Woman's Reach,"' a delight to read. Mrs. May Case of Clovis, California, ninety-one, still writes a weekly column for the Clovis Independent. She has been a newspaper reporter for seventy-six years, longer than any other woman in the United States. 745 EDITORIAL / What Shall the Harvest Be? A ''... He [Jesus] went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him, And certain women... Which ministered unto him of their substance., ''And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable: '"'A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls-of the air devoured it. '"'And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. "And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. "And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold...."' (Luke 8:1, 3-8.) This, the first, and adjudged by many most perfect of the parables, was interpreted by its divine Author: Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. (Luke 8:11-15.) In this day when evil is rampant, the parable of the sower has particular significance. The ''riches and pleasures of life'' are the temptations the devil uses to draw men's hearts from following after the i Volume 56 October 1969 Number 10 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer ~~. Aaa 746 commandments of God. Jesus urges his followers to guard against the suggestions of the devil. Not only do these suggestions withhold men from good deeds, but they inspire evil thoughts and draw men to sin. The devil attacks at every point where weakness may lie, and never stops in performing his mission of evil with one kind of temptation alone. We are told to observe the condition of the soil in the story. The seed was the same, whether it fell on good ground or poor. The gospel is the same. It is the extent to which it is received which makes the difference. Some hear the word and embrace it for a brief period. As soon as obstacles appear, their enthusiasm dies as the roots from the seed sown in shallow soil shrivel from lack of nourishment. Some hear the word, but the pursuit of the world's pleasures soon smothers its voice, as the thorns and weeds choke out the burgeoning seed. Some hear the word not at all, it does not penetrate their consciousness, as the seed which falls on ground too hard for it to take root. Some hear the word and it thrives and grows within their souls. They tenderly nurture it, cultivate it, keep it free from weeds and thorns and reap harvests of blessings. Their eternal lives are abundantly good and yield an hundredfold to the harvester. What shall the harvest be? Each individual assures his own harvest. He reaps the consequences of his acts and deeds as time goes by. At the end of his mortal life, the sum of all of his productive years is the great harvest when the good is separated from the bad, as the wheat is separated from the weeds and carefully stored in a granary, and the weeds destroyed. It is from the harvest, from our receptiveness of the seed, the word of God, we will be judged. What shall the harvest be? Blessings or condemnation according ai Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love _ Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore 747 to our works.. —L. W. M. A. 7 ~ = ee eR Te ore SETTLES ES SS SSeS S SEER REET General Board Members Released * ei ee | '* © > > aa 5 i i <eet oes ae Fee FOF AS Se OSE OS ONE OT Fe? SSSSESSSSRAATS SEPTERESH The General Board of Relief Society announces as of July 18, 1969, the release of ten General Board members who have given valued service to the organization from twenty-nine to five years. Anna B. Hart was called to the General Board in 1940. In her twenty-nine years of service she has endeared herself to sisters throughout the world. Her extensive educational training has resulted in great benefits to Relief Society. Edith S. Elliot has served on the General Board since 1940, during which time she has rendered untiring service for the well-being of Relief Society members. Her sunny disposition and happy approach to her tasks influenced those with whom she has come in contact. Florence J. Madsen came to the General Board in 1941. During her long years of service to Relief Society she has aided the music program in taking giant steps toward becoming the meaningful program it is today. Sister Madsen's musical compositions and her skill in working toward the development of the Singing Mothers program will live forever. Blanche B. Stoddard was appointed to the General Board in 1945, and has rendered outstanding service in aiding Relief Societies throughout the world in following the prescribed policies and practices of Relief Society. Her charming sense of humor has enabled her to achieve a rare rapport with those whom she has served in her twenty-four years of service. Edith P. Backman became a member of the General Board in 1953. Throughout her sixteen years of service she has given unselfish and valuable service in the field of educational programs. Her work in regional conferences has brought many commendations to the General Board. Elna P. Haymond was called to the General Board in 1953. Her service has been characterized by excellent preparation for the many tasks she was called upon to perform. Her dependability has caused her to be called upon for many services. Afton W. Hunt has endeared herself to sisters throughout the world since her appointment to the General Board in 1957. In her twelve years of service on the board she has traveled extensively, and has always been equipped to meet the responsibilities of conference assignments with intelligence and dignity. Elsa T. Peterson as served on the General Board since 1958. In her eleven years as a board member she has demonstrated countless qualities of leadership at regional conferences. Her social experiences and good taste have been invaluable in helping with conference receptions and other social activities. ( 748 General Board Members Released Zola J. McGhie became a member of the General Board in 1962. Her service in the homemaking area of Relief Society and her contributions to the social activities of the Board have made her a valuable asset during her seven years of service. She has willingly fulfilled every assignment that has been given to her. Anne R. Gledhill received her appointment to the General Board in 1964. As a board member she has rendered outstanding service in regional conferences, and has achieved a valuable rapport with those whom she has served. The united love of the Board goes with these sisters for their loyal support of the organization. May the service they have rendered continue to inspire and elevate others to loftier goals, and may Relief Society always be a joy and blessing to them. NAUVOO 'Nauvoo was a young man's town, 'You can feel it. Built for shelter—not for yearning, Planned for worship and for learning. If these ancient walls could whisper They would reveal it. Nauvoo was a city they could leave— Tears on cheek—mouth a-quiver, As they walked that final track, Eyes ahead, no looking back,; There would be no mound of salt on that cold, Icy river. Surely old men would have wept, Full of woe, When they braced the fearful fury of the foe. But those young men, facing west, Did they feel themselves oppressed When the band played, and they danced In the snow? Nauvoo is an old, old town. Time is slow Since the frightened children stumbled While the Carthage cannons rumbled, And the Temple spire crumbled, Long ago. —Sadie O. Clark 749 HOME AGAIN 'My soul's at peace, now that I'm home again _ 4 From traveling to far, more exotic places; wie > | made new friends, but oh, the old are dearer, ro Pa | yearned so for their sweet, familiar faces; - ts And often in a room, so strange and crowded, "My heart would leap at sound of a loved voice thought |-heard; Oh, | would stay at home If.1 were given only half a choice. Rr - er. ~ S; ~ 'a, 3) Ae alta L. Turner. ¥" ' 3): ain a urner *}. Y* = y i? + ¥ ss —— *~ m he ~~ — 4. Ee re Oe or bres me T, ae "© Path to Home — Photograph by Dorothy J. Ro was; ° ~~ — "> Sp es. >... ~ Thoughts on y College Beginnings y Marcella H. Morley, a College days have arrived for You, my son. Amid all of the hurried Preparations prior to your leaving} of the arrangements, the new clothes bought, S you turned and walked up the Pathway, | felt an assurance that Many doors would open for you following this day, because of the choice You made 751 Edythe K. Watson \ Member, General Board of Relief Society What is more appealing to the appetite than the tantalizing aroma of a casserole brimful of flavor? Simple foods, such as stews and leftovers, take on a new elegance and importance when served as casseroles. One-dish meals require little watching, and with a side serving of salad, bread, and milk, little else is needed for a hearty meal.: Fortunately, casserole recipes are usually quite flexible. Proportions and main ingredients can be varied without diminishing the flavor or quality of the dishes. Happily, in these days of high food prices, less meat may be used, more potatoes, rice, spaghetti, and vegetables may be added for bulk. Either fresh, frozen, or canned foods, depending on their availability or price, may be used. Casseroles are well known as time savers. Provident homemakers find it a good practice to prepare two or more casseroles at one time from like ingredients, one to be cooked for tonight's dinner, the other to be popped into the freezer to be brought out for unexpected company, for dinner on Relief Society day, or to be taken to a sick friend. Preparation for the Sabbath day may be minimized by frequent use of casseroles prepared in advance. Casserole recipes cover a wide range of foods. They may be served in a simple or an elegant manner, as the occasion demands. Why not try some of the following delicious recipes? Or you may wish to concoct some of your own. Put a casserole in the oven and relax. HOLSTROM HASH 1 lb. Ground chuck V4 tsp. Minced garlic 1 tbsp. Butter or margarine 3% c. Or 1 12 oz. Can tomatoes % c. Diced green pepper 1 c. Uncooked elbo macaroni %4 c. Instant minced onion Yy tsp. Basil 2' tsp. Salt 1 can tomato paste Y tsp. Ground black pepper yc, diced cheddar cheese 1 tsp. Sugar Brown meat in butter or margarine in a 2% quart saucepan. Add next 10 ingredients. Mix well. Bring to boil. Pour into greased casserole. Cook covered for 30 minutes at 350°. Fold in cheese and serve. Serves 6-8. 752 Casserole Cookery FAMILY FAVORITE CASSEROLE 2 c. Cooked rice Y, square butter or margarine 1 Ib. Ground beef 3 c. Medium white sauce Yy medium onion, chopped 1 can tomato soup 1 can cream mushroom soup Cook beef and onion in butter until brown. Add soups to white sauce. In lightly greased casserole arrange ingredients in layers, rice on bottom, ground beef mixture atop it. Cover with white sauce mixture. Bake in 350° oven for 45 minutes. Serves 6. SAUSAGE AND CORN CASSEROLE (our special favorite) 4 medium-sized potatoes peeled 1 c. Milk and sliced thin 1 Ib. Link sausage 1 can cream style corn salt and pepper to taste 1 medium onion in lightly greased casserole arrange potatoes, grated onion, cream style corn. Cover with milk. Place sausage links on top. Cook in 350° for 1 hour. Serves 6. HAMBURGER PIE 1 medium onion (grated) 1 11 oz. Can condensed tomato soup 1 Ib. Ground beef 5 medium potatoes, cooked salt and pepper Yr ¢, warm milk 2 c. Green beans, canned, 1 beaten egg cooked fresh, or frozen salt and pepper 1 c. Cooked carrots 1 c. Whole kernel corn Brown onion in hot fat. Add meat and seasoning. Brown. Add drained vegetables and soup. Pour into greased casserole. Mash potatoes, using milk, add egg and seasonings. Spoon in mounds over meat mixture. Bake in moderate oven 250° for 30 minutes. Serves 6-8. MAGNIFICENT CASSEROLE 8 oz. Package noodles—Cook noodles in boiling salted water until tender. Drain. Beat together— 8 oz. Pkg. Cream cheese 1 |b. Carton cottage cheese Y% c. Sour cream Fold in— ¥3 ¢. Green onion, chopped 1 tbsp. Green pepper Brown 2 Ibs. Ground beef. Drain fat, and add 2 cans tomato sauce. In slightly greased casserole arrange in layers, layer of noodles, layer of cheese mixture, layer of meat. Cover with 2 c. Of grated Swiss cheese. Bake 375° for 30 minutes. Serves 8. HALIBUT CASSEROLE Wrap in cheesecloth 1% Ibs halibut and place in water to which has been added 1 tsp. Salt, 1 bay leaf, and four slices of onion. Bring slowly to boil and simmer for about 45 minutes. Remove halibut from liquid and drain. Let stand until cool enough to handle. Separate meat from bone and skin, flaking meat into fairly large pieces, This can be done ahead of time and refrigerated. White Sauce % c. Butter ¥3 tsp. Onion salt Y% c. Flour pepper to taste 2 c. Milk ¥ tsp. Worcestershire sauce 4 tsp. Salt 753 October 1969 In buttered casserole place layer of white sauce, layer of fish, 1 tsp. Chopped pimento, V4 c. Nippy cheddar. Repeat, ending with layer of white sauce. Top with buttered bread crumbs and bake 325° for about 30 minutes, or until slightly browned on top. Serves 4 to 6. CHICKEN RICE CASSEROLE 1 c. Uncooked rice salt and pepper, use very sparingly 1 can chicken soup, 1 cut up fryer (chicken beasts 1 package dry onion soup are especially delicious) 2 c. Milk Place rice in bottom of greased casserole. Lay chicken pieces on rice. Sprinkle with onion mix. Combine chicken soup and milk and pour over top. Bake at 300° for 21% hours. Cover with foil for part of baking time. Serves 6. MEAT PIE Y% c. Onion, chopped 1 c. Leftover carrots Yc. Celery, cubed 1 c. Peas 2 c. Cubed leftover beef 1 c. Leftover gravy 1 c. Cubed leftover potatoes rich biscuit dough Brown celery and onion in hot fat. Add meat, potatoes, carrots, and peas. Add gravy, season to taste. Pour into casserole, top with baking powder biscuits. Bake in moderate oven. 375° for 15 to 20 minutes or until biscuits are golden brown. Serves 6. CORNED BEEF CASSEROLE 1% c. Broken noodles lc. Grated American cheese 1 can (10% oz.) cream of mushroom soup 1 tbsp. Dehydrated onion, '% c. Evaporated milk or 2 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 can (10 oz.) corned beef Yc. Potato chips, crushed Cook noodles in 1 quart unsalted boiling water until tender (about 10 to 12 minutes), drain. Mix drained noodles, cream of mushroom soup, broken pieces (bite size) of corned beef, dehydrated onion, and milk. Pour into greased 1! Quart casserole dish. Cover with grated cheese; top with broken potato chips. Bake in 425° oven for 10 to 15 minutes, or until bubbly hot. Variation: Use 1 can (7 oz.) tuna fish (well drained). Serves 6. SWEET AND SOUR CHICKEN OVER RICE Rice 1% tbsp. Butter salt to taste 1% c. Long-grain rice (if bouillon cube is used, 3% c. Bouillon or chicken stock do not add salt) Heat rice in butter. Pour hot chicken stock over heated rice and butter. Let come to a boil. Remove from heat and place in casserole. Cook for 30 minutes in 350° oven. Sweet and Sour Chicken 1 large chicken, cooked and boned 2 c. Pineapple juice 4 tbsp. Cornstarch 2 tbsp. Soy sauce 1 tsp. Salt 144 c. Green pepper strips ¥2 c. Brown sugar 2 cans #2 pineapple chunks Y2 c. Vinegar 1 tsp. Minced dried onion. Combine cornstarch, salt, brown sugar, vinegar, and pineapple juice. Cook until thickened. Add chicken, green pepper, and pineapple chunks. Serve hot over rice. Yield: 10 servings. 754 Casserole Cookery HAM AND EGG CASSEROLE 2 c. Ground ham ¥Y medium onion, finely chopped Ye large green pepper, finely chopped Sauté together in small amount of butter Hard-cook 1 dozen eggs, slice. Mix 1 can of mushroom soup with 1% can milk In buttered casserole, alternate layers of soup mixture, ham mixture, eggs, ending with soup mixture. Top with buttered bread crumbs to which about 1% c. Grated medium cheddar cheese has been added. Place in 300° oven for about 20 minutes or until mixture starts to bubble and is nicely browned on top. Serves 8. This is particularly appropriate for a brunch. (CHICKEN CASSEROLE Cook until tender a large fat stewing hen (4% to 5 Ibs). Cool in broth and remove meat from bones Dressing 6 c. Soft bread crumbs 6 tsp. Broth % c. Butter 1 c. Celery diced fine 1 tsp. Salt 1 medium onion, chopped dash pepper 1 tsp. Sage Sauté onion in butter until slightly brown. Combine with rest of the ingredients. Place in bottom of baking dish. Lay slices of chicken on top. Pour sauce over top. Cook at 300° for 1 hour. (Cover with foil for part of cooking time.) Sauce Yc. Chicken fat 4c. Broth 1 square butter (1% c.) - 2 tsp. Salt lc. Flour 4 eggs lc. Milk Cook all together, except eggs, until thick, stirring constantly. Beat eggs. Pour thickened mixture over eggs, stirring constantly. Return to pan and heat through but do not boil. Serves 12 to 15. SEEDTIME AND HARVEST Today as | look from my window at half-bare trees, At crimson and gold, gay-dotting the landscape over, | give grateful thanks to God on bended knees For flowers and fruits, for sun and succulent clover: That 'While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, And cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day And night shall not cease." The owl and the bluebird shall nest. We shall be gladdened alike by the sun's golden ray And storms, be they gentle or wild; that age follows youth, That earth is our home and around it the waters are curled, | \\\="==" And we who are a part of it all, treasure each truth \\ ~""aé AS seasons come and go and light illumines the world. 755 i, —Zara Sabin Black | Walnut "= Gathering, Pauline L. Jensen @ In my childhood, October meant more than blue skies, glorious sunsets and crisp nights when we pulled the wool comforters to our chins and snuggled in dreamy content beneath them. It meant more than the red of sumac and maple leaves; more than the final fling of beauty from the chrysanthemum bushes before winter descended and gently cradled them in sleep. October, in Nebraska, was black walnut gathering time. There, in my early years, black walnuts grew in abundance in the woods of every farm. Tall and straight, the trees stretched along the banks of the turbulent Missouri River. In rows, they formed a windbreak on the side-roads, having been planted, in many instances, by the first settlers of the region. An abundance of trees did not always insure us of an ample supply of the delicious nuts that added a touch of luxury to our simple fare. After the first frost, people came in droves to retrieve each nut that fell along the highways or on the river banks. In the farm woodlands, the squirrels hoarded great stores of them against the long winter months ahead. But farmers were kind, generous people, willing to share their bounty with neighbors and friends, or even strangers. We were fortunate, in that we had relatives living in the country. Invariably, in early October after the first frost, we set aside a day as "Black Walnut Day." The entire clan then gathered at the home of one of the farming members of the group. I remember with what joyous anticipation we looked forward to these affairs. The winey odor of fallen apples met us as we stepped from the car. Chickens preened their feathers in sheltered spots beside the house, and cats squatted in the sun, their eyes glinting in their solemn faces. In the fields, corn shocks stood in wigwam fashion, reminding us that in the not too distant past, true wigwams had stood upon that very soil. The feel and scent that belongs only to October filled the air. This was the typical "Black Walnut" day of my younger ~ years. I recall with nostalgic longing the appetizing fragrance of roasting pork, baking chickens, spicy pies, and hot rolls that we encountered as we opened the door. Because most of my ancestors were of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction, the food conformed to that mode of cooking. And where could one find better? More than the traditional "seven sweets" and "seven sours" graced the enlarged tables. 756 Black Walnut Gathering The children dashed ahead, dogs barking and darting between them. When they reached the grove, they vied with each other in finding the biggest nuts, and filling pails. In no time, it seemed, sacks were full and stood in neat rows, Waiting to be tied and loaded into the waiting wagon. This done, the children clambered aboard, and with much shouting, urged the horses homeward. The older members of the party walked slowly toward the house Savoring scurried about, putting the leftovers from dinner on the table, where each Goodbyes were called, the cars started, and people settled back against the hard cushions. Truly, this black walnut gathering had been one to remember! AUTUMN Autumn has not come for me, Until | see a chestnut tree In all its golden majesty, On some October day. As sunshine's penetrating beams Reach into branches, nature seems Triumphant in the color schemes That glitter, dance, and play. Brilliant hues of gold are fired, And tones of bronze and brown acquired, As amber, saffron, leaves are pyred In breathtaking array. On some October day. —Ruth G. Rothe 757 th,., ri Ath WA, le Of all the season's rare delights, This scene most pleases and excites, And lifts my soul to unknown heights, Make Your Own Bat ys - Look Grace Diane Jessen Every child treasures the stories, the pictures and mementos that tell of him alone. When these bits are bound together under one cover that can expand with the years as he grows and learns, they become doubly precious. You can make a book for your baby (or a grandchild or a friend) that will be more cherished than any book purchased in a store, because a bit of your love, your personality and creativity will remain stamped onto the pages forever. This book will be less expensive in terms of dollars and cents, but more precious to the one who receives it because you make it just for him. The following directions tell how you can make a basic baby book. You may wish to make many changes or additions to fit your own ideas, and, of course, many pages can be added as the child grows. MATERIALS NEEDED First, purchase these materials from genealogical supplies: One inexpensive '"'Book of Remembrance"' cover. (These cost about 50¢ and are available in different colors and designs.) One personal record page One personal health record page One pedigree chart One portrait pedigree chart One dozen sheets of plain heavy bond paper. (This has prepunched holes as do the other genealogy pages.) Assemble your old greeting cards, appropriate pictures from magazines, a few packages of baby and flower seals, or'a package of baby gift-wrapping paper. These items can be used as you desire to add decorative touches to the pages or you may prefer to draw your own if you have artistic talent. You will need a fine felt-tip pen in a bright color for writing page headings and also a bottle of glue or rubber cement. PROCEDURE Begin by using one of the heavy plain sheets for the inside cover page. Use a stencil or write as neatly as possible "This is the story of" followed by a blank line if the book is for an unnamed baby. Write in the name in large, attractive letters if you know it. Trim the page with flowers, birds, pictures, or whatever appeals to you, but make the name the focal point of the page. Page two is the personal record sheet, trimmed, if desired, with tiny flowers in the upper margin. Under the heading "Important Events," mother may wish to write such details of baby's birth as his measurements, attending physician, and time of arrival. Page three is the personal health record which may be decorated similar to page two. 758 Make Your Own Baby's Book Page four is the pedigree chart with the title "My Family Tree" added at the top of the page. Using colored pencils, sketch in the outline of a large tree which nearly fills the page from top to bottom. Very lightly fill in the coloring with pencil where desired. This will add background to the page. But will not obscure the names and dates when they are added later. Page five is made from the plain heavy bond paper and is divided down the middle by a wavy line, a short straight line or other design. It need not extend from the top to the bottom of the page, but only four five or six inches in the center. Choose one type of dividing mark and use it on all the divided pages throughout the book. Entitle one section "Visitors" and the other "Gifts." Add any pictures or trim that you consider appropriate. Page six is also divided into two sections. These are entitled 'First Foods" and "Favorites." Page seven is for "My Development" and may contain subheadings such as "First Smile," "Sat Up Alone," "First Word," "First Steps," and others. Page eight can be divided three ways and labeled "My Birthdays" with subheadings for "First," "Second," and "Third." Page nine is for "My First Christmas" and "Second" and "Third." Additional pages may be added later for other birthdays and Christmases. You may choose to devote a whole page to just one birthday and include snapshots of it. Page ten is divided into two sections which are labeled "Travels" and "Teachers." Page eleven is for "Mother's Notes" with one corner set aside for information on "My First Haircut." A small envelope can be glued here to hold a lock of baby's hair. Page twelve contains a space for "My Birth Announcement" and "My Footprints." Page thirteen is entitled "Birth and Blessing Certificates." Page fourteen is for "Cards and Clippings." The heavy bond paper is sturdy enough to glue these items on satisfactorily, but, if you prefer, you may purchase sheets of plastic film which fit over these pages. Then the certificates will stay in place without being glued and will be protected from dust and fingerprints as well. Page fifteen is for the portrait pedigree, and is followed by a blank page entitled "Snapshots." These pages are sufficient for a basic book for baby. If you are making one for your own baby, you can assemble the materials and take them along when you go to the hospital. Then you can spend those lonely leisure hours after baby arrives in finishing his book just the way you want it. As your child starts to school, you may wish to add a page for each year including a picture of him. On his twelfth birthday, you can present this record to him and let him have the opportunity of keeping it up to date. He may wish to copy some of your genealogical pages of his ancestry to include in his book. If your child shows a desire to expand and continue the book, you could give him a more durable and permanent cover for it for another birthday. In this way, his "baby book" can grow with him and provide a cherished record of all his life. 759 a. RtyyTityit ty Nancy D. F. Tuddenham Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia, lways Granny, never )J5, Sister, just Granny. A She was Granny to all of us, bless her. An Islander from the Torres Straits, brown of skin and great of heart. Loving her large family, all relatives included, and loved and respected by them. As her name implies, she was not young in years, but was young in spirit. Once we wanted something different for entertainment for a conference. What? Then came the answer — Granny knew Island dances, she could teach us how to do them. So, Granny did, much to our enjoyment and her own. We would sit on the floor, four or five white sisters, three or four native sisters, with Granny in front of us. 760 She would sing the song, and we would try and write down the words phonetically, then we would try to sing them. Why ree roh, ah why ree ree roh, Cor mah tee, cor mah tee, Why ree roh, ah why ree ree roh, Cor mah tee, cor mah tee, Ah kiapee kiapee kiapee Eoh ra coh roh kiapee oh Gh Gh Gh Coh roh, Ah kiapee kiapee kiapee Coh ra coh roh oh oh Gh oh oh coh roh. Then she would show us the movements. As we tried, we must have looked very funny. Granny's ample form would shake with laughter. "No! T'is way, watch me!" Aggie, her daughter-in-law, would start the beat again, using a couple of knives on a chopping board. "One two tree go!" And we would try again, very often ending up _ helpless with laughter ourselves, as we strove to attain the grace and rhythm of the dance. Eventually we could manage. Porma was best at learning the movements; Dot, best at learning the words; the rest of us got through somehow. If we couldn't master the words, we sang the tune, if neither—we made believe. Granny would always tell us "Don't watch me—look at peoples out t'ere." But try as we would, we had to watch her, or get lost. Her great patience won through, though. Then with our coconut leaf skirts, paper leis around our necks, floral dresses, colored rags at our ankles, and pretty scarves tied to our wrists, we were on. Granny stole the show—as she should. The energy she put into each dance, sitting down, or standing up, singing with all her might, was something to be seen. With the last breathless "Herp!" she would bring us to a stop. Granny would be laughing with, it seemed to be, the sheer joy of living. Incidentally, we were asked to do these dances quite a few times. Granny—with her wonderful testimony of the gospel, and her great faith in and love for her Heavenly Father. Many a testimony meeting Granny there has not been a dry eye in the chapel, as she has given her testimony in her English, which made it all the more poignant, because she would not get the words she wanted to use. Her greatest joy was her son and his family steadily growing in strength in the gospel, and her most ardent prayers were for the one who had left the fold, and the ones who would not enter. Granny—who poured out her love on all and sundry, a kiss and a hug for everyone. Her crinkly gray hair pulled back to a bunch at the back, very often with an hibiscus flower stuck into it. Her wide—I must admit—toothless grin that was wonderful. She was proud—as any Islander. Proud that two of her grandsons were on a_ building mission. Proud of the priesthood they and her son held, the positions her daughter-in-law and granddaughter held—the unity there was in the family. Still trying to "larn 'im English more better," so she could "understan' more better t' gospel." An enigma in the branch, and a well-loved one. Whose nimble fingers could do the loveliest embroidery, make _ the prettiest leis? Who always had a smile and a cheery word, even when her heart or her body was aching? Who loved everyone, and whom everyone loved. Who? Our Granny. XS 761 October 1969 Mary Roseltha Fuller Burnett, Ben Lomond South Stake, Ogden, Utah, seldom experiences an idle moment. If she is not cooking or baking, she is sewing or quilting, all of which she does very well. Her rolls melt in your mouth, and she designs her own quilts, having completed more than 150, along with 100 pair of embroidered pillowcases. Everyone in her ward looks forward to receiving a telephone call from Sister Burnett on her birthday, an assignment she faithfully and happily fulfills for the bishop. She has served in the presidency of Relief Society and in the other auxiliaries, and has been beloved as a teacher in all of the Church organizations. Sister Burnett has a large family tree, consisting of thirteen children, forty-one grandchildren, ninety great-grandchildren, and six great-great-grandchildren. Q q tee asia' ~ desl Eva Elizabeth Harmon Gledhill, Riverside Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, has made more quilts than she has time to count. In one year, at the age of seventy-six, she completed thirty large quilts alone, and had pieced the tops for five more. She intends that each of her forty-five grandchildren and twenty-six great-grandchildren will have one of her quilts. She has nine children. Sister Gledhill has been a faithful Relief Society visiting teacher for sixty years and is still teaching. She has also served as Relief Society secretary, and, when as Magazine representative for seven years, her ward was on the Honor Roll. She has served in the presidencies and has taught many years in the other auxiliaries. 762 HZEART ROOM FOR HOME | Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 5 SYNOPSIS: Several major changes have taken place in the Freeman family as a direct result of Kim, the father, and Mary Ann, the mother, bringing Kim's father from his lovely little home in Mayville, Utah, to Los Angeles to care for him after hospitalization for a fractured hip. Mary Ann has had to resign her teaching position to care for him, even though she has been supporting their son, Tommy, in his last year of college, and their daughter, Rosemary, has expected her to stand the expense of her coming wedding to Cary Marks. Rosemary, who has previously said she had no intention of working, applies for Mary Ann's teaching position, where she has been substituting, and gets it. Tommy blandly accepts a scholarship which has been available to him for the last two quarters. Nevertheless, the family budget is still strained, with Mary Ann feeling the brunt of it. ® For a moment Mary Ann was shocked, even frightened, at the command in Kim's voice. "What's mine is yours, don't you know that, honey?" he went on. "You know what there is to spend. Go ahead and spend it." That was right. She did know how much there was to spend, but it was practically all spent by the time Kim got it. If only they had stayed in their smaller home, which was paid for! But it had seemed the only thing to do, to turn it in on a bigger place as the family grew. Four bedrooms had not been too much, with the children coming often, sometimes for overnight visits. A swimming pool and a double 763 October 1969 garage had seemed necessities at the time, and they were still in use, but the payments were high and seemed endless, with ten more years to go on their mortgage. Taxes were as high as modest rent by themselves. And there was still Christmas coming. "Mother, I had no idea how easy it is for money to slip through your fingers," said Rosemary. "I thought I was wealthy when I got my pay check, but it is nearly gone and nothing saved for my wedding." This was a good lesson for Rosemary to learn before her marriage, thought Mary Ann, but she said nothing. Let Rosemary do her own thinking. And Rosemary did. The next afternoon she called Tommy to help her unload a piece of furniture from the trunk of the car. "Where in the world did you get that antique?" he asked. "It is antique, isn't it?" said Rosemary, her eyes shining. "A solid walnut night stand, and I got it for six dollars at an auction. 'm going to strip and refinish it. One of the other teachers told me how, and Cary is going to help me." oe oe grandfather wheeled his walker near and looked at it. "T declare!" he said. "I have its exact mate at home. She bought it when we were first married." "Grandfather! Do you really?" "I have, really, and if you like it you may have it." Rosemary threw her arms ecstatically around her grandfather and kissed him. When Kim got home an hour 764 later he brought a checkbook for Mary Ann. "Joint account," he said. "And, Mary Ann, I hit the boss up for some overtime I heard him talking about and he says fine. Time and a half until Christmas. It will help us over the hump." "Are you sure, Kim? Can you - stand it? You come home dead tired every night, and it will be like having two jobs." "Why not?" Kim said. "Look how long you ran this house and taught school to boot. Any woman who works outside her home has two jobs, really. Don't think I didn't notice the strain of it on you. A man should be stronger than a woman, more able to work long hours." "Kim, you're the most wonderful man in the world," Mary Ann said, and meant it. That was all right for a temporary measure, but not for always, and it wasn't the final answer. Maybe, after the children were gone, things would even out or they would find some other answer, but this would do for now. Christmas was wonderful, with all the children home for Christmas Eve, the little ones performing in turn, singing the carols, playing their amateur, and not so amateur pieces on the piano and other instruments. Grandfather Freeman sat and listened, unashamedly wiping his eyes from the steady outpouring of happy tears to see his grandchildren and _greatgrandchildren all under one joyous roof, the progeny of his only son, Kim. "T don't know as you need snow for Christmas," he said. "T guess they did without it in Bethlehem when Christ was born." Grandfather Freeman was not the only one to feel sentimental at this time of celebration. It was a last Christmas in some other ways, the last time they would be together for the occasion before Rosemary and Cary would be married. Goodness knows where Tommy would be by another Christmas. He was already getting tentative offers, so many that it was a matter of choice for him. Kim and Mary Ann had reason to be proud of their whole family. James was a pilot and had been flying for some time, the Hawaii-San Francisco flight. "We've about decided to move to Hawaii," he said. "It is so lovely there, and if Jennifer and Dick go there we'tl be near them." "Oh," wailed Mary Ann. "Don't talk about such things. Why do children have to go so far from their parents?" "We'll be here," comforted Barbara."And Robert and Heidi." "Not us," said Robert. "My company has offered me too good a job in New York. I can't pass it up." Robert was in the management of Interspace Research, with a Ph. D. In physics. It seemed to Mary Ann her family was flying apart with the speed of light. She deliberately changed the subject. "Did you see Rosemary's solid walnut night stand?" she asked, and it worked. Rosemary and Cary were the recipients of much advice as to how to finish her heirloom piece, that and the one her grandfather had promised her. Heart Room for Home "I'm not even going to start on it until I get the one Grandfather is giving me. I want them to be alike, but I have my eye on a wonderful walnut bed in an old junky shop on Broadway. I don't dare show too much interest in it, for fear the dealer will learn its worth. One of those high-backed jobs, exquisitely carved." Honestly?" said Heidi. "I'd paint it white and antique it." "Antique solid walnut?" said Rosemary incredulously. 'Not on your life. This one will be stripped to the wood and refinished in oil, rubbed to a sheen. I have to have that bed!" Kim looked at Mary Ann and she looked guiltily back. Such a bed as Rosemary described had been ludicrously old fashioned in their early marriage. "What I like about it is the length," said Cary. "Where else could you buy a seven-foot bed unless you made it? It's a real handicap sometimes being six foot-four." | "What silver pattern are you getting?" said Carol. "T don't know!" wailed Rosemary. "The one I want costs sixty-five for a six-piece place setting, besides all the big pieces. It could run into a thousand dollars and I simply couldn't afford it." That was no doubt the pattern she had expected her mother to buy before she went to work. "Don't look at me," said Cary. "All I expect to buy is the place to put it. It is an ancient custom for the _ bride to bring the bridegroom a handsome dowry." 765 October 1969 "Register for it," said the practical Barbara. "And _ see what comes in as gifts." "T don't want my wedding to be commercial," said Rosemary, to. Her mother's amazement. Her early demands had seemed very commercial to Mary Ann. Was Rosemary changing, or had her mother never understood her youngest daughter? "T would love to be married in a dress made by my own mother," said Rosemary. "You're a wonderful seamstress." "Darling, you shall be!" said Mary Ann, almost overcome. Oh, this girl was revealing herself to be really something! How could her parents ever have thought of her as selfish and demanding? Tommy was very attentive to the little scene, and Cary's arm tightened about Rosemary. It was plain to see he had never misjudged his sweetheart and Mary Ann was glad. They would be taking into their marriage the same understanding as she and Kim shared. She looked at Kim. He had taken out his handkerchief to sop his eyes. "Kim, I don't want to go on pretending something which is not true,' she told him later. "T did like my job. I loved having my own money." "Did you, dear? Oh, I'm sorry to have made you give all that up." "Don't be. Look what I would have missed—seeing Rosemary develop, understanding her at last. It would have been disaster for her to take those resentments into her marriage, and I would have never known how it was with her or been able to set her 766 on the right course." "And Dad! I think it is really working out with him. Did you ever see a happier old man than he is? I believe we have it made—that his involvement with going home in the spring is moving farther and farther from his mind. Oh, I'll keep my promise to him; that place will never be sold in his lifetime or in mine—not by me." The holidays were past and Tommy had registered for winter quarter. "I have my thesis title," he said. "You have? What is it?" Mary Ann. Asked. "Very mundane. "The: Place of the Aged in Our Society.' " "T think that is a wonderful subject, Tommy. What made you choose that?" "It's a natural, with a case history right in my own home. Oh, I'll have the statistics and the whole picture. My dean is quite enthused about it. He wants me to write a preliminary paper for a symposium to be held in Washington in April. If it turns out well I get to go there and present it." "Why, Tommy! I sound like a parrot saying everything is wonderful, but it is wonderful!" "T think it is, too, Mother. It is a wonderful feeling to know where you're going, at last. I've been on the edge of decision so long I feel split down the middle." "You undecided, Tommy? It is hard for me to believe that?" "You'd better believe it, Mother. I was on the verge of tackling a psychiatrist, but this last Christmas, with its range of age—Jennifer's Becky to Grandfather, and all the ages in between spread out a picture to me and everything seemed to fall into place—the whole scheme of life. Best of all, my place in i," Proof of Tommy's assertion came close on its heels. He burst in excitedly from his first day of classwork in the new quarter. "T've found her!" he said. "I've met my girl!" "What's her name? Who is she?" demanded Rosemary, too stunned as were Mary Ann and Kim, to be facetious. "I don't know," said Tommy without shame. "I just know she is the one!" "I told you it would be like atomic fission," said Rosemary. "But I thought you would at least know her name. Where's all that caution now, that handpicked, home-raised girl?" Heart Room for Home "You saw her last Sunday. That new girl in Church. She was in my class today." Mary Ann breathed a sigh of relief. All their children to date had married well and had been married in the temple. They were all following a pattern of Church activity and their parents very often reminded themselves of this great blessing. "Aren't we crossing bridges?" asked Kim when they were alone. "If Tommy knows nothing about her except that she was in Church, isn't that taking a good deal for granted? It still doesn't insure that she is good wife material for a boy like Tommy, or in fact that she will be that easy for him to marry." "You said you knew me the minute you saw me, and you didn't know my name either." "That was different." "Was it? How?" "T didn't notice any new girl in Church last Sunday," said Kim evasively. "She couldn't have been so outstanding." "We'll just have to trust Tommy's instincts," decided Mary Ann. "Right," Kim agreed. '"We can't live our children's lives." "Now don't worry about Tommy during the day," said Mary Ann when she kissed Kim goodbye next morning. "Just remember how well your father is, how happy he is here." But the mail brought a forthright letter from Kim's sister Emily Dodd. ".. You'll have to do something positive about that place. Last night some boys pried off the boards of one of the windows and got in. They didn't 767 October 1969 do much damage, just built a fire in the fireplace and toasted marshmallows. That is how we found out. Victor saw the smoke coming out of the chimney and went right over, but an empty house is a temptation for vandals. I still think you ought to sell it. I've thought so all along." Father Freeman didn't say anything, just handed the letter 768 TAPESTRY OF DEEDS Between the warp and woof Of night and day We spin our fabric of life Upon earth's loom. We watch the design of others Then, with heddles and batten We beat and weave. A pattern forms, We struggle with the thread Of self-recognition, Principle and ambition. Its fragile appearance denies The strength of habit And becomes a tapestry of deeds Ranging from dark sorrow To a sunburst of happiness, Now a fabric bejeweled With strength, quality and beauty. The pattern is our own— For we card, pull, spin, Twist and weave The silken silver threads Into our destiny. —Margaret B. Shomaker to Mary Ann to read. "Don't worry, Dad," she consoled. "This only proves Victor and Emily are on the job. They'll watch it doubly close now that this has happened." "Tm sure youre right," said her father-in-law, but that night he wasn't hungry'and he went to bed without dinner. (To be continued) All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Eternal Life sepa RA EAST MILL CREEK STAKE (UTAH) HOLDS VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 2, 1969 Left to right: East Mill Creek stake and ward visiting teacher message leaders: Bea Savage, stake; Gayle Jorgensen, Third Ward; Alta Dean, Eleventh Ward; Jean Bruderer, Sixth Ward; Darlene Parkin, Fourth Ward; Elva Williams, Twelfth Ward; Tanetta Sorensen, Seventh Ward; Eileen Dunyon, East Mill Creek Ward; Carmen Thompson, Ninth Ward; Ada Whiteley, Second Ward. Bodell Balli, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The members of the stake board were in charge of planning our first visiting teacher convention held in our stake in nearly a decade. The theme for the convention was 'Trees of Life,' and an original skit was presented which enumerated the commendable qualities of various forest trees and related these qualities to the work of a visiting teacher. 'Music for the convention was rendered by a string ensemble and a chorus of Singing Mothers under the direction of Karen Smith, chorister, and Genevieve Callister, organist. Elna P. Haymond of the General Board spoke on 'The Purpose and Importance of Visiting Teaching.' "The convention proved to be inspirational and a fitting climax to a year of devoted service by our visiting teachers." 769 CaS October 1969 DENVER SOUTH STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS INTERNATIONAL SMORGASBORG DINNER, April 13, 1969 Members of the Littleton Ward who sponsored the English Foods section, left to right: Dona Stone; Jean Cauble; Helen Lowe, President; Jean Bush; Penny Milne. Helen B. Thornton, President, Denver South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Over 600 members of our stake and their guests enjoyed our international smorgasborg dinner. Upon entering the gaily decorated cultural hall, one caught the spirit of a fun-filled evening. Delicious food from seven different countries was served from cleverly decorated booths, by sisters in native costumes. "During the evening, entertainment closely associated with the countries represented was presented. It was an outstanding event, and greatly aided the fund-raising drive for the ward Relief Societies."' OREM STAKE (UTAH) SPONSORS A CREATIVE WRITING CONTEST March 15, 1969 Winners in the creative writing contest and stake literature class leader, left to right: Jeralyn Moncur; Beth Taylor, stake cultural refinement class leader; Connie Eitner; Shirley Jo Freese; Cecilia Harris; Deborah Summers; Gloria Chapman; Roger Chapman; James Jeppson. Bertha T. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We feel that we have had a very successful year, climaxing with a creative writing contest. Plans are for making this an annual event. It was for poetry and short story, and open to both men and women from the age of twelve on up. The divisions were separated at nineteen years of age. "The contest opened in November 1968 and closed in March of 1969. We had four categories for judging in the poetry: humorous, sacred, secular, and overall, with both junior and senior divisions in each category. "We are very happy about the results of this contest and feel that it has enriched the lives of all who participated."' CALIFORNIA NORTH MISSION, TEMPLE INDIAN BRANCH HAS ACTIVE RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Alice M. Funk, Secretary-Treasurer Temple Indian Branch Relief Society; Violet Alexander, President; Irene Ashenfelter, First Counselor. Standing, left to right: Rena Louverin; Margaret Lewis; Mary Yazzie; Priscilla Chiago; Katherine Cleveland; Elsie Brown. Leonora B. Cox, former supervisor, California North Mission Relief Society, reports: "We are pleased with the progress of this new Relief Society, organized one year ago. The officers are Indians from tribes throughout the country. These sisters meet in love and sisterhood. They carry forth a full program of lessons throughout the winter months, and in the summer they have met each week to work on handicraft items. All of the officers and teachers are at least part Indian." Edna. C. Terry is the new supervisor of the California North Mission. 770 ae — - —_ i aie (Sr a ae October 1969 WILFORD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "ONE WORLD," May 1, 1969 Left to right: Kathy Moyes; Phyllis McKee; Elsie Fudge; Jerry Catmull; Janet Baer. Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We all felt that our 'May Day' program was a tremendous success. Our overall theme was 'One World,' _ and we had each ward sponsor a booth representing a different country. "Our program consisted of special musical numbers from Germany, Norwary, and Tonga, and our Singing Mothers performed 'One World,' and 'When God Sees Your Garden.' A musical skit entitled 'It's Time for Terry' depicted a mother of six chil: dren shopping in a time store. Her money was twenty-four hours with which she had to decide what was of value and should be purchased with that exchange. "A recipe booklet featuring recipes from the officers and teachers of Relief Society from each of the wards was given to the sisters. Luncheon was served to 620 guests and evening refreshments were served to over 350 working mothers, husbands, and young people. "We were privileged to have Sisters Hazel Love, Lenore Gundersen, Fawn Sharp, and Luella Finlinson of the General Board of Relief Society present.'' a SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS "TO HEARKEN AND TO OBEY," April 28, 1969 Front row, left to right: Mary Mather; Claudia Christensen; Bessie Allsop; Ellen Johnson; Ellen Geary; Debra Parkinson. Second row, left to right: Myrna Low; Betty Phillips; LuJean Nilson; Wanda Shuldberg; Terry Johnson, Randy Funk; Marian Bischoff; Rula Farrell; Nancy Straatman; Diane Gleed. Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox was presented at our stake leadership meeting. A select group of Singing Mothers presented a lovely song, 'The Virtuous Woman.' "Stake board members arranged a lovely display table depicting all the phases of the Relief Society program, including a diffusion of instructions coming from the General Authorities, through the General Board of Relief Society to the local officers and to each member."' NORTHERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, June 13-15, 1969 Left to right: Irma Mortensen, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Rosanna Snyder, First Counselor; Minetta Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Mildred Walk, Second Counselor. Sister Mortensen reports: ''We held a three-day Relief Society conference with the theme, 'Treasures of heaven and Earth.' The sisters from the four districts and thirtytwo branches traveled from twenty to 450 miles one way to participate. 'There was an evening of talent display, a morning of bazaars, bake sales, luncheons, lesson reviews, and homemaking demonstrations, and a banquet and program. "Highlighting and culminating the convention was a Sunday morning fast and testimony meeting, with music from the Singing Mothers. Ruth Barton Kimball is the new supervisor of the Northern States Mission Relief Society. 772 I October 1969 BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT "LET MUSIC FILL THE-EARTH," April 26, 1969 Front row, left to right: Audrey Patterson, chorister, Bannock Stake Relief Society; Florence Panter, pianist; Edsel Prescott, organist. Ann P. Lloyd, President, Bannock Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our Singing Mothers presented the lovely musicale 'Let Music Fill the Earth,' by Lucelle R. Taylor. Narrating was Vivian Simmons, and the Statue of Liberty was portrayed by Donna Harris. "The Singing Mother selections were highlighted by flute accompaniment, piano and vocal solos, violin and vocal duets, girls, children, and male choruses, a Cub Scout chorus, and a male quartet. "We had much support in this production from the stake and ward officers, and this will be long remembered as an outstanding cultural event in our stake." LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HAS GOOD HOME STORAGE PROGRAM Presidents of the wards and branches of Liberty Stake Relief Society, seated, left to right: Cleora Smith, South Harvard Ward; Ruth VanDerMayden, Ninth Ward; Edith Crosley, Harvard Ward; Thelma Olsen, Liberty Ward; Mary Bendsten, Danish Branch; Maalfred Gran, Norwegian Branch; Michi Mano, Dai-Ichi Branch; Catherine Romyn, Eighth Ward. Back row, left to right: Marjorie Shepherd, Liberty Park Ward; Gwynne Smith, Second Ward; Nellie Hansen, stake Homemaking Counselor; Sarah McKee, Education Counselor; Deniece Starich, President. Sister Starich reports: ''We have been carrying forth a home storage program in our stake for several years. We encourage our sisters when shopping to 'buy a bag for themselves and a bag for the shelves.' "We use the theme 'Plan to Can' regarding that which is in season. The Church cannery may be rented by any group, and they will order the produce or the group may bring its own. This group canned fresh pineapple from Mexico, and we have found that working together unites us in love and sisterhood and greatly aids the program." OLYMPUS STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PERFORM AT CONFERENCE, May 11, 1969 Front row, third and fourth from left: Lucile M. Salisbury, organist, Olympus Stake Relief Society; Carroll B. Smith, chorister. Lola J. Peterson, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our Singing Mothers were delighted to have the opportunity of singing at our stake quarterly conference. We deemed it especially appropriate since it was Mother's Day. Eightytwo sisters performed, singing 'The Lord Is My Light,' and 'Prayerful Hour.' " 774 October 1969 SAN DIEGO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SPONSORS A CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, April 25, 1969 Presidents of San Diego Stake Relief Society who were honored, left to right: Carolyn Westover, Counselor to the first stake Relief Society President, Mary Christensen who is deceased, Rasmina Price, Counselor to Josie Bay, former member of the General Board; Thora Halgren; Enid Miller, Ida Andersen; Thair Milne, current President. Sister Milne reports: ''We held a cultural arts festival featuring music, art, literature, and drama, to honor our city as it celebrated its 200th anniversary, and to edify and enrich the lives of our sisters. An original pageant was presented which portrayed the part Latter-day Saint women have played in the development of San Diego, ending with a scene honoring each of our past and present Relief Society presidents. "'Music added its grace to the evening in the form of a women's string quartet. There were two original musical scores in the pageant. Over 100 pieces of art work were on display, including many lovely creations of needlework. The creative writing talents of our sisters were displayed through a printed booklet. "Over 350 sisters participated in the festival and more than 700 attended. We feel it was a very edifying event." 776 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 100— Joseph Smith Evaluated Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman strives to strengthen her testimony that Joseph Smith is a Prophet and that The Church of Jesus Christ was restored through him. INTRODUCTION One of the inspired documents of the latter days was written by President John Taylor at the time he was a member of the Council of the Twelve. (D&C 1844 ed.; Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Rev. Ed., p. 855.) During the remainder of this year, we shall have an opportunity to consider the great truths found in that scripture, Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135. When a man speaks or writes by the Holy Ghost, it becomes scripture—the will, mind, word, and voice of the Lord, "and the power of God unto salvation." (D&C 68:4-5.) When imbued with the Spirit of the Lord a person can know the _ truth uttered by that Spint. In this manner the truth is revealed and known by the honest in heart. Ultimately, this is the final test of religious truth. (D&C 50:19- 22.) Measured by this standard, the member of the Church may know that Elder Taylor was under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost when he _ penned the document about the martyrdom of Joseph and his brother Hyrum Smith. (D&C, Section 135.) By his' apostolic calling Elder Taylor was qualified for this work and, also, because he and Elder Willard Richards, later to be a Counselor to President Brigham Young, were with the martyred brothers on June 27, 1844, at Carthage Jail, Illinois. 777 October 1969 JOSEPH SMITH EVALUATED President John Taylor as guided by the Spirit wrote the following about Joseph Smith: Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it.... (D&C 135:3.) Centuries before Joseph Smith ° was born, Joseph, who was sold into captivity by his brothers, foresaw that the seer of the latter days should be named after him and that his father's name would be Joseph. (2 Ne. 3:15.) Of significance in this prophecy is the Lord's statement about Joseph Smith's work and his appraisal of his faithfulness: And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do none other work, save the work which I shall command him. And I will make him great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work. (2 Ne. 3:8.) It was the testimony of Joseph of Egypt that his descendant of the latter days would attain an esteemed position in mortal life, for:... A seer shall the Lord my God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my loins. Yea, Joseph truly said: Thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall be esteemed highly among the fruit of thy loins. Ahd unto him will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shail be of great worth unto them, even to the bringing of them to the knowledge of the covenants which I have made with thy fathers. (2 Ne. 3:6-7.) (Italics added.) The Prophet Joseph Smith knew that as other prophets were foreordained to their callings, so also he received a divine 778 calling before he was born. On one occasion he said: I suppose that I was ordained to 'this very office in that Grand Council. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 6, p. 364 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Class Discussion Support your belief in the doctrine of foreordination to callings in this life. GREATNESS AMONG THE PROPHETS The inspired evaluation of Joseph Smith that he has done more, except Jesus, for the salvation of men in this world raises a question as to the position of other prophets of God. Each prophet has attained greatness as he has fulfilled his calling. Special recognition, for example, has been given to the prophet Isaiah about whom Nephi said his soul delighted in his words. (2 Ne. 25:5.) The resurrected Savior told the Nephites on this continent that "... Great are the words of Isaiah." (3 Ne. 23:1.) Why were Isaiah's words great? Primarily, because he foresaw events of the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Isa. 2: 1-4; 29.) His greatness as a prophet is also evident because he served faithfully the people of his own generation. Another Old 'Testament prophet Ezekiel was great because he also fulfilled his calling in his day, as well as to foretell events of the future concerning the last days. (Ezek. 37:15-28.) NEW TESTAMENT PROPHETS Peter, John, and Paul ful- filled their missions in honor to the people of the meridian dispensation. Also, each one of them was permitted to see the greatest dispensation, that of the last days. (Acts 3:19-21; Rev. 14:6-7; Eph. 1:9-10.) Although all of the works of the former-day prophets are not known to us, we can see wherein they were great. Their personal ministry was confined, as in the case of Joseph Smith, to a relatively few people, but their influence has been felt through their writings and the significance of their acts in this mortal state. Admittedly, it is difficult to place one prophet above another, for each performs his work in a particular situation. Therefore, one might say that the "greatest" prophet to a people is the living prophet. The principal reason for this belief is due to the opportunity for the living prophet to present solutions to the problems of his day through divine guidance. The prophets who have succeeded Joseph Smith have each met the particular need of his day; so it was with the ancient prophets. JOSEPH SMITH'S GREATNESS Obviously, a prophet must be judged in relation to the time in which he lives. If we believe that Joseph Smith has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, upon what basis may we say it? Bear in mind that it is said that Joseph Smith did a greater work for the salvation of men in this world. This statement rules out consideration of Adam, certainly one of the Lesson Department greatest of prophets, for his work involved the _ premortal state, and will involve the future. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 157; D&C 88: 110-15.) President John Taylor apparently had in mind Joseph Smith's accomplishments during mortal life. It was not that he was greater than any other person in the plan of salvation, but only that his greatness was reflected in his mortal ministry. What then of Joseph Smith? By virtue of his relationship with other dispensations, and _ the place of the dispensation ushered in by the Prophet Joseph, we shall discover the reasons for his greatness. Our dispensation is the final period in which God will conclude his work for the salvation of men. In addition, it is to contain the truths revealed in past dispensations. This fact was spoken of by both Peter and Paul as the restoration of all things, spoken of by the prophets since the world began. (Acts 3:19-21.) Paul said this period of time would bring together all things God had revealed, consequently, it would be known as the "fulness of times." (Eph. 1:9-10.) Questions for Discussion Because we have the privilege of coming to earth during this final period for the salvation of men, what special responsibilities are ours? What would characterize this dispensation? Not only would this work involve the salvation of the living but also the dead. It was necessary that the Savior offer his atonement for man and go 779 October 1969 into the spirit world to initiate the preaching of the gospel to those who died without a knowledge of it. (1 Peter 3:18-20; D&C 128:5.) As far as is known, little work was performed for the dead during the time of the apostles. Few references appear in the New Testament regarding it. (1 Cor. 15:29; Heb. 11:39-40.) As far as the salvation of man is concerned, Joseph Smith's period was to include on a large scale benefits for the dead as well as the living. Class Discussion Why would a Latter-day Saint believe that Joseph Smith has done more for the salvation of men in this world, save Jesus only, than any other man that has ever lived in it? (D&C 135:3.) A REMARKABLE PREDICTION In Joseph Smith's own account of a visit to him by the Angel Moroni, at the age of seventeen, Joseph Smith said that Moroni said:... God had a work for me to do; and that my name should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:33.) The fulfillment of this divine prediction was realized in Joseph Smith's life and continues to be fulfilled. Great men have been lauded and condemned by their contemporaries. Abraham Lincoln was denounced by many who thought he was unjust and illiterate, while others considered him a great man of destiny. The same may be said of Joseph Smith. To the unrighteous and prejudiced, he was a 780 subject for persecution. But to his faithful followers he was God's anointed seer. Many, not of his own Church, however, also saw his greatness. One of these wrote for the New York Herald from Nauvoo, Illinois, the home of the saints, this personal description of the Prophet: Joseph Smith, the President of the Church, Prophet, Seer and Revelator, is thirty-six years of age, six feet high in pumps, weighing two hundred and twelve pounds. He is a man of the highest order of talents, and great independence of character, firm in his integrity, and devoted to his religion; in one word he is a man per se as President Tyler would say. As a public speaker, he is bold, powerful, and convincing— possessing both the suaviter in modo and the fortiter in re; as a leader, wise and prudent, yet fearless; as a military commander, brave and determined; and, as a citizen, worthy, affable, and kind— bland in his manners, and noble of bearing. (March 19, 1842.) Concerning the work being donein Nauvoo by the Latter-day Saints, a correspondent of this same newspaper wrote that the priests and philosophers of the day could well take a lesson from Joseph Smith. Of the Prophet it was said he seemed to have... Hit the nail exactly on the head, by uniting faith and _ practice—fancy and fact—religion and _ philosophy— heaven and earth, so as to form the term of a new religious civilization, bound together in love and tolerance—in industry and energy—that may _ revolutionize the whole earth one of these days. (January 19, 1842.) FURTHER EVALUATION In support of the evaluation of Joseph Smith as discussed in this lesson, President Taylor gave the following: To seal the testimony of this book and the Book of Mormon, we announce the martyrdom of Joseph Smith the Prophet, and Hyrum Smith the Patriarch. (D&C 135:1.) He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of the Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and _ his works with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! (D&C 135:3.) Does the death and testimony of these two prophets affect the salvation of men in this world? An answer to this question involves an understanding of what President Joseph Fielding Smith, of the First Presidency and President of the Council of the Twelve, has termed the divine law of witnesses. (Doctrine of Salvation Vol. 1, pp. 203-28.) This law was stated by Paul as: In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. (2 Cor. 13:1.) If we had a perfect record of each dispensation, we would know that there has been more than one witness to testify for the Lord. Methuselah, grandfather of Noah, and Lamech, father of Noah, were righteous men who witnessed with Noah in _ his dispensation. In the Mosaic dispensation, Moses and his brother Aaron served in a similar capacity. We have a much more complete account of the divine law of witnesses in the meridian dispensation. In addition to Jesus, his Father testified of the divine Sonship of the Savior upon several occasions. (John 5:30-33; 8:14-19; 12:26-30; Matt. 3: 15-17.) The twelve apostles were also witnesses, and of these Peter, Lesson Department James, and John received a special witness when they heard the Father's voice and _ conversed with Moses and Elijah. (Matt. 17:1-8.) In our own dispensation there were many witnesses to testify of the Lord. Among these testators was Oliver Cowdery, who served with Joseph Smith as a witness of the restoration of the keys of the priesthood. (D&C 13; 27:12-13; 110.) The Three Special Witnesses to The Book of Mormon and also the Eight Witnesses may also be mentioned as God's witnesses to his truth in the last days. A TESTIMONY SEALED In a special way, however, the principle of witnesses was applied in the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Hyrum was not only the Patriarch to the Church but also Assistant President of the Church, having taken the place of Oliver Cowdery. The divine law of witnesses is expressed in the New Testament as: For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator. For a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth. (Heb. 9:16-17.) After the martyrdom of these prophets, the Lord revealed to Brigham Young that Joseph Smith had sealed his testimony with his blood "... That he might be honored and the wicked might be condemned." (D&C 136:39.) Class Discussion How has the sealing of the martyrs' 781 October 1969 testimony affected the salvation of men in this world? NON-LDS EVALUATION In the spring of 1844, Josiah Quincy, mayor of Boston and a non-Latter-day Saint, visited the Prophet in the city of Nauvoo. He later published his observations as follows: It is by no means improbable that some future textbook for the use of generations yet unborn will contain a question something like this: What historical American of the nineteenth century has exerted the most powerful influence upon the destinies of his countrymen? And it is by no means impossible that the answer to the interrogatory may be thus written: 'Joseph Smith, the Mormon Prophet.'... The wonderful influence which this founder of a religion exerted and still exerts, throws him into relief before us, not as a rogue to be criminated but as a phenomenon to be explained.... Joseph Smith, claiming to be an inspired teacher, faced adversity such as few men have ever attained, and, finally, forty-three days after I saw him, went cheerfully to a martyr's death. Josiah Quincy concluded his observations by saying: Born in the lowest ranks of poverty, without book-learning and with the homeliest of all human names, he had made himself at the age of thirty-nine a power upon the earth. Of the multitudinous family of Smith, none had so won human hearts and shaped human lives as this Joseph. His_ influence, whether for good or for evil, is potent today, and the end is not yet. I have endeavored to give the details of my visit to the Mormon prophet with absolute accuracy. If the reader does not know just what to make of Joseph Smith, I cannot help him out of the difficulty. I myself stand helpless before the puzzle. (Conference Report, April 1930, pp. 190-92; Figures of the Past by Josiah Quincy, University Press, John Wilson And Sons, Cambridge, Copyrighted 1883.) IMPLEMENTATION Biblical prophets foretold the restoration of the gospel and The Church of Jesus Christ with its priesthood powers. To initiate this work, the Lord raised up Joseph Smith, Jr., foretold by the Old Testament prophet, Joseph of Egypt, as recorded in The Book of Mormon. It was said he would perform the work of salvation appointed him as a choice seer in the Lord's eyes. This modern Prophet was destined to lead the greatest dispensation of the gospel, for he would perform a work for the salvation of the dead as well as the living. His period of time would see the culmination of all of God's work on this earth for the salvation of men. Mighty in its scope and marvelous in its impact upon the souls of men, the work of the dispensation of the fulness of times would eclipse all other gospel periods. Latter-day Saints believe that "Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it." CEBHIO 782 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 4—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that throughout one's life one makes eternal choices. When you were little did you read the fairy tales, the legends, and the myths that told of kings and queens, of castles, palaces, and feasts? Did you then dress up in your mother's old dress, make a crown of paper or flowers, and play that you were a queen? Didn't that seem the epitome of all that you could ever want? Was some of that make-believe stardust still clinging to you when you read Mosiah 28:10 and discovered that "... King Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon, for there was not any of his sons who would accept of the kingdom."? Then as you read further, didn't the castles and palaces fade as you saw the king's sons, mighty in faith, humble in spirit, persuasive in teaching the gospel, bring many souls into the kingdom of God? You remembered, "And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me!" (D&C 18:16.) Have you ever secretly sympathized with the very rich ruler who having kept the commandments of Moses came to Jesus and asked, "... Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" (Luke 18:18.) Jesus answered him, "... Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me." (Luke 18:22.) And when Jesus saw that he could not, he said, "... How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!" (Luke 18:24.) Have you thought how difficult it would be to sell all you have and give to the poor? The great prophet-leader Nephi had a devoted, faithful brother Jacob who, while on earth, lived worthy to see his Redeemer. This younger prophet taught, "Wherefore, do not spend money for that which is of no worth, nor your labor for that which cannot satisfy... Feast upon that which perisheth not, neither can be corrupted...." (2 Nephi 9:51.) 783 October 1969 By. Joining the Church we have made the first great choice in this life of "that which perisheth not." Each day, each week we make new choices that will determine our future joy or sorrow. Let us consider some of these important decisions: 1. Do we expand our capacity for love and compassion by continually searching to find new ways to help others? 2. Do we follow Jacob's teaching and spend our money for that which perisheth not? 3. Do we labor to increase our knowledge, our faith, and our understanding of others? 4. Do we grow in self-discipline so that our anger is schooled, our charity increased, our. Peaceful efforts extended, our enemies forgiven and loved? 5. Do we "... Visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and... Keep... [ourselves] unspotted from the world."? (James 1:27.) 6. Do we plan and live our lives so that we will endure to the end? The good we choose perisheth not. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 4— "She Considereth a Field and Buyeth It: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard."' (Prov. 31:16) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out the woman's — in planning and managing a successful family budget. INTRODUCTION A woman's role as a successful homemaker means more than being a loving companion to her husband and a devoted mother to their children; it also means working with her husband in the management of a well-ordered home. It means helping to establish a pattern of living conducive to the best interests of the family members who dwell in 784 that home. This pattern of living recognizes the goals and objectives that are vital to its well-being. A wise homemaker knows that these goals involve careful planning and management of the family resources. She also knows that this can be best accomplished through the use of a family budget worked out to fit their own special needs, interests, and _ desires. Unless we who are the homemakers are aware of our responsibility in the planning and managing of a_ successful family budget, we will not be able to solve the financial problems which inevitably arise in every household. We need to develop in our family members an understanding of their individual responsibilities by letting them share in the planning and formulating of the budget. We need to show them what it costs the family to live and why it is necessary to set up a plan of procedure whereby we can reach our goals and objectives. OUR PLAN OF PROCEDURE In the homemaking discussion printed in The Relief Society Magazine, October 1966, we learned that in planning any budget, certain procedures usually apply to most families. 1. Estimating family income. With our husbands we should make an appraisal of the family income, which will include take-home pay from wages, regular salary, commissions, and parttime earnings, as well as any revenue from pensions, rental income, dividends, interest, or any additional income which might be forthcoming. 2. Calculating fixed expenditures. We should make our family members aware that there are certain expenditures which must be paid regularly— monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually—and that these are fixed or obligatory expenses which take precedence over others. The hst of fixed expenditures should include tithing and other Church contributions, taxes, housing payments, insurance, and debt. 3. Planning daily expenditures, including incidentals. As housewives we should know that day-to-day Lesson Department living costs offer many opportunities to practice wise spending. Such expenditures include those made fo food, household services, clothing, automobile and other transportation, medical care, personal allowances, family recreation and cultural development, and such variables as differing localities, climates, and nationalities might add to or take from the list 4. Planning savings and emergency funds. We must be aware that every family should make some provision for saving in their financial plan if they are to achieve a sense of security When possible, it should be large enough to cover both emergency funds and long-term goals such as education, missions, vacations, retirement, and other desired attainments. We can help our families to see the wisdom of establishing a regular savings plan, even though it means the renouncing of some immediate desires. Many budget experts warn against trying to be too detailed and penny-counting, a practice which tends to discourage longterm persistence. A too-complicated budget is quickly abandoned. CONCLUSION Wise planning and conscientious effort on the part of all members of the family are required to formulate and carry out a successful family budget plan, but it is the homemakers—the mothers and wives—who really put the plan into action. We can be sure that our husbands will be enthusiastic in their approval and that the other family members will be willing to cooperate. Once it is accomplished, it will bring the income, expenditures, and savings of the family into balance and will result in blessings of lasting benefit and fulfillment to all its members. 785 October 1969 APPLICATION The "Simple Monthly Budget Plan" below might be a helpful teaching aid for each sister to fill out for her own confidential use with her family. (This is a reprint from The Relief Society Magazine, October 1966, pp. 788-89.) Lesson Department March through December are recorded the same as January and February. In the beginning a daily record should be kept and the totals recorded in the form. (A looseleaf notebook will serve the purpose.) Most banks and insurance companies provide free budget forms for the asking. A SIMPLE MONTHLY FAMILY BUDGET PLAN DAILY EXPENDITURES "FooD HOUSE- |CLOTHING] CAR |MEDICAL HOLD AND CARE SERVICES TRANSPORTATION EMERSAVINGS | cencies PERSONAL! VARIALLOW- | ABLES ANCES | RECREATION AND OTHER ESTIMATED MONTH INCOME FIXED EXPENDITURES BEFORE | TAKE | TITHING | TAXES] RENT [DEBTS| INSURANCE DEDUC- | HOME AND TIONS | PAY FIXED EXPENSES JANUARY FEBRUARY SOCIAL RELATIONS—immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 4—Work—a Road to Personal Fulfillment Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lesson 23.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the value of work in meeting the requirements of happiness and of divine admonition. INTRODUCTION Having been introduced to President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. (lesson 1, The Relief Society 78 Magazine, July 1967), we know of his general attitude toward work. We know that he believed in the value of work, that he was introduced to responsibility at an early age and that he liked to work. This lesson develops the idea that to work is following divine admonition, that it is a practical necessity, a privilege, and that it may become an _ enjoyable activity. The general theme applies to all—man, woman, and child. Discussion in this lesson, however, will generally be focused toward work within the home and will focus upon the mother's specific position in introducing the children to one of the great challenges of life. REMEMBER THE STORY Do you remember the story of "The Little Ren Hen'? One version narrates that: One day the Little Red Hen was scratching in the farmyard when she found a grain of wheat. She asked, '"'Who will help me plant this wheat?" "Not I," said the duck. "Not I," said the cat. "Not I," said the dog. "All right, I will do it myself," said the Little Red Hen. Then she asked successively: "Who will help me cut the wheat?" "Who will help me knead and bake the bread?" To each of these questions she received the same negative reply. When the loaf was baked, savory, and brown, she then asked, "Who will help me eat the bread?" "T will, " said the duck. "T will," said the cat. "T will," said the dog. The story concludes with this rhyme: Lazy folks must hungry go For they would not help me sow, Neither would they help me reap They had rather rest and sleep. All alone I baked the bread, Lazy folks should not be fed. 787 October 1969 Question for Brief Discussion How would you define work? An international dictionary defines work as "exertion or effort directed to produce or accomplish something." With this definition in mind, the duck, the cat, and the dog, were justified in considering the tasks required to produce the loaf of bread as work. And in the story they did not want to work. This story implies that eating the loaf was less effort or, at least, a more desirable activity. This nursery story obviously tries to teach children the idea that work is important and that each one should assume some responsibility in producing the good things of life. What mother has not observed, with amazement, the amount of exuberant energy expended by her children playing jump-therope or the various running and hiding games, who, only a few moments earlier, said they were too tired to sweep out the garage or to wash the dishes? Questions 1. What makes the difference? 2. How important is the mother's attitude in forming the children's reaction to "work" activities? 3. How will knowing that willingness to work and liking to work are characteristics of maturity help a mother teach her children to work? 4. How will this influence her own attitude toward what might otherwise be considered irksome, monotonous housework? How may a mother teach children to see that opportunities for service to others and for personal satisfactions are endless for those who are willing to work? On 788 OLD AS TIME Eden's gate was no sooner closed than man's earthly work began, for Adam was now introduced to the idea that he must work all the days of his earthly life. Among other things spoken by the Lord to Adam are these words: By the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, until thou shalt return unto the ground....(Moses 4:25.) Since thorns and thistles were to be natural obstacles, the implication is that providing the necessities of life from the earth would not be an easy task. Nor has it been throughout the centuries. In calling our attention to this statement of the Lord, President Clark states, "I believe that we are here to work, and I believe there is no escape from it." (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 23.) Being able to direct personal effort toward the achievement of definite goals other than to obtain food and shelter is a characteristic distinguishing the life of man from that of the lower animals. The English poet Milton pays tribute to man and to work in the following poem from "'Paradise Lost": When Adam thus to Eve: "Fair consort, the hour Of night, and all things now retire to rest, Mind us of like repose; since God hath set Labour and rest, as day and night, to men Successive; and the timely dew of sleep, Now falling with soft slumbrous weight, inclines: Our eyelids: long other creatures all day Rove idle unemployed, and less need rest; Man hath his daily work of body or of mind Appointed, which declares his dignity, And the regard of Heaven on all his ways; While other animals inactive range, And of their doings God takes no account. Of the ways of men the Lord does take account and he has counseled us as to the spending of our precious days and years. A person who will not work, providing he is physically and mentally able to work, may rightly be termed an idler and the Lord has given, in our day, a direct commandment regarding idleness. In the Doctrine and Covenants we read: Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them... (D&C 68:31-32.) INDISPENSABLE IN COLONIZATION How important is work to the world in which we live? How rewarding can it be to individuals and to groups? President Clark speaks of work as indispensable to pioneer life and cites the struggles of the early members of the Church. From lesson 23 of the 1969-70 Melchizedeck Priesthood course of study we quote from an address given in 1960: A hundred years ago armed mobs plundered, burned, and murdered us. I speak without heartburning or malice and with full charity. Three times we were driven by force Lesson Department of arms from our homes, and all our property that we could not carry on our backs or in our wagons was taken from us. When ninety-five years ago our Prophet-leader was slain by an unrestrained local mob and we_ began our westward march over plain and mountain under that genius in leadership, Brigham Young, we moved under our own power, without subsidy, without loan, wished on our way only by the maledictions of those who drove us out from our homes and then appropriated, without payment for it, the property they forced us to leave behind. Arriving in the valleys of the mountains, we planted all our wheat, with enough flour to last only to harvest; our nearest food supply was one thousand miles away, reached only by ox teams; thousands of others were on the way to join us. A pest of locusts came, devouring everything on their way. Famine raised its gaunt frame. Then came the miracle of the gulls, the crops were saved, starvation was beaten back—a miracle as real as any that aided the ancient Israel in her escape from the bondage of Egypt. But even then we lived on short rations of the simplest foods, eked out by wild roots dug from the hillsides. So we struggled on against want and misery; toil and hardship were with us daily. But the Church survived; the people prospered. Character endured intact. We took care of our own poor. In times of scarcity neighbors helped one another. Time and time again, we _ passed through the fiery furnace; we came out of it each time, refined, with the dross burned away, re-inspirited, sanctified. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 23.) Experiences, in many ways similar, were encountered by other groups colonizing western America. In fact, pioneering life at all times has taxed the resourcefulness of the people and has required all individuals to work individually and cooperatively in order to survive. Out of their combined efforts, com- 789 October 1969 munities have been built, states and nations have evolved. Class Participation Consider pioneer conditions, briefly. Discuss the need and the willingness to work in order to survive in contrast to the trend toward idleness in times of plenty.. WORLD OF DISCOVERY For the individual, work may be a door opening into fields more vast than the mind of man has yet envisioned. Though faith may be the great motivator, work is the spade of discovery, for it is work that makes the dream materialize. An _ intelligent person cannot work in any capacity without learning. To work is to discover. It is through individual effort and application that new vistas are glimpsed, horizons widened, and the ability to accomplish enlarged. Examples of what work has produced and the possibilities of future accomplishment are breathtaking. Class Participation Discuss the following personal statements: 1. I stand in awe when I consider how much intelligent effort goes into producing even one of the innumerable commodities we use in the home, the school, and the shop, from simple electrical and manual appliances to such complex mechanism as is found in the computer or the satellites that man has made to orbit into space. 2. The libraries of the world, taken collectively, house billions of books. They did not create themselves. They are the product of intellectual effort and of manual skill. I am grateful to all the individuals who have been involved in their production. I am a student, and, as I view the 790 stacks of books before me, I realize that books contain much of the best that man has thought and said. I know that ideas and facts contained in them can be mine only if I put forth personal effort to make them mine. At best, only a fraction of the knowledge contained will be transferred to me, a thought which spurs me to better use of my time. 3. The innumerable yards of fabric which one sees in a fabric store are evidence of work already accomplished. Without further labor they constitute mere yardage. With additional work of merchant, designer, and seamstress, the world may be clothed. (Other examples may be suggested.) WORK, AN AID TO EMOTIONAL HEALTH Glen C. Beeley, director of a well-recognized arts and craft institution, has some important things to say about work and a woman's emotional world. She believes that work, especially creative work, can and does perform miracles in the lives of unhappy, frustrated, and even, physically handicapped women. She states: I wish you could see the transformations I see in people. I believe that individuals cannot be truly happy unless they are constructively busy. Although some individuals are more inherently creative, everyone can be creative who is willing to work. Many people naturally find creative ways of expressing themselves and of usefully using their available time. Others, less naturally creative, need to be led to creativity, and, thus, to happiness. They need to feel that they can do things with their hands. This assurance and this accomplishment lead to a degree of creative experimentation and of mental exploration. They think of new or different ways of making the same article. But [concludes the director] it is not the articles of art or of usefulness that are really important, it is what creative work does for the individual. This is most rewarding. Individuals (including older people) should and do sense a personal growth from giving of themselves to others and to objectives. Thus they develop a fineness within themselves and a sensibility to the fineness in others. They learn to appreciate what others also are doing and can do. They need to feel, and they do, that they can, figuratively, "Sail their own ships." The foregoing comments regarding arts and crafts, generally, refer to leisure time activity, although professional status and specific occupations may and sometimes are the result. Many women make special effort to enroll in such classes. They find personal satisfaction in creativity as do women who engage in the homemaking activities of Relief Society. What may we say of the necessary, daily tasks of the homemaker? How useful is this work? How important is the attitude of the wife or mother in relation to this part of the world's work? RELEVANT TO WORK Many thought-evoking statements have been made regarding the need for and the important results of work. From the following statements, select for discussion as you desire and as time may permit: Lesson Department When I go into my garden with a spade, and dig a bed, I feel such an exhilaration and health that I discover that I have been defrauding myself all this time in letting others do for me what I should have done with my own hands. —Ralph Waldo Emerson Idleness and pride tax with a heavier hand than kings and parliaments. —Benjamin Franklin Sucess is better when it's harder to achieve. —Aristotle Things may come to those who wait, but only the things left by those who hustle. —Abraham Lincoln I have no secret of success but hard work. —Edward Turner As an author, people often say to me, "So you write books!" I reply, "No, I rewrite books." Little can they know how much rewriting an author must do. —Anon Work is next to genius. —J. Reuben Clark, Jr. You cannot be successful at anything and waste your time. —dJ. Reuben Clark, Jr. For Home Doing Implement this lesson by appraising your own attitude toward work. Ask yourself, "Am I depriving myself of specific satisfactions and blessings because I am unwilling to work sufficiently hard to obtain them?" If so, select one needed task, and work! INGENIOUSLY ADEPT Red-pilumed cardinals Rapidly trace Symbols in the air, With crimson quills, While quaking aspen interpret Their meaningful messages. —Remelda Gibson 791 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Three By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas There is no more sure tie between friends than when they are united in their objects and wishes. —Cicero Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that those who can communicate can work together, and those who can work together make civilization possible. ART "Advice to a Young Artist'' by Honoré Daumier (1808-1879) French, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., Gift of Duncan Phillips. Painting reproduced in the June 1969 Relief Society Magazine, page 447. Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University. Honoré Daumier at the age of seven decided to be an artist. To gain background for his chosen field, he frequented the poorer quarters of Paris and haunted the corridors of the Louvre. He studied Rembrandt and Michelangelo, nature, and the manners and customs of his period. Although he is better known as a lithographer and political cartoonist, it has been said that he was one of the greatest painters of the 19th century. Daumier expressed very deep feelings in a spirit of satire and ridicule. His caricatures are without hatred or spite, although they are biting. There is a direct simplicity in the expressions of what he saw and felt. All of his work has social significance. His art was and still is a very direct means of communication of ideas, a universal language. Artists today use art for propaganda purposes just as Daumier did in his time. The painting, ''Advice to a Young Artist,' is perhaps more mild than many of his works. This is not a portrait of any two particular people but more a generalization of a typical situation in the world of work. We can all learn from others who go before us, especially if they are willing to share their knowledge with us. In this very commonplace idea, expressed in a simple, earthy manner, one senses a certain kinship between the artist and the common working man, a certain reality that makes the commonplace beautiful when stripped to the bare essentials. None of his works is pretty. All tinsel and glitter have been left out and only simple truth remains. Perhaps this is why many have placed Daumier in the school of realism. All of his works, full of compassion for the downtrodden, are attempts at communicating the unvarnished truth as he saw it. As in all great art, Daumier in his work gives us not merely a photographic likeness of his subject but an interpretation of it in which he communicates what he knows, thinks, and feels. 792 t{NTRODUCTORY COMMENTS From childhood, many of us have heard that "sticks and stones may break my bones but names can never hurt me." A far more accurate assessment of reality is given in the Apocrypha when we are reminded that "the stroke of the whip maketh marks in the flesh, but the stroke of the tongue breaketh the bones." Most physical pain is less excruciating than having someone we love and_ respect speak harshly to us. To feel unloved or unwanted is often more crippling than physical impairment. Perhaps modern _ research rightly emphasizes the role of communication in_ establishing positive human relationships. Such communication need not be in words—how rarely are our deepest feelings easily translated in speech—but we must use words to discuss non-verbal communication, so the importance of language in communication cannot be minimized. To concede this, however, is not to admit that the basic problem in poor communication is failure to convey information clearly. If this is assumed, we focus our attention so totally on methods of communication that we risk losing ends in means. Although it has been popular to assert recently that the medium we use is an integral part of the message we are trying to convey, it probably needs to be said also that an Insignificant message belittles any medium that carries it. The word communication originally suggested sharing Lesson Department or making common an idea or an experience. If the idea we want to share can touch a positive chord in another's' background, the chances for successful communication are immeasurably increased. It is when we try to get through to those who do not share our ideals and values that we have extreme difficulty. It is probably not very accurate to speak of a "communication problem" under such circumstances, lest we assume that we need to refine our method rather than examine our beliefs. The selections we have chosen for this lesson make less effort to examine procedures than to assess results. "THE SECRET HEART" In the beginning poem "The Secret Heart" by Robert P. Tristram Coffin the father is hardly conscious of how deeply he is revealing his: love to a half-awake child. But the youngster's identification with his father is so total that he has no difficulty in interpreting the look on his parent's face. As the next to the last couplet suggests, the moment of illumination was not long, but it was enough to light ''all about." The result of such a reassuring insight has been a lifetime of happy memories which are symbolized by a brief vision of his father's "secret heart." The tone of this tender poem helps us understand how prepared the boy was for his revelation. The real impact of this moment depends very little on the situation, even though it yields a symbol that is a memora- 793 October 1969 ble one. The kind of fatherson devotion that is evident here inevitably finds its expression. Question for Discussion Why is unqualified devotion difficult to hide? Comment on some of the less obvious ways in which we communicate our identification with that which we love. "ANOTHER APRIL" In "Another April" by Jesse Stuart we touch briefly on a number of communicative levels. The boy understands his childlike grandfather as only a child could. If his youthful candor is disconcerting, he sees without the restraints which experience imposes, and _ he reacts freely and openly, if also superficially. In the relationships of mother and child there are hints that the young boy understands far more than his simple conversation would suggest and that the mother senses this. Her relationship to her father is now a mildly ambiguous one: she must be both mother and daughter. She doesn't let her practical need to care for him destroy her sensitivity to what he has been to her and still is. The grandfather's relationship with the natural world he had seemed to control totally as a young man has become more passive, but possibly more discriminating. In the terrapin, the old man has a natural counterpart, a checkpoint in his renewed intercourse with the world which is the more precious because it can no longer be taken for granted. 794 Question for Discussion The grandfather seems to have established meaningful relationships with everyone and everything in this story. Why has he been so successful? FROM "THE AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST TABLE" In this short essay Oliver Wendell Holmes helps us see that "full" communication may not be "good" communication. If we try to share sacred feelings with those who are not prepared to respect them, we may lend ourselves to grievous exploitation. A man or a woman is often as vulnerable as an open wound to a marriage partner. In our awareness of the totality of relationship that a good marriage demands, we must also be aware that there is no other human relationship that should ask so much. Letting down restraints in an attempt to understand associates is neither an automatic route to self-enlightenment or a guarantee of better inter-personal relationships. Limits of taste and self-respect should inhibit the intimacies we share. Confession is not a shortcut to that communication which is earned by trust, rooted in similar commitment, and justified by joint responsibility. Question for Discussion Why are we tempted to give keys to our "side-doors" to those who might not use them appropriately? "CAN YOU GET ALONG WITH YOUR IN-LAWS?" In his popular version of a careful research study, "Can You Get Along With Your In-Laws?" Edward Fales provides persuasive evidence that all communication problems with inlaws appear to yield to loving acceptance by all concerned. The lists of "do's'" and "don'ts" he provides are obviously the result of much experience, but, as he himself suggests, the "one greatest lesson" in the Cornell survey he is reporting on is that people who refused to think of their relatives as "in-laws" but only as "members of our family" were able to establish warm, happy relationships with them. Question for Discussion How can we prepare our own sons and daughters to realize that, in marrying, they marry a family as well as a person? "MARK TWAIN'S FAMILY LETTERS" The letters exchanged by Mark Twain and his wife, Livy, are dificult to match in all literature for tender concern and sensitivity to one another. Each almost aches with the desire to understand and help. Mark found it difficult to believe, and Livy was often embarrassed by his lack of taste. She helped him on both counts, some modern critics notwithstanding. Mark aided a gently spoiled child, who took herself very seriously, turn into a resourceful, stimulating woman. In these remarkable letters there is not only growth but a truly notable desire on the part of both to match that ideal that each has of the other. It Lesson Department is comforting to see how effective words, lovingly chosen, can be in encouraging personal development and fostering marital harmony. Excerpts from two letters follow: My dear, dear Livy: November 28, 1868 I do love, love, love you, Livy! My whole being is permeated, is renewed, is leavened with this love, and with every breath I draw its noble influence makes of me a better man. And I shall yet be worthy of your priceless love, Livy. It is the glad task of my life—it is the purest ambition and the most exalted that ever I have known, and I shall never, never swerve from the path it has marked out for me... Mark had early found that Livy was careless in her spelling. Up to this point he hadn't teased her about it, but he can't resist in talking to her about his sister: My sister is a good woman, familiar with grief, though bearing it bravely & giving no sign upon the surface; & she is kind-hearted, void of folly or vanity, perfectly unacquainted with deceit or dissimulation, diffident about her own faults, & slow to discover those of others. She isn't such a gem as you; (by a long shot) & neither is any other woman, but then she is a very, very excellent woman anyway. You'll like her, Livy— she don't seem to spell worth a cent. You see she spells cow with a K. And she has spelled "tripped" with only one p, & she puts only one t in "delighted," & only two s's in "expression," I can stand those little blunders well enough, but I do hate to see anybody spell John with a G. I look upon that as perfectly awful. I notice that you always spell John with a G.—Now forgive me, Livy, darling—you know I wouldn't poke fun at you to save a man's life if I thought it would wound you. I don't care a straw how you spell, Livy dear—I hardly ever notice when you make a mistake—& bless you I am just as proud of you as if you could 795 October 1969 beat the Unabridged dictionary spelling. It would be a pity indeed if I presumed to criticize your spelling—I who am sown as thick with faults as you are with merits, & shining virtues, & beautiful traits of character; & yet you have found it in your heart to take me just as I am & lift me up & bless me with your priceless love—I never can be your critic, my loved and honored Livy. Question for Discussion How much do you think the repeated assertions of love by Mark Twain and his wife actually contributed to that love? With "Neighbor Rosicky" we conclude our discussion of communication on a_ highly encouraging note. As the ideals and values of the characters in this fine story come together, effective communication flourishes. Although, Anton Rosicky and his wife, Mary, have worked out most of their adjustments before this account begins, the series of flashbacks, by which part of this story is told, lets us see some of the circumstances that aided their developing unity. It is important to note that years of marriage have not blunted the Rosickys' sensitivity to each other's whims: Anton caters to his wife's sweet tooth, and she has something hot ready for him when he returns from town. Real marital harmony, however, is not built on indulgence. Shared principle is at the base of the Rosickys' strength. Perhaps this is best exemplified in the scene near the end of section two. As the creamery agent tries to persuade them to sell him their cream, Mrs. Rosicky declares emphatically that 796 she would rather "put some color into my children's faces than put money into the bank." The agent merely turns to Mr. Rosicky to get the real decision, knowing that it is usually the husband's word that really counts among the newly emigrated families with whom he does business. "I guess we'll do like she says," said Rosicky. The developing relationship of Polly to her father-in-law is possibly the key to this story. Here we have concentrated many of the forces that are supposed to block real communication: Polly is not a recent immigrant; Rosicky is. Rosicky is old; Polly is young. Polly is gregarious, Rosicky is not. Polly is a daughter-in-law. It takes a rather dramatic crisis to reveal the depth of Rosicky's understanding of and love for Polly and her own "tender heart." In the few minutes that Rosicky and his daughter-in-law share during his heart attack, all barriers that had seemed to inhibit communication between them are swept away. In realizing how much her father-inlaw loves her, Polly tells him of her expected, child before letting anyone else know. In finding out how tender and capable Polly is, Rosicky sees through the facade of sophistication she had erected between them and knows that she will be the kind of wife Rudolph needs. Question for Discussion Why is Rosicky so effective in bringing out the best in everyone he meets? Like to do grape juice — but hate the mess? BRISTLECONE PINE You, Bristlecone! You made it! Alone on the rim of sky You defy danger. Bent under lightning lash Nothing can break you. | know your kin: People grizzled and old, Glorious and tough, centrated juice with a minimum of effort and absolutely no mess. —Joanna Brown.. For more information contact: Greta Ashdown 612 East Pheasant Way Bountiful, Utah 84010 Phone 295-1005 Nottingham Lace Cablecloths Introducing a wonderful, unique lace cloth, in the finest lace available, this is the ARUNDEL CASTLE lace tablecloth obtainable as a cloth or bedcover in white or ecru 50" x 75" $12.00 72" x 90" $18.00 72" x 100" $20.00 108" x 100" $23.00 Napkins to match $ 7.00 16%" x 16%" per half dozen In the Arundel Castle cloth there are 46 miles of cotton and it required six months work to design and draft this masterpiece. ALSO introducing the Kenilworth Castle lace tablecloth 58" x 78" $6.50 mee scr Leach and Tooley found gracing the homes of the discriminating homemakers everywhere. 797 Their rough growth, not beautiful, But treasured, Measured against disaster And not found wanting. 70" Round $7.50 Our cloths and bedcovers will be TUTTI-FRUTTI the no-work juicer — is the answer for you. Now you can have beautiful, clear, con- 65 Mill Road Newthorpe Nottingham, England October 1969 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours oS) HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 12th-26th ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego cm™ Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Learn a Career with a future We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved 8 8 Co, Send now for 4% =, our brochure 2 3 a Ere $ ae a vy a 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.55 Zone5 __.--.75 Zone3 _-___..60 Zone6 _-_-- 85 PESERET Pp PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 t prosly MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' "Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos —— Instruments And Supplies Come in and acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Cheneper ' 798 Rose Elder. Ada Mortensen A special offer to Relief Society members — Lowest price ever! Dalle VANGEARD LEROY J ROBERTSON Oratorio We had to order a tremendous quantity from Vanguard records to make this choralsymphonic masterpiece available to members of the Church at this low price. We want every family to thrill to this inspiring work about the Book of Mormon. UTAH SYMPHONY ORLHESTRA LEROY J. ROBERTSON'S Oratorio from the BOOK OF MORMON MAURICE ABRAVANEL, CONDUCTING THE UTAH SYMPHONY AND CHOIR "The most significant liturgical work of this generation." New York Herald Tribune @ "One of the more inspired compositions, it's top drawer a "A great musical composition, and Vanguard, producers of "The only significant commercially recorded work in the his- (WE CAN'T REORDER ory of the Church." Dr. Lowell Durham AT THIS LOW PRICE) 98 including postage and mailing in the USA Utah Symphony Orchestra Order several for;: the Book of Mormon at $2.98 each. $ Christmas gifts,; ' ' enclosed. —) Monaural L) Stereo weddings, anniversaries wwe... A" Gity.............. Cece cc eceee eee eeeereesseeeeree 55 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 l e the ry and birthdays. State..... Please send. Billboard last the most exacting recordings released today, do their enviable reputation proud." Harold Lundstrom, Deseret News an Zip. Recordings of "Oratorio from 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 Names of Latter-day Saint we for inclusion in the Birthday street address, city, state, an Mrs. Nancy Ann Maudlin Baugh Denver, Colorado Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Mrs. Elina Wilhelmina Broome Carlsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Pearl Young Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Richards Dayton St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Alpha Judd Molyneaux Burley, }daho Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Beda Wilhelmina Lund Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Olive Huntsman Anderson Midvale, Utah Mrs. Florence McCune Lunt Nephi, Utah Mrs. Ella Butler Bingham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emily Caroline Phillips Rolfson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rosario Rodriquez Smith Los Angeles, California Mrs. Matilda E. Bell Oakley, Idaho Mrs. Agnes Dalley Cutler Soda Springs, Idaho Mrs. Martha Whitehead Oliverson Lava Hot Springs, Idaho Miss Linnie Telford Logan, Utah Mrs. Maude Waddell Witt Heber City, Utah 800 omen who have reached Congratulations column. D zip code, should be subi 92 91 90 the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, mitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs. Christine Bernards Borger Santa Monica, California Mrs. Georgiana Cropper Johnson Aurora, Utah Mrs. Martha Meredith Fresno, California Mrs. Sarah R. Binnall Davies Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Adelaar Johnson Overton, Nevada Mrs. Minerva Pierce Everett Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Jane England Davis Springville, Utah Mrs. Josephine Sievers DeFigh Ucon, Idaho Mrs. Rozilla May Hunt Fuller Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Bingham Goodrich Roosevelt, Utah Mrs. Gina Gunhilda Gulbransen Hansen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Merryanne Augusta Madssen Heimann Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Mary Jane Sharp Griffith Lyons Soquel, California Mrs. Zina Eliza Williams Petty Orem, Utah Mrs. Wilhelmina McCann Pond Logan, Utah Mrs. Maude Estel Boughman Priest Stockton, California Mrs. Rose Ellen Pitcher Ewing Raymond Mendon, Utah Mrs. Lucy Himes Thompson Fort Collins, Colorado Out of The Best Books Volume 5 Relief Society Cultural Refinement Text for 1969 70 Read select articles from the world's greatest literature as presented by DESERET BOOK in this fifth volume of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas. In a day when there is so much dissension in so many communities, intelligent thinking people want to know more about the cause and effect of such dissension. You can learn more about it and your part in community responsibility from authors who have researched the problems and written on such topics as: The Role of Education... The Meaning of Freedom... The Problem of Communications, and many others. OF THE BEST Books. 2" the world. Customer must pay for Air Mail 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me............ Copies of OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Vol. 5 Total Cost $0000.00.| enclose check [] money order (] Charge established account [J Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 442% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. October R. S. Mag. 69 Miivour copy of OUT Volume 5. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Postage will be paid for surface mail anywhere Just $3.25 "equests. "pook Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Sharing the Good Things of Life... Family happiness is sharing things together.. Secure in the knowledge that all members of the family are adequately protected against. Life's uncertainties. Your Beneficial Life Consultant takes pride in serving your life insurance needs... Including your annual "life insurance checkup" to meet your growing and changing needs. There are new growth opportunities for you... With Beneficial Life Insurance. BENEFICIAL LIFE nance (ED) Company Salt Lake City, Utah 'Society, Magazine? NOVEMBER 1969 ~~ The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Iustrations: PROFILES IN VALOR Within all life a spark of courage throbs which bids fight back, fight on, fight through.... A silvered salmon flails its way upstream against the lash of waterfall the surge of river flow.... A lone tree spires itself against the sky from the no-soil wilderness of rock in. Brave defiance to the wind and rain.... Foot-crumpled blades of grass spring back, resilient, and a single, fragile flower, rooted in faith, proves it can cleave its way through granite to the sun. —Kathryn Kay Snow and Autumn Leaves—Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News peas Cypress on the California Coast Photograph by Willard Luce Dick Scopes Mary Scopes it was with great interest that | read in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine about the family of Elder Marion Rogers of Snowflake, Arizona, written by one of his daughters (Mayola R. Miltenberger). In 1922, Elder Rogers baptized me in Sheffield, England. | was then a member of a small branch in Lincolnshire. Except for a few years during the war | have been active in the Church ever since. At present | am cultural refinement class leader in the Sunderland Ward, Sunderland Stake. Mary A. Akenhead, Sunderland, Durham, England | must thank you very much for the small poem ''Stay'' in the August issue of the Magazine (by Leora Larsen). It provided me with exactly the right thought to send to my sister. We have been parted for a little over a year. All of the poetry in the Magazine is special to me because, before my marriage, mother and | read the poetry together. | feel that we still share the poems, even though we are not together. Nancy Bowman, Barbers Point, Hawaii | wish to thank a very dear friend, Eva Rydalch, for giving me so much enjoyment as | find in The Relief Society Magazine. | have enjoyed the serial ''Welcome the Task'' (by Michele Bartmess). | enjoy all of the continued stories and the recipes. | have looked in many cookbooks to find a recipe for date pudding—and there it was in the August Magazine (by Betty Mazzacano). My mother made date pudding when | was a child. We did not always have the nuts to put in the pudding, but we used substitutes—and the pudding was a luxury. Evelin Pardun, Riverbank, California How thrilled | was to read the story ''Missionaries to Dinner'' (by Joan Nelson Ahiman) in the July Magazine. It was like a page from my own diary. We love the elders and try to make them welcome in our land. We have had much joy from inviting them to our home. A convert of two years only, | find the Magazine invaluable, and treasure it so much that | have given subscriptions to my friends. Never have | read a Magazine with more universal appeal. Margaret Park, East Kilbride, Scotland | think the cover picture on the August Magazine is outstanding (Bernkastelkues on the Mosel River, Germany). | have admired all the lovely color prints, but this one is special. The Magazine has brought much joy and insight into my life. Mary K. Hoover, Junction City, Kansas | especially enjoyed the poem ''Roadside Moment—Summer'' by Katherine F. Larsen, in the August issue of the Magazine. Mrs. Larsen certainly captures the beauty of a momentary image. Thanks for all the lovely poetry printed in the Magazine. B. Barnes Richardson, Milwaukie, Oregon | read the article ''South Africa—Land of Gold and Green," by Caroline Eyring Miner, in the June issue of the Magazine. The article and pictures are beautiful, as are all the other articles and the lessons published in the Magazine. | love it. Cathy Budd, Sunderland, Surrey, England | have read the three prize-winning stories in the April issue of the Magazine and loved them all. | was happy to see a pioneer romance for a winner (''A Horse and Buggy Romance' by Iris W. Schow). Miss Schow did a lovely job in handling her subject. | appreciated the second-prize story (''Mama and the Teddy Bear'' by Lael J. Littke) for any story by Mrs. Littke has to be good. She delights me. But | want to rave a little about the third-prize story (The ''Silver Pitcher' by Grace M. Pratt). It seems to me she used a masterful stroke, and there are understanding and depth in her story. | hope to meet all three of these writers =m and again in the pages of the Magazine. -. Alice Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Volume 56 November 1969 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 804 _ _siIf It's Right We Can Do It Belle S. Spafford 810 "The Greatest of These'' Marianne C. Sharp 812 _—' The Spiritual! Value of Homemaking Louise W. Madsen 816 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 826 Trouble and More Trouble Kathieen Peace Gregory 843 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 6 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 802 From Near and Far 815 In Memoriam—Elder John Longden 822 Editorial—''We Have Seen His Star...."" Vesta P. Crawford 824 Notes to the Field—Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price to Be Increased 825 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 849 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 879 _— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 833 "Look To This Day"' Nona H. Brown 834 Mothers Make Memories Edythe K. Watson 838 Madonna Keepsakes Florence G. Butler 842 Hobby Features—Lora Ann Gifford Christensen and Ina Wilson Hummell Lesson Department 857 = Spiritual Living—One of Joseph Smith's Contributions Roy W. Doxey 863 'Visiting Teacher Message—Weak Things May Become Strong Alice Colton Smith 864 Homemaking—''She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands.'' Celestia J. Taylor 866 Social Relations—Be of Good Cheer Alberta H. Christensen 871 Cultural Refinement—The Place of Entertainment Bruce B. Clark Poetry Profiles In Valor, Kathryn Kay 801; Visiting Teachers, Jeane Reed 809; Sequoia Soil or Desert Sand, Alda Larson Brown 821; These Stones, My Poems, Vilate R. McAllister 824; Winged Return, Leora Larsen 832; Mortal Seeds, Margaret B. Shomaker 841; Art Gallery, Dorothy R. Cox 841; On Doors Closing and Opening, Mabel Jones Gabbott 848; Precious Jewel, Vesta N. Fairbairn 862; Tippy-Toe, Pearle M. Olsen 877; The Reaches, Bernice Ames 877. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 803 If It's Right We Can Do It President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] @ It has been said that "we look back in order that we may go better forward." Today I would like to turn back the pages of history for a few moments to the year 1842—twelve years after the organization of the Church; the year in which Relief Society was founded in Nauvoo, I[llinois, through revelation given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith. According to research done by Fay Tarlock, the Honorable John Tyler, an able and independent Whig from Virginia, was President of the United States. It was the day of Stephen A. Douglas, a fiery orator and leading political figure and, at that time, a friend of the Mormons. It was the day when Abraham Lincoln, a promising young lawyer from Illinois and a rising politician, was looking forward to his marriage to the charming and ambitious Mary Todd. It was the year of the establishment of the 804 se | 4 i boundary line between the United States and Canada, a line that has defined territory, but never restricted neighborliness. Nauvoo was a western frontier town, a part of a vast new America reaching ever further out to the West. Oregon and California were exciting words, although as yet no wagon train had passed beyond the Rockies. The city of Nauvoo was only three years old, but it was a thriving city with sturdy twostory houses of brick and frame, with churches and stores, and a university. The rising structure of a temple enlisted with rare dedication the interest and the labors of the populace. At the busy harbor of the river's bend, boats from down the river came to anchor, bringing hundreds of converts from the Old World. It was at this growing, happy period of time for the saints that the Prophet Joseph Smith, on March 17, in meeting assembled with Elders John Taylor andWillard Richards and eighteen sisters, uttered these "long to be remembered words" that initiated a new day for Latter-day Saint women and, indeed, for all womankind: I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 15.) Elder John Taylor addressed the assembly on that memorable occasion, saying that he "rejoiced to see the institution organized according to the law of Heaven." The law of heaven is divine law. In this, Relief Society differs from all other woman's organizations of the world. (I use the term "woman" as defined in the dictionary, meaning "mature females."') On the eventful day of the Society's founding, an open Bible lay on the pulpit of the historic room. The following words were found written on a scrap of paper lying on the open Bible: "Oh, Lord, help our widows and fatherless children! So mote it be, Amen. With the sword and the word of truth defend thou them, so mote it be!_ Amen." With gratitude and dedication, the members of the newly formed Society moved into the work defined for it and as guided by the Prophet, defending the widows and fatherless children, nursing the sick, finding employment for those with such need, feeding the hungry, comforting the sorrowing, clothing the naked. At the same time, the young organization looked to the rightIf It's Right We Can Do It eousness of the individual lives of the sisters, and the Prophet admonished the sisters with regard to their duties to their husbands. Counselor Whitney cautioned the sisters "to avoid all evil, even the appearance of evil." She urged them to "pray for one another that they might succeed in the work before them and have wisdom given them in all their pursuits." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16.) The Prophet instructed them: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 16.) The prayers of the sisters were answered and their efforts were blessed. The Prophet, meeting with them in the summer of 1842, said, "I have come here to bless you. The Society have done well: their principles are to practice holiness. God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much..." (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 17.) Following the Nauvoo period, the sisters in true companionship with the priesthood entered upon the path of religious empirefounding in the heart of the Rocky Mountains, and they 'were vigorous in the promotion of righteousness according to revealed truth. Their teachings were not merely admonitions, they were continuous Christian practice. 805 November 1969 As we look back over their labors, even to the present time, a divinely guided drama of selfless service unfolds, revealing the strength of the sisters born of faith and testimony, and the power of the organization as it functions according to the law of heaven. A small sampling of activities will serve to illustrate the obedience, the intensity of devotion, the spirit of love and service that characterized efforts and led to almost unbelievable accomplishment. In September 1876, President Brigham Young gave to Sister Emmeline B. Wells the mission of leading the sisters in grain saving. Sister Wells, in a report to the members in 1915, said: "We began that very year, and though we were laughed at, we did buy grain—the Relief Society did; I did not do it myself—the Relief Society gave money and grain was bought that year...." (The Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, page 48.) The sisters garnered in the fields, sold Sunday eggs, quilts, rag carpeting, and other products of their hands to acquire the grain, disposed to do so because the spirit of the gospel bade them accept the mission in loving obedience to their great prophet, President Brigham Young. In February 1915, when Sister Wells was eighty-seven years old, prophetic tribute was paid to her by Sister Annie Wells Cannon and published in The Relief Society Magazine, from which I quote:... Ho doubt, she will be able to see clearly through the devastating wars which are now raging in Europe, that 806 the mission which was given her, so many years ago, was not in vain. Many. Starving mothers will be rescued, no doubt, through the faithful integrity of President Emmeline B. Wells and her associated sisters in this Society, in saving grain for famine need. (The Relief Society Magazine, February 1915, page 50.) On August 18, during World War I, President Clarissa Smith Williams, writing in The Relief Society Magazine, gave evidence of the fulfillment of this prediction as follows: The Relief Society has turned over to the United States Government [at a price set by it] over two hundred thousand bushels of wheat... How proud we are to perform this service for our suffering and glorious cause. Our hearts and prayers go with the gifts which we have laid upon the altar of our country. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 72.) Today, as a praiseworthy symbol of the continuing blessing of the wheat program, there rises toward the heavens on Welfare Square a great grain elevator filled with Relief Society wheat stored against a day of need— obtained through the investment in wheat of money paid the Society by the Government in the day of war. An impressive demonstration of the unselfish spirit of sisterhood within the Society comes to us in the action of the sisters at the cessation of hostilities of World War II. A letter from a president of one of the European Missions to the Church Welfare Committee graphically described the urgent need of the people of Europe for soap. In the letter a strong appeal was made for help. The Welfare Program had but one soap plant which could in no measure meet the request. Soap at the commercial markets was rationed and only available through the use of coupons issued by the Government to individuals. Being notified of the need through the General Presidency, with the approval of the First Presidency, compassion touched the hearts of Relief Society sisters who rallied to the call for help. In ninety selected stakes of the Church in Zion, the sisters drew from their home supplies precious bars of soap. (Only bar soap could be shipped abroad.) Within a period of one week the local Relief Societies had been notified of the need, the soap was collected, and over 50,000 bars were on their way to Europe—an almost unbelievable response to share with those about whom they cared. Individual women were generous to be sure, but how helpless each would have been without the power of the Society to notify of need, to inspire, to organize, and direct the activity. At the same period, more than a carload of beautiful new quilts, on hand in the local Relief Societies, was donated to the suffering people of Europe. These, too, were collected and shipped in a period of a little over one week. In a report I made to the National -Council of Women in New York City at that time on war services of Relief Society, I mentioned the number of quilts that Relief Society had sent to Europe. Following my report, the President of the Free Czechoslovakian Women, an escapee to United States from that invaded country and a former Deputy-Mayor of Prague, rose and said, (and I quote from my notes): "Mrs. Spafford's report is overly modest and has dealt only with figures." Then If It's Right We Can Do It she explained that as DeputyMayor she had been assigned by her government to oversee the distribution of commodities from the United States. The quilts were not to be reserved exclusively for the Mormons. She concluded by saying, (again I quote from my notes): "They [the quilts] were new and beautiful. They not only warmed cold bodies, but brought sunshine to wintered spirits. They were gifts of understanding love." There is one other story I wish to tell. A sister, president of a small branch Relief Society of Mexican sisters in Salt Lake City, sat in this historic Tabernacle and heard a_ plan _ proposed whereby the sisters were to raise one-half million dollars for a Relief Society headquarters building. Each local Society was to be responsible for seeing that every one of its members was represented by a $5 contribution. That dutiful Mexican president had great feelings of trepidation because of the magnitude of the undertaking. But strong in testimony her response came: "I don't know how we can do it. My sisters are poor. Yet, President McKay is listening. The First Presidency has authorized it. If these Brethren authorize it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it!" And do it, they did. This Mexican Branch was the first to submit its money, soon to be followed by full contributions from the other sisters of Relief Society. More than one-half million dollars was contributed in a oneyear period. The Relief Society Building stands today a monument to the faith and labors of the sisters. 807 November 1969 Recorded in the minutes of the General Board is an address given March 17, 1914, in the Assembly Hall by President Joseph F. Smith from which I quote: When rightly wielded, governed and directed, I think the influence of this great organization in the Church is, without doubt, the most cogent and the most powerful of any other single organization of the Church, for this reason, it is not confined to three, nor to twelve, nor to seven nor any other definite small number of people, but it extends to the outermost borders of the Church and in every part of the Church. In every live branch of the Church the Relief Society is found, and it is found there for good.... Its work is good, and its power for uplifting, for comforting, and for sustaining the cause of Zion, I think, is most potent.... Where on earth should we look for good, for the spirit of truth, for sincerity, for divine love, for patience and longsuffering and forgiveness and endurance and charity and every other blessed thing, if we do not look for it in the organizations that develop the mothers and the daughters of Zion. What power you possess, my beloved sisters, in the exercise of your duties, in the performance of your callings... Powers... That you may wield among the people of God and among any people among whom you may be permitted to associate.... What a mighty, what a great and powerful organization is the organization of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and what responsibilities rest upon them! Not only the responsibility of being capable yourselves of sustaining the spirit of the organization to which you belong and of maintaining its rights, and of performing your duties in it in a temporal way; you have also the responsibility resting upon you to impart... Knowledge, wisdom and understanding... To all others with whom you may come in contact..... Today we stand fortified in meeting the requirements of this troubled period of time by the size, the greatness, and the power of 808 our organization, and by the worthy and glorious accomplishments of the past. Also today we have unusually choice women. I have met with Relief Society sisters in many parts of the world. I have felt the power of their faith. I have seen striking evidence of their testimonies. I have noted the; zeal and dedication with which they work. I have watched, almost: in amazement, the quality of their r leadership. I have partaken of the sweetness and humility of their spirits. I have rejoiced in the beauty and refinement of their lives. Three hundred and twenty-five thousand such women, working through the medium of Relief Society under priesthood direction, fortified by the glorious accomplishments of the past are indeed favorably positioned successfully to deal with problems and meet the special needs of today, difficult though they may be. Strength is ours, greater perhaps than any of us comprehend. Today is not an easy, comfortable period of time. More changes and scientific advancements have taken place in the last fifty years than in any comparable period of time in history. Change and scientific advancement call for continuous adjustments in our way of life. These must be made with wisdom and in a way that will preserve the enduring values of life. Relief Society must rise as a power in helping mothers to do this. Relief Society must worthily meet the emergent special hu- | manitarian needs of today as did our Sisters of the past. At the same time, it must be constant in its efforts to strengthen the moral and spiritual values of our homes, so much in jeopardy today. It must train mothers to maintain well-managed, peaceful homes that draw family members to them even against the most appealing and glittering community enticements. It must create in mothers a recognition of the fundamental values of close companionship with their children. It is vital leisurely to spend time with our children. Relief Society must guide mothers in the firm and wise direction of young lives, and in maintaining the God-ordained relationships with husbands. It must strengthen community virtues, as directed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, through fortifying the sisters against the dangers of declining moral standards, and the relaxed attitudes toward the importance of sexual purity. It must safeguard mothers against the taint of some of the presentday, so-called religious attitudes, If it's Right We Can Do It through effectively teaching the beauties and truths of the gospel. The task before us is great, but it is not beyond our successful accomplishment. We bear in mind the words of the president of that small Mexican Branch Relief Society, "If the Presiding Brethren approved it, it is right. If it is right, we can do it." The Lord is mindful of his Relief Society. I am sure he loves the sisters of today even as he loved the sisters of Nauvoo and he will bless and make fruitful our efforts. I bear testimony to the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the divine birth of Relief Society, and to the inspired guidance that comes to it from God's prophets. I am humbly grateful for my membership in the Church and for my membership in Relief Society. When all else is gone in life, the blessings of this membership will remain for they are eternal. VISITING TEACHERS We are visiting teachers— How grateful we are for the task, We walk in the steps of our Master, What more could a woman ask? We enter the homes of our sisters To bring them a message of cheer, A thought to uplift, bless, and brighten We bring every month of the year. We pray for the gift of discernment That where there is need we will know, And exercise sisterly watchcare As we have been charged here below. Our calling is so important, Our calling is sacred and choice, The work is sweet and rewarding And we have cause to rejoice For we are visiting teachers, And grateful we are for this task, We walk in the steps of our Master, What more could a woman ask? —Jeane Reed 809 "The Greatest ot These" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] @ Should we ask the sisters in the Tabernacle what is the motto of Relief Society, I feel sure we would all answer "Charity Never Faileth." We are told by Paul: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and, though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. (I Cor. 13:1-2.) Could we then say that the basic characteristic of an individual striving for exaltation should be charity, which Moroni defines as "... The pure love of Christ." The Savior taught us that the first and second great commandments are love of God and love of neighbor. When the sisters assembled at the invitation of the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842 810 to be organized under the priesthood, there was some difference of opinion as to what the organization should be named, but there was no difference as to its purpose. The brethren present seemed to incline to the name benevolent, but the sisters preferred the name relief, and so it was named The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. The idea of charity was fundamental in its concept. The Prophet Joseph declared: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV, 605.) Relief Society today offers all Latter-day Saint women a situation in which they can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in their bosoms. In passing we might remind the sisters of the Church, however, that nearly half of the Latter-day Saint women are not taking advantage of that situation. This is unfortunate. Relief Society members, however, are grasping the opportunity to express their feelings of charity and benevolence. No call made on Relief Society for benevolence goes unanswered. Recently in a small gathering, one of the sisters remarked on the great number of women in her stake who were being left widows. She concluded, "They surely must need a lot of good men on the other side." Sister Spafford spoke up quickly, "They ~ need a lot of good women here— Relief Society women. In this disturbed world, fine, good, charitable women are needed or what would happen to the world?" We do need charitable women throughout the world and in our wards and branches. As individual Relief Society members we may fittingly question ourselves as to the extent of our personal charity. Should the Savior come tomorrow, would we all feel that we truly represented our motto "Charity Never Faileth'? If we do not feel satisfied with our accomplishments (and who ever does?) the four gospels and 3 Nephi give us innumerable examples of the charity of the Savior. He helps us to acquire characteristics we lack to minister to needs in a spirit of charity. We need to search out our true motives for in exercising charity it is not only the deed, but more important the intent. Christ did not judge: to the "The Greatest of These"' sinning woman he said, "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (John 8:11.) To Martha, overly busy with many things, he said, "But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her." (Luke 10:42.) To one puffed up with her own importance, he says "... Whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all." (Mark 10:43-44.) The Savior was long-suffering and kind in his hour of deep anguish and loneliness. He longed to have his three beloved disciples watch and pray with him during his agony in Gethsemane. Not once, nor twice, but three times he returned where they were, only to find them asleep. Even an angel came and_ strengthened him, but the human companionship failed him. With the greatest charity Christ only said, "Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come...." (Mark 14:41.) Whatever aspects of our characters need strengthening, we will find help to improve through prayer and study of the scrip- — tures. Then as beloved Relief Society gives us the opportunity to act according to the sympathies God has planted in our bosoms, we will not only perform the outward act but it will be accompanied by the inward grace. I pray each Relief Society member in the coming year may learn the truth "And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity." (I Cor. 13:13.) 811 The Spiritual Value of Homemaking Counselor LouiseW Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] ® On a dull gray day in Paris in October 1822, John Howard Payne found himself completely, unutterably homesick. Alone in his room he could think of nothing but his home in East Hampton on Long Island. Memories flooded his mind and while the mood was upon him he wrote the immortal "Home, Sweet Home." Into the song he poured his aching loneliness, the longings of his heart for the scenes of his boyhood, the remembering of his family, his assurance that his mother was thinking of him, his father missing him, and the beauty of his home world. *Mid pleasures and palaces though we may roam, Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home. The song was set to music by Sir Henry Rowley Bishop from a tune Payne had heard sung by an Italian peasant girl. It was sung in the Covent Garden Theater in \ 812 London in the first act of a play he wrote, "Clari, or, the Maid of Milan." As famous Maria Tree sang the song, her eyes filled with tears, her voice choked with emotion, and the whole audience responded with hushed attention and tears. "Home, Sweet Home" became one of the most famous songs in all the world. It has been translated into many languages, sung in almost every land. On the night of December 17, 1850, Jenny Lind, "the Swedish Nightingale," sang for one of the most distinguished audiences ever seen in a concert hall in the United States. President Fillmore, Daniel Webster, Henry Clay, General Scott, and others were in attendance. Daniel Webster rose at the end of the concert, and bowed to the singer in public tribute to her great voice. She smiled and then turned to face a gentle, white-haired man seated in the audience, John Howard Payne. Without taking her eyes from his face, the incomparable Jenny sang as if to him alone, "Home, Sweet Home." Profoundly moved, as people always were, the great audience heard and many wept openly. For 145 years this song has had great influence upon those who love their homes and cherish their family ties. This story is related by Lillian Watson in her "Light From Many Lamps," and serves to illustrate the appeal of home. The very word home has inspired poets to write about its glories, its simple joys, its place as a haven of security. Home has been the subject of many a painter's canvas, the basis of sociologists' lectures, of philosophers' treatises, of writers' essays, of politicians' preachments, and is a basis of the teachings of great religious leaders. One such inspired leader has assured us that the perfect homes on earth have their pattern in the heavens. With the home receiving such universal acclaim, can one doubt the spiritual values of homemaking? Can one question the wisdom of the Father in giving to his daughters the role of homemaker? Would one really wish it to be otherwise? No doubt the greatest spiritual value to be found in homemaking is to fulfill the desire of our Father in heaven to have his spirit children come to earth to choice homes. He entrusts to the care of earthly parents his sons and daughters to be reared in accordance with his commandments. As co-creator with God of the bodies of mortals, mothers are especially blessed with the opporThe Spiritual Value of Homemaking tunity to make homes worthy of the spirits which have come from the presence of God. A home wherein dwells the priesthood of God in an honored and respected position is a worthy home. When the father assumes his position of leadership, upheld by the mother, the children learn by example the full meaning of priesthood as a glorious gift from the Father to his sons. When the mother reigns as a queen in her home, companion-counselor to her husband, the children learn the full meaning of the equality of the gifts of a loving and wise Father to his sons and to his daughters. The spiritual value of love in the home is beyond measure, its influence so far-reaching as to stagger the imagination, its presence as necessary as life itself. Love is so many things—shown in sO Many ways. The homemaker shows love in the care of her home, in its cleanliness, order, and lack of confusion. Order is a law of heaven and is a necessary aspect of the pattern after which earthly homes are built. One cannot imagine anything unclean nor disorderly in heaven. The wise homemaker instills pride of home in her family to the extent that all contribute to order. The homemaker shows love in her sensitivity to the needs of others. She is so attuned to the souls of her husband and children that she becomes aware of their needs and, to the best of her ability, fulfills them. This virtue of sensitivity must be consciously nurtured. It is partly unselfishness; it is greatly thoughtfulness; it is mainly a mother's expression 813 November 1969 of love. Sensitivity to others' needs results in compassionate service to them. The homemaker shows love in. Awareness of the need to make her home a haven of security where each family member has complete confidence that he is loved for himself, and recognized as an individual. One's own special self is unique and must be so understood by those who love him, his abilities fostered, his talents encouraged, and his ambitions aided. Each family member must bask in the sunlight of approval as often as is good for him. The homemaker makes the climate for growth, establishes the atmosphere for culture, and provides the tools for refinement. Discipline is a spiritual value to be wisely administered by the homemaker. Happy people, useful citizens, dedicated Church workers come from homes where selfcontrol and righteousness are a part of their upbringing. To be taught obedience becomes a blessing throughout life. The homemaker has unceasing chances to teach, to guide, to lead. She must take advantage of her own learning opportunities to prepare herself. The spiritual value of lessons learned at home is shown in the character of those who hear and are taught. The children we are given are not only our children, they are God's as well. We should teach and train them as our Heavenly Father would have us do. The Spirit of the Lord will not always contend with man. We have long been urged to look to our homes. Church leaders continuously teach the necessity of well-ordered homes and endeavor to help us to know how to make our homes right. The responsibilities and duties of parents are fully described, the duties of children are beautifully defined, the words of the Lord are concisely interpreted. It remains for us to heed and act accordingly. Nothing else is of greater importance. May all of us as homemakers inspire our families to love their "Home, Sweet Home." ERRATUM Through an inadvertency the word Paul was used in the place of Peter in President Hugh B. Brown's article "Testimony," page 725, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1969. (Reference Matthew 16:17). The sentence, should read: When the Apostle Peter answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: Blessed art thou Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." 814 IN MEMORIAM Elder John Longden Assistant to the Council of the Twelve November4, 1898-August 30, 1969 @ Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 30, 1969 in Salt Lake City, Utah. He had served as an Assistant to the Twelve since 1951. During that time he fulfilled many important callings for the Church, and he endeared himself to members throughout the world. Elder Longden was born in Oldham, Lancashire, England, on November 4, 1898, the son of Thomas J. And Lizetta Taylor Longden. The family emigrated to the United States and Salt Lake City ten years later. Elder Longden was graduated from LDS Business College and attended the University of Utah. He served as a missionary in the Central States Mission. Elder Longden had a successful business career. At the time of his retirement he was area manager for National Electric Products Corporation. Interested in music and dramatic arts, Elder Longden studied voice and dramatics. He was well-known throughout the area as a gifted singer. He gave freely of his talent, singing at Church services, weddings, funerals, and other gatherings. In 1924 Elder Longden married LaRue Carr in the Salt Lake Temple. They had three daughters, Mrs. Grant (Gail) Hickman, and Mrs. Loren C. (Sharon) Dunn. The first daughter, Helen Margaret, died in childhood. There are three grandsons and five granddaughters. Elder Longden was always devoted to the gospel and served in several MIA superintendencies, as bishop, and as high councilman in two stakes, and on the General Church Welfare Committee prior to his call as a General Authority. As a General Authority, he served on the General Priesthood Committee and several youth committees. At the time of his death he was supervising all stakes and missions in the British Isles. Previously he had supervised missions in the South Pacific, Australia, and New Zealand. The General Board and Relief Society members in all stakes and missions of the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of Elder Longden and to his many friends. He has left a heritage in faith and dedication to the gospel for others to follow. 815 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] @ Once again it becomes my duty to present to you a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few General Board instructions and recommendations. The latest available figures are those from the 1967-68 annual report, since the 1968-69 reports were not due in the General Board Office until September 20 and, of course, are not audited and compiled as yet. In order to make the information somewhat more current, growth figures for the previous year will be used in estimating present conditions. Precise figures will be available to you when the compiled report for the fiscal year is published in a forthcoming issue of The Relief Society Magazine. GENERAL BOARD We mourn the loss, by death of two valiant and eminently capable members: Evon W. Peterson, General Secretary-Treasurer, and Mildred B. Eyring. STAKE AND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES With the growth of the Church, the number of stake and mission Relief Society organizations has grown. There were as 816 of September 1968, 462 stake and 74 mission Relief Society organizations, with 328 mission districts and more than 6,500 ward and branch Societies. MEMBERSHIP For the past several years there has been consistent growth in membership, but there still remain far too many Latter-day Saint women not enrolled who need Relief Society. We, therefore, appeal to officers and members alike to intensify their efforts in enrolling new members. The membership appeals are almost endless. There are, in reality, few women who cannot be reached by. One or the other of these. Estimating the membership | growth for 1968-69 to be the same as for the previous fiscal year (or 11,000), there is now a total membership of 322,500. Of this number 3,500 are non-Latterday Saints. Each year we receive gratifying reports of nonLatter-day Saint Relief Society members becoming _ baptized members of the Church. ATTENDANCE It is our conviction that there are comparatively few enrolled members who do not attend some meetings during the year. We must recognize that under certain circumstances a sister may be unable to attend regardless of her desire to do so; for example, personal or family illness may interfere, or the infirmities of age or the hazards of winter roads where distances to the meeting place require car travel. Nonetheless, attendance is) a continuing concern and _ ward presidents should be urged to do all in their power to interest women in regular attendance and to help make it possible for them to attend. Second session Relief Societies are a boon to countless women, as are well-managed nurseries for mothers with young children. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES The General Board requests that great emphasis be placed upon the compassionate service program which is fundamental in the accomplishment of the purposes of the Society and which, according to the reports, seems to be somewhat on a plateau insofar as volume is concerned. Today's troubled, costly, and insecure world, with its measure of tragedy in the lives of many faithful sisters and good families, -calls upon us deeply to understand our responsibilities in this area, and to respond to needs with readiness, competency, and love. It is our opinion that days care of the sick, which declined by more than 5,000 eight-hour days in 1967-68, have not taken any Significant upturn during the 1968-69 year. We suggest that you Report and Official Instructions exercise watchcare so that Relief Society will not falter where this service is needed in the home. — _ Figures on visits to the sick also have remained somewhat constant—between 395,000 and 400,- 000—as have the number of hours of other compassionate services, which were approximately 750,- 000 hours. Let us be sensitive to all such needs. We particularly call your attention to the desirability of Relief Society presidencies calling on a family at the time of a death and making available to it, if desired, the services of the Society in connection with the funeral. We estimate that 1,000 bodies were dressed for burial during the 1968-69 year, and assistance including the providing of food was given in connection with more than 12,000 funerals. Such service is usually welcomed and is comforting and helpful. At times, our sisters need to be reminded of the value of going the second mile in rendering voluntary humanitarian service as individuals—on their own. I call attention to an important program which is proving of value in our Latter-day Saint hospitals. I refer to the hospital Volunteer Auxiliary program, sometimes referred to as the "Pink Lady" program. We encourage sisters who have time, health, and an aptitude for service in a hospital setting, where there is a variety of work situations, to contact your local Latter-day Saint hospitals. Full information will be readily given you. We commend the stakes who have participated in the Red Cross Home Nurse Training programs. Approximately 5,426 wo- 817 November 1969 men have completed this course, made available to them through the cooperative efforts of the American Red Cross and the Relief Society. CHURCH WELFARE Relief Society sisters consistently support the Church Welfare Program with ward presidents having made approximately 100,000 family visits under the direction. Of their respective bishops, and 94,000 other contacts during the past year. Relief Society members contributed during the year 756,000 hours on Church Welfare projects. VISITING TEACHING It is estimated that there were close to 54%, million visits made to homes during the 1968-69 fiscal year by more than 148,000 visiting teachers. We increasingly see their value as an aid to the bishop in ascertaining cases of temporal need among worthy Latter-day Saint families and also as an aid to him through the Home Teachers in reactivating inactive members. Visiting teachers are a great asset to Relief Society itself in bringing women who are enrolled into membership and _ activity. The visiting teaching program has value in fellowshiping new converts to the Church, most of whom soon make excellent visiting teachers themselves, thus enlarging our reservoir of teachers. Let us aim to enlarge our visiting teaching program and continually improve the quality of the visit and attendance at the visiting teacher meeting, as well as the quality of the confidential report to the ward president. 818 COURSES OF STUDY The spiritual living lessons for the forthcoming season conclude the course based on the Doctrine and Covenants. It is expected that by the time this course is concluded in May 1970, members will have thoughtfully read the entire Doctrine and Covenants in order that they may enjoy fully the spirit of this book of scripture, increase their knowledge and understanding of the _ revealed truths contained in the revelations, and be guided by them in their day-to-day activities. Visiting teaching messages correlate with the Family Home Evening Manual and are designed to renew our faith and guide us as we meet life from day to day. The social relations lessons for the coming year are based again upon the writings of the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and are correlated with the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. The cultural refinement course will stress the individual and human values as seen through literature, art, and music, widening the scope by emphasizing a woman's responsibilities in community life and the world in which she lives. LESSONS FOR THE USE OF LAMANITE WARDS AND BRANCHES The General Board is pleased to announce that special lessons for Lamanite Relief Societies are now ready for distribution. This new set of Lamanite lessons has been prepared so as to fit into any standard three-ring binder. The set is wrapped in cellophane and includes sheets of visual aids fol- lowing each lesson. The cost for a set is $3 postpaid. They are to be ordered from the office of the General Board. HOMEMAKING Exclusive of the homemaking discussions that are prepared by the General Board, activities for the homemaking meeting are planned by the local Relief Societies with the General Board setting the purposes of the meeting and giving general guidelines. It is the rule of the stake and mission district board to suggest, display, and demonstrate suitable items which might be produced, or demonstrations which appropriately might be conducted. This year's estimate of number of items produced is in excess of 14, million. This was over and above the countless recorded homemaking demonstrations and other helpful homemaking activities. MUSIC We are delighted to report the increasing interest and general improvement in the music program. We now have over 3,600 local Singing Mothers choruses, with 52,000 singers participating. Special concerts are being held with a high degree of success. - SONG CONTEST Results of the Song Contest were excellent. There were 223 entries. Both the first and second award-winning numbers will be heard during this conference— the first award number in the General Session, and the second in this morning's session. These numbers will be published and Report and Official Instructions will be available for purchase at the music stores. We are indebted to our former board member, Sister Cleone Eccles, for the inspiration and the financial means which led to the establishment of the contest. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is with gratitude that we acknowledge the tireless and competent service of more than 7,000 sisters whose callings as Magazine representatives are so important to the organization and to the sisters as individuals. The present circulation is 285, 000 (7,000 Spanish). In November 1957, the subscription price was set at $2. Through rigid editing and publishing economies, and by virtue of the labors of the sisters in obtaining subscriptions, we have been able to maintain the $2 subscription price for twelve years. It is with genuine regret that, regardless of our efforts to continue the $2 subscription price, it has become necessary to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. This price change becomes effective January 1, and applies to all subscriptions, including renewals, which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning with September, October, November, or December 1969 issues will be at the $2 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.), Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and enlist 819 November 1969 their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline. We suggest that occasionally the president take a few moments of time in the regular meeting to call attention to some special feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it. Presidents, will you kindly request ward presidents to instruct their Magazine representatives not to send currency through the mail in payment for Magazine subscriptions. Payments are to be made by check or Post Office money order in the interest of safety. Some orders have been received with currency missing. We remind you that General Board regulations state that in sending currency, you do so at your own risk. POETRY AND SHORT STORY CONTESTS One of the original purposes of the Magazine was "to serve as an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women." It has met this purpose well. Publication of the award-winning poems and short stories in the Poetry and Short Story Contests, respectively, has brought interest and enrichment to the publication. This year there were 469 entries in the Poetry Contest and eighty-six in the Short Story Contest. We call your attention to the excellence of these awardwinning works, published in the April 1969 Magazine. We are pleased to announce that by action of the General Board there will be an increase in the amount of cash award paid to the writers of the award-winning entries. 820 LAMANITE RELIEF SOCIETY In attendance at this conference are a number of choice Lamanite Relief Society leaders, to whom we extend a special welcome. Relief Society must do its part with far greater insight, understanding and intelligent effort than heretofore. The influence of Relief Society can be a potent one in helping the Lamanite mother to lift the standards in her home and to make her home a center where the gospel is taught and lived—a place of order, attractiveness, and peace. GARMENT DISTRIBUTION The Lord continues to bless Relief Society in meeting its assignment in the Garment Distribution program. We §acknowledge with appreciation the spirit and efficiency with which this program is being carried forward.: We request stakes in close proximity to one another which are conducting single stake operations to consider coming together as multiple stake operations. These are proving much more satisfactory to patrons and are a more efficient plan of distribution. FUNDS AT REORGANIZATION An outgoing president is advised, in turning over the records to her successor, to see that all outstanding financial obligations of the Society incurred during her administration are met. In those instances in which a reorganization is anticipated, outgoing presidents are advised not to proceed with any new plans or projects which involve unusual Report and Official Instructions ur presen leadership S strong CONCLUSION ay the Lord bl YOu with con ave seen P Grow Sreat in Stature. -» No Preference iS given, t matters not his heritage God gi 821 expenditures of Relief Societ Unds, The Work of Relief Societ is IMpPortant O the women of the urch and to the Church, itself Inued stren th, I Since ly Pray EDITORIAL / ''We Have Seen His Star...."' Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea... There came wise men from the east... Saying... We have seen his star... And are come to worship him. (Matthew 2:1-2.) @ To the wise men of the east, whose search took them over mountains and deserts to the hills of Judaea, the star was a sign of the birth -of Jesus, but they were looking, also, for a greater brightness, a more glorious illumination. With the Savior's birth, the plan of salvation was given again to the earth ''for it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell."' We, too, in our time and place, have seen the star, but have we participated in its full radiance? To each and all of us there comes a spiritual search for an application in our own lives of the message of Christmas. Beset with many interests and urgent responsibilities, some of us who know the meaning of the star may have difficulty in realizing its enduring splendor. In a multiplicity of demands, we dwell among seemingly urgent details—how shall the home be decorated? We ask. How can we provide for all the names on the Christmas lists? Have we reciprocated all the greeting cards? All the pleasing elements of our observance have their place in providing joy and warmth and beauty—in uniting the family on a memorable occasion. And yet the transcendent meaning of Christmas is neither gain nor giving of material objects. When the Savior was born, the world, having lost much of the gospel belief and observance, was veiled in spiritual darkness—a darkness greater than the shadows on the hills roundabout. The darkness was a lack of assurance of life beyond the time of earth and a knowledge of a previous habitation—a lack of direction and purpose for the pathway between birth and the next estate. The birth of the Savior signified the divine gift of a restoration and a promise of life everlasting through the mission of the Savior, who ''ascended up on high... And gave gifts unto men." (Ephesians 4:8.) Volume 56 November 1969 Number 11 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 822 Editorial Thus Christmas for us and for our children should be a searching for identification with the teachings of the Savior—to become doers of the word and to exemplify our belief. In every era of time the conversion of faith into appropriate action has been a blessing to those who have found the way to achieve it. A certain man in a pioneer village believed that the Savior's instructions to care for the widow and the orphan applied to him. He had little besides his own strength to give, but he owned some desert hills thickly overgrown with juniper and pinion pine. Each year in the week before Christmas he loaded his wagon with the logs which had fallen and hauled them many miles to the town and delivered the wood to the widows who were unable to provide warm homes for their children. In the long miles of travel by night, sometimes beneath a clear constellation of stars, sometimes in a white blizzard, his journeys continued. Some who received his gifts may have wondered if he had seen the Christmas star. Long remembered gifts may be small in monetary value, but their enduring compensation may last as long as years continue. In a time when this century was one-quarter old, a family which had ordered its Christmas gifts by catalog and had not received them, was isolated at Christmas time by a drifting blizzard. They had a fireplace and a fire, some honey candy, and some popped corn for decorating a small fir tree. There were no other gifts. The father, late at night, had been delayed at the sheep camp, and the mother and the children waited. Finally, the door was opened and the father came in carrying a small stray lamb in his arms. In the firelight the children and the lamb found a deep and warm contentment, and later, as was fitting for the time and place, the mother read from the book of Luke ''and there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field..." Not one of that Christmas family circle could forget, through all their lives, the occasion and its meaning. Perhaps, even in this time of many beckonings and numerous pathways, we may still find some interval of devotion—some space of time in which all the family may turn again towards a more lasting ChristLeone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma 8. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore 823 mas light. —V. P. C. s to the Field, oe v2 Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price to Be Increased it is with genuine regret we announce at this time that regardless of our efforts to continue The Relief Society Magazine at its present $2.00 subscription price, it now becomes necessary for us to increase it to $2.50 for the twelve issues per year. (There will be no change at this time in the subscription price of the Spanish edition.) This price change becomes effective January 1, 1970 and applies to all subscriptions including renewals which start with the January 1970 issue of the Magazine or any month thereafter. Subscriptions beginning in September, October, November, or December 1969, or renewals beginning in these months will be at the $2.00 price. Subscriptions for one year at a time only will be accepted. Increases in the costs of labor, printing, paper, and postage force this step upon us. Presidents, we urge you fully to explain this action to ward and branch presidencies and to enlist their support in making certain that the number of subscriptions does not decline either for the sake of the organization or for the sake of the sisters who need the Magazine's instructions, guidance, and influence. We suggest that ward presidents take a few moments of time in the regular Relief Society meeting to call attention to some feature of the Magazine, thus creating interest in it and deepened appreciation for it. A THESE STONES, MY POEMS | am as a rushing stream Flowing over these rough stones, my poems. From far places where 4 have been— From the rugged mountains. Of learning, From the desert of maturing insight, From the forest of deep appreciation, From the valleys of experience, | have gathered abrasive sand and silt, Carrying all along with me. Each time that |, so laden, Touch one of these my poems, Its roughest corners fall away, And it takes on an encouraging bit of polish. Possibly, if | continue long enough, Some of these will become smooth, round pebbles, Shining and beautiful, ~ Such as children delight to find— And keep! —Vilate R. McAllister 824 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Patricia Nixon accompanied her husband, the President, in August on his swift visits to eight countries: the Philippine Islands, Indonesia, India, Thailand, South Korea, South Vietnam, Romania, England. She was most enthusiastically received, and, in many cases, she discussed and visited welf are volunteer projects because of her husband's stress on national volunteer programs. Ladybird Johnson ce birthday, August 29th, and ex-President Lyndon B. Lebrated the former president's as Juncheon guests of President and Mrs. Nixon at the Western White House in San Clemente, California. The two first families then flew 700 miles to Redwood National Park, where the President named and dedicated a lovely area "Ladybird honoring Mrs. Johnson Redwood Grove," Johnson for "stirring the conscience" to preserve the beauty of the land for future generations. 00 feet tall and 2,000 years old. Mrs. Johnson worked diligently timberland poses. The 58,000 acres of dedicated for conservation purContributors to The Relief Society Magazine officiating and receiving literary awards at th Lael W. Hill, Lund Coles, Dorothy W. Noall, Marilyn Loomis, Helen e annual Round-up of the Utah Writers in Salt Lake; included: Pearle M. Beulah Sadleir, Betty W. Madsen, Christie j. Roberts, Claire McMeen Miller, Hazel M. Neilson, Maxine Jennings, Ruth Rothe, Janice Dixon, Rosa Lee Lloyd, Gladys Ackerlind, ings, Dorothy Buchanan, and Vesta H. Burnham, Betty G. Laverne StallDora Flack, Wilma Despain, P. Crawford. Indira Ghandi, Prime Minister of India, stood to be the loser in the August elections, since Party had split and the Right Congress The Syndicate, was very powerful. However, her candidate, Vv. V. Giri, won the presidency. Helen Delich Bentley, forty-five, was nominated in August by President Nixon to be a member and chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission at $40,000 a year. She was maritime editor of the Baltimore Sun and has been a staff member of that paper since 1945. Mrs. Bentley and Virginia Mae Brown, who is chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission, are the highest-ranking women in the Govern: ment. Mary Brown and Nellie Broncho produced, in cooperation with Gilbert Teton, 4 beautiful pageant, "The Legend of Redfish Lake,"' at the annual Shoshone-Bannock Indian Festival at the Fort H Reservation, Idaho. The entire pageant was written, produced, directed, and performed by Shoshone-Bannock Indians. Of Finnish ancestry, and were prominent figures American architects who convened in Chicago! N August. Mrs. Waisman, who loves color, is against the new ready-made town, which allows "no normal progression of growth" — no individuality. Both oppose the idea of the forty-acre park, mostly landscape, with a highrise apartment tower in the middle. They favor every man blocking out his own quarter acre, and having space for "children to run in and out." Tanya Waisman, 825 TROUBLE > and MORE se, T. UJ B L E g | - / PB een RIC no Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England @ "Oh, Steve, it's perfect." Jean Roberts clasped her hands excitedly, as her eyes took in every detail of the picturesque cottage. The weather-worn stone, the small latticed windows framed with climbing ivy, and the cowled chimney sitting slightly askew upon the low roof. "Dad, Mum, can we explore?" "Let's go in. Quick." "T'll bet a witch once lived there." "Boys, simmer down, it's not going to disappear." Their father laughed at the excited faces in the back of the car. "We have the key," he continued, "and we can go and look at the cottage, but that dog stays put." "That dog" breathed heavily and a long pink tongue reached out for Steve's ear. "No, Trub, you can't get out, you would 826 only get into mischief." Steven spoke sternly. The dog gave a resigned sigh as they stepped from the car, and laying his head on his paws, gazed with mournful eyes at the departing family. Jean opened the gate, and the three older boys hustled through, nearly bowling each other over. Steve, following, carrying baby James, laughed. "There's plenty of garden. They will certainly enjoy living here if we decide to buy," he said. "My mind is nearly made up," replied Jean, picturing crisp white net behind the latticed panes. "There may be dry rot, woodworm, and medieval plumbing," Steve warned her. The path to the front door was overgrown with weeds, and the once trim lawns' were scattered with daisies and buttercups, while a few pansies grew harmoniously with the wild clover. Steve approached the door with the key as the boys came bounding back. "Dad, there's a_ tree big enough to hold a swing," John, the eldest of the three, gasped, his eyes bright with anticipation. "We could have a pet rabbit, couldn't we?" asked Pete the younger one, while Martin, whose physique belied his appetite, said, "And there're some apple trees and blackberry bushes. Oh, boy!" Jean and Steve laughed as he went on, "We might even be able to grow our own peas." "And you'd go nibbling them all." John poked him with a grubby finger. "Come on.. Chaps, let's see what's inside." Inside the low-ceilinged house, old oak beams ran the length of the downstairs rooms. These lovely old beams are thirsty for polish, Jean thought, and my brass ornaments will look most attractive. Chintz covers and drapes... I have furnished and redecorated already! Reluctantly she brought her thoughts back to the present. A large lounge led to an even larger stone-floored kitchen, and a narrow stairway reached to the upper floor. There they found three bedrooms, one being slightly larger than the other two. A small room under the eaves reached by a _ wall ladder completed the layout of the cottage. "Well?" Steve asked inquiringly, "what do you think of it? Would you be happy here? It will mean making new friends Trouble and More Trouble he went on, shouldn't be too and neighbours," "but that difficult." "A small town will be a big change from the city," Jean replied, "but I think the garden itself is well worth moving for. I know the boys will enjoy living here, and I'm sure Trub will like it, too," she added. "T'm sure he will" Steve said dryly, "if he doesn't decide to take a liking to anyone's hens. That dog! He's still as headstrong as a puppy. How did those boys talk me into keeping him?" "Well, I think he needs to relax and have more freedom." Jean tried to defend the dog. "IT don't suppose we should have kept him, but the boys did want a pet." "Pest is the word," Steve answered grimly, "I don't know about a cat having nine lives, but that dog certainly leads a charmed life the trouble he gets into." He broke into a wry grin. "He's certainly aptly named." Tub had been with them for nearly a year. He had followed one of the boys home, a longhaired, mournful-eyed dog of doubtful parentage, and after making the usual inquiries and finding no owner, the dog had become part of the family. The boys had wanted to name him Butch, but after the escapades of the first few weeks, with Steve repeating, "That dog is nothing but trouble," they decided to call him Trouble, shortened to Trub. "Well that's that." Steve surveyed the ring of expectant faces as they all converged in the tiny hall. "I will inquire 827 November 1969 about a mortgage and, after seeing about a few alterations and modernization, we will move in as soon as we can. In a year or two we can maybe build on an extra couple of rooms." "We could sleep on the grass in a tent," Pete volunteered hopefully, "and Trub would guard us from the witch." "What about during the winter when there's snow up to the roof?" Martin asked. "Oh, boys, you do exaggerate." Jean laughed. "Now, we will work it out so that we all have a decent roof over our heads. Come on, let's go back to the car and see what Trub is doing." They filed out of the cottage, Jean locking the door behind them. "Oh, Mum, just look at Trub," John giggled as_ they approached the car. The dog had his wet nose pressed flat to the window, his tongue dripping against the glass. "Just look at that window," groaned Steve. "He's healthy, that's why his nose is wet," Pete informed them knowingly. "My Primary teacher says so, and she knows everything." "Well I wish he would be healthy somewhere else," his father answered, hustling the boys into the rear seat of the car. "Will one of you clean the window with this cloth?" he added, helping Jean and young James into the front seat ready for the return journey. "I don't think that this house will ever be tidy again." Jean ruefully surveyed the general chaos as the removal men took their departure. "And 828 whose bright idea was it to let the boys help?" She raised a quizzical eyebrow at her husband. Steve straightened his back wearily and with a twinkle in his eyes he replied, "My dear, moving house is an adventure and they are making memories today. By this time next year we shall all be looking back and saying 'Do you remember when the bottom dropped out of the toy box as Martin carried it upstairs and we found that 'all the old toys which we had thrown away had been rescued, and how Pete curled up and fell asleep in a drawer, and how John got stuck in a doorway trying to move a wardrobe?" "Okay. You've convinced me,' Jean laughed, "but I'm _ very glad you agreed to let Sister Garner take care of young James and the dog. I dread to think what could have happened with those two helping!", "They were just about to set to work when a_ resounding bang shook the house. "The boys!" they both spoke together as they hurried to investigate. Entering the largest bedroom, they found what seemed to be a heap of struggling arms and legs, as three red-faced, giggling boys emerged from the chaotic muddle of the bed. "What on earth are you doing now?" Jean inquired. "I thought the ceiling was coming down." "I put your bed _ together again,' John, the eldest of the boys, replied, looking at his parents. "And then we all jumped on it to test it and it collapsed," he ended lamely. "T should think it did collapse." His father looked ruefully at the melee. "Come on all together, let's get it built up again. I don't relish the thought of sleeping on the floor tonight." "When you're finished here will you come and help me set out the crockery, please, boys?" Jean asked. "There are two packing cases to empty before we can have any supper." "Sure thing, Mum," Martin replied, 'and can I have some peanut butter sandwiches, please, to keep me going until suppertime? I'm starving." "That child must have an abyss for a stomach." Steve shook his head. "He ought to be like a plum dumpling, but he never gets any fatter. Off you go, boys. I'll see to this while you help your mother." Gradually the bright summer colors deepened to the mellow tints of autumn, and the family settled down in their new home. Trub had been wildly excited when introduced to his new home. He had run around inspecting every tree in sight, hurtling through the house like a miniature tornado, skidding on the polished floors. Finally he had settled in an untidy heap on the hearth rug, his exploration completed. The older boys had quickly made new friends, while Jean's bright disposition came to good use, and she was soon on friendly terms with the occupants of nearly every house on the road. One person, however, always answered her kindly greeting with a grunt and never smiled. An upright, elderly gentleman, the retired Colonel Watkins, Trouble and More Trouble lived further along the road, and seemed very brusque. Jean often wondered about him, living alone and so unfriendly. He didn't even have a smile for young James in his push chair, until one day when Trub took a turn in the events. "Mum!" Martin came rushing into the kitchen. "Mum, I've been to see Colonel Watkins, and I think he's ill and he was angry." "You've been to see Colonel Watkins?" Jean was astounded. "Yes. You see Trub escaped," Martin began, "and I went looking for him and I went to the colonel's to ask him if I could look around his garden and he did -look ill," Martin ended breathlessly. "Well, why was he angry?" Jean inquired. "I hope you weren't rude?" "Oh, no," Martin answered firmly, "he asked me why I wanted to look in his garden, and I answered and said very politely, 'I'm just looking for Trouble,' and he said that I was a naughty impur... Imp... Oe... "Impertinent," Jean finished for him. "Yes. Impertinent little boy, and he told me to go home," Martin went on, "and then he began to cough and he looked real bad." "Qh, dear," Jean sighed, not knowing whether to laugh or cry. "I will have to go and explain, and if the poor man is ill, Il] see if he needs any help." "T'll play with James while you go," offered Martin. "Thank you, dear." Jean hurried out and down the road B29 November 1969 to the home of Colonel Watkins. He answered her knock, looking just as ill as Martin had said, his military bearing gone and his blue eyes clouded. After making apologies and explanations on Martin's behalf, Jean went on, "I wondered if I could get you anything? My son said that you are ill." "No, thank you. I can manage," he answered gruffly. "Well maybe I could send you some lunch over with one of my boys?" Jean asked hesitantly, "or some hot lemon? You look as if you have caught flu." "Oh, you might as well come in," he said grudgingly, holding the door open for her, and followed her in to sink into a deep chair by the low fire. "Must apologize," he grunted. "My daily woman is ill. Tried to do a bit but had to give up. Flu, as you said." Jean took off her coat and began to tidy up, softened as she glanced at the old man. He seemed more human today, all the fire gone out of him. "T must go now." She roused him gently. "Ill send some broth over. Try to take some, it will make you feel better, and I'll call around later." Next morning John and Martin accompanied Jean to visit the colonel. As John cleaned out the old-fashioned hearth, Martin chopped sticks outside to light the fire. Jean tidied up and dusted while the old man watched. "T had ason," he said suddenly. Jean turned as John looked up. "Is he grown up now, Sir?" he asked. 830 her eyes - "No," answered the colonel sadly, "he was killed during the last war. He was only twentytwo, and the shock made my wife so ill she died not long after. He was our only child." "Oh, my dear, I am sorry." Jean went and knelt by the chair, suddenly understanding the colonel's sternness and apparent dislike of children. He was nursing a broken heart. "What he must have suffered, living alone all these years," Jean told Steve that evening, "gradually being left all alone with his grief. I'm not surprised he became grim and hard." Within a few days all the family were visiting the colonel, including Trub, who, most of the time, hked to lie with just the tip of his nose upon the old man's slipper. The colonel was much better and seemed to enjoy watching the boys help tidy up. "I'm sorry Trub wandered into your garden and made a nuisance of himself," Martin said one morning, as the colonel was watching the tidy-up operation. "You know he isn't really a bad dog, Sir," Martin continued earnestly, "he only needs - understanding." "T'm sure that's all he needs," replied the old man, trying to keep a straight face. "You see he wasn't really our dog," Martin went on. "He just came one day and stayed. He didn't have anyone to love him so we adopted him." The colonel laughed. "I'm sure you never could have bought such a handsome looking creature. He would have been far too expensive." "Mum, I have an idea." John turned suddenly to his mother. "Why don't we adopt Colonel Watkins as our Grandpa, if he will let us? We have only one and he lives a long way from us, and the colonel is all alone." They all looked at the old man inquiringly. Suddenly he had turned rather red. His cold had come back it. Appeared as he blew hard into his handkerchief. "And you will be our very own Grandpa, and tell us stories?" Peter's voice was shrill with delight. "Oh, boy!" Trub, hearing the excited chatter, came bounding into the room to investigate, skidded to a halt by the colonel's chair, and laid a large paw on his knee. "It seems that even Trub agrees," laughed the old man XY with misty eyes. "Good old Trub, for without him, we might never have become friendly. With four mischievous boys and a delinquent dog, I'm certainly going to have my work cut out. "Yes," he continued more seriously. "I would like to be your Grandpa and I'll never forget the honor you have paid me today. I only wish my dear wife was here beside me to have a second chance at happiness." _"That's settled, then," Jean said briskly, with a slight sniff. "Come on, chaps, there's work to be done and Grandpa's fire is burning low." They all laughed, and with a contented sigh Colonel Watkins settled further down into his chair with Trub stretched out at his feet. 831 I sent her Out SEE ee - is —"t-00k. To This Day" @ Today is the most wonderful day of your life! Today is the day that you can do marvelous things! We cannot change what happened yesterday. We do not know what tomorrow will bring, but today is a gift to us from Heavenly Father! Let us make the most of this gift. Today we can teach our children and make them happy. Today we can be real neighbors and worthwhile friends. Today we can study and learn to do new things. We must stop regretting the things that happened yesterday. We cannot change any part of the day that is gone, yet, how many of us there are, who, like Lot's wife, turn to pillars of salt when we look back. In our case the pillars of salt are salt tears, whether they are shed actually, or whether we weep inwardly in our regret. All the tears in the world will not change the past, yet if we should spend the energy and the thought and the pain that we spend on vain regret in making the present all that we can make it, what a happy future ours would be! Stop regretting. If you are regretting lost opportunities of learning, start learning now. If you are mourning about something you did not accomplish, start working and planning something you can accomplish now. Some of the greatest books have been written, some of the finest paintings painted, some of the most wonderful inventions worked out by people well along in years, or seriously handicapped, or both. Milton was past fifty and blind when he sat down to complete his world famous epic. Benjamin Franklin was past fifty when he started the study of science and philosophy. Michelangelo said, "Yet I am learning," when he was past seventy. He finished the huge painting called the "Last Judgment" in the Sistine Chapel when he was sixty-six and was working on his plans for St. Peter's Church when he was a very old man. He died at eighty-nine. Tennyson wrote his favorite poem, "Crossing the Bar" when he was eight-one. We can always do something worthwhile, no matter what our age or condition. If you are feeling sorry because you have hurt someone's feelings, apologize and forget it, and then start doing something that will make that person unusually happy. There is the familiar story about the man who was branded with a cruel ST in his forehead. He was a sheep thief. He devoted the rest of his life to making restitution for his sin. Years later when someone asked what those letters on the forehead stood for, a man answered, "I don't know, but I think it must stand for saint, for he is surely a saint!" If we have done some wrong in the past, we can do many good things if we "Look to this day." 833 Edythe K. Watson Member, ® The Christmas season is just around the corner, bringing with it excitement, happiness, memories, traditions, caring, sharing, loving, and gift giving. What a lovely custom the giving of gifts can be, how beautiful the event it symbolizes, but are we somehow losing sight of its true significance? Unfortunately for some people, Christmas with its gift giving has become a time of frustration, of mental, physical, and financial strain, rather than a joyous time of family fun, traditions, peace, and good will. Gifts of themselves are not important, it is the desire to give that counts. Christmas should be a time to think of others, to draw close to friends 834 General Board of Relief Society ard family, to be mindful of those less fortunate than we, to give of our selves. Are we as mothers making lasting lovely memories for our children, establishing traditions, by teaching them by precept and example the joy of giving of themselves? My husband remembers with pleasure and a tear in his eye the thrill he felt as a young boy sharing gifts from his mother's lovely kitchen, carrying in his little red wagon bottled fruit, jams, jellies, fruitcake or homemade breads to the needy in his neighborhood. Our children contend that the happiest Christmas they remember was the year we joined with my sister's family in preparing Christmas carols; then, following Church service on Christmas Eve, going to the homes of neighbors, family, friends, and some who were homebound, caroling our hearts out. Our children do not remember the gifts they received that year, but they do remember the joy of giving of themselves. One mother's gifts to her family are beautiful hand-knit Christmas socks, every one with the name of a family member boldly knitted into its heading. A priceless gift, a treasured tradition. The mother made the first socks many years ago when her oldest children were tiny tots. Each year as her family has grown she has added another sock to the crochet yarn cord on which they hang Mothers Make Memories together atop the mantle. Now they include the names of grandchildren, sons, and daughtersin-law. The socks range from those used for twenty-five years to bright new ones, to be hung for the first time this year. This tradition has welded this family together. Whether a family member is serving in the mission field, in the armed forces, away at college, or just living too far from home to join the family at Christmas time, they always know that they are being remembered and missed, as their sock is lovingly placed on the family cord for the Christmas season. Most every mother appreciates gifts which have been prepared or made especially for her and her family—a loaf of stollen bread for Christmas morning breakfast, a favorite dessert set in hollydecorated paper cups, a plate of choice cookies, a holiday salad, a popcorn cake, or special handmade gifts from family members or dear friends. There are so many lovely yet simple and inexpensive items, which can be made for Christmas giving. The little family of a young friend are sure that Christmas is near when the handmade Christmas pillow cases are found on their freshly made beds as they turn down their covers. Such fun for the children, yet so simple to make from a few yards of Christmas design yardage. Children love to be remembered. Since Christmas means so much to children why not try some of the following ideas? They cost little but the pleasure they give cannot be measured. My daughter, living in the Susquehanna Stake, has made her 835 y et the Youngsters In your: i 30 home Participate In all the ex. Inches jn ight is Used as the citing Christmas Plans and ac. Trunk of the tree (a br om hantivities. Begin lasting traditions dle Can serve ver ell, too leave Pleasant Memories, let your Ost Carpenters and any fathers children Share the true Christave the equipment to drill the Mas spirit Which comes go abun Small holes for the OWels servin antly a they Prepare Madeas branches. You Will need five Pecially-for-you Lifts Which js one-fourth Inch dowels, Tanging ruly the Siving of Oneself POp CORN CAKES 2 White Sugar Boil Sugar, Syrup, water, cre M of tartar, and vin €ar until %. White Syrup Mixture Spins a thread. 4 butter and vanill Now stir in % c. Water © soda ang while jt 'S still fog INE pour Over POpped 2 tsp. Cream of tartar orn. Pa irmly jin uttered angel foog Cake tin. 4 tbsp. Vinegar ecorate Mediately with smaij Colored g FOPS (omit 1 Caping tbs - Butter lack), w l, cut with Serrated knife. Yield: large 1 SP. Vanill Cake. Use extra p Pcorn to Mak Popcorn balls. % tsp. Soda 2 Ballons Popped corn GINGERBREAD MEN Ile Shortening Crea Shortening and sugar, A id Molasses and beat until C. Sugar fluffy. Ad 8S and t thoroughly Sift togeth remain C. Dark Molasses Ing ingredients, Ad Molasses Mixture and mix Well. Eggs Over and Chill from oly hours. Roll out to % inch C. Sifted flour thickness. Cut out desireq Shape. Bake on lightly greased tsp. Nutmeg Pan. Before baki & press raisins Into dough for eyes, tsp. Baking soda nose, and buttons Use bits Of Candieg Cherries for Mouth. Tsp. Bakin Powder Bake IN 350 nN for 10 to 12 m nutes. Let Cool and 2 tsp. Gin decorate with white butter frostin Part of frosting ma 2 tsp. Cloves be Colored re for extra t Mings. Y Id @PProximately 2 Sp cinnamon doz 837 Madonna Keepsakes | Florence G. Butler esorsnespee sii a ey # I well remember the first issue of The Relief Society Magazine I received back in December 1953. My subscription came as a wedding gift from my mother and on the cover was a reproduction of the Madonna, a painting by Roberto Feruzzi. I did not know it then, but it was the beginning of a fascinating interest in Madonna paintings. I must have been on my way home from Relief Society meeting a few months later, because I had that same December issue in my arms as I passed through the checkout stand at the grocery store. I still remember the delight of the clerk who saw the Magazine and exclaimed, "Oh, may I see that, please?" She gazed at it tenderly and then remarked, "We had that painting in our home when I was growing up. It's very dear to me." I feigned delight to match hers and hoped she would not notice how embarrassed I was. I had scarcely even noticed the cover. When I returned home I sat down and took a good look at the picture. I did not readily realize how that particular picture could mean so much to anyone. But I was determined to 838 let it mean something to me just so that I could share her emotion and appreciation, if only in part. I resolved to pay more attention to paintings. The following December another Madonna _ reproduction appeared. This time it was the world famous "Sistine Madonna" by Raphael, and while I did not recognize it, I had at least heard of it, Each year thereafter, I eagerly awaited the December issue of the Magazine and privately worried that the editors might decide to discontinue the tradition for which I was developing such affection. Fortunately, they did not. With the exception of a picture of the new Relief Society Building which appeared in 1956, and certainly deserved the priority it received, the art prints continued. | By 1961,,1 had begun collecting not only the Madonnas which were featured on December issue covers, but other reproductions of this universally popular subject. I am both pleased and proud that of the fifteen reproductions I prize most, eleven are from the December covers of The Relief Society Magazine. Each has a distinctive personality that has enriched my life. There seems to be no end to the pleasure they provide. To Feruzzi I am indebted for my attraction to this special field of art. I am especially fond of his choice of model for his painting. Of all the Madonnas I have seen, this is the one I find most convincing. Her angelic expression as she gazes upward is a prayer in itself and I am reminded of the scripture, "But Mary kept all of these things, and pondered them in her heart." (Luke 2:19.) Also, I love the way Feruzzi has positioned the child, sleeping against the mother's shoulder. This popular version was repeated in 1962 in color, and I doubt I shall ever grow tired of it. A print in monochrome which has endeared itself to me is Murillo's "Mother and Child," which appeared in 1955. Bartolomé Esteban Murillo was a Spanish painter of the seventeenth century. He holds a kind of record in that three of his religious paintings have been featured on Magazine covers since I began observing. I am partial to each one. "The Virgin and Child" which appeared in 1960 shows a mother of exquisite skin and fairness. "Adoration of the Shepherds" which was used in 1966 captures on canvas that thrilling emotion which tiny inMadonna Keepsakes fants inspire. One has the feeling that the baby has just been bathed and is so soft and sweet! Of all the infants depicted, this is the one I wish most to pick up and hold. At the same time, there is an aura of holiness that keeps me at a distance. "The Rest on the Flight into Egypt," by Gerard David, the 1958 December cover was the first reproduction to appear in full color. And what an exciting combination of contrasts! I think the lithographer must have been very pleased with the results of this screening. I don't know how it compares with the original, but the reproduction is a masterpiece in its own right. Mary's dress is regal blue with a red sleeve and skirt just showing. Her head covering is a subtle shade of gray that looks purple in the shadows of the folds. She is holding a bunch of grapes for the Child Jesus. Fra Filippo Lippi, whose "Madonna and Child" was used in December 1959 is of interest to me because of the number of Madonna scenes in one version or another I have encountered by this gifted artist. He was the first in Italian art to picture the Madonna in the form of a young and attractive Florentine woman. The _ particular "Madonna and Child" used on the 1959 cover is part of the Samuel H. Kress Collection which hangs in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D. C. For a long time I searched encyclopedias and art books to determine who had painted a particularly appealing "Madonna and Child" on a Christmas card I received which bore no in- 839 November 1969 scription. One day as I was scanning back issues of The Relief Society Magazine to see which paintings had been used in the past, I discovered the very identity I was seeking. A painting by Dolci, "Virgin and Child" was a Magazine cover in 1961 and the similarities startled me —the same classic features and exquisite hands, the same peace and glow. I am certain that it is the same model on each. Dolci catches a mood of adoration on the Virgin's part that is unique. Another painting I would love to see in the original is the "Madonna and Child" by Crivelli, December cover for 1965. I have two copies of this print and each is very different from the other both in textural effect and shading. I have no idea which is closer to the original. Crivelli is supposed to have contrived a type of devotional picture which is never mistaken for the work of another. At the same time, his use of tempera medium —powdered colors tempered, or held in solution by the yolk of eggs has never been surpassed. This is a method which calls for a very precise touch and does not lend itself to easy corrections. When properly applied there results a brilliancy of color impossible to obtain in oil. With indescribable patience, Crivelli delicately stroked his surfaces into embossed patterns which resemble the vetreous effects of enamelware. Curiously enough, I have been to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, where the Crivelli is part of the Jules S. Bache Collection. Perhaps I have already seen the Crivelli! 840 But this of course was before I began collecting Madonnas. How much better equipped I will be the next time having lived with my _ reproductions. Being able to recognize artists and paintings adds a_ special dimension to one's life. "Vierge a la Grappe," by Pierre Mignard which arrived just this past December came as a kind of Christmas bonus because, for the first time, I was able to identify the picture without having to look inside for the title and artist. However, the pleasurable shock of recognition was only a fringe benefit. The greater joy was the realization that this copy was mine to keep, to contemplate, explore, and study. Great painting to be enjoyed must be seen again and again. One need not be a scholar to become sensitive to paintings. He need only be willing to devote time, attention, and feelings. And for this, one needs frequent opportunities to see paintings. Ideally, we would all like to see or even own originals, but this is usually out of the question. "In default of originals," said Thomas Craven, editor of A Treasury of Modern Masterpieces, "there is but one consolation—the print—preferably the color print." He dreamed of a day when paintings would be as popular, and prints would circulate as freely as magazines. How pleased I think he would be to see a display of Relief Society Magazine December covers with reproductions which have circulated as part of the Magazine! In addition, these reproductions are potential missionary tools. Being familiar with and in- formed about these masterpieces may be just the conversation piece I will need someday as I attempt to make friends with a nonmember. Suppose I had _ been resourceful enough to give that grocery clerk my copy back in 1953? How nice it would be if I had made it a practice to keep in touch and share with her the Madonnas which followed. Or why not a full year's subscripMORTAL SEEDS Memories flow into my consciousness Like wheat falling on the threshing-floor, One on one, yet each in singleness Containing life with power to restore Vigor, strength, and beauty. Once again | hear of life as from a silent tongue, Madonna Keepsakes tion? It might have been the beginning of a conversion. Whenever you are tempted to throw away back issues of The Relief Society Magazine, I hope you will be reminded of the October 1967 cultural refinement lesson and "be wise in your choice of discards."* *From "A Courageous Letter," Out of the Best Books, Volume 3, page 11. It speaks of fields with ripened waving grain, Where youth and age both work and play among Ever-blooming flowers. Sorrows smile As you hold my hand and touch my cheek. Loved memories, please, stay with me awhile. Oh, diary of my heart, remember, speak, Let me glean from memory's golden field Mortal seeds, that bring eternal yield. —Margaret B. Shomaker ART GALLERY Art treasures are here along this quiet street as in the corridors of a great gallery. A still life "Old Man in the Sun,"' picture of serenity. A landscape ''Autumn Gold" depicts a weeping birch dripping bright tears. Lovers hand in hand 'Portrait of Young Love." Even |, framed in this moment of time, title 'Walk Along a Country Lane." Art treasures are here, painted in living colors, signed by the Master. —Dorothy R. Cox 841 November 1969 Lora Ann Gifford Christensen, Springdale, Utah, Zion Park Stake, has been sewing and making lovely articles of handwork since she was twelve years old. Much of the clothing she has sewed has been created through her own ingenuity. She makes patterns herself. Her most recent undertakings have been making miniature and regular sized hats for tourists. She has averaged making twenty quilts a year for more than twenty-five years. Her family of eleven children, thirty-six grandchildren, and twenty-eight great-grandchildren have received many items of clothing and quilts from her. She is a generous and faithful Relief Society member, and still is an active visiting: 4, ro a as wwil S Ina Wilson Hummell, St. George Stake, Utah, has filled the lives and homes of those close to her with many lovely handmade articles, ranging from exquisite quilts to delightful children's toys. She has a talent for painting, and makes the faces of dolls and other toys truly come to life. Sister Hummel is the mother of five children and there are nine grandchildren to add to her joy. All of them are appreciative of her talents, but more so of her wonderful spirit and the things she teaches them. She has served as a counselor in the district Relief Society in Missouri and Arkansas, and is serving as a faithful visiting teacher. Her greatest delight is to be living near a temple where she may join with her husband in doing temple work. 842 KEART ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 6 SYNOPSIS: Several major changes have taken place in the Freeman family as a direct result of the parents, Kim and Mary Ann, bringing Kim's aged father to their home in Los Angeles to care for him after an accident which has broken his hip. Kim has promised his father that the lovely homestead in Mayville, Utah, will not be sold, as Kim's sisters wished to do in order to put their father in a rest home for the aged. Mary Ann has had to resign her teaching position, halving the family income. However, it has been a time of growth for them all. They hope Grandfather Freeman will be weaned away from his home in Utah. ® Emily's letter to her father had a profound effect on him. After going to bed without dinner he pushed most of his breakfast aside. "Dad, you must eat more than that to keep up your strength. You can't exercise without nourishment." "I know, Mary Ann. And I have to keep up my exercise or I won't be able to take care of things when I get home, will ~ "Indeed you won't," said Mary Ann with a heartiness she did not feel. It was plain Father Freeman had not relinquished his hope of going back to Mayville and living alone, a rank impossibility. Yet he did little or no practicing in walking that day, and his mind was on home. "They can't sell it out from under me in any way, can they?" By "they" he meant his daughters, Francine Grady and Emily Dodd. "Not a way in the world," assured Mary Ann. "Don't give it another thought. Kim would 843 November 1969 not let them if there was. He promised you, remember, that it would never be sold in his lifetime or in yours." But that night Kim broached the subject to Mary Ann himself. "Funny thing happened today. My boss asked about Dad's place in Mayville. He wants to buy it." "What in the world for?" asked Mary Ann, astonished. "T've talked quite a bit about it—not selling it, just describing it—how pretty it is, the stone house, the seclusion, the garden and the cow—just talk through the noon hour, we men telling about our boyhood. About a month ago he picked up interest. He nearly fell over when I told him how low the taxes were. Today he out and out asked to buy it." "Of course you told him it is not for sale," said Mary Ann, a little fear edging her heart— a fear that was not alone for her father-in-law. "Of course!" "What does he want it for?" "To retire in. He's past retirement age, and I didn't think he needed to, owning his own business as he does, but he says he has enough to live modestly and is tired of working. Anyhow, he could turn the business over to his son. Mayville sounds good to him, and I guess it is my fault, the way I have talked it up." As if to confirm the conversation there was a letter from Francine. "... An odd thing is happening here. People from California are buying up every old place they can get to retire in. Jensens sold 844 their place with their house on it for fifteen hundred dollars. Of course it needs fixing up, but these people are glad to get it. They say they can't afford to retire in California, the taxes are too high, and some of them just want to live in small towns. It might be a good chance, Dad, if you want to sell your place. Now, I'm not urging you, remember. I just thought I'd mention it." "T am not selling the place!" said her father, agitated and almost angry. "Why do they keep talking about it?" Mary Ann noticed a fine tremor in his hands and the pulse that beat heavily in his throat, and her heart ached for him. "T don't think Francine means anything, Dad," she said calmly, to calm him down. "You don't have to sell it. Kim won't let anything happen to it." Plosemary had come in to hear the conversation and she flew to hug her grandfather. "That sweet place? Never! Mother! Dad! Everybody! The most wonderful thing has happened. Just wait until I show you." She unwrapped a parcel done up in wrapping paper and tissue that was crumpled from previous use. Several pieces of very tarnished silver issued from it. "Where did you get that junk?" said Tommy, coming in. "Junk?" cried Rosemary. "That's sterling silver,. Tommy Freeman." "Well, where did you get it?" "From a loan shark." "You've got to be kidding!" said Tommy inelegantly. "T'm not, and I'm so excited. It happened this way. You know how I want sterling silver and how expensive it is. Well, I was Passing this loan place down on Broadway and here was a sign in the window about sterling silver. I went in and it was fabulous. Everything, guns, guitars, jewelry, Sewing machines— all jumbled in together. I asked about the silver and he showed it to me—some heavy Swedish stuff with a crude design, and I was disappointed. It was not a pattern I could use at all, and there were only eight place settings. Getting the other four would be practically impossible, so I was disappointed and about to go. Then I asked him if he had any more sterling and he said some, but not full sets of anything, and he took me upstairs. He had lots of odds and ends and I looked at them all. Then I saw this!" It was a very ornate pattern built around a solid shaft, and So tarnished it was hard to appreciate it. Rosemary had raced for the silver polish and was at work on one of the forks. They all watched with intense interest as the beauty of the piece came forth, the satin finish of the shaft, the ornate pattern jumping to bold relief by her polishing of the high parts. "You leave the tarnish in the low parts," explained Rosemary. "It adds richness." "But there are only three Place settings and a few pieces," objected Mary Ann. "The serving spoons and the Sugar shell and the butter server," said Rosemary. "But it is a good American company and a retired pattern. [ can add to Heart Room for Home it indefinitely, and I got it for less than half price! I'm going to every loan place in town." "It is brand new," observed Mary Ann. "Some little bride registered for it, and when hard times came she had to pawn it and then couldn't redeem it." "I don't want to think of that," said Rosemary. "It was meant for me, and [']] have more of it. Now, Tommy, what's with you?" Mary Ann hadn't noticed until then how subdued Tommy seemed. "I met my girl and I know her name. It is Lisbeth King." "Classy!" Pronounced Rosemary. "How did you meet her?" "She dropped a book leaving class and I picked it up for her. It was the first time she looked into my eyes. She said thank you—very warmly." "And then?" prompted Rosemary. "And then I made a dumb fool of myself. I said: 'Will you Marry me?' " "You didn't! Any girl would think that terribly romantic. What did she Say?" "She turned all iceberg. If looks could kill! She said: 'I beg your pardon!' like a duchess." "Did you expect her to gush? At least she is no easy pick-up." "It's worse than that. She's engaged. She has a diamond the size of a hen's egg." "Oh, Tommy! I'm sorry. Too bad for it to end that way!" I t was a relief to Tommy's parents, listening in. Maybe next time Tommy would go at it a little more rationally, now that he had done a right-about 845 November 1969 face in his attitude toward marrying. "Kind? Who said anything about it ending? Just makes it tougher on me, that's all." Rosemary shrugged. 'More power to you, brother." The let-down after the Christmas holidays was an ebb-time for them all. James and Carol moved to Hawaii, visiting them only once more to say good-bye. "What about my wedding?" said Rosemary. "I want you back for that." "We'll be here. We'll fly. Really, we're not much farther away than we were. We expect to see you as often." It didn't seem the same to Mary Ann and Kim, especially as Dick signed a contract to teach at Church College in Hawaii and he and Jennefer were going to move there as soon as school was out. "Not before Tommy's graduation and your wedding, though, Rosemary, dear." eJ anuary and February were dismal with rain and Father Freeman complained that everything was damp all the time, even the towels and sheets, and it was not like him to complain, as _ he was normally very appreciative of everything and sought the good in all. "It may be cold in Utah, but it is dry and warm in the house. This cold may not be low in temperature, but it cuts to the bone." "Youre getting thinner, Dad," said Mary Ann. "You're worrying too much, and you must eat more." He agreed, but ate less and less and his walking diminished. 846 His eyes had a faraway look and it was always mountainward. Kim and Mary Ann held many worried conversations. About him. They took him to the doctor they had first consulted on his arrival in Los Angles, Dr. Judd. "Physically he is no worse than when I first saw him," said Dr. Judd. "It takes a year or more for the bone to heal and put on strength, no matter how you look at it. His mental attitude is dragging him down and can become serious if he won't eat well. You'll have to distract him, make him happy." The family turned handsprings to distract him to no avail. "T don't think I'll go," he said when Tommy and his father were getting ready for priesthood meeting, and later in the week, when it came their regular temple night, he told Kim and Mary Ann to go without him. "Pll be all right with Tommy here. I don't feel up to it." Rosemary haunted the loan shops without finding any more of her silver, so the edge of the first find was dulling. "They all say the same: they don't keep it when it becomes saleable, when the redemption time lapses. They sell it to some man who takes it off their hands. He picks up practically all the silver on the coast." "What does he do with it?" asked Mary Ann. "It must be for sale. Why don't you contact him?" "Nobody knows his address. They just say he comes a couple of times a week. I couldn't hope to catch him, but I did leave a note with one of the dealers. He Said he would try and rem to give jt to hi Each night there Was a progTomm y's wasn't Dad's fault," One fifty. [Py can bring jt in use his tools. » because This Was a real blow Inning to m' Overtime ran out "T can't Make this mont house PaySaid Kim. Any hadn't wouldn't ed, when Sentative Kim Said, nett] heir repre ad Pointed out that th Heart Room for Home "I'm afraid so," Said Kim ruefully, "Tm glad | didn't know Bu: how long could they re. Main reliable? Certainly not very long when their €xpenses continued to outrun their jn- "Then you'd better borrow "nough to see us through June," counseled Mary Ann. "]¢ only had taken my retirement in a Unfortunately. Father FreeMan's door had been Open and he heard the whole Conversation. 847 November 1969 He was weeping impotent tears when Mary Ann went to tuck him in for the night. "Tt's all my fault," he said. "An old man ought to die when he gets this old, and be a bother to no one." "Kim!" called Mary Ann, concerned, and Kim came. It took their combined efforts to assure Father Freeman that they were not in immediate danger of eviction, and _ that they loved him above and beyond the mere thought of money, and that it was right for him to be with them. "How happy do you think we could be enjoying even wealth, if we knew you were unhappy in an old people's home?" "You knew all the time I couldn't go home in the spring, didn't you, Kim? Why didn't you tell me?" "We hoped we could make you so happy here that you wouldn't want to go, Dad, and I'm sorry it hasn't worked out that way." "Kim and I are committed until June. After that we'll take our vacation and take you home for a visit." "T didn't want it to be a visit," Kim's father said, but he was calmed down enough to go to sleep. Kim had no more than reached home the following Monday, which was the first day of March, than the doorbell rang. Kim's boss was on the doorstep. They admitted him wonderingly, but of course cordially. "T came to meet your father," he said, and Father Freeman looked up in surprise from his wheel chair, which he had reverted to using. "Mr. Shelton, I am most pleased to meet you," Father Freeman responded courteously. "My son has many fine things to say of you." "Good! Good!" said Mr. Shelton brusquely. "Did he tell you I want to buy your place in Utah? I believe in coming right to the point." Father Freeman looked at him in bewilderment, and then at Kim. "Kim," he finally said, "is this your idea?" (To be continued) ON DOORS CLOSING AND OPENING A new door does not always open wide Immediately when the familiar door clicks Shut; and so one stands lost, inside The unfamiliar loneness till the pricks Of shutters on the retina adjust And shadows form in new dimensions like Or unlike what is gone. The question: must One hurdle forward, seek another dike To satisfy this need that one be used, Or stand and wait, slowly gathering strength Until reason rises, unconfused And in perspective; and we learn at length That doors within the mind must open first Before the heart accepts a new sunburst. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 848 FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents "An Evening of Art," April 25, 1969 Barbara Durfee, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Members of the stake board donned lovely long formals to help make our 'Evening of Art' a memorable occasion. The theme for the event was 'Mother Makes Her Home a Place of Heavenly Beauty.' We tried to include every phase of Relief Society in our presentations. Music included four lovely numbers by the Singing Mothers. A dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey' was presented. Homemaking skills were represented in a fashion show narrated by Shirley Haslem, and in displays showing each room of the home: how to decorate it, or useful suggestions regarding its use. Cultural refinement was represented by an art display of original works by the sisters and a booklet of original poems was given as a favor. An original piano solo was presented by Jeanette Thornock. The Magazine and visiting teaching departments each had impressive displays.: "We received many lovely compliments on the evening, and we received much loyal help and cooperation from the ward officers and members."' 849 November 1969 Mexico City North Stake Celebrates Anniversary of Relief Society March 17, 1969 Sister Estrada, a ward president, cutting the Relief Society birthday cake; the gentleman standing behind her is Agricol Lozano, Stake President; to his left is the Stake Relief Society President Lucrecia Juarez de Suarez, and on his right are the ward Relief Society presidents. ' At the right, left to right, beginning with the third sister from the right: Adela Zapata de Mejia; Esperanza de Lara, Second Counselor in the stake Relief Society; Yolanda Juarez, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Suarez reports: '"'Our stake celebrated the birthday of Relief Society by remembering our pioneer sisters. As Sister Estrada cut the cake, she gave a brief narration about the pioneers. The dress she is wearing in the picture belonged to a great-aunt of her husband. The Singing Mothers performed and all the ward presidents were honored. The large cake was enjoyed by all." Cascade Stake (Washington) Holds Annual Relief Society Day May 19, 1969 Mabel M. Collins, President, Cascade Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Three hundred sisters of the Cascade Stake enjoyed a program, luncheon, displays, and a sewing demonstration at our annual Relief Society day. The program honored the visiting teachers of the stake. The dramatization, 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox was presented. "A lovely floral arrangement made by Helen Barton, stake Secretary-Treasurer was presented to the ward with the highest percentage of visiting teaching throughout the year. Following the program, a luncheon was served. Beside her plate, each sister found a pattern for a 'Happy Coat' and a list of sewing hints. "The fashion show was presented by women from the ward Relief Societies. Marilyn Haymond, stake cultural refinement class leader, gave the narration to a background of soft music."' Franco-Belgian Mission, Brussels-Liége District Presents ''Welcome to Spring''—1969 Helen G. Paramore, former supervisor, Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A festive setting, delightful program, and an array of lovely handwork were the attractions at the 'Welcome to Spring' social held in the Brussels-Liége District in our mission. "Five branches combined to make this evening successful. It was the first time that the sisters in this area have had an opportunity to participate in this type of activity, and it has proved to be a valuable tool for improving the quality and participation in Relief Society activities. "The district Relief Society presidency consists of Antoinette Otte; Hortense Gobin; Marie Forsbach; Louise Coenen; Jean Marichal; Lucie Didier. "Sheila D. Brown is the new supervisor of the Franco-Belgian Mission Relief Society." ' 850 SS LLL November 1969 Boise Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presents 'The Excitement of Discovery,'' May 12, 1969 Seated, left to right: Joanne Olsen; Wally Tuck; Vera Dike; Juliet Ward. Standing, left to right: Leslie Gilliland; Bruce Wood; Lynn Putnam; Helen Martin. Lucille M. Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our stake presented the dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox, as part of a program themed 'The Excitement of Discovery,' based on a cultural refinement lesson with that title. "The stake Relief Society presidents of all three stakes in Boise were honored, as well as the former presidents of Boise Stake. Singing Mothers from three wards performed and departmental displays were set up. Light refreshments were served. All agreed that it was a delightful evening."' 402s | GUY De MO ART RENMEI mE Orem West Stake (Utah), Orem Twentieth Ward Presents "Mothers and Daughters Day, June 10, 1969 Left to right, front row: Martha Pyne, Erna Walker, Ann Spackman, Louise Trotter, Olive Vance. Back row, left to right: Marie Russon, Amme Ridge, Lillie Anderson, Corinne Gabbitas, Gwen Richins, Ruth Rohbock, Betty Rowley, Elma Nielson, Peggy Whitwood. Florice H. Thomas, President, Orem West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Each Ward in our stake has enjoyed an occasion similar to this one this summer. Mothers and daughters, numbering 141, were honored at this social. Each sister received a lovely corsage. The program consisted of an original skit on modesty, 'Is Your Grass too Short?' written by Louise Rogerson. A professional cake decorating demonstration was presented by Bonnie Allred. All daughters over nine years old were given a cupcake to decorate. Two beginner's quilts were tied by the girls fourteen and older. There were ceramics to be painted. "A delicious luncheon was served and a special program honoring the mothers and daughters was enjoyed by everyone."' POMS, RAS EDS AR ABC ET ALE TITS Pocatello Stake (idaho) Singing Mothers Present 'Prelude to Spring,'' March 28, 1969 Front row, left to right, Ruth D. Pearson, chorister; Myra A. Jorgensen, organist. Glenda C. Merrill, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented an outstanding program with the theme, 'Prelude to Spring.' "Each of the wards, under the direction of its own music department, presented numbers, with the combined chorus presenting two. There were also some lovely solo numbers. "This was indeed a lovely and well-accepted program and we were very proud of our Singing Mothers."' a RST AAT SA EY Pa ane Ls Pe A a aa November 1969 Redondo Stake (California) Relief Society Presents Spring Festival, March 29, 1969 Picture: Gardena Second Ward Children's Chorus. Virginia E. Kelson, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our annual Spring Festival was a very successful event. A chorus of ninety Singing Mothers under the capable direction of Julia R. Wentz and accompanied by Lynne H. DeSpain rendered lovely music in keeping with the theme 'Melodies of Love.' A delightful skit portraying a couple celebrating their golden wedding anniversary reminiscing over each phase of their life together from courtship through family life to old age, was written by Linda Blazer and unfolded through dialogue and song, including an original song composed by Marco Holbrook, one of the chorus members, entitled 'The Voices of Love.' '"'Special numbers were rendered by the stake triple trio, a trumpet soloist, and the individual ward Singing Mothers. One of the highlights of the evening was the Gardena Second Ward Children's Chorus. Directed by Sharron Bentley, this group originated as a result of entertaining at a bazaar, and have sung together for five years, thrilling the audiences. "Over 500 attended this event, and we felt that the lighting, staging, sound, and costumes added a note of glamor and professionalism to help make it a memorable evening." LOE ST a a a a ee South Idaho Falls Stake Presents ''Spring Festival of Lovely Things,'' April 18, 1969 Wilma W. Gardner, former president, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: 'An outstanding musical program featuring the Singing Mothers and other special numbers were appropriately woven into a lovely narration entitled 'Spring,' written by Barbara A. Knutson, social relations class leader. "Following the program, the several hundred guests viewed the many lovely displays in the cultural hall. There were handwork, painting, antiques, and many other lovely articles on display. The theme for the displays was 'A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever.' The Bake Shop and Homemade Candies and Ice Cream Shop were very popular." Melba B. Yost is the new president of South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Hyrum Stake (Utah) Conducts Successful Home Nursing Program Colleen P. Leatham, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We have been delighted with the home nursing program in our stake. It began in April of 1969 under the direction of former president Bernice B. Darley, her counselors, and the Red Cross executives, Cecilia White, Claire Sawyer, R. N., and Mary Clark, Red Cross Western Area Nursing Consultant. "To date we have had 260 sisters and four men complete the course. The classes were taught by seventeen registered nurses, nurses' aids, and specially trained sisters from our stake. It is our plan that every sister who desires this training be able to take it. The cooperation from the wards has been gratifying, and the priesthood support from the stake presidency and bishoprics has helped to insure the success of our program."' 854 November 1969 East Sharon Stake (Utah), Edgemont Third Ward Displays Quilts, May 14, 1969 Left to right: Beverly Carroll, quilting chairman, Edgemont Third Ward Relief Society; Daisy A. Tew, President; Montana Richards, Homemaking Counselor. Sarah M. Grow, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''At our May leadership meeting, the Edgemont Third Ward displayed lovely quilts. More than 125 quilts were on display by thirty sisters. They featured the various stages of construction and ranged in styles from those of our pioneer sisters to the new and different quilts of today. Quilting books and patterns, as well as quilting stands, were sold during the day's activities."' 856 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 101 One of Joseph Smith's Contributions— Translation of The Book of Mormon Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman, knowing that The Book of Mormon was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith through the power of God, gains increased faith in Jesus Christ as her Savior. INTRODUCTION One of Joseph Smith's contributions to the salvation of men in this world was the bringing forth of "... The Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God...." (D&C 135:3.) The Book of Mormon, translated from gold plates received from the resurrected Moroni, an ancient American prophet, is a condensed history of people from the old world who were divinely directed to America. The first of these peoples was the Jaredites from the Tower of Babel. (The Book of Ether.) Toward the end of their existence, a colony of Israelites, under the leadership of the prophet Lehi, came from Jerusalem about 600 B. C. In time the Israelites divided into two factions known as Nephites and Lamanites, the former being white and the: latter becoming dark-skinned. Another group, known as Mulekites, came from Palestine about the time of the overthrow of the kingdom of Judah in 589 B. C. A merger of this people, with other inhabitants of the land occurred several 857 November 1969 centuries after Lehi's colony landed in what is now America. (Omni 12:22.) Prophets of God taught principles of salvation to The Book of Mormon people, warning them of temporal and spiritual destruction if they became unrighteous. The predictions of the prophets were literally fulfilled. The Jaredites destroyed themselves by civil war, and the Nephites were later swept off the earth by the Lamanites. North and South American Indian tribes of today are probably descendants of the Lamanites. PURPOSES OF THE BOOK OF MORMON Moronirecordedsome purposes of The Book of Mormon as follows: (1) to show unto the house of Israel what the Lord has done for their fathers, (2) to inform latter-day Israel of the covenants of the Lord that they might not be cast off forever, and (3) "... To the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God...." (Title page, Book of Mormon.) The Book of Mormon prophet Nephi saw in vision other ways in which this book of scripture would be of utmost value to people in the last days. First, it would constitute another witness with the Bible that God's purposes would be fulfilled in behalf of his covenanted people. (2 Ne. 29:8.) Second, it would establish the truth of the Bible. (1 Ne. 13:40.) Class Discussion If you were to select the most important purpose of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon, which one would it be? 858 THE BIBLE AND THE BOOK OF MORMON Not only does The Book of Mormon witness to the truth of the Bible, but the Bible testifies to the truth of the Nephite record. This testimony came to many Bible prophets who were inspired to prophesy concerning The Book of Mormon. Ezekiel foresaw that the "stick of Judah" (Bible) would in the last days be joined with the "stick of Ephraim" or "Joseph" (Book of Mormon) when the gathering of Israel would take place. These two records of different continents would be one in bringing people to an acceptance of Jesus Christ as their Savior. (Ezek. 37:16-21.) Significant among the prophecies regarding The Book of Mormon is the one recorded in chapter 29 of Isaiah. A "book," or the writings of a people who should speak from the dust, would be ".. Delivered to him that is not learned...." (Joseph Smith.) The words of the book, however, would be taken "... To one that is learned...." (Prof. Charles Anthon), who would fulfill Isaiah's prophecy that he could not read a sealed book. (vs. 11-12.) The "book" would be in the world and then the Holy Land would ".. Be turned into a fruitful field...." (v. 17.) The Bible and The Book of Mormon testify of each other as God's people recorded scripture on the eastern and western continents. Class Discussion What does it mean to you that the Bible testifies of The Book of Mormon? CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON The Book of Mormon shows men the way to salvation in the following three ways: 1. It imparts a knowledge of the true gospel of Jesus Christ. 2. It proclaims the reality of the resurrection of Jesus Christ and of the future life for all men. 3. It assists men to live the gospel plan by witnessing to them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, that the book is true. THE BOOK IMPARTS KNOWLEDGE The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the following evaluation of The Book of Mormon:. I told the brethren [Twelve Apostles] that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 194.) The Three Witnesses to the truth of this book testified that it had been "... Translated by the gift and power of God...." and that "... We know of a surety that the work is true." (The Book of Mormon, The Testimony of Three Witnesses, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris.) The Lord revealed that The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (D&C 20:9; 27:5.) What is the gospel? It is the principles, doctrines, and ordinances revealed from God for the salvation of those who will accept them. The Book of Mormon contains the fulness of the gospel because it is a record of God's dealings with a people who had the gospel Lesson Department fulness and because it records what men must do to gain salvation. A brief summary of some fundamental Book of Mormon doctrines, found in the Doctrine and Covenants is as follows: (1) The existence, eternal nature, and creative power of God. (2) The creation of man in God's image and likeness. (3) Man should love, serve, and worship the only living and true God and no other being. (4) The fall of man came by transgression of God's commandments. (5) Because of the fall, Christ's sacrifice was made as foretold in scriptures. (6) Jesus, though tempted, was sinless. (7) Jesus was crucified, resurrected, and ascended into heaven. (8) Salvation in the kingdom of God is dependent upon acceptance of the gospel and endurance in faith to the end. (9) Salvation is for faithful believers who lived before as well as during and after the earthly ministry of Jesus. (10) The "... Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and eternal, without end." (D&C 20:28.) (11) Justification and sanctification through the grace of Jesus Christ are just and true. (12) Man may fall from grace and depart from God. (D&C 20:17-34.) CLARIFICATION OF GOSPEL TRUTHS The Book of Mormon adds to our understanding of Bible teachings. The following Beatitudes from Jesus' discourse to the Nephites compared with the rendition in the Bible are examples. First read the verses without the italicized words as given in the Bible and then the entire verse as it appears in The Book of Mormon. 859 November 1969 Yea, blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. (3 Ne. 12:3; c. F. Matt. 5:3.) (emphasis added) And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. (3 Ne. 12:6; c. F. Matt. 5:6.) (emphasis added) Class Discussion Do you know of other clarifications of truths from The Book of Mormon? PROPHECIES OF THE LAST DAYS The condition of the apostate religious world is clearly depicted in prophecy, a condition which will eventually bring great destruction at the time of the second coming of Christ. (2 Ne. 28.) The role of the house of Israel in the last days as an instrument in bringing about God's purposes for man, and the gathering of the Jewish people to the Holy Land are other parts of these events. (2 Ne. 30:2-10; 3 Ne. 20:29-36; 1 Ne. 22:1-12:) THE REALITY OF THE FUTURE LIFE Class Discussion What is the principal message of The Book of Mormon for the people of today? The title page of The Book of Mormon states that it is to convince every man that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God. What does this mean? Essentially, it means that Jesus Christ is divine, the literal Son of God, who has provided the means through his atonement that man may be saved. It also provides the answer to the principal need of the world today—a faith in the reality of the future existence. The Book of Mormon stands as a 860 witness of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Being who made it possible for all people to be resurrected from the dead. Moroni, the last historian-prophet of the Nephite nation, having died about 1500 years before, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith as a resurrected being. Of him, the Prophet wrote: Moroni, the person who deposited the plates, from whence the Book of Mormon was translated, in a hill in Manchester, Ontario County, New York, being dead, and raised again therefrom, appeared unto me.... (Elders' Journal, Far West, Mo., July 1838.) Nephite prophets upon the American continent were inspired to witness to the continued conscious existence of man. The spirit world or the place where the departed dead live as conscious, living beings, prior to the resurrection, is described and attested to. Alma testifies that at death the spirit enters the world of spirits where the righteous enter paradise and the wicked are in prison. Happiness is the reward of those who have accepted the atonement of Christ, while those who chose evil works are in a state of sorrow because of their iniquity. (Alma 40:11-14.) The last testimony of the prophet Moroni was that at death his spirit would "... Rest in the paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again reunite...." (Moroni 10:34.) The resurrection of Jesus, as the first to receive this blessing on this earth, is related in The Book of Mormon. His dramatic appearance to the Nephites begins with the people hearing a voice from heaven which pierced them to the center, causing their hearts to burn. They heard these words: Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him. (3 Ne. 11:7.) They saw a man descending out of heaven, clothed in a white robe, who said: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath. Given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning. (3 Ne. 11:10-11.) Thereafter, the multitude felt the prints of the nails in his hands and the wound in his side, witnessing the reality of his resurrection with flesh and bones. Man lives as a spirit entity at death awaiting the resurrection of his body and a uniting with his spirit never to be divided again in death. This message the world needs today. Unbelief in the reality of life after death does not alter the truth. Class Discussion Discuss the ways in which The Book of Mormon is a testator of the reality of the future life. A POWER FOR SALVATION The greatest evidence of religious truth is the knowledge which comes through the Holy Ghost. This power not only affects the mind but also the heart. The process of testimony is the Spirit speaking to man's spirit. The impression of the Spirit upon man's soul is so powerful that the knowledge continues as long as the person is worthy. Lesson Department To seal the validity of The Book of Mormon for those to whom this record would come, the prophet Moroni gave the following promise: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. (Moroni 10:4-5.) The fulfillment of this promise is known to thousands of members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Savior promised that if one would accept his doctrine, he would know of its truth. (John 7:16-17.) The Holy Ghost has operated in the lives of those who seek diligently as they strive to keep the commandments. Discuss The testimony of the truth from the Holy Ghost is more powerful in a person's life than a vision. THE BOOK OF MORMON AND SALVATION What place does the testimony of The Book of Mormon have in one's personal salvation? The answer to this question is found both in the scriptures and in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. Basically, when one learns by the power of the Holy Ghost that the Book of Mormon is true, he also receives the knowledge that Jesus Christ lives as an immortal and resurrected being. (Moroni 10:7.) 861 November 1969 Class Discussion In view of the contents of this lesson, why would you believe that The Book of Mormon contributes to the evaluation of Joseph Smith, namely, that he had done "more, save Jesus only, for the salyation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it'? IMPLEMENTATION The Book of Mormon stands as a convincing witness that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. Not only do its teachings bear testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but they impress their divinity by the spirit which accompanies scripture. There is power in truth which the spiritually minded recognize. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 6, p. 273 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) The Book of Mormon is a powerful book. It convinces men of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ through its clarification of the doctrines and ordinances which save. Great truths that affect the intellect and the heart are found throughout its pages. The Book of Mormon is a witness for Jesus Christ as the literal Son of God who was the firstborn from the dead. Not only does it attest to his divinity and resurrection, but to the truth PRECIOUS JEWEL 862 that all men shall receive their bodies again never to be separated in death. Faith in the reality of this experience—conscious existence forever, eternally—is the present need of an unbelieving world. The Book of Mormon is in the world for this express purpose—a testifier. This divine record has stood the test of time and will continue to stand as a bulwark of strength for those who have learned from its pages eternal truth by which they guide their lives. Above all else, this book of scripture has instilled faith in God and in his Son Jesus Christ. The Holy Ghost has borne testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon, making it one of the greatest of all books in influencing the lives of people. They have endured hardships, trials, and great difficulties because the Spirit has continued to motivate them through the truths of this ancient record. All men may know the truth for themselves. To know what the Lord requires of man and then to apply that knowledge from the scriptures is a rewarding experience for the faithful. Elder John A. Widtsoe expressed it this way: The degree of faith possessed by any man depends not upon the extent of his knowledge, but upon the certainty of his knowledge, which leads to the proper use of his knowledge.... (John A. Widtsoe, Joseph Smith, p. 163.) Life has Many facets, Like a fine-cut diamond, And in its heart the sparkling fire Is love. —Vesta N. Fairbairn VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 5—Weak Things May Become Strong Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: To understand that by overcoming our weaknesses we can become strong. Tall, slim, and beautiful at eighteen, she gazed discontentedly at her mother. "I don't have any special gift," she complained. "T have only weaknesses." Have you shared, with this teenager, an overwhelming sense of inadequacy? When you wanted to make a musical instrument sing, have you ever struck a wrong note? When you wanted to share a particularly radiant sunset have you responded less than eloquently with, "It's beautiful," having no words to match your emotion? Have you wished that you were more able? In such moments of inadequacy it helps to remember, among others, Moroni, Moses, and Paul. Moroni fearing the mockery of the Gentiles "... Because of awkwardness of our [his] hands" (Ether 12:24) complained, "... When we write we behold our weakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words...." (Ether 12:25.) The Lord answered him saying, "I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will I make weak things become strong unto them." (Ether 12:27.) As we read the later words of Moroni, we know the truth of God's promise, because Moroni expressed some of the greatest concepts given to man. The Apostle Paul whose magnificent gospel teachings make up the great bulk of the apostolic writings of the New Testament said: And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong. (II Cor. 12:7-10.) 863 November 1969 Moses said unto the Lord, "... I am not eloquent... But I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue. And the Lord said unto him.... I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say." (Exodus 4:10-12.) The great promise of the Lord is to all of us. We grow through struggle. If we humble ourselves and have faith, our weaknesses will help us to grow strong. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness 'Discussion 5—''She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands." (Prov. 31:13) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of foods. INTRODUCTION The people of our Latter-day Saint communities are accustomed to the idea of home food storage. Ever since our greatgrandparents entered these valleys of the mountains, we have been planting gardens, reaping rich harvests, and storing the grains, fruits, and vegetables which they have yielded, to supply us with food for the winter months. Few of our parents would have felt secure if they had not known that their shelves were well stocked with jars of home-canned fruits and vegetables and that their supply of sugar, flour, and other staples was complete.. Many of us, together with our Church members in other parts of the world, are still cognizant of 864 the need for family preparedness and are able to look with pride on our shelves of delicious jams, jellies, pickles, and bottled fruits of every kind and our cupboards and pantries supplied with all the necessities for the year ahead. Some of us, on the other hand, have forsaken these traditions and have accustomed ourselves to the convenience of the corner grocery store and are living from week to week with little or no regard for the future. We need to remind ourselves that a supply of food in our homes may be much more valuable than money under emergency conditions when food might be difficult to obtain or in the event of misfortune such as accident or loss of health which could result in loss of employment. WHAT FOODS SHALL WE STORE? Requirements of people and storage conditions in different areas and countries are so varied that the preparation of a list of what to store would not be practical. Any good plan for a year's food supply should be based on a good plan for a daily food supply. It is most desirable to store those foods which are normally used by the family. It is recommended that we eat the stored supplies and replace them as we use them on a rotation basis. The saying "store what you eat and eat what you store" is a wise and practical one. It is not wise to store a quantity of food that the family does not normally eat or that is not acceptable in the regular family food pattern. DETERMINING OUR FOOD NEEDS There are several factors which govern the needs of a family and determine the kinds and amounts of food to be stored. Because of this, our Church leaders have in their wisdom left the details of food storage to each individual family to work out for itself. Our needs, then, will vary according to our family's particular tastes, situation, and circumstances, as determined by (1) the climate in which we live; (2) the size of the family; (3) the ages of the family members; (4) the occupations and physical activities of the members; (5) the likes and dislikes of the family; and (6) any special diet problems within the family. MEETING THE COST OF FOOD STORAGE Probably the most significant reason why many of our people Lesson Department do not have a reserve of food supplies and other provisions is that they think they cannot afford it. It is true that many families are not in a position to purchase a ear's supply in addition to their daily needs, but there are ways by which, with careful planning and systematic procedures, this can be accomplished. 1. By home canning and buying in season. 2. By over-purchasing. It is suggested that when we do our marketing we "over-purchase" at least ten percent on storable foods that the family ordinarily uses. By careful planning this practice will not upset the budget but can actually be absorbed as part of the weekly purchasing allotment. This additional supply should be designated as storage food and should be used in rotation as new stocks are purchased. Are we willing to curb our appetites for luxury items and nonessentials long enough to build up our supply from what we save? 3. By taking advantage of food sales. If we watch the markets and take advantage of reliable food sales, we can buy food at reduced prices without sacrificing quality. A WELL-BALANCED FOOD SUPPLY A well-balanced diet should come first in any kind of food planning, since the health of the family members is influenced more by the food they eat than by any other factor. Any wise homemaker is aware of the nutritional requirements of a good basic food plan. But just as it is neither wise nor feasible to work out any over-all food storage plan, neither is it possible to suggest a nutritional plan that would satisfy every family's needs. In a general way, however, all of the suggestions that have been given could be modified and 865 November 1969 adapted to fill every family's nutritional needs. The following classes of foods for storage will supply the basic nutritional needs. 1. Staples—Wheat, beans, rice, sugar or honey, salt, and vitamins. 2. Dehydrated foods—Eggs, milk, fruit, and vegetables. These augment the staples. 3. Canned foods—Fish, meats, nuts, juices, etc. (These require rotation if not used after a year's time). 4. Water. It is suggested that every family keep on hand a supply of water in addition to that stored in home tanks. Emptied fruit bottles should be filled with water and sterilized. Chlorinated water may be safely stored also. CONCLUSION The success of any food storage plan will depend, in large measure, upon our attitude toward it. When we, the mothers and homemakers, can see the wisdom of having a good food storage program, and the foresight and ingenuity to carry it through, there is no doubt that our families will respond enthusiastically and that its success will be assured. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 5—Be of Good Cheer Alberta H. Christensen (Reference:! Mmortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, lessons 29, 36, and 45.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remind the Latter-day Saint woman that the gospel of Christ brings a message of gladness to her home. INTRODUCTION "Lift up your head and be of good cheer...." (3 Ne. 1:13.) These are words of the Lord spoken to Nephi, son of Nephi, in an hour of great. Need. It was a crucial, faith-testing time for those Nephites who had kept faith with the beliefs and traditions of their fathers, for there were 866 many among them who began to say that the time had passed for the prophecies of Samuel to be fulfilled. Nephi, with head bowed in earnest prayer, cried mightily unto the Lord in behalf of the believers. He was in critical need of divine assurance, for there had been a day set apart whereon all who believed in the prophets would be destroyed unless the sign of the Savior's birth was given. These words came in answer to his humble prayer for that assurance: Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will fulfill all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets. (3 Ne. 1:13.) This scripture leads us into the general subject of this discussion. While there is no single lesson in the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study considering this theme specifically, there are many comments and statements in the lessons which are relevant and affirm the fact that we individually and the Church membership collectively have many blessings for which we should be grateful and which warrant our being of good cheer. Throughout the lesson these two questions will be uppermost in mind: 1. How may the words of the Lord "be of good cheer" apply to the Latter-day Saint woman in her home? 2. In a world beset with problems and sin, what should make the Latter-day Saint people, as a collective group, be of good cheer? Class Question How would you answer the foregoing two questions at this point in the class discussion? PROPHECY FULFILLED Nephi must have lifted his head toward heaven in indescribable joy, his faith rewarded in the knowledge that on the morrow, in Lesson Department the city of David as foretold by prophecy, the Christ child would be born. How great must have been the gratitude of all the believers when, at the going down of the sun, there was no darkness and when a new star appeared in the heavens! Approximately three decades later the risen Lord appeared in person to the more righteous of the Nephites. Perhaps no scripture which we have is more spiritually impressive than that which records his brief ministry among them. The healing of the sick, blessing of little children, the calling of the twelve disciples with commission and authority to perform all necessary ordinances therewith—surely here was reason for optimism, for increased faith for the people collectively as well as individually. FOR THE INDIVIDUAL: HERE AND NOW Class Discussion Questions 1. What does being "of good cheer" mean to you? An international English dictionary defines "cheer" as that which gives comfort, gladness, encouragement, joy. 2. With this definition in mind, how important to family relationships is an atmosphere of gladness or good cheer within the home? 3. In your opinion who is most responsible for setting the tone of emotional atmosphere in the home? Discuss briefly. 4. What may a mother do to maintain an atmosphere of good cheer within the home? Name several things. 5. In what ways may the happy, positive attitude of one woman influence a neighborhood? A number of women were asked to name one specific thing or circumstance of a religious nature or otherwise which could inject a feeling of good cheer into 867 November 1969 an otherwise unhappy atmosphere. Their replies follow: 1. I suppose you might say that I am a fair-weather bird. Sunshine—just plain sunshine breaking through dark clouds can do more for my emotional attitude than almost anything. 2. I love people and I am always moved emotionally by the loyalty of friends. If I am discouraged or in an unhappy attitude of mind, the good wishes of a friend who has faith in me can lift me almost immediately into a happier mental climate. 3. The laughter of little children is a precious, contagious thing. It is to me the very essence of good cheer. 4. To observe a mother act with great courage although struggling against difficult obstacles fills me with admiration. But it also causes me to evaluate my own blessings. Invariably I am lifted from a state of apathy or selfpity to one of cheerful gratitude. 5. To be loved by someone is to me the great source of comfort and joy. That someone may be husband, child, parent, or a friend. 6. I believe that personal prayer has a greater influence upon my emotional attitude than anything else. Regardless of the situation or the depth of my discouragement, when I rise from my knees the world looks brighter. 7. To see or hear of one of our children performing in accord with the ideals and teachings of our home gives me a special lift of spirit. 8. Very simple things give me pleasure. Just watch me receiving a compliment or wearing a new dress! 9. To give of oneself by way of kindly service to others brings a special kind of personal satisfaction. This service always fills me with a sense of wellbeing and gladness. 10. To overcome a personal weakness and to be aware of a certain inner growth which results give me an indescribable feeling of joy. THE COLLECTIVE GROUP: HERE AND NOW As members of the Church to which we belong we may rightly be of good cheer. In spite of problems and individual human errors, 868 we may be happy and grateful because: 1. The Church operates through the delegated authority of the priesthood of God. Does any other church today have this? 2. We witness the miracle of change that the gospel brings into the lives of individuals. 3. We see the willingness of dedicated members of the Church to serve wherever and whenever called. 4. We know that the missionary program throughout the world is increasingly successful. 5. We observe an increased interest in genealogical research and temple work. 6. We see that material resources make possible the building of temples and churches throughout the world. More may be added. Discuss briefly. INTO A DARKNESS President Clark, who made an intensive study of the Christian Church from its beginning years to the present, refers to the time after the passing of the apostles of Christ when bickerings, jealousies, strife, and contentions grew among the people. This dissension, growing in _ intensity, developed within a few generations into what we know as the Great Apostasy. A relevant excerpt by a Professor of Church History, Free Church College, Glasgow, Scotland, is used by President Clark in lesson 29 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study. In the words of Dr. Islay Burns, we read: It is the year 101 of the Christian era. The last of the apostles is just dead. The rich evening radiance which in his solitary ministry had for thirty years lingered on the earth when all his companions were gone, has at last passed away, and the dark night settles down again. The age of inspiration is over,— That peerless century which began with the birth of Christ, and closed with the death of John—and the course of the ages descends once more to the ordinary level of common time. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 29.) OUT OF THAT DARKNESS For the better part of two millenniums men groped about, spiritually stumbling one over the other, vainly seeking even a spark of spiritual light, until, on that beautiful spring morning, a century and a third ago [1954], a pillar of light above the brightness of the noonday sun gradually fell from the heavens till it enveloped a young boy in the woods praying mightily for spiritual light. As he looked up he saw two personages standing in the light above him, the Father and the Son: the morning of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times had come, breaking the darkness of the long generations of spiritual night. As in the creation light was to replace darkness, day was to follow night. (Jbid.,) The foregoing important happening is included in this particular lesson because out of that darkness came light for which the whole earth has cause and eternally shall have cause, to be gratefully glad. BECAUSE OF OUR BELIEF In various lessons of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark speaks of situations and principles which give him hope and encouragement—beliefs for which he is grateful. They should make glad the hearts of all who believe. Speaking of the final judgment he states: I believe that in his [God's] justice and mercy he will give us the maximum reward for our acts, give us all that he can give; and in the reverse, I believe that he will impose upon us the minimum penalty which it is possible for him to impose. (Ibid., lesson 36.) It is a glorious thing to me to think of the freedom which we may have from Lesson Department the power of the evil one if we but live righteously in Christ Jesus. ([bid.) In an article entitled "Our Priceless Special Blessings"' written in 1954, President Clark reminds us of blessings we may take too much for granted. Years ago [he begins], I heard of a statement from a nonmember banker of the city, which has always impressed me. He is reported to have said, and of course this in jest, that Mormons have six senses: the five the ordinary mortals have and a sixth that enables him to believe Mormonism. I am more grateful than I can express for that sixth sense. All down through the ages there have been great bodies of humanity who could not believe the gospel. We are blessed that we know that life is purposeful. [Not all peoples of the world believe this.] We are blessed that we know that before we came we had an existence. We are blessed to know that we came to this earth which was created for the purpose of giving us the experiences of mortality. We are blessed that we know that if we observe and keep the commandments of the Lord that our salvation and exaltation is assured. That is part of the sixth sense which we have. We are blessed in that we believe in God, a Personage who has manifested himself in our day, in the great vision of all time.... We are blessed with that testimony, that the Son was in the image of the Father, and that we also are created in his image. That is part of our blessing. We are blessed that God not only spoke in ancient times, but that he also speaks today and has spoken, speaks with all of the definiteness and the specifications that he spoke to Israel at Mount Sinai. He does not speak alone in parables as he taught some of the multitudes.... He speaks definitely, I repeat, that all can understand. We are blessed in the faith that we have, the living, active faith which not alone inspires us to live as we should, but which gives us power and strength. Our people have defined faith as the moving cause of all action. Faith is not trust, 869 November 1969 faith is a living, and I think an intelligent, force, through which God himself performs his great work. We are blessed that, along with that faith, we have the priesthood, the Holy Priesthood of God.... We are blessed, I was going to say, beyond all, in our knowledge, our testimony, our witness that Jesus is the Christ. And what a responsibility that knowledge brings to us that he came to earth a sacrifice to answer for the Fall of Adam. How that was brought about, the Lord has not revealed. I am not sure that if he revealed it we finite minds could understand it. We are blessed with a knowledge that just as all down through history men and women have gone astray, so we know that the Church set up by the Christ and by the Apostles who followed him was not long upon the earth. A few centuries and it had become corrupt. It became an apostate church. This is our witness; this is our testimony. That blessing is one of the blessings that goes with our belief in Mormonism. Surely, mankind never was in a more distressed and uncertain condition than today, the day in which we live. Shall we say that God has stopped his voice, has closed his ears to our prayers, that he no longer cares for or loves us? Rationally, the conclusion to that question that he has would be absurd. So in this day of ours, a little over a hundred years ago, God came, he and his Son, Jesus Christ, and opened up through the Prophet Joseph Smith this last Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. We Mormons are blessed with a testimony and a witness of that. We are also blessed with a testimony and a witness that not only did the powers and the authority come to Joseph but he passed them on down, and today President McKay, as_ prophet, seer, and revelator, stands for the Church as the mouthpiece of God, and when he speaks through the inspiration of the Lord, as he will when he speaks to the Church, he proclaims what the Lord would have us know today. (Ibid., Lesson 45.) IN CONCLUSION Sometimes we overlook the affirmative, gladsome aspect of the gospel in relation to our everyday lives. The gospel is one of optimism, of hope, of glad tidings, of eternal progress. A thoughtful consideration of its principles will reveal that there is a rewarding, promised blessing, whether so stated or not, in all divine commandments. These blessings are inherent in obedience to the law. Perhaps the greatest of these is embraced in the statement of the Father to Moses, 'For behold, this is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) Surely this, in essence, is saying to each individual of earth: "Lift up your head and be of good cheer" for the vexations of the flesh, the trials and anxieties of earth life are transitory, they are of brief duration, death is not the end of existence, immortality is assured and eternal life is attainable to all who will live the required commandments.... Men are, that they might have joy. (2 Ne. 2:25.) For Home Doing Help yourself and your family to a home atmosphere of good cheer by reminding yourself and your family of the many blessings of the gospel and of the wonders of life. A 870 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—The Place of Entertainment Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Four by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "Any pleasure which keeps the heart from God will be fatal to the soul."' —Richard Fuller Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE; To show that there is a valid place for entertainment and pleasure in life but that these should always be in good taste and in accordance with Church standards. MUSIC The Telephone, a ''mini-opera'' by Gian Carlo Menotti (1911- born) ) American (italianCommentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. The Webster New World Dictionary states that the word "entertain implies planned amusement or diversion, often with some intellectual appeal." For the past thousand years in the western world, many musical compositions have been written specifically to entertain. Among these especially composed to this end is the opera, introduced in the culturally and musically sophisticated courts of Italy at the turn of the seventeenth century. Certainly the little opera by Gian Carlo Menotti, The Telephone, is an excellent vehicle for providing a few minutes of entertainment to all who hear it. This little opera should appeal to those whose activities are being interrupted by the ringing of the telephone, usually for the most frivolous matters. INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON There is a long tradition among some churches, going back through centuries of medieval Christianity, which assumes that God is not pleased when people enjoy themselves with the pleasures of this world. Under such a philosophy money is regarded as evil, love between men and women is thought of as_ tainted with sin, art and recreation are looked upon' with — suspicion. 871 November 1969 Through centuries of history some churches have banned dancing and drama as forbidden evils, some have legislated that their religious leaders must not marry, and some have prescribed heavy, drab clothing as the only dress suitable to express religious devotion. Philosophically a whole intellectual movement known as asceticism flourished for centuries advocating strict self-denial as a means of spiritual self-discipline. Severe "mortifications of the flesh" were practiced, apparently under the supposition that God is somehow pleased with human self-punishment. This is not, however, the position of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Church believes that God wants people to be happy and enjoy themselves, in this life as well as in the life to come. "... Men are, that they might have joy" (2 Ne. 2:25) is one of the great principles expressed in The Book of Mormon. Money sometimes does promote evil but need not do so if used for good purposes. Love between men and women sanctified by marriage provides genuine happiness. Art and recreation when in good taste abundantly enrich life and are in harmony with the fulness of the gospel plan. The key words in the preceding sentence are "when in good taste." From the beginning The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has not only permitted but actually sponsored extensive programs in music, drama, dance, literature, and athletics. Always, however, emphasis has been upon encouraging refinement, wholesomeness, and good taste. 872 Discuss the term "good taste." What does it include? What are the limitations? Reading, as millions of readers know, provides an inexhaustible and wonderfully varied storehouse of entertainment. In addition to all of the aesthetic values of literature and all its rich insights into people, ideas, and problems we should never forget that one of its great and valid functions is to entertain. We live in a world of pressures and problems. How wonderful that we can draw upon literature for the relaxation and delight it provides in addition to its many other values! From Aristophanes in ancient Greek times to writers such as E. B. White, James Thurber, and Al Capp in our own century, every era has had its great humorists. Thousands of delightful stories, novels, poems, dramas, and essays are available to illustrate the rich entertainment literature can provide. In the five preceding years, and this year, too, we have studied "serious" literature concerned with problems, values, ideals, etc. Now in this one lesson we want to emphasize the power of literature to entertain. The lesson consists of the following fourselections: (1) Stephen Vincent Benét's short story "The Devil and Daniel Webster," (2) Ring Lardner's short story "Haircut," (3) "Baker's Blue-Jay Yarn" as excerpted from A Tramp Abroad by Mark Twain, and (4) a discussion of and brief excerpts from the essays of Charles Lamb. Since each of the four selections is too long to print in this Magazine, they will need to be studied from the textbook. All four selections are also available in many libraries throughout the world if readers do not have access to the textbook. "THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER" This, the longest of the four selections, is an excellent example of literature at its entertaining best—delightful, compelling, clever, yet also very wholesome, and rich with meaning. Cleverness of some kind can be found in almost every sentence, making the story great fun when read silently and even greater fun when read aloud. Why was the story written? First, to eulogize Daniel Webster, making him emerge out of the pages of history as a vivid folkhero of America—courageous, dynamic, idealistic, eloquent, and bigger-than-life in the Paul Bunyan tradition. Second, to glorify the American ideal of freedom and human dignity—the beautiful dream of America. Third, simply to delight the reader, to entertain as literature and literature alone can do. Some works of literature live primarily through their message. Some live primarily through their power to entertain. When we have important meaning combined with wonderful entertainment, as in this story, then we have a great story. Because "The Devil and Daniel Webster" illustrates so excellently this combination of delightful entertainment and wholesome meaning it has been chosen as the feature selection in this lesson on the place of entertainment in our lives. When discussing the Lesson Department story the class leader should emphasize both of these aspects. The beautiful section of seriousness near the end when Daniel Webster talks about ideals of freedom and about the dignity and glory of mankind is one of the finest passages Benét ever wrote. Note, for example, this paragraph describing Daniel Webster's speech to the jury in defense of Jabez Stone: He started off in a low voice, though you could hear every word. They say he could call on the harps of the blessed when he chose. And this was just as simple and easy aS a man could talk. But he didn't start out by condemning or reviling. He was talking about the things that make a country a country and a man a man. And he began with the simple things that everybody's known and felt —the freshness of a fine morning when you're young, and the taste of food when you're hungry, and the new day that's every day when you're a child. He took them up and he turned them in his hands. They were good things for any man. But without freedom they sickened. And when he talked of those enslaved, and the sorrows of slavery, his voice got like a big bell. He talked of the early days of America and the men who had made those days. It wasn't a spreadeagle speech, but he made you see it. He admitted all the wrong that had ever been done. But he showed how, out of the wrong and the right, the suffering and the starvations, something new had come. And everybody had played a part in it, even the traitors. The next two paragraphs are also beautifully meaningful. Then the story returns for the last three pages to a lighter tone and one of the most interesting endings to be found in the literature of America. "HAIRCUT" This is included in this lesson for two reasons: first, simply be- 873 November 1969 cause it is such an_ excellent story, and second, because it shows how fun can become evil if itis had at the expense of other people. Although the story is written very cleverly, providing amusement all the way through, most readers will realize that underneath the entertainment the author has a serious purpose: to show how twisted and cruel humor can be when it causes other people to suffer. "Haircut" is the story of a barber who talks in an uninterrupted stream of words all the time he is whacking off the hair of a stranger who has come to the barber shop. The barber talks mostly of a man in the town named Jim Kendall who recently was killed in a hunting "accident." Although the barber repeatedly refers to Jim as a man with a great sense of humor, just bubbling over with the fun of playing practical jokes on other people, we gradually realize that Jim's sense of humor is terribly perverted. He laughs loudly at the embarrassment and suffering of other people, especially when he can cause the embarrassment and suffering himself —such things as sending anonymous postal cards to men asking them where their wives were when they were out of town the other day or sending a feebleminded boy to get a left-handed monkey wrench. The man is really twisted and cruel instead of funny in his sense of "humor." And the barber is hardly better. Although perhaps not quite so cruel as Jim, the barber apparently is even more stupid because he doesn't even comprehend all that is going on. In fact, one of the best things about the story 874 as a work of art is that it is written so skillfully that the barber tells a story he doesn't understand in such a way that the reader fully understands. As a story "Haircut" is clever and entertaining, however, humor is never really humor if it must be had at the cost of ridicule or injury to someone else. As our children learn in Primary, "Fun is not fun unless it's fun for everyone." And in adult words, "Entertainment that is not uplifting can turn thoughtless indulgence into real degradation." ""'BAKER'S BLUE-JAY YARN" This delightful excerpt from Mark Twain's A Tramp Abroad is also included mostly as an illustration of the wholesome entertainment that literature can give. Mark Twain, one of our great masters of style and humor, describes animals that can talk. Perhaps space will permit just a couple of paragraphs as samples of his unique style and humor: There's more to a blue-jay than any other creature. He has got more moods and more different kinds of feelings than other creatures; and, mind you, whatever a blue-jay feels, he can put into language. And no mere commonplace language, either, but rattling, out-and-outbook-talk—and bristling with metaphor, too—just bristling! And as for command of language—why, you never see a blue-jay stuck for a word. No man ever did. They just boil out of him! And another thing: I've noticed a good deal, and there's no bird, or cow, or anything that uses as good grammar as a blue-jay. You may say a cat uses good grammar. Well, a cat does—but you let a cat get excited, once; you let a cat get to pulling fur with another cat on a shed, nights, and you'll hear grammar that will give you the lock jaw. Ignorant people think it's the noise which fighting cats make that is so aggravating, but it ain't so; it's the sickening grammar they use. Now I've never heard a jay use bad grammar but very seldom; and when they do, they are as ashamed as a human; they shut right down and leave. You may call a jay a bird. Well, so he is, in a measure—because he's got feathers on him, and don't belong to no church, perhaps; but otherwise he is just as much a human as you be. And I'll tell you for why. A jay's gifts, and instincts, and feelings, and interests, cover the whole ground. A jay hasn't got any more principle than a Congressman. A jay will lie, a jay will steal, a jay will deceive, a jay will betray; and four times out of five, a jay will go back on his solemnest promise. The sacredness of an obligation is a thing which you can't cram into no blue-jay's head. Now, on top of all this, there's another thing: a jay can outswear any gentleman in the mines. You think a cat can swear. Well, a cat can; but you give a blue-jay a subject that calls for his reserve powers, and where is your cat? Don't talk to me —I know too much about this thing. And there's yet another thing; in the one little particular of scolding—just good, clean, out-and-out scolding—a blue-jay can lay over anything, human or divine. Yes, sir, a jay is everything that a man is. A jay can cry, a jay can laugh, a jay can feel shame, a jay can reason and plan and discuss, a jay likes gossip and scandal, a jay has got a sense of humor, a jay knows when he is an ass just as well as you do— maybe better. If a jay ain't human, he better take in his sign that's all. CHARLES LAMB AND THE INFORMAL ESSAY Although space does not permit the printing of a complete essay by Lamb it would be unfair to end this lesson on entertainment without making at least a few comments on the writer who is probably the most delightful essayist English letters has ever produced —Charles Lamb (1775-1834). For all who will take the time to discover Lamb with his inimitable style and ineffable charm, hours Lesson Department of leisurely, delightful reading are guaranteed. In spite of a good deal of tragedy in his personal life and of drudgery in his professional life, Lamb had a sense of humor that bubbled up in all that he said and wrote. As he plays up and down the whole scale of humor we feel his humanity, his genial warmth, the endless charm of his prose style, and the range of his keen, curious mind. Although he has a great deal to say on a wonderful variety of subjects his chief aim is to entertain, not to instruct or persuade. And entertain he surely does, captivating readers with the magic charm of his matchless style in almost every paragraph that he wrote. Sometimes in his essays he is serious. For example, in "Dream Children" he lovingly talks about the children he yearns for but never had. In "Old China," one of the loveliest of his essays, he reminisces about his youth when possessions were scanty but joys were spontaneous and dreams were free. And in "Modern Gallantry" he regrets that men tend to be more gallant with young or wealthy women than with women who are homely or poor or old. Men should treat all women with the same gallantry, he feels —just because they are women and men are their protectors. As a brief sample of Lamb's exquisite style, we print the opening lines of "A Chapter on Ears:" I have no ear.— Mistake me not reader,—nor imagine that I am by nature destitute of those exterior twin appendages, hanging ornaments, and (architecturally speaking) handsome volutes to the human capital. 875 November 1969 Better my mother had never borne me. I am, I think, rather delicately than copiously provided with those conduits; and I feel no disposition to envy the mule for his plenty, or the mole for her exactness, in those ingenious labyrinthine inlets—those indispensable side-intelligencers.... When therefore I say that I have no ear, you will understand me to mean— for music. CONCLUSION In the foregoing discussion and selections it is the objective of this lesson to point out that entertainment in the form of good, wholesome humor has a valid place in our lives. While the very word "humor" has meant different things to different centuries, it is never destructive or malicious. As Louis Untermeyer has written, "It does not fly to assault the mind, but laughs its way into the heart. Humor is healing, wholesome, recreative, and rejuvenating." (From "A 'Treasury of Laughter," selected and edited by Louis Untermeyer.) Thought for Discussion Define "humor." Discuss some of the principles which govern it. How does it differ from wit or satire? ERRATUM In the Cultural Refinement Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom, July Relief Society Magazine, page 556, Woodrow Wilson is listed as the twenty-seventh President of the United States. Woodrow Wilson was the twenty-eighth President. Happiness is otal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Chenejer "7 Bsliy MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers'' 'Choir Directors'' We specialize in. Mail Order Service Sheet Music — Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 fo Instruments 876 TIPPY-TOE When | was young and wondering | thought the days were long, For there was ample time to loiter.... Time for play and time for song. Later, days seemed even longer When | wished for them to pass. | yearned to be eighteen, and spent Some time before a looking glass. Days turned into years quite slowly, Then they started turning fast. Soon | wanted to restrain them As they left me in their past. Now the days are short as hours.... Rapid come and rapid go. Weeks are briefer all the time, Passing by on tippy-toe. —Pearle M. Olsen New For OD><4N=-DIN Sheet music for "PETER THE PINE TREE'"' A charming, new Christmas story in song form... Ideal for young performers Mail RHODA W. BONHAM $1.00 974 Simpson Avenue to: Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Ada Mortensen Rose Elder We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest mew and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved ett & ee Send now for 3% ne, $ e our brochure 3 3 < < ey aw 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 THE REACHES The sea rolls over rubbing a briny back on the shore. Small bubbles burst with a sigh. Wind whirls through the treetops, and full of presence leaves chatter. Thunder rips through a gather of clouds unleashing the rain. Wherever silence opens sound rushes in, welcome, and all held-back riches tumble forth. —Bernice Ames 877 November 1969 isabissnah TBOOIK It's fun! Now the whole family can participate in assembling and decorating their own Gingerbread House... The same darling little house known and loved by millions, from the famous story of Hansel and Gretel. Your Dunferd's Gingerbread House package contains: Walls, roof (made of genuine gingerbread) and instructions for easy assembly, plus decorating material. This year add a Dunford Gingerbread House to your home. On sale at leading department and food stores throughout Utah; or order direct from: Dunford Bakeries Inc. 2148 South 9th East Phone 486-7476 Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 Dunford tis is BAKERS | THE HOUSE LAKE CITY, THE WHOLE FAMILY BUILDS! $350 ysl complete kit UTAH RESIDENTS ADD 442% SALES TAX PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours aiGhs) |= PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone5 ___-_-.75 Zone3.----.60 Zone6 __-~- -85 Zone@ =..."65 Zone7 ___--- -95 Zone 8 _ ~~ - -1.05 — 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 878 101 96 94 93 92 Dithdey Congratulations Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Ruth Hopewell Orton Hucknall, Nottinghamshire, England Mrs. Mary Ann (Mayme) Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Mrs. Christine Petrar Petersen Kiesel Manti, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Walters Koehler Menlo Park, California Mrs. Martha Amanda Barron Norton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eda Picot Martin ~ Anaheim, California Mrs. Helene Jackstein Sahm Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Matilda Appleyard Rothe Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Mary Francis Rodeback Smith Heber City, Utah Mrs. Emily Peterson Whitehead Grace, Idaho Mrs. Adeline Loreania Peterson Bone Garland, Utah Mrs. Mary (May) Peterson Brown Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Maddock Evans Bow Island, Alberta; Canada Mrs. Nannie Dickerson T. Hackworth St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Mary Matilda Gill Poulter Idaho Falls, Idaho 'Mrs. Roberta Flake Clayton Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah Mrs. Fanny Wilhelmine. E. Metalmann Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho 90 Mrs. Annabelle Coon Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Josie O. Hontz Alleman Springville, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Faddies Farrell Coalville, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Robins Herbert Salina, Utah Mrs. Esther Wilson Lewis Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Florence Ellen Dunford Newton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Hubbard White Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Billington Booth Provo, Utah Mrs. Rozina Bramwell Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Catherine Hall Brenchley Wellsville, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Chard Clark Ogden, Utah Mrs. Trena Christina Fuller Gronning Delta, Utah Mrs. Sylvia Abigail Beecher Hadfield Layton, Utah Mrs. Ethelyn Dowdle Kingsford Hillsboro, Oregon Mrs. Rose Grosjean Knutti Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hattie Milligan Huntington Park, California Mrs. Jeanette Morrell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emma Engle Powell Salem, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane O'Brien Simmons Burley, Idaho Mrs. Georgine Shiner Snow Provo, Utah Mrs. Sarah Edna Palmer H. Teeples Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Burbidge Turnbow Kamas, Utah November 1969 WITH NO featuring MINIMUM PURCHASE FREE BOOKLET "AS A MAN THINKETH" 1. SPECIAL ON VOL. V OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS Regular $3.25 Special $2.60:: Fn Ta. EP ge a 1 LUT OF THE WEST ROOKS |} 2. Vols. 1-3 ea. $1.95 4. Art of Home 6. Jesus the Christ — (Vol. 4 Out of Print) Making — Hoole $4.95 James Talmage $3.50 3. You & Your Child's 5. | Thee Wed — 7. Doc. & Cov. World — Landeau $3.95 Rex Sidmore $2.95 Commentary $4.95 BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB -. 626 "H'' Street Sailt-Lake City, Utah 84103 880 NEW BOOKCLUB BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB DESERET BOOK COMPANY 4 East South Tem ple, Sait Lake City, Utah 84110, Or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me L] Charge establishe X, residents of California add 5% Nov. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Put the magic of Sugarplum Land... Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FRESH APPLE PIE TIME! % cup granulated U and | Sugar 4 cups sliced apples Y teaspoon cinnamon 2 tablespoons Minute Tapioca 2 tablespoons butter METHOD Peel, core and slice apples. Mix with U and | Sugar, cinnamon and tapioca and Jet mixture stand while preparing crust. Prepare crust for 9" two-crust pie. Fill bottom crust with fruit mixture; dot with 2 tablespoons butter. Cover with top shell. Flute edges to seal in juice and either prick or in your meals! Slit top crust to allow steam to escape. Bake in hot (450°) oven for 15 minutes; decrease heat to 425° and continue baking another 30 minutes or until nicely browned. For final 10 minutes of baking time, sprinkle pie generously with granulated - U and | Sugar. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream or slice of cheese for cheese lovers. Note: If you have a soggy crust problem, try coating the bottom crust with egg white before filling. Merely drop the white of an egg onto crust, tip pan until entire crust is coated, and pour off excess. Oven heat will seal bottom crust in first minutes of hot baking so juice cannot penetrate. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live economy of these areas. Vl where sugarbeets are grown. U and | Sugar sweetens the U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. " Pp. Tg, he PS aR ss econgeg 7 Si CHRISTMAS LULLABY es ell.. Lush, little baby, the snow lies deep,. Iligree-frast on. The window pane... Hush Mittle-baby, and sleep... And $leep.. _* *. "~=. Christmas. Has: come to the world again. \ Mary once. Cradled a |ittleS@n And sang him. To*slumber that other night, Looked on him gently, the Holy One, And shepherds watched and a star burned bright. Mary sang in the sweet soft hay While camel bells tinkled upon the air, And even the cattle knelt, they say, And the little gray donkey that brought her there. Hush, little baby, this Christmas night, The snow lies deep and the wind blows white, And bells make music and carols ring And the world is worshipful, listening. The fires fade and the lights grow dim,... And Mary is singing her song to him. 3 $ yn "Ay ~ Betty W. Mads ~ SKS sy othe Cover: The Playful Madonna _ From a Painting by Antonio Allegri da Corregio (Italian—1494-1534) Color Separations by Wheelwright Lithographing Company Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press. Frontispiece: Evening Travelers Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Studios ~ } Art Layout: Dick Scopes _ dilustrations: « Mary Scopes "i: 1: 881 bi te | want to thank you for the wonderful Magazine, and especially for the July and August issues. It has been some months since we had a Magazine since coming to the Canal Zone, and then we received two in one day. The poems in them by Hazel Loomis were especially dear to me because she is my cousin, and we have not seen each other in such a long time. | feel as if we have had a good visit ("By Handcart Came''—July Frontispiece; ''Patch Quilt," August 1969, page 589). The gospel is here, and the sisters are especially good to us. Ora M. Welch, Pacific Branch, Canal Zone Today my August Magazine came—but so did two little chidren to play with my own daughter while their mothers helped with our ward project. Three children between one and two years of age keep me hopping. Somehow | was able to fit the three completely different schedules into one—and now they are all napping.! Picked up the Magazine, and the editorial ''Leisure for Oneself,'' by Marianne C. Sharp, really hit the spot—a couple of hours of leisure time, well deserved and much needed. Thanks for ail that The Relief Society Magazine stands for. Kenon King, Van Nuys, California Thanks so much for the wonderful Magazine. It helped me through many a lonely time when I was single. It contains beautiful stories that can uplift the soul of a lonely soldier far from home. Thanks again for the wonderful sisters of Relief Society. Sgt. Brent Boehme, Denver, Colorado | would like to thank my Aunt Millie Halladay and her family for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. She recently passed away and is greatly missed by all who knew her, but the Magazine she left us is precious. It is the only link we have with our beloved Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We live too far away to attend any ward or branch. | love the dear poems of Bertha A. Kleinman whom | had the privilege of meeting in person in my home town—Mesa, Arizona. We appreciate the Magazine so much that we study it from cover to cover. Clella Roseberry Lewis, Fruitvale, Texas | am thankful that | have been a member of the Relief Society for fifty-one years. | used to read the Magazine before | married. When | married in January 1918, my husband's mother was the president of the Heyburn, Idaho, Ward Relief Society. We subscribed for the Magazine so that | could enjoy its teachings. We were blessed with eleven children, seven of whom are still living. | am thankful for the poems and lessons and the beautiful message of the gospel truths published in the Magazine. Olive Christensen Warner, Declo, Idaho The Magazine is a magnificent testimony builder—and! Am now referring to the marvelous lessons that have been prepared for us all. | have been very fortunate to have been a spiritual living class leader for eight years, so | am familiar with these lessons. Marilyn Hershberger, Soldatna, Alaska | was so happy to receive the September Magazine. My health prevents me from attending Relief Society meetings as | would like to do, and so the Magazine has become ''my home Relief Society." My daughters are three and one and a half. One of my most pleasant times is when three-year-old hops on the bed so that | can read the Magazine to her. We talk about the pictures and the stories and sometimes share the poems. | especially enjoyed the lovely color section in the September Magazine. Ann Allen, Richland, Washington 882 Magazine Volume 56 December 1969 Number 12 CAND CU eet > am EE Editor Marianne Cc. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta Re Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features gaa Service Hugh B. Brown g90 Elder Marvin J. Ashton Appointed an Assistant to the Twelve g92 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1969 Mayola R. Miltenberger Fiction g94 Mama and the Magic Bag Lila L. Smith 906 Heart Room for Home—Chapter 7 Alice Morrey Bailey General Features 2 From Near and Far 898 Editorial—The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church 900 Singing Mothers of Los Angeles Area to Present Christmas Program Over National Broadcasting Radio; 1 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out go02 A Season of Christmas, Ruth C. Ikerman, go4 Petunias Are Flowers, Too, Helen Hinckley Jones; 912 Christmas Time Thoughts. Marcella H. Morely; 914 Christmas Trees: 918 Celebrating Christmas Without Going Into Debt, Mary E. Bergman; 919 A Thing of Beauty Is 4 joy--° Edythe K. Watson; 920 Wreaths for the Christmas Season, 923 Treasure Chests For Christmas. Johna de St. Jeor, 924 Retinished Furniture—More Beautiful Than New; 925 Working With Knit Fabrics, Myrene T. Alvord; 926 Something Different for Your Home, 927 Swedish Lucia Queen, 928 Swedish Cookery for Christmas, Darlene C. Dedekind; 937 Hobby Features—Delila B. Eagar 938 Spiritual Living—Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions Roy W. Doxey 944 Visiting Teacher Message—Faith in Christ Alice Colton Smith 945 Homemaking—""She \s Not Afraid of the Snow for Her Household. - Celestia J. Taylor 947 Social Relations—A Position of Honor _ Alberta H. Christensen 952 Cultural Refinement—The Necessity of Service Robert K. Thomas Poetry ggi Christmas Lullaby, Betty W. Madsen, gg9 inventory: A Snowball Tree, Mabel Jones Gabbott: g91 A Snowy Morning, Lucy w. Jones, 943 Poetic Urge, Margaret B. Jorgensen, 951 Guest Room, Linnie F. Robinson, 956 Communication, Ruth G. Rothe; 957 Out of the Dust, Margery s. Stewart. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society Generat Board Association. Editorial and Business Ottice: 76 North Main Street. Salt Lake City. Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511: Subscription Price $2.00 2 year. Foreign. $2.00 a year: 20¢ a COPY. Payable in advance. The Magazine 'S not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Eport City, Utah. 1103, Act of October 8, 1917. Authorized june 29. 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. SERVICE President Hugh B. Brown Of the First Presidency (Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969.] @ My dear sisters of the Relief Society of the Church, it is an honor and a privilege to be asked - to participate in the programs of this general conference. It is hoped that we may define and delineate some of the distinguishing characteristics of this great organization whose motto, as you have heard, is charity, and, may I add, whose slogan is service., President David O. McKay would be here if he could. I am sure if he could have been given the choice of which session of the general conference he would attend, if he could only attend one, he would choose to attend this session. His spirit is with you, his heart is with you, and he sends his love and his greetings. Religion has too often spent a large proportion of its effort on doings apart from the real business of life. One of life's problems is to establish a deep understand- 884 ing of man's relationship to his fellow men. When that relation- 'ship is faulty, men are not living in the just, helpful, and cooperative fellowship which the Savior enjoined. On every hand we see an appalling human need awaiting the harness of religious power and zeal. One of mankind's most insistent needs is the interpretation of religion in terms of service. Let us go back for instruction to the Hebrew Prophet Micah: Wherewith shall I come before the Lord, and bow myself before the high God? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, _ and to walk humbly with thy God? (Micah 6:6-8.) Man's curious ability to keep divine relationships in one compartment of life and human relationships in another is wrong. They belong together. And in the Relief Society they are together. For the Relief Society knows no division of our obligations to God and to his children. Too much of religion's driving power remains unharnessed to the needs that lie all about us. The Prophet Isaiah spoke directly to this subject when he said, Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed.... (Isaiah 1:16-17.) Fortunately, in the lives of many people, piety really does involve goodness, and faith involves justice, and worship, humaneness, and their life with God has a definite connection with their daily relationships. It makes them better home folk, better friends, neighbors, and citizens. The prayer of Charles Kingsley could well become a part of our daily worship. He said, "Guide me, teach me, strengthen me till I become such a person as thou wouldst have me be, pure and gentle, trustful and rightminded, brave and able, courteous and generous, dutiful and useful." That sounds to me like a Relief Society prayer. Religious life should inspire practical goodness and daily usefulness. God dwells in the hearts of the human family as well as in temples. The Lord said through the Prophet Hosea, "... I desired — mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings." (Hosea 6:6.) Service The Savior, while he lived among men, in order to emphasize the meaning of service, ate with the ceremonially unclean, transgressed the law of the Sabbath in the interest of human helpfulness, and gave his life as a service to mankind. Jesus emphasized the truth that God is not primarily in the Church, but in the midst of the needy, sinning, failing yet aspiring humanity. Paraphrasing Henry Ward Beecher, religion means work. The battle of religion, like all other battles, means peril, blows given, but blows taken as well. Religion means transformation. Dr. Wilford Grenfell, the Lincoln of Labrador, with whom I was briefly associated during the First World War, made the statement, 'Whether we, our neighbor, or God is the judge, absolutely the only value of our religious life to ourselves or to anyone else is what it fits us for, and enables and inspires us to do." Every man's religion should have practical issue, not merely emotional responsiveness which delights in hearing the gospel, but lacks diligence in living it. We must remember that religion is action, not diction. Let us pray that God will deliver us from our dullness of conscience, from a feeble sense of duty, from thoughtless disregard of others, and from all half-heartedness in our work. The Hebrew prophets had a supreme abhorrence of what they called "unmoral" religion, and the Master shared their conviction. He pilloried the Pharisees in everlasting scorn. Their petti- 885 December 1969 ness, their quibbling, their false emphasis, their bigotry, and the uncharitableness of their lives, their lack of forthright honesty, aroused his indignation. Their religion made them worse, not better. To the Master, religion meant graciousness and magnanimity, self-forgetfulness and self-denial, high purpose and deep joy in the ministry, boundless brotherhood and love blocked by no ingratitude or sin. There was inexhaustible goodwill in all of his teachings, and he emphasized over and over again the need and blessing of service— outgoing service to all those whose lives we touch. No one can doubt the central place which service held in the life of the Savior, as it is referred to in the parable of the Good Samaritan or in that other solemn utterance where the standing of the dead before the throne of God depended upon whether they had fed the hungry, clothed the naked, given drink to the thirsty, and visited the imprisoned and the sick. He said of himself, "... The Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." (Matthew 20:28.) He that is greatest among you should not call himself a disciple of the Master until he possesses the spirit and knows the meaning of service. An aged and industrious Relief Society worker once said, "There's a lot of room in heaven, but there's no place to sit down!" Today we are confronted with many social evils—we have war, poverty, disease, ignorance, vice —all of which have become com- 886 monplace in the modern world. One-third of the population of the globe, nominally Christian, has seemingly failed to realize the full meaning of Christianity. Religion must not become an isolated and uninfluential afterthought. On Sundays, when the banks and stores are closed and the rest of life is still, when the finer forces stir within us, we go in company with our family and friends to the Church for formal worship. This is good. But when it is over, we too often close the door on that experience and return to the routine and mundane affairs of life. The Relief Society, and all the members thereof, are, or should be, willingly harnessed to the task of serving their fellow men. And this is a continuing obligation and a continuing benediction. Strictly speaking, our worshiping assemblies on the Sabbath day should not be called "church service' for church _ service should begin on Monday morning and last all through the week. Church service is helpfulness to people. Public worship is but preparation for that helpfulness. Ours should be a life of ministry amidst the dust and din of daily business. The Hebrew prophets directed their scorn against the religious trivialities of their day and the Savior scorned the quibbling minds that tithed mint, anise and cummin, yet neglected the weightier matters of the law. With the experience of two world wars behind us, and now the hapless war on foreign soil, thoughtful men are coming to realize that some things which were once deemed important are really of small account. We must somehow get rid of our ante-bellum concepts and address ourselves to the stupendous task of making over the shattered world preparatory to the millennium, when the battered and broken lives of the unfortunate and the sinful can be reclaimed; when our social life, its business,. Its statecraft, its international relationships can be transformed by the renewing of men. With so much work to be done, so much action on many fronts, we cannot afford to ride theological hobbies or be obsessed with favorite fashions in religious phylacteries, else we shall miss the main issue of the gospel. He who travels widely and observes carefully is impressed by the spiritual desolation of millions of men who live near expensive churches but are impressed and disillusioned by the frivolous futility of much that is called religion. It becomes, in fact, a ghastly mockery. When we think of the One who came to seek and to save those who were lost, and when we observe the apathy or, at best, the fitful interest in other than outward appearance, when we become concerned only with our meetinghouses, our tabernacles, and temples, let us look about us and see the millions who are not affected thereby. We should resolve to reach out our hands and save them from the inferno toward which they are moving, and we should concentrate all our energies on the united effort to rescue some, at least, of them whom Christ came to save. Too many men accept religion, profess to love it, and cleave unto it, not from many unselfish moService tives but solely because of an inward peace, a quieted conscience, and the radiant hope which they, themselves, get from it. Religion then becomes not a stimulus but a sedative. It is used not as an inspiration to service, but as a substitute for service. We too often have mystical experiences of the spiritual, and a peaceful sense of being pardoned by God and reconciled with him, as we purr and primp in the shade of public praise. Religion reaches such men only on their receptive side. They are yielding to the lure of selfishness. The Master and his disciples referred often to the tendency among their followers to become hearers of the word rather than doers. The Savior said, And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand.... (Matthew 7:26.) And Paul wrote that not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law. While we live, we should try to make each day a year so far as beauty, nobility, and a warm sense of brotherhood are concerned. In a time when there is so much cruelty abroad, we must generate the oxygen of love to keep the soul of the world still breathing. Religion should summon all of us to deepen the quality of life as compensation for diminution of its quantity, to treasure each other in the recognition that we do not know how long we shall have each other, to make life strong and brave and beautiful is our answer to the inexorable approach of the forces of death 887 December 1969 abroad in the world. We must make up for the threatened brevity of life by heightening the intensity of life. Our very understanding of each other can serve to deepen life even when we cannot lengthen it. The mission of the Relief 5ociety, and it is discharging this obligation admirably, is to establish in the hearts of men and women a love that involves unselfishness, willing sacrifice, mutual forbearance, absolute fidelity, boundless devotion. There is a drawing power in love. You can feel it just as surely as you can feel heat or cold. "I will draw all men unto me," said Jesus. Whenever you come into the presence of a loving heart, if you are in tune, you will feel the heavenly power and will be drawn by the magnetism of love. Service is included in, and is a product of love. So long as we love, we serve. "Not what we give but what we share, for the gift without the giver is bare," said Sir Launfal. And James Russell Lowell said, "All the beautiful sentiments in the world weigh less than a single lovely action." And from Sir Walter Scott, "It is greater to do a kind deed than to write a novel." Let this ever be our prayer as we labor in Relief Society: "Help us, O Lord, to find those who need us." Too many are comfortable in the luxury of their self-approval as they listen with receptiveness to the consolations which come from those who hear the gospel message. Let everyone get under the load of responsibility, and realize that every doctrine has its 888 associated duty, that every truth has its task. The gospel when the Master first proclaimed it, was not intended _ primarily for preaching—it was intended for action. Surely there is a challenge to all Christians who look about them and see the appalling sin, the haggard want, the infuriating oppression which befall millions of our fellow men—for every one of whom the Savior died. Lord, we cannot serve thee as did Martha in those days, But we can seek and find thee in a thousand other ways. The poor, the hungry, and the weary cry out ceaselessly, And every home, if filled with love, can be a Bethany. The: inevitable expression of real Christianity is a life of sacrificial service. No man can truly assimilate Christianity by impression alone, there must be expression as well. MY LAMP I met a stranger in the night, whose lamp had ceased to shine, I paused and let him light his lamp from mine. A tempest sprang up later on, and shook the world about, And when the wind was gone, my lamp was out. But back came to me the stranger—his lamp was glowing fine; He held the precious flame and lighted mine. I want to congratulate the President and her Counselors on their magnificant addresses this afternoon and I am humble in being asked to follow them. Surely we have no greater preachers of the gospel than you members of the Relief Society. We want you to know that we love, admire, support and depend upon you for the work of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It seems to me that the Relief Society is really the backbone of the Church. For that I humbly thank God, and being a married man, I know what it is to have the woman standing beside you, upholding and defending you and encouraging you when you are up against real problems. May all of us be inspired to seize the torch and hold it high, remembering that we may from one candle light a thousand others without diminishing our own. May our lives be given to charity and service and thus may Service we become real servants of the Master. Thank you for permitting me to participate briefly, and may God's choicest blessings be with your General Presidency, the General Board, with your stake and ward, mission, branch officers and teachers, and with all the members of the Relief Society throughout the world. O God, bless and sanctify the efforts of our sisters upon whom we depend so completely for their help and for their inspiration. We thank you so very much and pray God's blessing upon you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. INVENTORY: A SNOWBALL TREE Soon the year will end and | shall take An inventory of all blessings sent My way. For future scantier years I'll make A special note of how the snowball bent Its thick-leafed branches toward my kitchen sink; How leaf-green newness turned to blossomed snow And lush cool shade, and lingered then, | think, Long past the scheduled time for leaves to go, Lingered while the sun poured red and rust And amber gold through once-green leaf-veins. Day After day | gloried in them, thinking they must Fall soon. For all things earthy go the way Of transient growth and bloom and then to dust. Only the memories of their beauty stay; Today my snowball tree, etched in frost, Adds to this blessing and will not be lost. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 889 ® Elder Marvin J. Ashton, for- 'mer first assistant in the YMMIA general superintendency was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve at the Friday afternoon session of the 139th Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church. Prior to his appointment, Elder Ashton had served eleven years in the YMMIA general superintendency and ten years on the general board of that organization. While in the superintendency he gave supervision to the MIA activities in music, dance, drama, speech, and athletics. He had much influence in developing the Church athletic program into what it is today. He also has served as senior president of the 315th Quorum of Seventy. Only a week prior to his appointment as a General Authority, Elder Ashton had been appointed managing director of the Unified Social Services Committee, a new committee to function under direction of the Church Priesthood Correlation Committee. This committee will include the principal youth and child services of the Church: the Youth Guidance Program, the Relief Society Social Services, and the Indian Student Placement Program. Elder Ashton was born in Salt Lake City, May 6, 1915, a son of 890 Marvin O. And Rae J. Ashton. He attended Salt Lake City schools and was graduated from the University of Utah with a degree in business administration. Elder Ashton helped establish his reputation as a crusader for youth when, as a Utah State Senator from 1957-1961, he spearheaded legislation for improvement of statewide juvenile detention facilities. He serves on various committees for the betterment of youth, and has given long service to the Boy Scouts of America. He holds the organization's highest awards, and serves on a national committee. Elder Ashton served a mission to England, and has traveled world-wide as a speaker, directing most of his efforts toward the youth. In 1940 he was married to Norma Berntson in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of four children: John, Jonne Ashton Wheadon, Stephen, and Janice. Sister Ashton is a member of the General Board of Relief Society. SOFT WHITE SNOW AND EVERGREENS PHOTO BY ERIC M. SANFORD A SNOWY MORNING The snow sneaked in on us last night On downy, padded feet. So still it is as flakes float down All muffled in the street. The cars creep past like shrouded ghosts. No children shout aloud. The sky above is quiet, too; One massive, great gray cloud. How peaceful and serene earth lies Under its coverlet of white. That softly, silently drifted down During the tranquil night. —Lucy W. Jones a0 Pyne ny aan?; The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1969 Mayola R. Miltenberger General Secretary-Treasurer @ "The fields of compassion have not all been plowed...." said Elder Bruce R. McConkie as he addressed the opening session of the 1969 Annual General Conference of the Relief Society held October 1 and 2 in Salt Lake City. A colorful assembly of Relief Society women from various parts of the world heard revered priesthood and Relief Society leaders in numerous sessions give words of comfort and faith, of admonition and instruction to the Society. "Religion must not become an isolated and uninfluential afterthought," but its "driving power must be harnessed" in order that the "needs of today be met." So 892 This group of Lamanite Singing Mothers performed in the Presidencies Department of the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1969. Their singing was under the arrangement of Margaret E. Dahl, Supervisor, Northern Indian Mission Relief Society. Spoke President Hugh B. Brown in the General Session of the conference. President Joseph Fielding Smith, Elder Mark E. Petersen, and Elder Marion G. Romney gave inspiring addresses urging women to use their powers (as women) to better the world, to strengthen their homes, to encourage their husbands; to place their confidence in the priesthood, to teach their sons to understand and honor their priesthood, and to "save souls" as they were originally instructed to do by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The messages of the priesthood leaders and those of the Relief Society General Presidency and The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1969 other participants of the conference together with the moving, and, at times, ethereal music rendered by Singing Mothers choruses combined to make this conference, according to many, the "best ever." New emphasis was given to excellence in music by the rendition of an _ hour-long choral presentation together with a narration during the Stake Board session in the Tabernacle. The combined Singing Mothers choruses of the Cottonwood, Mill Creek, Murray, and Wilford Regions, under the _ brilliant musicianship of Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board, provided the conference with a new dimension in this phase of Relief Society work. The chorus was 'accompanied by Roy M. Darley, a Tabernacle organist. The galaxy of nine departmental meetings held simultaneously produced ideas designed to assist in the various facets of Relief Society work. These meetings sparkled with exciting homemaking displays, original dramatizations set to specially composed music, with cogent addresses, visual aids, and demonstrations. The Official Instructions issued by President Belle S. Spafford, who presided at all major sessions, were given as guidelines for the governing of the world Society. President Spafford also challenged the women by her stirring address, "If It Is Right, We Can Do It." She said, "The task before us is great but it is not beyond our successful accomplishment." In her address Counselor Marianne C. Sharp reminded the women that "Charity Never Faileth," and Counselor Louise W. Madsen spoke of the "Spiritual Values of Homemaking." Against beautiful settings in the Relief Society Building and Parley's Stake Center women gathered the evening of October lst personally to meet the Relief Society Presidency and members of the General Board. There they partook of refreshments and exchanged greetings during the annual reception honoring the visiting sisters. The unifying of womenkind into a world sisterhood—a goal of Relief Society—was particuly underscored by the attendance of a large group of Lamanite Relief Society sisters from the Northern Indian Mission. Sisters from cities with different sounding names such as Pago Pago and Sao Paulo mingled with those from Anaheim, Idaho Falls, Snowflake, Kansas City, and Kalamazoo. Surnames like Red Wolf, Jack Rabbit, Fadmausili, Gonzales, and Jones, smiled, embraced, and communed as "sisters" do. When the conference closed at 4 p. M. Thursday, October 2, there seemed to be an eagerness to apply what had been seen and heard. The sisters returned to their homes with the words of President Hugh B. Brown ringing in their ears: "... The mission of Relief Society is to establish in the hearts of... Women a love that involves unselfishness, willing sacrifice, mutual forbearance, absolute fidelity, and dauntless devotion." 893 @ The howling wind made the tall old house rock and creak. It came down the _ stovepipe blowing puffs of smoke into the room from the big pot-bellied stove. The windows were rattling, and Mama was stuffing rags into the cracks to hold back the snow. I ran to her and held onto her skirt. Sternly she told me to let go so she could move around. She stopped for. A minute, scraped frost from the glass pane, looked out, then started to cry. Mama cried a lot these cold winter days. Papa said she was just homesick, but I knew better, for I heard them talking after they put me to bed. "There's no use in staying in this God-forsaken place," Mama said, "now that you have sold the cattle, we can go back to Southern Utah, and live like other people!" "T am not leaving the land I took in as part payment on the cattle," Papa said, "besides Canada is a coming country, already the land is fast being taken by homesteaders." 894 pa " Lila L. Ae I did not know what a Godforsaken, place was, or what homesteaders were, but I thought it must have something to do with all the snow and ice piling up outside, and something terrible - would happen to us as it did to the people in the Bible, when God did not like them. It was dark when Papa and the boys came in, stomping the snow from their. Boots and clothes. Mama lit the lamp, and started supper. "Is it time to put the nails in the wall for the stockings?" I asked Mama. "Yes, get your brothers to put them in behind the kitchen stove, so the things Santa puts in them won't freeze," Mama said looking at Papa. "Do you think Santa Claus can get through the deep snow?" I whispered to my big brother. "Sure," he said, "Mr. Taylor at the post office says he always gets through. Sometimes the mailman brings things for him." I ran to get the stockings, and started hanging them on the nails, but as I reached far over to the last nail my hand slipped and I touched the back of the hot stove. I let out a scream. Papa picked me up, and started soothing me. Mama did not say a word. She just reached for the Magic Bag from the top of the cupboard, took me from Papa, put salve that smelled of camphor on my burned arm, and wrapped a clean white cloth around it. She dried my eyes, kissed my cheek, and put me in the big rocker. "You'll be all right now," she said with a smile. "Just think about it being Christmas Eve, and Santa coming." Somehow it did not hurt any longer, and I almost fell asleep as I smelled the loaves of brown bread Mama was taking from the oven, and watched her dish up hot stew for our supper. The house did not creak any longer, and after supper my brothers rubbed the frost off the window so we could see the deep snow glistening in the moonlight. Papa said the storm was over, and Mama said, "After three days it is about time or we will all be buried alive!" We had just settled down to story reading when the knock came at the door. Papa opened it, and a big man in a fur coat and hat came in. He was covered with snow, and icicles hung from his eyebrows and mustache. "IT am Mr. Armstrong," he said, "my wife needs help, and I can't get through those drifts to Kimball to get Mrs. Talbot in time. I heard that your wife has had training with the sick, Mama and the Magic Bag so I came to ask her to help us." Mr. Armstrong was all out of breath when he had finished. Papa tried to take his coat and hat, but he said, "No, there is not time, I must get back." Mama took down the Magic Bag, opened it to check the medicine inside, then I followed her into the bedroom and watched while she combed her long black hair. She whirled it round and round, then pinned it in a big bob on top of her head. She put on a clean white apron and let me kneel beside her while she said her prayers. Papa helped her into his big fur coat, he put Lorin's overshoes on her feet. She put a wool fascinator scarf around her head, then followed Mr. Armstrong into the cold frosty night. I cried myself to sleep when Papa put me to bed. It was sad not to have Mama home when Santa Claus was coming. The room was still dark when I woke up and saw the light shining through the curtain over the doorway. I jumped out of bed and ran into the big room that was kitchen, boys' bedroom, and living room for our family. A blast of cold air came in the door with Mama and Mr. Armstrong. They were both covered with snow. Mama said the horse could not pull them and the buggy through the deep drifts and they had to get out and walk. She looked tired and pale. Papa helped her off with the big coat. In my excitement at seeing Mama I had forgotten about Santa and the stockings. Then the boys jumped out of bed, and we went to look behind the stove. Santa had got through. The boys 895 December 1969 had skates, and standing beneath my stocking was a pretty RedRiding doll. But I lost interest in the doll when I heard Mr. Armstrong say that Mama had given them a beautiful baby boy for Christmas! The rest of the day I played with my doll, but kept looking at the Magic Bag on top of the cupboard in hopes another Christmas baby would come out. We ate our dinner of roast beef, mashed potatoes, and creamed carrots, topped off with Mama's suet pudding and sauce, which we could hardly choke down after Mama told us there would be no Christmas dinner at the Armstrongs, just potatoes, cabbage, and an egg if the hens laid enough. The early snow and freezing had covered their crop before it could be cut and threshed. After the boys had washed the dishes for Mama, Papa brought around the horses and sleigh to take Mama to see how Mrs. Armstrong and the baby were getting along, and we all went with them. The horses lunged through the deep snow, sending snowballs from their hoofs back into the sleigh. We laughed when the drifts were so high the sleigh bounced over the top, jarring us when it hit bottom. We arrived at the Armstrong house that looked like two boxes put together with a lean-to porch in between. Papa tied the horses and we followed Mama into one of the boxes. I looked at the other door, and just knew it must be the stable. The side we went in was a kitchen where four children sat with their coats on, huddled around the stove. "You better keep your coats on," the oldest boy said, "there's not enough wood to keep both stoves going, and Mama and the baby must be kept warm. Papa has gone over to an old shed to find more wood." Mama told me to take off my hood and mittens. But when I pulled off my mittens out came the two red apples I had carried clenched in my fists and they G rolled on the floor. I was afraid Mama would scold—but she just smiled as I picked them up and give them to the two little girls. Mama took the kettle from the stove and the Magic Bag and left for the stable. I helped the two girls cut out paper dolls from a catalog, and my two brothers played marbles with the two Armstrong boys. | Papa came in carrying a big box. He took out Mama's big roaster and put it in the oven, then piled wood in the stove and a few chunks of coal. Soon Mama came to the door and told us we could come see the baby. When we went through the other door it wasn't a stable, but a big bedroom. The baby was in a cradle made of a wooden box, not a manger. He had a red face, but no halo on his head as it shows the Christmas Baby in the Bible stories! Then we left for home and the setting sun made the white world and clouds look pink. Mama said, "This has been a beautiful Christmas day." And we sang "Jingle Bells" to the sound of the squeaking sleigh runners cutting the crisp snow. When we arrived home Mama and I took off our wraps, my brother Ray brought in the coal, and Papa built up a warm fire. "What's for supper, Mama?" Lorin asked. "Oh, we can make sandwiches from the roast beef left from dinner," she said. "T don't think we can," Papa said, "I took it and the gravy to the Armstrongs. But we can have the rest of the suet pudding and sauce." Mama and the Magic Bag "No, we can't," Mama said, "T took that to Mrs. Armstrong." "Well, boys, let's have some of the nuts and candy from your stockings,' Papa said, "because it won't matter if they do spoil our appetites now." "We can't give you any from our stockings, Papa, we took them to the Armstrong children," Ray said. Everyone laughed, and we made jokes and riddles while we ate our supper of bread and milk. From then on if anything was lost, we would ask, "Did you take it to the Armstrongs?" Mama never cried by the window any longer, she was too busy making carbolic salve, camphorated oil, liniment, and canker medicine from the recipes Grandpa Pugh had brought across the plains with him in the Magic Black Bag. They had been given to him by his Welsh ancestors, and given to Mama when she left for Canada. Mama always said she found a magic recipe for happiness in the Magic Bag that Christmas Eve, and she often told it to us: A lot of faith, with a lot of work will make everything turn out right. And never feel sorry for yourself—there is always someone in the world with more miseries than your own. All winter she went through blizzards, rain, winds, and floods to help children with croup, pneumonia, and broken bones. She left babies for ranch women, women on lonely homesteads, and women across the boundary line on the Indian reservation. Through it all she had a smile, time to tell us stories, and time to sing. 897 EDITORIAL The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church @ The 139th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, the 3d, 4th, and 5th of October 1969, in a time of harvest in the mountain valleys, and in a spirit of gratitude and rejoicing for the everlasting gospel. By ships of the sea and by planes of the air, by train, by bus, and in private cars, the saints journeyed to the place of gathering. Many walked from nearby homes, and all who attended the meetings heard the words of salvation, authentic and inspiring as in other times and other places since the glorious restoration and organization of the Church in these latter days. From many lands and many nations, from the continents and the islands of the sea came the members of the Church to be comforted, renewed, blessed, and directed. The Tabernacle was filled to overflowing and other thousands heard the addresses and the uplifting music in the Assembly Hall and in the Salt Palace nearby. Foreign visitors were privileged to hear the proceedings by direct translation. By radio and television, other thousands in many parts of the world participated in a renewed dedication of their lives to spiritual ideals and a devotion to service and brotherhood in their daily lives. In addition to the Tabernacle Choir, three other choruses sang during the meetings: The Brigham Young University Combined Chorus, the Singing Mothers from Cottonwood, Mill Creek, Murray, and Wilford regions; and the MIA Girls Centennial Chorus. President David O. McKay, from his nearby home, presided at all the conference sessions, and the meetings were conducted by President Hugh B. Brown, President Nathan Eldon Tanner, President Joseph Fielding Smith, and President Alvin R. Dyer of the First Presidency. President Thorpe B. Isaacson was in his place during the conference. Elder Marvin J. Ashton, former First Assistant YMMIA Superintendent, was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Volume 56 December 1969 Number 12 THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 898 Editorial Twelve. Words of appreciation and abiding love for Elder John Longden, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who passed away in August, were expressed by General Authorities and by many others who missed the presence of a beloved leader and inspired counselor. In his opening address, delivered by his son Robert R. McKay, President David O. McKay spoke of the astronauts and their journey into the realms of outer space, saying ''Members of the Church have always known through revelation of the numberless creations of God.". Although God has created the universe and all therein, ''man is the jewel of God." This is just another way of saying that the earth was created for man and not man for the earth. God gave to man part of his divinity. He gave man the power of choice, and no other creature in the world has it. So he placed upon the individual the obligation of conducting himself as an eternal being. You cannot think of any greater gift that could come to a man or woman than the freedom of choice. You alone are responsible, and by wielding and exercising that freedom of choice, you grow in character, you grow in intelligence, you approach divinity, and eventually may achieve that high exaltation. That is a great obligation. Very few people appreciate it. The roads are clearly marked—one offering animal existence, the other life abundant.... In his closing address, read by his son Robert, President McKay expressed his love for the saints in all the world, admonishing them to righteousness, and testifying of his own great faith:! Wish to emphasize the fact that this great conference has testified to the hundreds of thousands listening in from all over the world that God lives, and furthermore that Jesus is his Beloved Son, the Savior of the world. We have also testified to the world that man is not living for himself, that his selfish desires should be overcome and controlled, and that he should render service to others.... 1 am grateful for and pray that God will continue to direct and bless our General Authorities who have inspired us with their messages during the sessions of this great conference. Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore 899 Seated at the harp: Renee Sheranian Goates; standing, front center (in dark dress): Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, conductor; standing back of Sister Barnes, soloists: Melva Niles Barborka and Linda Hallett; seated at the piano: Jacqueline Young, accompanist. Singing Mothers of Los Angeles Area to Present Christmas Program Over National Broadcasting Corporation Radio On Monday evening, December 22, 1969 at 7:05 p. M. Eastern Standard Time, the Singing Mothers of the Los Angeles area will present the half hour "Voices of Christmas," program sponsored by the National Broadcasting Company. Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society will conduct the Singing Mothers from Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, Santa Monica, Inglewood, and Huntington Park Stakes, assisted by Renee Sheranian Goates, harpist, and Melva Niles Barborka and Linda Hallett soprano soloists, with Jacqueline Young as accompanist. Eight Christmas songs will be presented, including "Silent Night," "It Came Upon a Midnight Clear," and "O Holy Night." Relief Society women throughout the Church, and thousands of other listeners who have radio broadcasting available through NBC or its affiliates, will thus have an opportunity to hear representative Singing Mothers offering "The Voices of Christmas" over a wide network at a time of special remembrance and observance of a sacred season. CBD CEERI N ey oR ALS. C Mrs. Shirley Temple Black, former famous and beloved child actress of moving pictures, has been appointed one of the ten United States delegates to the United Nations General Assembly. She will specialize in environmental and_ social problems, particularly air pollution and water problems, and on an earnest effort to further peace and human brotherhood. Miss Carolyn Dunn, a member of the Sunday School General Board of the Church, has been named director of Consumers and Customers Services for Armour Company, the large meat-packing organization of Chicago. She has been an associate professor of foods and nutrition for the Utah State University, and also a newspaper columnist, with, in addition, a daily television program. Miss Eileen Roberta Donovan, one of two United States women ambassadors, took up her post as envoy to Barbados recently. She was consul-general in the country 1960-55, then spent four years as director of the State Department's Office of Caribbean Affairs before her ambassadorial appointment. The only other present U. S. Woman ambassador is Carol Laise, the envoy to Nepal. Tatzumbie DuPea, a Piute Indian born in Lone Pine, California, recently celebrated her 120th birthday and was congratulated by President Nixon and many California Officials. She is thought to be the oldest woman in the United States and has been truthfully called the oldest Californian, the oldest actress, and the oldest mother. Her Piute name means "Beautiful Star.'' She has spent more than thirty years in the ''movies'' and is a veteran of some forty films.. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Antoinette Concello has been a circus performer since 1929 when she joined a flying trapeze act. She retired for a time when her son was young, but now that he is in law school, she has reinvested her valuable experience to further the future of the circus and now serves Barnum and Bailey Circus as director of the aerial ballet. Women Pilots in the United States number seventy who hold air transport ratings from the Federal Aviation Administration. Approximately another 1700 hold commercial licenses, while an additional 500 are licensed flight instructors. The airlines do not hire women as air transport pilots. Mrs. Roxa Wright, Woman's Day needlework editor and herself a needlework designer, collected for the New York Hallmark Gallery's spring exhibit of America's needlework: past and present, many rare and breath-takingly beautiful items. Some, lent by museums and historical collections date from early eighteenth century. Embroidery, appliqué, elaborate petit-point, crochet, all kinds of handwork embellished utilitarian objects, and clothes demonstrate touchingly the skills of many countries and a depth and breadth of aesthetic feelings. Mrs. Lois Arnow and Mrs. Mary B. Kadesch are ''plant librarians" at the University of Utah Herbarium, a plant reference library. The library furnishes information on many species of plants, identifies poisonous plants, edible and non-edible plants, and supplies data for medical research, as well as aiding air pollution experts and police officers and others in the identification of narcotic specimens. 901 Ruth C. Ikerman utting the bright red ribbon to tie the holly paper covered box holding Christmas tree shaped cookies, my friend remarked to me: "It used to be that Christmas was a day. Now. Christmas is a season." We reflected together on these words as we continued wrapping gifts for a committee to take to anumber of senior citizens in our area. As I reached for the box of silver stars to fasten the foil paper, I remembered back to the silver star on top of the community Christmas tree when I was small. How eagerly we anticipated the surprises of that wonderful day of Christmas, living fully for one joyous day, remembering it for a whole year. In that moment of remembrance, I was glad that Christmas has been extended into an abundantly full season. How rich in friendship and fellowship and sharing is all the year because of active participation in a season of Christmas. Trading of news and recipes is part of the Christmas season. One of the richest gifts I ever received for my kitchen came from a friend who lives in a convalescent home for the aged. She took time to copy from her re- 902 tired missionary friends, who lived there, the various recipes from countries where they had served. Just a step away from comparing recipes to the art of learning how to decorate differently for the Christmas season. Greenery and shrubbery which seem so familiar they are almost prosaic take on new luster when sprayed with gold or silver paint. Men who have never made an artistic design in their lives find it an absorbing hobby to see what they can do with the humble tumbleweed to turn it into a miniature Christmas tree. Closely allied to this discovery of new talents in decorating is that of learning to express tastes through gift wrapping of packages. None of us can excel at everything, and if we decide we do not like to make fancy bows, we can learn to tie with red string or yarn, while the season of Christmas gives us a chance to try out our skills. This is an opportunity for husband and wife to learn to work together in new ways, perhaps in painting a little red wagon, or enameling tins to hold cookies. A Season of Christmas Christmas dinner and the day itself. Within the Walls of the Specia] Invitation, he new doll is rocked, and the bicycle taken for its first ride, in homes Where there are children. Older memhouses seem to be Specially dec. Rated, each In its Own way, Significant tributes to the birthday of a King. | think also of the Petunias B rowers fore) Helen Hinckley Jones' am locked behind a hi 5 aioe my reach. This dream don't need to ask a psy I first started to pro mother's parents in Provo, Utah. When Vera and Bob lock: off together, leaving me t er the pangs of the across the front of Grandfa house and garden seemec as the stockades that protecte "eo from the Indians. I must ha against fences whe understood why I was left behind. What use grown-up nine and ear-olds have for a six-year-old tag-along? ~~ That is the way I remember that Pro embers that she and Bob never got on their way without hearing Mother's swa for Helen." Anyway I still have this dream and I rouse myself to think of my Grandfather Cheever and the day we talked about petunias. Grandfather had an amazing garden, but the flowers in it were not for picking. Children could look at the blossoms, smell them, enjoy them, but never pick them. No one ever took the trouble to explain to us children that Grandfather was a nurseryman and that the beautiful flowers yielded seeds only when they were left on the vine, so we thought Grandfather liked flowers more than people and that he was, perhaps, just a. Little bit selfish. One day Grandfather found me shaking the gate with all my strength and crying. He gave me a grayish peppermint from his pocket and invited me to walk with him in the garden. This was an unusual invitation. Grandfather was very old, at least he seemed so to me. When I heard the Bible stories about Noah and Methuselah I always thought of Grandfather. I knew that he had been older than was usual on the frontier when he married my grandmother and Mother was their tenth child. I thought he didn't like children, but perhaps that was wrong because once before when I had been left behind he had asked me if I could count to a hundred. I had already learned the system. I could count into the billions and trillions. As I remember it, he begged me to stop counting before I got even to a thousand. This day he suggested a walk in the garden before I could say, "Nine hundred and ninety-nine." We walked down a row of radiant snapdragons. Carefully he pinched off one little face and holding it between his thumb and forefinger he showed me how it could open and close its mouth. "Let's pick some," I suggested hopefully, and his answer was just a shake of his head. He pointed with his cane and we moved over to the cinnamon pinks—I can still smell them. In another part of the garden I admired the stock and the phlox. I don't know at what point in our walk I began to beg constantly to be allowed to pick at least one flower. Perhaps I had been tempted by the peonies which Grandfather raised mostly for funerals, or by the sticky stemmed moss roses. Voice calling, "Wait 904 Petunias Are Flowers, Too Finally when we passed the petunia border Grandfather said, "These are petunias. You may pick one of them." He guided my hand so that the petunia came up by the root. Then, together we went up to the house and, sitting on a bench near the kitchen door, we leaned our backs against the sun-warmed adobe wall. He took the petunia from my hand and I wasn't sorry. It had never been very pretty and already it had begun to droop. With all the beautiful flowers in the garden, why pick a petunia? Starting with the roots, brown and hair-like, he told me that children drink from a cup but plants must drink from the earth through those fine threads, that flowers need water; without it they would die of thirst. And they need minerals. Minerals in the soil are dissolved in the water that is drawn up through the ordinary looking roots. Then he gently touched the leaves. He told me that leaves are much more wonderful than they look. If the sun is shining on the leaf and there is water coming down the tiny pipe system—Grandfather's gnarled, shaking finger followed the vein system in the leaf—the leaf can make food. Actually out of nothing but water and sunlight these tiny green factories can produce something that wasn't there before. This wasn't like making bread of flour and yeast and water, Grandfather said. This was one of the two greatest miracles in nature and I knew by the awe in his voice that he thought of it as one of God's miracles. Then he had me look into the flower and he showed me where the seeds would grow and why they would develop there. As he talked to me of the second miracle he showed me the stamen and the pistil. Though I am sure he didn't explain the entire mystery of reproduction, he still let me know that even flowers need both a father and mother. That was a wonderful afternoon with Grandfather's quiet voice telling me so many things that I had never heard before. He put the flower back into my hands and said, "I know you would rather have picked a rose or a peony. Petunias tell us more about life and they: are flowers, too." Our visit was over. He went into the house to sit in his favorite platform rocker with the crocheted antimacassar. I went back to my vigil by the front gate. I don't know what adventure I missed that afternoon when Vera and Bob left me behind; but I'm sure that I wouldn't trade that hour with Grandfather Cheever for anything. He knew as he led me through the garden that being with him wasn't like having gone with Vera and Bob. In his quiet way he told me that second choices are "petunias" and that they are flowers, too. So I've gone through life picking flowers and quite a few of them have been petunias. I hoped to be a concert artist, so I'm a teacher. I'd love to write deep novels that would win international attention, so I write simple things. I'd like to be wrapped in mink, so I'm collared in muskrat. And yet every petunia I've picked has brought me more joy than the rose I might have had. Though I have never bowed to the roar of "bravo, bravo," from an excited audience, my students have at times called me blessed. I'm far from a Nobel Prize winner in literature, but one third grader after finishing one of my books wrote me, "Those were great guys. I'm going to grow up to be like them." I wanted sons and I have two daughters—but what loving, considerate, wonderful daughters! Each of them has brought me a grown-up son that I didn't have the responsibility of rearing; and one of them shares with me three enchanting grandsons. And so I sleep and dream that an impassable high board fence and locked gate are between me and what I want from life. But even as I dream I recognize that it is a dream and I can rouse myself and remember Grandfather showing me the wonders of a simple flower. Every time I want one thing and get another I say to myself, "This must be a petunia." And I wait for it to turn into a miracle. 905 Chapter 7 @ No man likes to antagonize his employer, but Kim was in a cold rage at Mr. Shelton's coming to his home and offering to buy Kim's father's beloved family homestead in Utah. "I told you Dad's place was not for sale, Mr. Shelton." "So you did," said Mr. Shelton, ignoring the flashing anger in Kim's eyes. "I figured if I talked to the real owner we might do business. I'm prepared to offer twelve thousand, sight unseen, just from your description of the property." "T wasn't describing it for sale. It is not for sale," repeated Kim. "Why don't you let me talk to your father about it?" said Mr. Shelton. "There's no need to," said Kim's father with dignity. "The place is not for sale, has never 906 '< Zz OD a. - es HEART ROOM FOR HOME Alice Morrey Bailey been. If Kim hasn't, if Kim didn't want to—" He looked at Kim and was reassured by the expression on his son's face. '""The place is not for sale," he finished. "Sorry," said Mr. Shelton. "No offense meant. I really want that place, though, from your son's description, and if you change your mind...." "Dad won't change his mind," said Kim ominously, with finality. After Mr. Shelton had gone Kim's father continued to think about the offer. "Are you sure, Kim? Why do I cling onto my possessions? I can't live much longer, and I can't work any more. If I sold the place I could divide the money and give each of you children your share of the inheritance." "None of us has a share of Moment Was mine— To My's. Yoy could easily liy, ten or even fif. ©€en more years, so now let us not talk of Inheritances,, "T Ouldn' Ind living that much longer, If she w € alive," is father Said wistfully, and th eft the Sub t see ed 4 change Or the rest of the f, Only three Months t 80, Rose. Mary and were plunged Int Sewing Sessions Whenever Cary Was not there to elp Rosemary With the refinish Ing of th TY some Other Plece she d picked Up. A letter came to her as a result of the note she ad left at the Pawn Shop, A Y. Feidley assured her lookout; Stil] available at half the Market Price foy New silver. Made the °Pportunity to talk to Lizbeth King. He Teported the circumstance to the family. "I don't ave m l Heart Room for Home a She say to that?" Said Rosemary. "Her answer moment. S e Marry a Spoiled Said Tommy, but he Planted €r lips the kiss he no doub longed ¢ Plant o Lizbeth semary Pretended a Swoon. "Tomm i." Wailed December 1969 "You dared to do that?" said Rosemary. "Sounds as if: you were trying to drive her off." "That's what she said, but it intrigued her so much she had to come to dinner to see what a monstrous family I belonged to." Kim and his father had been taking in the scene behind the newspaper. "Her fellow, the one she's engaged to, what about him?" "T didn't ask and she didn't tell me," said Tommy. "That's better,' commented his grandfather. "King Arthur's knights—they couldn't always see their opponents, either, dressed up in armor as they were. In the end a man has to stand on his own merits, not on the demerits of his opponent." ~ Of course Mary Ann went all out for the Sunday dinner, roast beef and Parker House rolls, her specialty, cherry pie, the best linen and crystal, the silverware polished to a satiny finish. Lizbeth had been visiting a friend the first time Tommy saw her at Church, but she lived in Alhambra with her parents, except for school where she boarded with a friend. Then Tommy went to fetch her and the table was set, the food ready for serving when they arrived. Of course Cary was there, but the girls and their families were otherwise occupied. Seven at the table, including Father Freeman, were not too many and gave time for adult conversation. Lizbeth was socially gracious, but reserved, and she was all that Tommy said—with a regal bearing and proud eyes, dark blue fringed with black lashes, a rosepetal skin and shining black hair 908 to her waist. What Mary Ann and Kim liked about her was her modesty of dress, feminine and sweet. "I went to BYU," she explained. She listened more than she talked, but when she did make a contribution it was brilliant and to the point. She didn't really melt until after the meal, when Rosemary invited her to the garage to show what they were doing with the furniture. Cary and Tommy tagged along and they came back all chattering at once. She was intensely interested and big-eyed over Rosemary's silver. "Tell me exactly how you got it," she said. "I want that man's name because I want to do likewise. I think it is fabulous." "T like your girl," said Mary Ann in an aside to Tommy. Watching the metamorphosis of Tommy from an ordinary college student, a familiar son, into a man in love was like seeing a cocoon unfold into a brilliant butterfly. There were the hours of despair, when Tommy came home and threw himself, moaning, onto his bed, behind locked doors, and the hours when he was illumined with the sweet secrets of his love for Lizbeth. Finally, there came the day when he appealed to his mother. "T've got to talk to you, Mother. All through this I have been thinking of myself. Me! Tommy Freeman, as if my own happiness was all that mattered. Sometimes I think of this poor guy she is engaged to. He must be a pretty nice fellow to appreciate Lizbeth enough to didn't you ask your father?" "No! It's a woman's problem. Think if You were Lizbeth. Then I'll talk to Dad." the first time you spoke to Lizbeth. Any gir] deserves a choice. Girls have been choosing between the men who love them since has no other choice. Now you ave gone so far it is out of your Now it is Lizbeth's prob-. "You don't think I should back off now, then?" "Certainly, if you can." "That's just it, I can't." "Well, there's your answer, body else did. Dders and paint buckets along with the rest of Heart Room for Home her reception there, with windin the poo]— Tommy approached her to type ble duty." She was Opening her mouth to Say she couldn't Possibly when to be seventy-five Pages done in Practically a non-stop Marathon, Support his title "The Place of the A 1 their own stood out. H father was etched Sharp as a diamond—his independent conI never took steps to build social] security; J don't be- 1 in milking the put my 909 December 1969 surance fellows can do the same. That way we're both ahead." His impact on the family was there—Rosemary's right-about face from dependence to independence, Tommy's own, even the change of Mary Ann from a fashionable working woman to a homemaker, and Kim's emergence as the real head of the household. All because they had brought Kim's father to live with them instead of selling his beloved homestead and putting him in a home for the aged. Tommy was fair. He showed how this might not work for some families. He outlined his parents' dilemma— the unfinished payments on the mortgage, the upkeep of a too large home when the children were gone. Tommy offered no solution, and Mary Ann wished he would. He was merely the scientific observer, and said it would be interesting to see the drama played out to the end, with a satisfactory solution for them all, or failure, and that it deserved further study. There was no time to think of either alternative just now, but both hovered over Kim and Mary Ann like dark-winged birds. The thesis was done and approved barely in time for Tommy's flight to Washington and the symposium, where he made a brilliant presentation of his paper, according to the Dean. It would be published in the fall and included in the Society's Proceedings of the Thirty-Fifth Annual Symposium. The newspapers picked it up as a "Revolutionary Solution to the Care of the Aged," and featured it. "About as revolutionary as 910 Methuselah," drily. Several offers of professorships at various colleges came of it, and Tommy was invited to submit a proposal to a scientific foundation for a sizeable grant to support further research on it. Lizbeth was at the airport to meet him and she looked at him with respect. Mary Ann noted she was not wearing her engagement ring. This was just an interlude, for they went back to the bridal showers for Rosemary given by her friends, the trousseau tea at the Freeman home, with the excited female relatives, and some of the male ones, coming and going, then exclaiming over her matched outfits of clothing, her linens and_ silver, everything beautiful for a bride. Her ivory white satin wedding dress was sheathed in her closet, her accompanying temple _ clothing pressed and packed into a small white case. Rosemary, with her mother's help, had not missed a detail to make her wedding perfect. It was Rosemary who drew the family's attention to her grandfather. "T don't remember hearing him speak a word in three weeks," she said. "And he looks sad and frail. I so wanted him at my wedding, but not if it will be too much for him. Grandpa's all right, isn't he?" Her father looked suddenly frightened, and guilt swept over Mary Ann. There was no doubt she had neglected her father-incommented Kim law in the excitement and hubbub in the last few weeks, doing only what was necessary for him and leaving the rest to Kim. But Kim had been kept on the run from the minute he got home until he could no longer see, fixing up the place for the wedding. "Grandfather, you are coming with us to the temple, aren't you? You promised, remember?" "What's that, Rosemary?" her grandfather answered, dragging his gaze from its faraway place. His eyes burned unnaturally bright in his pale face, and his clothes looked like a half-filled sack, he was so thin. His white hair, usually so well-kept, and his shaggy white eyebrows, looked slightly wild. "You promised to come to my wedding in the temple. Are you able?" "If I promised, darling, I will come. I always keep a promise." They took him with misgivings, and then the day was out of their hands—the wedding breakfast and the last minute preparations for the reception that night. He went to his room "to rest" he said, and when it came time for the reception he made his excuses that he was too tired to join them. Mary Ann fixed a supper tray and took it in. The wedding reception was a highlight for their family, the hundreds of guests from the ward, from Kim's work, from Mary Ann's and the children's associations coming and going was a kaleidoscope of loveliness. One of Kim's friends from work was most impressed with their home, their yard and gardens, the swimming pool, now dramatized at their best by the event. "Kim, you plutocrat! I had no idea you lived in a place like this." Heart Room for Home This pleased Kim, of course, and he murmured something about its being adequate for the family. "We never would have bought so big a place for ourselves—but the children." "Yes, the children. We've got seven of them, you know, and they are bulging the walls out of our place. We'd sure like to have an outlay like this." "How would you like this one?" Kim asked jokingly. "Are you serious?" demanded his co-worker. "Oh, could we?" abetted. His' wife A: long last the affair was over, the last guest gone, the bride and groom having changed quickly and departed in a decorated car trailing old shoes and peppered with rice. Tommy, Lisbeth's hand in his, had also gone, borrowing the little car and tucking her in. There was no mistaking the stars in her eyes, nor the love in his. Barbara, Jennefer, Heidi, and Carol and their husbands, aided by all the children who were still on their feet, were retrieving tissue paper from Rosemary's room, where the gifts had been unwrapped, and were on the patio putting the gifts away. "Let's check on your father," said Mary Ann. The supper tray was still on the little table beside his bed, untouched, and Kim's father was on the floor, where he had obviously fallen in an effort to reach the bathroom, because he had been nauseated. Kim was terrified. "My father is dying!" he said. (To be concluded) 911 December 1969 912 Christraas Tine Thoughts Today as | sit in a warm, comfortable home that God has given me: | look out across our valley. Beautiful white snow covers all with its frosty coverlet, Having fallen last evening, Making everything a white fairyland. Looking to the east, | see the church spire, beautiful and tall, Reaching toward God. Inviting us to reach also, and find him, Ever willing to help us in our upward climb. Beyond the spire to the east, the magnificent Wasatch Mountains, Rising in their stately beauty and majesty, Standing tall as protecting warriors, overlooking our lovely valley. As | turn my gaze westward, | find the guarding Oquirrhs, With their array of towers and blinking lights As ever present as those on the east. Surrounded by nature's barriers, our valley is serene and wonderful Filled with loving friends and neighbors Who feel the love of Christ in their hearts and homes. We are thankful for the Christmas season, the beautiful lights, trees, and carols, Reminding us again of the light brought into this world By the birth of Jesus Christ. May we ever feel the warmth and security of peaceful homes in a beautiful vatley And be able to feel this love for others Expressed in the celebration of Christmas. —Marcella H. Morley TANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL. Is not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of his coming? Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should be made known unto this people as well as unto their children? Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of his coming? (Alma 39:17-19.) Z. C. M.1. AISLE OF CHRISTMAS TREES COURTESY HAROLD H. BENNETT, PRESIDENT TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Tree oncor Pot n Cl A popular favorite with the children, this tree is decorated in the best of pioneer traditions with garlands of popcorn draped artistically—gleaming white against the dark branches. Old-fashioned doll replicas add to the festive mood of the season. TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Homemade Doll Tree OC) From the 1968 Homemaking Display at the Relief Society Annual General Conference. (See close-up, page 936.) The dolls on this tree are simple to make from pasteboard cartons and scraps of material. This delightful display was prepared by Highland Stake Relief Society Board, Eva K. Sipkema, President. Christmas Tree With Radiant Boughs C) For this graceful Christmas tree a branch from a garden shrub was used as a foundation for the decorative feature. The surplus small twigs were removed from the branch and green leaves from an orange tree were attached with green florist's wire. The decorative satin balls in predominating colors of purple and fuchsia were also attached with wire, and the small lights added. This arrangement is particularly appropriate in a home where floor space is limited. A Tree Decorated With Yellow Flowers DC) The tree was sprayed white and the large flowers, made of crepe paper or tissue paper, were attached with florist's wire. A few blue-green satin balls were interspersed among the white boughs. Sister Christensen who trimmed this attractive tree formerly lived in Parleys Stake, Salt Lake City, and is now a resident of Frankfurt, Germany. Trimmed by Alice Christensen Displayed at a homemaking exhibit Relief Society Annual General Conference 916 TRANSPARENCIES BY J M. HESLOP Poinsettia Tree O) Soft candlelight and deep red poinsettias make this tree a decorative work of art. The beauty of the Christmas flower and the symbolism of the candlelight bring the radiant Christmas season into a delightfully original portrait of "a tree with trimmings." Z. C. M.1. AISLE OF CHRISTMAS TREES COURTESY HAROLD H. BENNETT, PRESIDENT TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Celebrating Christmas Without Going Into Debt Mary E. Bergman In the early years of our marriage the available money for Christmas expenditures was scarce. After listening to friends expound on the pitfalls of charge accounts that would take months to pay off, lavish gifts to children that seldom pleased them for more than a few weeks, and fancy holiday parties, I realized that it would be most advantageous to fall back on my own resources, Often, the innocence of childhood can be changed into selfishness by parents who are unable to withstand the onslaught of hardsell tactics employed at Christmas time. Our gifts to Cathy that year totaled an expenditure of fifty-nine cents, but required hours of time and preparation. She was delighted, and her enjoyment of our homemade toys led me to believe that I had stumbled on a precious secret. Throughout the years, my children and I have learned together the satisfaction of counters filled with delicious home-baked goodies, Amid the pleasant aromas in our home, we stitched "God Bless Our Home" samplers, for each adult on our list, and we made stuffed toys of all varieties for the children, and a boxful to be sent to the Primary Children's Hospital. For the entire holiday season, we become absorbed in sewing, gluing, baking, molding salt clay, painting, building, and so on. Mark, being a normal energetic boy, doesn't always adapt to these quiet occupations. One afternoon while Cathy and I were engrossed in a project, I gave Mark a bowl of vegetables to chop for homemade soup that was bubbling on the stove. He was fascinated by the process of putting raw materials into the kettle and afterward being able to savor the taste of the resulting soup. Thereafter he became the official soup maker, starting from scratch and doing the entire project himself. We poured this soup into decorated quart jars to be delivered to various people. TRANSPARENCY BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS (continued on page 935, with illustrations) 918 A Thing Of Beauty Is a Joy... Candies of Elegance Edythe K. Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society CO Relief Society women are ingenious. Show them a thing of beauty and lo! With their own magic hands they can create its likeness. Since variety is a necessary requisite of any worthy Relief Society project, they change and add, putting a new detail here and color there, enhancing and beautifying most every object. Such it was with the candlesticks made by the sisters of Valley View Eighth Ward, Valley View Stake, under the direction of Sister Janet G. Ogden. Each one was different in color and design, and each was decorated by the sisters to blend and add charm to the decor of the different homes. The tall, more ornate candlesticks were designed for use in the living room or family room areas. The shorter, smaller ones were planned to grace a dining room or kitchen table. A variety of finishes was used. Some were painted with a flat paint and finished with an antique glaze. The smaller ones were covered with enamel paint; the large ringed candles were stained in walnut finish with an antique glaze added. Flowers, fruits, greens, and ribbons were used to decorate them. Some of the sisters made their own candles where a particular color and size was needed. Everyone was so _ de- (continued on page 933) These handsome candlesticks, above, stained with walnut, were made by Margaret Arnold. The small ones were painted with colored enamel. Janet G. Ogden finished these candle- = — sticks at the left with an antique 919 TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS glaze. WREATHS FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON A Wreath For Welcoming C) The large wreath, eight feet wide and eight feet high, was made from a circle of plywood, covered with linoleum. Pine cones and gold and brown pods were attached to the circle with airplane glue. A large bow of plastic ribbon, bright green in color, decorated the top of the wreath. Small gold lights illuminated the wreath which was hung on a peg and attached to the house so that the lower part of the wreath formed the threshold to the house. Seed Pod Wreath Displayed at the 1968 Relief Society Annual General Conference Homemaking Display. Made by Myrtle Nelson Highland Stake Eva K. Sipkema, President Cone Wreath CO Displayed at the 1968 Relief Society Annual General Conference Homemaking Display. LaRae McManama made this lovely wreath. Note the clothespins holding the embossed paper cones in place. Wreath sprayed with gold paint and centered with fruit. Highland Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Eva K. Sipkema, President 920 Karl Axelsen home, Salt Lake City, Utah TRANSPARERGIES) BYMAMM ESS Jewel case for a lady Q R q bw} S g 9 = BS wD > - 5 Q 3 g Ps) TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Treasure Chests For Christmas Johna de St. Jeor, Member, General Board of Relief Society UJIn previous issues of The Relief Society Magazine there have been articles detailing the skills of découpage, gold leafing, and antiquing.* Now let us combine these artistic crafts into gifts that will be novel and pleasing to the most important people on our Christmas lists. Don't be afraid to try some delightful new combinations of materials and techniques. All it takes is the desire and the will. So, if you want to make something more than a whimsy for a gift, go ahead and do it. (continued on page 931) *"Make Your Heirlooms With Découpage," by Winifred D. Anderson, March 1969, page 202. "Decorate Your Own Picture Frames," by Joy N. Hulme, March 1967, page 202. "Luminous Gold Leafing," by Betty McDonough, September 1967, page 678. TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Flowers Are For Christmas Arrangement by Jean Rigby Hawthorne Ward, Sugar House Stake O A predominating color for the arrangement was selected for use with harmonizing tones and tints. In this arrangement, purple, rose, blue, and green have been chosen, with gold for accent. The artificial flowers made of various types of plastic and other materials (and which may have served previously for other purposes and been discarded) were spray painted with either lacquer or enamel and thoroughly dried. A hemp rope, dyed purple, was used as a foundation for the flowers and balls, which were attached with florist's wire. In this arrangement, an antique brass scale was used for making the attractive and graceful design. The candles pick. Up the deeper shades of color, and the wreaths add to the effectiveness of the design placed against avocado colored walls. 923 TRANSPARENCY BY J. M. HESLOP Refinished Furniture _ More Beautiful Than New Refinishing by Virginia Lattin Bodell Balli, President, East Mill Creek Relief Society () The furniture in the picture was first sanded down to smoothness, a coat of base flat paint applied, then the color coat, and, finally, a finishing coat of antique enamel. Decals, free-hand painting, or other decorative features should be applied before the final finish, which may require more than one coat for effective protection and lasting beauty. For other references on refinishing and repainting furniture, see The Relief Society Magazine for 1968: "Antiqued Articles," March, page 195; "Rooms for Improvement," March, pp. 197-201; "An Old Trunk Can be Rejuvenated," June, page 447. 924 TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Working With Knit Fabrics Myrene T. Alvord O) Available on the market today are lovely knit fabrics for home sewing. Knit fabrics can be purchased by the tube or the yard. Many are like sweater material, although made by machine. Knowing a few tricks in handling these materials can open up a whole new world of fashion. One of the professional touches you can add to your outfit is to edge it with embroidery and/or crocheting. To be most effective, this should be done from the same yarn as your sweater is knit from. To do this, you must unravel yarn from your tube, which requires patience and know-how. Most knit tubes are made from four separate strands of wool or yarn, each of which has been machine locked. These must be unraveled into four separate balls. Never cut the tubing to unravel the yarn. At the top of most tubes (not the ribbing end) there is a rough edge which you must pick through before you reach the regular yarn. After this top edge has been carefully picked off, unravel one strand all around the tube and lay the small ball aside. Pick up the next until you have four small balls of yarn. Then pick up the first ball and repeat this process until you have enough yarn for the work you wish to do. (continued on page 934) 925 Something Different For Your Home Arrangements by Florence G. Williams (J The covers for these delightful pillows were crocheted by Kate Schleich. Sister Williams thought up the idea of applying the brightly colorful figures of yarn. These made delightful Christmas gifts for her grandchildren. C) A lovely arrangement of petunias in a Sevres (a rare French) bowl graced the piano of the Williams home at Christmastime. The gold angel and scented candle symbolized the season. Such arrangements can be made easily by purchasing a certain product from a floral shop, putting it in the bottom of the vase or bowl, soaking it with water, and arranging the flowers to suit one's taste. () A delightful arrangement of wheat and nuts graced the door of the lovely Gilbert Williams home in Salt Lake City, Utah, at Thanksgiving time. The squirrels are handmade of wood and were a gift to Sister Florence Williams. She gathered the wheat and purchased the nuts. TRANSPARENCIES BY DOROTHY J. ROBERTS TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP Center, as Lucia, Carol Wiberg. Among the other singers: Marianne Brattos; Jean Brattos; Dianne Carlson; Marianne Bryggman; Anna Neilson; Kristina Neilson; Nonica Ouzounian; Sonya Ouzounian; De-Ann Wood. Swedish Lucia Queen and Attendants ( Each year in the Swedish Branch of the Church in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Lucia festival is held. In Sweden this is known as Little Christmas, and is held on the 13th of December, the longest night of the year in Scandinavia. Lucia means Festival of Light, and is symbolic of the triumph over darkness. The Lucia Queen is the Queen of Light, and spreads cheer and light throughout the villages, with the help of her attendants. The candles are of course symbolic, and this crown is imported from Sweden. Part of the festival includes a parade through the building, and lovely music. Following the celebration, there are refreshments and a visit from Saint Nicholas. 927 Swedish Cookery For Christmas Darlene C. Dedekind Member, General Board of Relief Society O A typical Swedish holiday meal would be aptly termed a feast. Many varieties of seafood make up the first course. This is followed by baked ham and red cabbage, which is followed by meat balls and various kinds of cheeses. The main course of the meal is Lutfisk, a _ traditional Swedish dish served with potatoes and a white sauce. Lutfisk is available in package form in many import stores. Rice pudding is the popular dessert for such a feast, and there are several interesting customs surrounding it. Among these is that one almond is included in the recipe, and the person who gets this will be married within the year. This person is not to tell 928 MODEL NANCY ANN JOHANSSON Swedish cookery for Christmas that he or she has it, but the excitement runs so high among the single girls, it is nearly impossible to keep it a secret. Before eating the rice pudding, each person is supposed to say a little rhyme he or she has made up, then light a candle. The first candle that burns down indicates that person has been naughty during the year. Following the feast, Santa Claus generally appears and the delightful festivities of Christmas begin. The straw animals in the picture are traditional Swedish decorations. SWEDISH MEAT BALLS 1 Ib. Ground beef 1 tsp. Nutmeg or % tsp. Allspice ¥ ¢. Fine bread crumbs 2 tbsp. Shortening 1 egg 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine %, tsp. Salt 2-3 tbsp. Flour % tsp. Pepper 1 ¥, c. Beef broth or consommé add flour. Blend. Add beef broth or consommé and bring to a boil. Add meat balls, cover pan, and simmer over low heat for 1%, hours, or may be put into a baking dish and cooked in a 325° oven for 1, hours. RHUBARB KRAM 5 or 6 stalks rhubarb lc. Sugar 2 c. Water 2 tbsp. Cornstarch Cook the rhubarb in the water and sugar until soft but not mushy. Add cornstarch which has been dissolved in 2 tbsp. Of cold water. Stir while cooking until the sauce thickens to the desired consistency. Pour into a bowl which has been rinsed in hot water. Serve with plain or whipped cream. SWEDISH KRINGLE Dough lc. Butter or substitute 2 tbsp. Cold water 1 c. Unsifted flour Filling % ¢. Butter or substitute 3 eggs lc. Water % tsp. Almond extract lc. Unsifted flour Bring butter and water to a boil. While boiling, add unsifted flour all at once and stir until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan. Remove from heat. Add eggs, one at a time, stirring until smooth. After third egg has been added, add almond extract Icing 1 c. Powdered sugar 1 tbsp. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Butter % tsp. Almond extract Delicious served while still warm. 929 December 1969 WALDORF SALAD 1 c. Mayonnaise lc. Pineapple tidbits 1 c. Whipped cream 2 c. Finely diced celery 2 c. Diced apples ¥, c. Walnut pieces Mix the mayonnaise and whipped cream together. Fold in fruit and celery. Add nuts, saving some for garnish. Chill. SWEDISH COOKIES 1 c. Butter 2 tbsp. Cold water 6 tbsp. Powdered sugar 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 c. Sifted cake flour 1¥, c. Pecans, broken Cream sugar and butter well. Add flour and water alternately. Add vanilla and pecans. Roll into small balls and bake on an ungreased cookie sheet for 1 hour or until lightly browned in a 250° oven. Remove from cookie sheet and roll in powdered sugar, or put powdered sugar in a paper sack, put six to eight cookies at a time into the sack. Shake gently. Continue until all cookies are covered with powdered sugar. CHRISTMAS GINGER SNAPS (Pepperkakor) 2/, c. Shortening 2, c. Sifted all-purpose flour 3/, c. Light brown sugar 1 tsp. Baking soda firmly packed 1 tbsp. Cinnamon 2 tbsp. Molasses 14, tsp. Cloves, powdered 3. Tbsp. Water 1 tsp. Ground cardamon seeds 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly. Add molasses, water, and lemon rind. Sift flour with baking soda and spices. Add to creamed mixture a little at a time. Blend well. Cover bowl and chill. When thoroughly chilled, flour hands and turn dough onto a floured surface. Roll very thin and cut with floured cookie cutter into desired shapes. Bake on a greased cookie sheet at 350° for 8 to 10 minutes. Makes approximately 5 dozen cookies. By adding more flour (%/, to 1 c.) to the cookie recipe, the dough can be rolled into balls in the palm of your hand, then rolled in granulated sugar, an almond placed on top, and baked. If desired, spread the warm rolled cookies with the following icing. These cookies are a part of the Swedish Christmas tradition. 1 Ib. Confectioners sugar 1 tbsp. White vinegar 3 egg whites Beat egg whites slightly with a fork. Add sugar and beat with an electric mixer on the. Lowest speed for one minute. Add vinegar and beat for 2 more minutes at high speed, or until fluffy and glossy. RICE PUDDING 6c. Water sugar, to taste 2c. Rice almond extract, to taste 2-3 cans evaporated milk vanilla, to taste 1 pint whipping cream, whipped Add the rice to the boiling water and cook until soft. Add canned milk, and season with sugar, almond extract, and vanilla. Fold in whipped cream, one almond (if desired), and chill. 930 Swedish Cookery for Christmas FRUIT SOUP (Fruktsoppa) ¥, lb. Seedless raisins ¥, ¢. Cinnamon candies or ¥, lb. Prunes 1 stick cinnamon Y, lb. Dried apricots Yc. Sugar 2 apples 8-10 cooked plums 2 slices lemon 2 cooked (canned) peaches 2 slices orange 3 quarts of liquid (water and any 4 tbsp. Tapioca juice from the canned fruits) Wash raisins, prunes, and apricots and soak overnight in the water and juice. To this add apples, peeled and sliced, lemons and orange slices, tapioca, sugar, and broken cinnamon stick or cinnamon candy. Simmer for 1, hour. Add cooked fruit which has. Been sliced. Let stand for 3 to 4 hours to mellow. Serve hot or cold, with or without cream. CHRISTMAS TREASURE CHESTS (continued from page 923) JEWEL CASE FOR A LADY Materials needed 1 box of your choice either old or new, with or without drawers Y, pint gesso (a type of Latex paint) 1 pint satin finish lacquer (20 minutes drying time) small tubes artists' oil color in desired shade plus white Dutch gold (gold leafing sheets) gold leaf size and antiquing glaze old-fashioned print lace medallions and trim (new or antique) Step 1. Select box (remove any knobs on the box) a. If old finish, sand to smoothness ready for new finish. B. If new wood, sand lightly, apply 1 coat of lacquer to seal the wood. Step 2. Apply lace using a good quality glue. Move lace around until you have a pleasing design. Step 3. Apply several coats of gesso. The purpose is to fully permeate the lace and make it hard enough not to absorb further coats of finish. Be sure to dry thoroughly between coats. Step 4. Apply color. A high grade satin finish lacquer that takes about 20 minutes to dry is best. Mix with artist's oil paints to the desired shade. Prepare sufficient paint to cover the surface at least four times. Apply two to three coats to whole box, lace and all, allowing time for thorough drying between each coat. Step 5. Following directions for gold leafing, apply gold to lace area. When size is almost dry (about 40 minutes) apply the gold leaf and make no attempt to remove the loose excess gold until dry (overnight). Next day remove extra gold with a clean dry brush, seal with one coat of lacquer, smooth the edges of gilt area with a light touch-up of color. Step 6. The print selected is cut to fit the area and carefully glued into place, being careful to squeeze out any air bubbles from under the paper (I used only the center from an 8 x 10 print and cut it to fit the round section). When glue is thoroughly dry apply multiple coats of lacquer to picture face. Since this picture was bordered with lace, forming a dike, I was able almost to puddle the lacquer and let it dry overnight. 931 December 1969 CHRISTMAS TREASURE CHESTS (continued from page 931) Step 7. Antiquing glaze. Select a color that will blend well with primary color. Apply a thick coat and let it partially dry. Then, using rubber gloves and paper towels or cheesecloth, wipe off the glaze. Be careful not to take too much off. Use a "dry brush" effect on the flat surfaces to leave a thin coat of glaze over entire surface (except for gold and center of print) thus toning down the base color. Step 8. Final step glaze is a turpentine base, hence lacquer will cut it even if it is dry. Apply a little clear lacquer to the gold where you want to lift the glaze off and leave a shine. Wipe clean. You have created a very feminine beautiful jewel case, something which requires small interesting drawer pulls. If you can buy them in your area so much the better, but if you must improvise, try small screw-in picture hangers and no one will know the difference.. Follow the same steps for the tissue box. Use a paper maché box that just fits over the new style tissue box. The flowers are fabric artificial flowers dipped in resin containing just a pinch of gold powder and then are hung head down to dry. As a finishing touch, cut off stems of flowers and glue in place with a good quality airplane type glue. MAKE SOMETHING HANDSOME FOR THE MAN IN YOUR LIFE How about a decorative chest where he can store his treasures? Items Needed box available at craft stores with '/,-inch lowered surface in lid. Hinges, clasp. Plastic mold, and resin from craft supply house gold leaf (Dutch gold) Y, pint satin finish lacquer (20 minutes drying time) in artist's colors—mix to color of lightest shade in wood. ¥, pint wood tone glaze. Decals of coats of arms or drawings of same. Step 1. Cast three plastic "carvings" according to resin instructions and place level in a well-ventilated room to cure. (We will make him think the decals are carved of wood.) Be sure to use paper containers and discardable mixers. Be prepared for the strong smell which accompanies the curing period. Step 2. Arrange plastic sections on box lid. If they don't quite fit, use a file to smooth them. Sand off any sharp edges and glue in_place. Step 3. Seal exposed sections with lacquer. When dry, apply gold leaf to these areas. Dry completely and seal with clear lacquer. Step 4. Mix lacquer with oil colors to shade of lightest wood color. Paint plastic sections two to three coats. Step 5. Apply decals or glue prints to gold leaf surface. Be sure air bubbles are squeezed out from under the designs. Dry, and seal with clear lacquer. Step 6. Apply wood tone glaze liberally to whole surface. When partly dry, use rubber gloves and cheesecloth or paper towels to wipe off glaze. On plastic areas wipe back and forth leaving glaze streaked over high relief areas to give effect of wood grain. In exposed sections carefully reveal just the designs through the glaze. Let dry. Step 7. Lacquer will lift the glaze even when dry, so if you want more shine to the gold areas, use it lightly to remove glaze from edges around design. Apply hinges and clasp and line box with velvet.. 932 A Thing of Beauty is a Joy A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY—Candles of Elegance (continued from page 919) lighted with the results of this interesting and rewarding project that many additional ones were made to be given as Christmas gifts. Wouldn't you like to make one for your home or for a very special Christmas gift? Here are the instructions: GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR ALL VARIETIES The bases can be purchased from a wood turning shop or most carpenters can make any design you wish. A great variety is possible. Those shown in the pictures ranged from eight to thirty-two inches in height. Fill in any visible cracks. Lightly sand base with either 00 steel wool or fine sandpaper. Apply a sealer coat and let dry for 10 to 12 hours. INSTRUCTIONS FOR WOOD STAINED CANDLESTICK 1-inch paint brush soft cloths wood stain antique glaze Apply stain with small soft cloth, allow to stand for 45 minutes. Rub off excess stain with another soft cloth. If a darker shade is desired, apply stain again in the same manner. Dry thoroughly Apply antique glaze with small brush, let stand for 2 or 3 minutes, wipe off as much as you wish for desired effect. ENAMELED CANDLESTICKS 1 small can enamel paint in color of your choice 1 1-inch brush Apply several coats, allow sufficient time between each coat to dry thoroughly. Sand lightly between each coat. As many as five coats may be needed for a satisfactory finish. These are very attractive done in decorator colors, orange, green, pink, blue, red, etc. INSTRUCTIONS FOR ANTIQUED CANDLESTICKS Flat paint in any color of your choice or small can Bisque Wax (ceramic paint) may be used in its stead. (This paint is very economical, easy to handle, and comes in many colors.) 1 1-inch paint brush small can dull varnish antique glaze Sister Ogden makes her own glaze which she finds very easy to handle and is low in cost: 3 tsp. Turpentine 1 tsp. Linseed oil 1 tbsp. Tube coloring, either raw umber, cool color, burnt umber, warm color: Cover candlestick base with 2 coats of either the flat paint or Bisque Wax. Allow to dry thoroughly after each coat. Apply 1 coat antique glaze. Let stand for two to five minutes. With soft cloth or toilet tissue remove as much as you wish for highlighting. Klondike gold paint was used on those in picture. Let dry for 2 to 3 days. Cover with dull varnish, let dry for 12 hours. If you choose gold as the color, a special paint is needed. Klondike gold paint was used on those in picture. Be sure to stir thoroughly before using and handle with great care since gold has a tendency to lift. For decoration, cut styrofoam to desired size, carving out center to hold candle. Spray with green paint. Place atop candlestick base. Dip flowers, greens, or fruit stems in glue and then insert into styrofoam as you desire. Now sit back and enjoy these things of beauty. 933 One-half inches, 'S reversible. When Measuring for the length, the eXcess is cyt off at the Waist, nN machine Sewing these materials, use an elasticized thread and Stretch the Material as You sew. In Sewing Up the top of the Skirts, sey, them together very close to the top edge. There Is no need to face or turn Under, Measure Your elastic about:.: ' 1: Ww S€ a little lace on the raw edges of knit as a slight facing and catch under Lai sarees bd 4115001,,4, 4: DM, eT) — Cut Cardboard accor, INg to length Of tasse| Wrap yarn around length dboard about 35 a times Double String twice, Making 4 Strands Do not cut Put Strand » UNder yarn-ends, throug, double loo 4S slipknot ve Cardboard Ss Ncil under knot, Bring ut ends er pencil Wrap around tassel 4 time '€ securely. Remove Pencil ang cut 2nds of tasse| Celebrating Christmas Without Going into Debt CELEBRATING CHRISTMAS WITHOUT GOING INTO DEBT (continued from page 918) Finding the names of people who might not have a pleasant Christmas, and sharing with them, has brought unspeakable joy and insight to our family. Time after time my children have demonstrated unselfishness, and have put other people's happiness before their own desires. Such times make a parent's heart burst with pride. To develop fully a child's imagination, toys should be interchangeable. Therefore, a truck should not look too much like a truck. It should quickly convert to a bus, fire engine, moving van, or any other four-wheeled conveyance. With this in mind, Tom, my husband, has built ride-in box carts that have served every imaginable purpose. He has cut blocks in all sizes and shapes, built work benches, bulletin boards, and other household accessories. My contributions include stuffed animals, rag dolls, bean bag toys, special dresses or costumes, hand puppets, and similar items. Our children's accomplishments show real imagination, and they improve continually. Celebrating Christmas this way means burning the midnight oil every night for weeks. It means tolerating horrible messes from cookie decorating, salt clay, and other projects. Projects are in various stages of completion and must be stored everywhere. Boxes of scraps, spools, detergent and bleach bottles, pop bottle caps, and numerous other things are stacked high in storage, awaiting time for construction. The ironing doesn't always get done, and the house seems to be in utter chaos, and Christmas morning finds us physically exhausted, but spiritually refreshed. We strive to remember the true meaning of Christmas, and to give thanks for the birth of the Savior, together, as a family united. HOMEMADE DOLL TREE (color picture on page 917) Picture below shows detail of doll costumes 4% JM. Heslop quilts, rugs, crocheted tablecloths, doilies, stuffed toys, pillows, and pillowslips. Her greatest concern is keeping her hands busy. Sister Eagar designs her own quilts, and has donated countless numbers to Relief Society. Her six children, twelve grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren are recipients of many lovely articles; while her relatives who came before her are benefiting from the countless hours she spends on genealogy and temple work. Sister Eagar has served as Relief Society president, on the stake board, as a class leader ' for most of the classes, as a secretary, and a visiting teacher, as well as in responsible positions in other auxiliaries of the Church. De Pr eS | Vera King, Price Sixth Ward, North Carbon Stake, Utah, is adept at all kinds of handiwork. Her quilts and aprons are the most popular bazaar items. She is an inspiration to all, for she is never idle. She designs quilts which delight her seven children, twenty grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren, and her many friends. She couldn't even begin to count the number of quilts she has completed. In Relief Society Sister King has served as a counselor and as a visiting teacher. She is always on hand to help at any task which might be undertaken in the ward, and her attendance at Relief Society is regular and enthusiastic. 937 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 102— Another of Joseph Smith's Contributions— Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 OBJECTIVE: As the Latter-day Saint woman gains a greater testimony that the Doctrine and Covenants was brought forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith through divine inspiration, she seeks to conform her life to its teachings. INTRODUCTION The Doctrine and Covenants gives direction to the fulfilling of the Lord's promises unto the ancient prophets. The importance of this book in the plan of salvation was given at the November 1831, conference of the Church, in the following words of the Prophet Joseph Smith:... Being the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world, showing that the keys of: the mysteries of the kingdom of our Savior are again entrusted to man; and the riches of eternity within the compass of those who are willing to live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God—therefore the conference voted that they prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally. 938 In appreciation for the books of scripture received from the Lord by that time, the following was also indicated by that conference: The great benefits to the world which result from the Book of Mormon and the revelations which the Lord has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to grant unto us for our salvation, and for the salvation of all that will believe, were duly appreciated.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 1, pp. 235-36 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) THE SALVATION OF MEN IN THIS WORLD Among the reasons for the evaluation that Joseph Smith had done more for the salvation of men in this world than any except Jesus, a, forth th mmandments Compose this book 6 and OVenants. 135:3.) this Contribution. Individuals and Nations of imPending destry ction is not forthcoming beyond the grave. A VOICE OF WARNING When th revelations received e UP to 183] Were Presented to a Conference of the Lesson Department In Consequence Of these cond declare a SND NC: sas L women, heeding the "Voice of Warning of the Tevelations? Was orSanized, the angel Moron; quoted Several] Biblica] Prophecies per- 939 iti Ord said that his December 1969 taining to the last days and said that they would soon be fulfilled. (Joseph Smith, 2:36-41.) Among these prophecies was Malachi's regarding the time when the wicked would be consumed by fire. (Joseph Smith, 2: 36-37.) In 1831, it was revealed that peace would be taken from the earth in that generation. (D&C 1:34-35.) Subsequently, these warnings were given: Ye hear of wars in far countries, and you say that there will soon be great wars in far countries, but ye know not the hearts of men in your own land. (D&C 38:29.) Ye hear of wars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands. (D&C 45:63.) On Christmas day 1832, the Lord revealed some specific information about the wars of the last days. He said that after the war between the North and the South in the United States, war would be poured out upon all nations. (D&C 87:1-3.) Furthermore, conditions would develop whereby slaves would rise up against their masters, and the remnants of the land of America (Indians) would vex the United States with a sore vexation. (D&C 87:4-5.) The inhabitants of the earth would mourn because of plagues, famine, and earthquake until the chastening hand of the Almighty would make "... A full end of all nations." (D&C 87:6.) The word of the Lord concerning the American Civil War and subsequent wars is being fulfilled. Can anyone doubt the "voice of warning" of wars among the nations of the earth in these last days? 940 Class Discussion Wherein do rumors of war and warfare contribute to your understanding of the Doctrine and Covenants as a''voice of warning"? THE PLAINNESS OF THE GOSPEL That man might escape the judgments of the last days and also the more enduring judgment of the future life, the Lord has given the plan of salvation anew in plainness and simplicity. Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, suggested the following four things to be done to prepare a people for the second coming of Christ: They should be taught: (1) the personality and nature of God and his Son, Jesus Christ, (2) the divinity of the mission of Jesus as_ the Savior, (3) the necessity of being cleansed and purified and sanctified to be made worthy to receive the Lord, and (4) acceptance of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. (Conference Report, October 1956, pp. 61-62.) The Doctrine and Covenants makes a significant contribution to our understanding of these truths. THE PERSONALITY OF GOD To know God is to receive eternal life, to be like him, and° -to be in his presence forever. (John 17:3; D&C 132:24.) Elder Harold B. Lee indicates in the following passage what one great thinker has believed concerning the need to know God as a personal being: Professor Hacking of Harvard in his "Meaning of God in Human Experience," made even a more significant statement when he wrote: "The alternative to the thought of God as 4 person is the thought of Him as 4 substance, aS mere enersy> to the Prophet Joseph Smith that d the Son are perand bones. D&C 130: and nature of God restored, believing men know what ap ow to worship: (D&C 93:19.) THE DIVINITY OF JESUS CHRIST In the "Christia » world belief in Jesus Christ as yvine Son There is certainly n° consistency in Lord, without acceptintelligent, educa men ¢ ja reconcile the or illogic of accepting the authenticity of that portion of the ecord of avior whic ts forth his incomparable teachings and philosophy, an he same, deny the correctn of the same record, which proclaims s Divine Sonship and Lord- _ What justifica js there for credence } a part of t d an not all of it; OF believing some 0 Lesson Department through Jesu, for man cannot b ave his sins (Alma T1306 40 The fourth 4 final point Elder Lee believes 16 necessary to prepare eople the secon December 1969 coming of Christ is the acceptance of Joseph Smith asa prophet. Latter-day Saints do not worship Joseph Smith, but they believe that he received revelations from God to perform a work which is greater than any other's except that of Jesus Christ. (D&C 135:3.) Missionaries of the Church teach investigators of the gospel to pray that the Holy Ghost will testify to them that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God, that the workestablished by him, under divine guidance, is God's plan. When a person learns by the Spirit that God has restored his Church and gospel through Joseph Smith, then he is prepared to accept all of the restored gospel. The convert's knowledge may not be extensive, but by the testimony of the Spirit he knows the fundamental truth that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is the "... Only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth...." (D&C 1:30.) God sent his holy angels to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to confer upon them the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods so that saving ordinances could be performed by men holding the priesthood, which ordinances would be accepted by God. (D&C 27:7-8, 12-13.) The Doctrine and Covenants not only contributes information on the restoration of God's authority, but it also affirms the fact that without this authority the ordinances of salvation are invalid. (D&C 20:18-20; 84: 18-22.) In several other ways the Doctrine and Covenants attests to the divine mission of Joseph Smith. Detailed information on 942 Church organization and government is a unique contribution to the validity of this mission. (D&C 1:35; 49:24-25; 87; 130:12-13.) The Doctrine and Covenants contributes to the salvation of man by reaffirming and clarifying doctrines which are obscure or fragmentary in the Bible. Outstanding are the revelations concerning man's nature, the purpose of his life on earth, and of his future. It affirms that man is a child of God, born of divine Parents in a premortal world. (D&C 76:24; 93:29.) The Doctrine and Covenants reveals that by the spirit and the body becoming a soul in mortality, the resurrection through the atonement is assured, and through obedience to the principles of the gospel, man may receive a fulness of joy. (D&C 88:15-16; 93; 76:58-60; 132:20-21; 93:33-34.) Among some of the unique teachings of this book of scripture are tithing and the Word of Wisdom. (D&C 89; 119.) It is learned from these revelations that men may reach the divine destiny of godhood by obedience to gospel principles and ordinances, including marriage for eternity. (D&C 131:1-4; 132:15-21.) Class Discussion How do the four points given by Elder Lee to prepare a people for the second coming of Christ explain the fact that Joseph Smith contributed to the salvation of men in this world? REALITY OF THE FUTURE LIFE The third major way in which the modern revelations contribute to the salvation of men in this world, is their attestation to the truth that man lives beyond the grave. They do this in two ways: (1) by testifying to the reality of the resurrection, and (2) by the testimonies of men who have seen the resurrected Christ. Man will be resurrected with a body of flesh and bones, never to experience death again. (D&C 88:27-32, 96:102; 130:18.) In addition to considerable light being given on man's resurrection, specific information is given concerning the appearance of resurrected beings in our day. (D&C 27:5, 7-8, 12-13; 110; 128: 19-21.) Thus, further enlightenment is given concerning messages from, or the appearance of, individuals who have lived upon the earth, died, and then have been raised to immortal life. In the Doctrine and Covenants three persons testify to a sight-knowledge of the Savior. Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and Sidney Rigdon beheld the resurrected Lord. The first two were in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836, when they saw the glorified Lord. (D&C 110:1- 10.) Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon beheld God, Jesus Christ, and angels in vision at Hiram, Lesson Department Ohio, on February 16, 1832. (D&C 76:19-24.) Class Discussion How does the Doctrine and Covenants contribute to man's salvation by giving evidence to the reality of life after death? IMPLEMENTATION The Doctrine and Covenants was given by the Lord for this generation. Its message is intended to save people from their sins and to exalt them in the celestial kingdom. When one considers the great truths of salvation found in this book of scripture, he is impelled to exclaim that it is truly of God. In the words of President Wilford Woodruff:. We have the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, our Testament, which contains the most glorious, godlike, solemn and eternal truths ever recorded within the lids of a book on the earth. (Journal of Discourses 22:331.) Joseph Smith was the mortal instrument, under divine guidance, to bring forth this book of revelations. Blessings come not only by acquiring the understanding of doctrines and principles through study, but also by faith. (D&C 88:118.) POETIC URGE What is this flashing inside me? A surging, insistent demand For release. Perhaps | shall— In giving form to light— Find peace. —Margaret B. Jorgensen 943 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 6—Faith in Christ Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 OBJECTIVE: To know that faith needs constant nourishment. He was the ideal to many: tall, handsome, eloquent, and congenial. A mighty speaker, he persuaded many to join the Church. Then one day, someone else was given a position that many thought would be his. Gradually a sour note crept into his conversations. He grew less and less active in the Church. Long before he died the mighty voice no longer thundered of faith in God. The warm personality became an unhappy critic. His influence dwindled until most people forgot that he had ever been a great leader in his community. Many are the reasons for lost faith in God. Each has its subtle poison. 'T'o avoid such loss, faith, like all knowledge, must be constantly renewed and expanded. How do we nourish faith? How do we keep it alive, vibrant with spiritual health? For many, faith is buffeted by winds of doubt as well as attacked by subtle poisons. How do we protect ourselves against such evils? Who can explain this better than Alma who once worked so hard to destroy faith? 944 In a beautiful simile, Alma graphically explains faith's pattern of growth. His message of hope comparing faith to a seed begins by strengthening us with the knowledge that "... God is merciful unto all who believe on his name...." (Al. 32:22.) This seed is enriched by humility and watered by the desire to believe. Faith is fed by open-mindedness and the search for truth. One must then exert oneself— in the words of Alma— "awake and arouse your faculties....." (Al. 32:27.) In our day of scientific interest, out of the past Alma invites us to experiment in_ seeking faith. What are the steps in this experiment? 1. We must pray with a sincere heart. Unbelief has no place. No researcher finds an answer if he makes up his mind before he begins that he will not find it. 2. We must study. "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me" (John 5:39) counseled Jesus. 3. We must be long-suffering. A dedicated scientist pursues truth regard- less of obstacles, differences of opinion, or long years of effort. 4. We must be patient. Research scientists spend long hours in planning, work, analysis, and evaluation. 5. We must be diligent. The solution of difficulties requires perseverance. How can we know when the experiment is producing favorable results? There is a swelling sensation within us. The soul is enlarged. The understanding is enlightened. The knowledge that Lesson Department here is something good floods the soul. Alma said that the fruit of all this effort "... Is sweet above all that is sweet, and... White above all that is white, yea, and pure above all that is pure; and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until ye are filled, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst." (Al. 32:42.) Without nourishment faith dies. Properly fed it is "... A tree springing up unto everlasting life." (Al. 32:41.) HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 6—''She Is Not Afraid of the Snow for Her Household: For All Her Household Are Clothed With Scarlet." (Prov. 31:21) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of basic items other than food. INTRODUCTION If a family is to be self-sustaining over a period of at least a year ahead, provision must be made for other physical needs in addition to that of food. It is satisfying and rewarding to know the security of having a_ supply of food in the house, but with it we should not lose sight of the other basic needs. Food alone will not suffice if the family is cold, without sufficient clothing, or improperly housed. The sanitary and healthful needs of the family should also be taken into consideration if we are adequately to protect our families from sickness and want. OUR CLOTHING NEEDS One of the most important of the physical needs in our family preparedness program is that of clothing. To supply our family with clothing for a year ahead is not so difficult as it may appear to be. Certainly, it will not entail a_ significant stretching of our budget because, in many cases, we will find that we already have a very good 945 December 1969 start toward that year's supply. We should take inventory of the present wardrobe of each family member to determine what is needed and then proceed to complete the wardrobe needs as we are able to. We should make our clothing purchases 'with the idea in mind of long-term wear, especially in such things as outer clothing and footwear. As in all our expenditures, the methods of wise buying and spending should be followed. We should be aware of good buys on yardage and have some on hand. Very often money can be saved by doing our Own sewing. We should shop the clothing sales in the early autumn months and during the post-Christmas season. As much as fifty per cent can be saved on staple items of clothing which various members of the family will need during the year. There are many items for sale which are not subject to style changes and which will be appropriate for not only one but several years. Included with regular clothing should be ample bed clothes— Sheets, pillow cases, blankets, and quilts. Nothing is quite so uncomfortable as trying to sleep in an unheated room with inadequate bedding. In the event of a shutoff of gas or electricity or both—ample bedding is a safeguard and a protection. HOW SHALL WE KEEP WARM? We should make sure, to begin with, that our homes are insulated as fully as possible in the walls as well as the windows. Our fuel bills can be reduced considerably by taking such precautions. 946 Some kind of auxiliary heating should be available in case of power shortage in electricity and gas. 1. A fireplace is a convenient asset. 2. A year's supply of fuel is advisable. - Bottled or canned heat can be stored for emergency cooking where a stove ls not possible. PRECAUTIONS FOR FAMILY HEALTH AND WELL-BEING We need to feel assured that our family's health will not be jeopardized in the event of personal or national disaster. We should look ahead and invest in regular physical and dental examinations as a preventive measure against medical emergencies in the year ahead. It would also be wise to have on hand medical literature that will help under all conditions. Satisfactory bandages can be prepared from clean Sheeting material if they are rolled and then sterilized for twenty minutes in a 150° to 175° oven. They should then be carefully packed to keep in sterile condition. SUGGESTED LIST OF STORAGE ITEMS OTHER THAN FOOD soaps (hand and laundry) cleansers toilet and other tissue paper towels and napkins paper plates and cups tooth paste and brushes shampoo matches needles and pins thread and buttons Scissors candles hammer, axe, and saw nails and screws flashlight and batteries can and bottle openers clean cloths pencils and paper personal items of other kinds This list could be added to or deleted as circumstances might warrant. Many of these items are already a part of a family's permanent equipment. CONCLUSION We can rest securely when we Lesson Department know that the needs of our family will be met in the event of an emergency that might cut off our source of supply. We will be happy in the knowledge that we have followed the advice of our leaders in preparing our homes and families for whatever hes ahead. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life pce — — —- Lesson 6—A Position of Honor Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 1-5.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out that the role of woman is essential to the eternal plan of creation and that she therefore occupies a position of honor. INTRODUCTION In lessons 1 through 5 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Speaks with great understanding and appreciation of the important role of woman in the eternal plan of creation. He discusses the home, children, and the responsibilities of homemaking. Relief Society members, generally, are familiar with the essential teachings of the gospel relative to the importance of the woman-role. There are, however, occasions when a woman may ask in all honesty, "Is my role as a woman really important? If so, how important?" This lesson will, of necessity, be generally theological for the priesthood lessons with which it correlates are doctrinal in nature and we shall quote much from President Clark's addresses. All Latter-day Saint women should know why and how essential their contribution is to the purposes of the Lord. ESSENTIALS TO CONSIDER _In order to discuss, fully, the position of the woman in the eternal plan, a review of funda- 947 December 1969 mental facts generally familiar may be encouraging to all women and give assurance to the woman in doubt. Certain truths given to us through accepted scripture, follow: 1. At the great pre-earth council in heaven, two plans for creating and peopling the earth were presented: (a) Satan's plan, which would destroy the agency of man, would insure redemption to every soul but it would prevent all growth and _ progress which are the results of overcoming obstacles. (b) The plan proposed by the Only Begotten and accepted by a majority of the spirit children of the Father, would leave man his free agency, thus giving him the opportunity to advance in wisdom and knowledge and_ righteousness by overcoming error and sin. The plan of the Only Begotten, which was accepted, included the creation of an earth upon which these spirit children might dwell during a period of earth life. We read of this truth in the Book of Abraham, "We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell." (Abr. 3:24.) According to the scriptural sequence, the earth was created in six creative periods. Abraham records the creation of man, which was directed by the Only Begotten, in these words: And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. (Abr. 5:7.) The Lord planted a garden, recorded as the Garden of Eden, in which he planted two special, fateful trees— the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. He gave specific commandments to Adam about the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Further scripture records: And I, the Lord God, took the man, and put him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it, and to keep it. 948 And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and commanded that they should come unto Adam, to see what he would call them; and they were also living souls; for I, God, breathed into them the breath of life, and commanded that whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that should be the name thereof.... But as for Adam, there was not found an help meet for him. (Moses 3:15, 19-20.). We read that all things were created spiritually before they were created temporally. Just how the creation was accomplished the scriptures do not tell us. Such information would, in fact, be of little importance to this lesson. It is important to note that:. Up to this point all that had been accomplished, according to the scriptures, had been done by the priesthood, also that Adam was alone in the Garden of Eden, for there was no helpmeet for him. (See the foregoing scripture.) President Clark suggests that perhaps Adam may have recalled ".. The eternal truth of motherhood," so beautifully voiced by Eliza R. Snow in her great poem: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 3.). We recall that God gave Adam and Eve this commandment: "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth...."' (Moses 2:28.) Upon fulfillment of this great command, so given, depended the whole plan of the great council in heaven, because those who kept their "first estate" must have opportunity to come to earth to obtain mortal bodies that they might be proved in this "second estate... To see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them... And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever." (Abr. 3:25-26.) To provide mortal bodies and a mortal life and experience for the waiting spirits was the very purpose of the creation. Yet, notwithstanding the great powers of the Priesthood which he held, Adam was powerless to g0 forward by himself, to the providing of earthly tabernacles for the spirits eager to enter into their "second estate...." Adam alone, no matter what his priesthood, could not bring this about. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 3.) Our first earthly parents began an earthly family unit of which President Clark speaks in the following paragraph, as he pictures the possible, ultimate destiny of the righteous earthly family: Thus every earthly family unit that ls properly begun by a marriage in a House of the Lord, performed by one having authority thereto, has within its reach this infinite opportunity of eventually becoming creators after eternities of schooling and preparation, they have the infinite opportunity of heading another celestial family, which means the power and opportunity of creating worlds and peopling them. This is the supreme work, the very highest glory of which God has told us. Even its appreciative contemplation is almost beyond our finite reach. (Ibid., lesson 1.) (See also, Joseph Smith, History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, Pp. 391 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereinafter referred to as DHC}.) There are the essential facts which form the basis for our understanding of the significance of the role of woman in the eternity of life. Questions 1. How may a review of these essential facts, assure women that they hold a position of importance in this the "second estate"? Discuss. Lesson Department 2. Do you think that women who do not believe in a pre-existent life may find it difficult to cultivate an assurance of general importance in life? If so, why? Discuss. 3. What must we do to keep our "second estate"? INTO THE GARDEN From a word picture of the Garden of Eden and of our first mortal parents, Adam and Eve, we quote the following from President Clark: So came Eve, an helpmeet to the priesthood mission of Adam—Eve the last created being in the creation of the world, without whom the whole creation of the world and all that was in the world would have been in vain and the purposes of God have come to naught. Receiving her, Adam took her in her purity, took her, radiant and divinely fair, into the Garden he had dressed and kept for her, into the bridal home he had built, into the Garden that from then till now has been the symbol of heaven on earth, there to begin together their earthly life, that was finally to bring opportunity for salvation and exaltation to the untold myriads of spirits then waiting for the mortal tabernacles these two were to make it possible for them to possess. The Only Begotten had fashioned the world, had filled it with beautiful flowers and lofty forests, with grasses and grains, and multitudes of living creatures, Adam had had some part in this. But the key to the glorious arch of temporal, earthly creation for man was still missing. So Eve came to build, to organize, through the power of the Father, the bodies of mortal man, to be a creator of bodies under the faculties given her by the Priesthood of God, so that God's design and the Great Plan might meet fruition. This was her calling; this was her blessing, bestowed by the priesthood. This is the place of our wives and of our mothers in the Eternal Plan. They are not the bearers of the priesthood; they are not charged with carrying out the duties and functions of the priesthood; nor are they laden with its responsibilities; 949 December 1969 they are builders and organizers under its power, and partakers of its blessings, possessing the complement of the priesthood powers and possessing a function as divinely called, as eternally important in its place as the priesthood itself. The crowning glory of motherhood came to the daughters of Eve, when, in Bethlehem, there was born to Mary of Nazareth a mortal, the Christ child, begotten of the Father. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 3.) TO KEEP IN MIND Thus, for the woman who may wonder about her opportunity to make a worthwhile contribution, we repeat that righteous motherhood is fulfilling "... A function as divinely called, as eternally important in its place as the priesthood itself." (Ibid.) A teaching which has been expressed many times in Relief Society lessons, also is repeated here. Not all wives are mothers; not all adult women in the Church are wives, often from no fault of their own. Relevant to this situation President Joseph Fielding Smith states: Now, just one more thought: You good sisters, who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the gospel is true and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord, and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now, the Lord will make it up, and you shall be blessed—for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld, and he is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Elijah the Prophet and His Mission, p. 51.) 950 FOR THE "SECOND ESTATE" President Clark speaks of the ideal Latter-day Saint home where parents fulfill their responsibilities in righteousness. He impressively visualizes the return of the mothers from their earthly missions into the presence of the Father of all, to give account of their stewardship. The picture he projects is a glorious goal to which all Latter-day Saint mothers would do well to keep in mind. When the souls shall return to the presence of the Father of all, the worthy mothers will be there to welcome their worthy children; and with humble pride born of righteous achievement, they will reverently bow and humbly speak: Father, we come back to thee with the righteous souls whose earthly bodies thou lettest us to build, "bone of our bone, flesh of our flesh," all to thine everlasting honor and glory and to our blessing and exaltation forever. Blessed were our wombs, for they bore children, even as thou didst command, in the image of thine Only Begotten, who is in the image of thee. Great is the joy of this the end of our labors, for these souls have been saved with eternal life. Blessed were we in our example set, for thou gavest us the power to live worthily; in the teaching of thy children, thou didst give us a goodly measure of wisdom. Blessed were we in our understanding, for thou didst cause the Holy Ghost to enlighten our minds. Blessed were we in our living, for thou didst give us patience and kindliness, and forgiving natures, with charity and unbounded love. Blessed were we that thou didst send these spirits to the bodies which we by thy power fashioned, for they were choice spirits. Blessed were we in their companionship, for they were loving and kind, respectful and obedient to us. Blessed were we in the mortal fathers of our children's bodies, for they gave us comfort and help, and love and kind- Lesson Department ness unmeasured, and likewise Walked God be thanked for the knowledge he Worthily before thee. Has 8iven us of all this, (Ummortality ur souls Cry out to thee, our Father, and Eterna] Life, Vol. 2, lesson 3.) With us from the ginning and hast SUMMARY covenanted be with S during al] eternity Onor and Blory a d love to Thus nN ou Xistence Te, we are thee forever and foreye Carrying Out the Plan was made or the freat Celestia] family of which Then we shall believe the We are a > We are Boing forward as ather ll Say to the mothers the children 9 God and fitting into e ma - The Well done, thoy 800d and faithful We shall hold in God' household, in God's handmaids, enter thoy Into the Test J family, in our heavenly and eterna] home, ee] the Mortal temples in which dwelt the Circle, or outside jin the halls Spirits J Created, that they might keep rooms, depends wholly upon what We their Second estate, for Without the keepOurselves do here, (Lbid,, lesson iy: tives not have "glory added Upon their heads Question And then the Priesthood will wish Could a Latter-day Saint woman, af.;;: ter Teading and discussing the foregoing ttot t, Ip-; to p Settle See ~~ Tae = essentials of the 80spe] plan, doubt the 2 could not have Worked out their destiny. 'mPportance of her inherent role' you gave them and taught them to make which will forward the family unit the temples of the Spirit of God. Toward its high destiny. Here, aS a Child | came to read Into its quiet before day's end, Now the home Must go for Mother's away, his beautifuy room Where a friend Could Stay; the Euests jn the book were the ones we loved best, Isaiah, and Matthew, and all of the rest, —Linnie F: Robinson 951 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section Five By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas "'Humblest service done by willing and discerning souls is glory."' —George Eliot Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that service makes a citizen out of an inhabitant and a community out of a town. ART 'The Blind Girl'' by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English (September 1969 Relief Society Magazine, p. 688.) Commentary on art selection by Floyd E. Breinholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University. (September 1969 Relief Society Magazine, p. 689.) What do you think of when you see this picture? "The Blind Girl' is not difficult to understand. It could be said to be true to nature with an obvious message. Try asking a group of people of any age to look at the painting and tell the story. Abstract the story into one word and see how often it will be "service." John Everett Millais was a precocious child. He was recognized as having great talent at age four. At seven he was drawing amazing likenesses of family and friends. At eleven he was accepted into the Royal Academy as its youngest student and was later elected to membership. Early in his career as an artist he and several friends formed a group known as Pre-Raphaelites, who set principles of painting somewhat contrary to the accepted manner of painting of the time. They believed art should be based upon and be true to nature and represent sincere expression of sincere beliefs and adhere to the gospel of thoroughness. As a result, Millais' work was full of detail, yet there was nothing harsh. The details were absorbed in the whole truth without detracting from the complete, satisfying beauty of the canvas. As is so often the case, he was severely criticized by the critics of his time. His most enduring work, "The Blind Girl," has proved to be one for which he was most condemned. One said, '""'We must protest against sweet, lollipop colours, raw green fields, and lace-up boots ostentaciously large." In Millais' time, he was a revolutionist and it is chiefly because of his revolutionary works that he lives today.... 952 INTRODUCTORY COMMENTS A woman may live in a particular neighborhood without identifying with it, but her most casual act of service to that neighborhood—if no more than soliciting the block in which she lives in behalf of a philanthropic fund —gives coherence and _ special meaning to an area and often helps set an attitude toward the larger whole of which her neighborhood is part. We can't serve and remain totally unconcerned —as anyone knows who has tried to recruit volunteers to canvas for worthy causes—however, it is difficult to find prospective helpers whose vision of their contribution is not bounded by the walls of their house and the fences of their yard. This is not to question the priority of home. But it does suggest that seeing one's home in context can prepare one to be more effective in every sense; for the happy, developing family is part of a neighborhood, a city, a country. The opening selections in this section on service, therefore, focus on an expanded view of the individual. "SONG OF MYSELF"' BY WALT WHITMAN In volume two of Out of the Best Books we presented two poems by Walt Whitman and a brief biographical sketch. The stanzas we include in this section are from the work which is most characteristic of him—JLeaves of Grass. What Whitman has to say to most of us in this poem is not to be afraid to enjoy life and to expand that capacity to its fulness. Lesson Department Only if we are keenly alive to that going on about us will we be able to serve at our highest capacity. In the final section which we reprint from Whitman's "Song of Myself," he stresses the insights which recognition of our common humanity can bring to us: These are really the thoughts of all men in all ages and lands, they are not original with me, If they are not yours as much as mine they are nothing, or next to nothing, If they are not the riddle and the untying of the riddle they are nothing, If they are not just as close as they are distant they are nothing. This is the grass that grows wherever the land is and the water is, This the common air that bathes the globe. "TO FIGHT ALOUD" BY EMILY DICKINSON Whitman's identification with everything—both good and bad— needs the corrective of Emily Dickinson's discipline in "To Fight Aloud." To fight aloud is very brave, But gallanter, I know, Who charge within the bosom, The cavalry of woe. Who win, and nations do not see, Who fall, and none observe, Whose dying eyes no country Regards with Patriot Love. We trust, in plumed procession, For such the angels go, Rank after rank, with even feet And uniforms of snow. For someone committed to the gospel, Whitman's total identification is not sufficiently discriminating. We need to be aware of the world that surrounds us, but we are not content to accept its degradation as well as its exaltation. Awareness should not imply justification. 953 December 1969 Miss Dickinson's poem is a fine example of discriminating awareness in considering human potential. She suggests that only if our view of ourself transcends earthly concerns are we ready to see our divine possibilities. "A WREATH FOR MISS TOTTEN" BY HORTENSE CALISHER In "A Wreath for Miss Totten" we encounter the selflessness which "To Fight Aloud" praised. This story may have a school setting but it is not so much a story of education as it is a revelation of that capacity and determination to help young people grow that distinguishes those who truly teach, whether in the school or the home. As the writer of this touching story recalls, there was little, if any, recognition of the total effort Miss Totten was expending for Mooley Davis. Perhaps the principal was sensitive to the result of her labor, but few of the children seemed lastingly impressed. The writer is not at all sure that Mooley herself attended Miss Totten's furneral. The fact that her actions did have a permanent effect on at least one of her students, who was only indirectly involved, has little relevance to the actions themselves. Miss Totten wasn't working for recognition; one has the feeling that she didn't expect gratitude. Service, for her, was as natural as breathing and as little thought about. Question for Discussion If, as the scriptures tell us, we find our lives in losing them, how might Miss Totten have found hers? 954 "CONCORD HYMN" BY RALPH WALDO EMERSON A monument to the Minute Men who fought the British troops at Concord in 1775 was set up in the middle 1830's on a piece of land which had been presented to the town by one of Ralph Waldo Emerson's §forbears. Although Emerson himself could not be present for the dedication of the monument on the Fourth of July, 1837, the hymn he had composed for the event was sung by a choir to the tune of "Old Hundred." Although this poem has been so widely reprinted that its opening stanza is one of the best known in American poetry, its final lines are almost forgotten. It needs to be seen in its entirety if it is to be fully appreciated: By the rude bridge that arched the flood, Their flag to April's breeze unfurled, Here once the embattled farmers stood And fired the shot heard round the world. The foe long since in silence slept; Alike the conqueror silent sleeps; And Time the ruined bridge has swept Down the dark stream which seaward creeps. On this green bank, by this soft stream, We set today a votive stone; That memory may their deed redeem, When, like our sires, our sons are gone. Spirit, that made those heroes dare To die, and leave their children free, Bid Time and Nature gently spare The shaft we raise to them and thee. The shot was not "heard round the world" because a few loosely organized men engaged in a skirmish with those they thought of as oppressors. History is full of defiant deeds in support of causes, and the Colonists in America appear to have been under the mildest of yokes. It is the attitude of those who were willing to die that Emerson would have us remember. In mutually shared devotion to _ principles which seemed to them to be violated, they ceased being Colonists and became Americans. Note, in the final stanza, that the memorial is not simply to the men who die or to the circumstances surrounding their sacrifice; it is also to the "spirit" which prompted them to serve their country nobly. Question for Discussion How might the same "spirit" Emerson talks of prompt us to serve our country today? "AIRMAN'S LETTER" Among the personal belongings of a young Royal Air Force pilot in a bomber squadron, who was killed in execution of his duty, was a letter to his mother, to be sent to her if he were killed. The letter was sent to the bereaved mother by the young officer's station commander, who asked for permission to publish it anonymously. The permission was granted. The anonymous "Airman's Letter" is a more current example of the dedication Emerson discusses in "Concord Hymn." At a time when clamorous voices are being raised against the draft of young men to serve their country, the clear, comCOMMUNICATION Lesson Department mitted voice of this British airman is reassuring. "MOTHER OF COMPTONS" BY MILTON S. MAYER "THE STORY OF JEPHTHAH'S DAUGHTER''—Judges, Chapter 11. The final two selections in this section, 'Mother of Comptons" and "The Story of Jephthah's Daughter," illustrate lives given over to Christian service. Mrs. Compton is explicit in citing the Bible as the source of the direction she' and her husband provided for their children. The nameless daughter of Jephthah simply takes for granted the sacredness of her father's promise to the Lord. Mrs. Compton is not playing at being a wife and mother; and she is not viewing her roles here so narrowly that she cannot be an inspiration whenever she needs to be. Jephthah's daughter would like to be a mother in Israel but she is quite prepared to accept the role that her father has imposed on her. In the totality of their commitment, both Mrs. Compton and Jephthah's daughter face the consequences of their belief with confidence and serenity. Question for discussion 1. Mrs. Compton lives for what she believes. 2. Jephthah's daughter dies for what she accepts. 3. What are the special problems which each type of service requires? When stress and strain are rife, And harsh words would be easiest to say, Replace taut lines of doubt or bitterness, With quiet threads of thoughtful understanding. —Ruth G. Rothe 955 December 1969 a. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY cA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 More Holiness Give Me Walked If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: "Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 956 The Holy City The Pilgrims' Song The Lost Chord Praise Be to Thee | Walked Today Where Jesus Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide OF THE DUST low, out of the dust atoms of lost cities, k fow.... F the gentle, obedient men.... T sly in leaping tongues of flame old rebellions, passions, irs and the slain children. K low, out of the dust he old kings, jamin broken with years ing from his tower.... Uel gleaming on the city wall.... Wed from without and within, ut valiant. Cry from the dust lost and heroic people, Holy men and evil... Trumpet me To repentance and believing.... And on this golden morning Shining on the land that once held him. Pierce me with the sweetness Of his coming, moving down from clouds.... Behind him thorns and he shadowed cross And the rising on the third day. ".. Other sheep | have, which are not of this fold: them also | must bring...." Torments of darkness hunder of destructions nd then the still small voice And the descending Son.... H, dark and lovely children if those who once saw him here... Ho have kept in your legends The eternal promise... Help me to lift up my eyes to know That as he once stood here, so Shall he come again.... Speak low, dust of Joseph, Build your words of his love, Speak to the children of all Of another day.... Whisper, whisper out of the dust. —Margery S. Stewart a?" oh gps ¢. I nV A sil:.% - Fae 7 —. Ae" =. A". FISHER TOWERS PHOTO BY CELIA LUCE December 1969 Learn a Career with a future We offer the finest instruction, latest techniques, finest new and modern equipment. Professional instructors will insure your success in a rewarding profession. Continuous Enrollment VA and Foreign Student Approved Indian Student Approved wy 7 Send now for f our brochure & 4 're ant® Heene® 22 N. Country Club Drive Mesa, Arizona 85201 New Craft Medium__ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete Write for Catalog —50¢ 'Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street BEST WISHES FOR A / 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26th-January 2nd via San Francisco or via San Diego SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOUR March 15-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 958 Rose Elder handicraft supplies Ada Mortensen e po APES sn oct DER TERS LES TES SESS Vb Vb Uh Vhs Lhe RELIEF:. Christmas Gifts History of Relief Society 144 pages illustrated $4.00 9961-08! ALTINOS UTI AO AMOUSIA The Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double goldfilled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pin Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10—12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 "Wist Ye Not that | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. "Wht Yo Net ES This book is an engaging and _ highly adiceaner 4 and a valuable addition to any home 2. REUSEN CLARK, at library. $2.00 All Postpaid Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Bhat 5 Tas eMart informative account of the Passover 44 East South Temple, and Cottonwood Mall, Salt Lake City 2472 Washington Bivd., Ogden 777 So. Main, Town & Country Orange, California > rl © bn Gy I &» PRON DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 412% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send []copies of WHEN HE COMES AGAIN $4.95 ™M®° Cleopies of CHRISTMAS IS FOR YOU $3.95 Total cost $ Enclosed find check [ak money order [], charge established account []. Have the Sweetest Holidays " Holiday Cookies BON BON COOKIES 1 tbsp. Vanilla % cup soft butter 1% cups flour % cup sifted U and | Y tsp. Salt Powdered Sugar Heat oven to 350° (moderate). Mix butter, sugar, vanilla. Blend in flour and salt thoroughly with hand. Add food coloring, if desired. Wrap level tbsp. Dough around filling. Bake 1" apart on ungreased baking sheet 12 to 15 minutes, until set but not brown. Dip tops of warm cookies in icing Decorate. Makes 20 to 25 cookies CHOCOLATE DOUGH: Add 1 square unsweetened chocolate (1-0z.) melted. BROWN SUGAR DOUGH: Use 2 cup brown sugar (packed) in place of powdered sugar. ICING: Mix 1 cup sifted U and | Powdered Sugar, 2 tbsp. Cream, 1 tsp. Vanilla. Add food coloring. For Chocolate: Add 1 sq. Unsweetened (1-0z.) melted, and use % cup cream. FILLING: 1. Wrap a cherry, date, nut, chocolate piece, etc. In Bon Bon Cookie dough—white (or tinted), chocolate, or brown sugar. Or make the center itself of dough, mixed with chopped nuts or dates, etc. — then wrap. 2. Dip in icing after baking. You can vary your icings, chocolate, white, and assorted colors. 3. Top with coconut, nuts, colored sugar, chocolate pieces or any other colorful toppings. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live economy of these areas. Ul where sugarbeets are grown. U and | Sugar sweetens the U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.
