Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
PERSONALITY STUDY: THINKING STRAIGHT
Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pages 184-200
When any of your friends have offered you a penny for your thoughts have you ever considered that your "thoughts" were worth the price offered? If you ever hesitated in making the proposed exchange, has it not been mainly because you were ashamed of the very trivial nature of the less than half-formed ideas you were entertaining? A very large proportion of our so-called thinking is very readily recognized as being anything but genuine reasoning or creative thinking. And a large majority of what seems to pass as the true coin, so to speak, is in reality a counterfeit variety known in modern psychology as rationalization. There are so many pitfalls that beset the course of straight thinking that the wonder is that this rather rare process is ever engaged in or found in others by people who are acquainted with its characteristics. Let us now address ourselves as vigorously as we may to the important problem of straight thinking, i. e. Thinking in the best sense of the word. First, it may be well for us to characterize more specifically each of about five of the various types of mental processes which we call thinking. They range all the way from the get-no-where activity of the thinking mechanism when hazy ideas are used in a mere "idling" fashion on to the distinctly human use of clearly defined ideas in the successful search for truth.
1. Reverie or day dreaming is a type of thinking which occupies a great deal of our time and seems to require a minimum of effort. It goes on almost spontaneously and seems to be rather self-centered in character. Can it be possible that an old cow lying in the shade chewing her cud could often match us for worthwhile mental activity? Animals generally are not accorded the use of ideas, but it surely would not be claiming much for the above mentioned cow if we admitted that her possible dreams of new pastures were as worthy as are our daydreams of "castles in Spain." Of course under some circumstances a moderate amount of day dreaming may not be objectionable. At times it may be quite harmless or even beneficial as a relaxation after prolonged mental effort. It presents, however, some real dangers. For example, it often tends to unduly color or crowd out altogether our
122
more worth-while types of thinking.
2. "Wishful" thinking has more sequence and direction than reverie, but otherwise is much the same. It, too, occupies much of our time and accomplishes little or nothing. It is this futile type of "thinking" which we nearly always bring to bear on such problems as spreading the gospel, conservation, flood control, immigration, community cleanups, adjustment of the tax burden, overcoming the present business depression, building up Zion in Jackson County, etc., etc. Here too, belong our fabrications of easy rewards in heaven with which we were concerned in our last lesson. Both reverie and "wishful" thinking would furnish examples of what is sometimes discussed as autistic thinking, i. e. Thinking which is sufficient unto itself. The very process itself satisfies so that one need not bring criticism to bear in order to increase the probability that it will meet the social test or square with the facts of the objective universe.
3. Hasty or so-called practical thinking, as the name clearly implies, is quite different from the types we have just been discussing. It seldom goes on in leisurely fashion and it is at least realistic in the sense that it has to do with the ordinary practical affairs of everyday life. There are many decisions which most of us must make every day?the majority of them of minor importance. We say: "I think I'll call at the postoffice?try eating an olive?ask Mr. Jones for a job?buy a paper?become a teacher," and so on. The words we use in announcing these decisions indicate that we are inclined to believe that they follow upon thought processes of some kind and no doubt they do. But that the mental activity involved in nearly all of such cases hardly de-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
serves to be called reasoning or thinking, is evident from the fact that most of it is done in a careless or slip-shod manner. Furthermore it is often based upon superstitions, prejudices, "hunches," and inadequate information. At best these practical decisions are based upon rather haphazard?though fairly reliable?observations and personal habits or upon beliefs which may at times represent somewhat careful thinking done for us by other people, and which we are inclined to accept somewhat blindly rather than do the necessary thinking for ourselves. For example, we may act quite appropriately at times on the statement: "Make hay while the sun shines."
4. Rationalization is a term which during recent years has been used to designate a kind of thinking which is often so elaborate and logical as to pass as honest to goodness, straight thinking. When we really learn to recognize it we are usually convinced that we should use the same care to avoid it that we would to avoid skillfully made counterfeit coins with which we might otherwise become dangerously burdened. The process of rationalization really grows out of man's conceit in jealously guarding his reputation as the one being in creation who must always have things pass through the "crucible of reason" before they can be accepted by him. He must not be accused even by himself of accepting any proposition that will not stand the test of reason. If really good reasons cannot be found, then acceptably "good" reasons must be brought forward. If necessary, he will be blind to all evidences except those which further his side of the case. Both true and false elements are strangely mingled together in the effort to justify his actions, attitudes, or beliefs, but the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
result is a line of argument which seems at least to himself to be very logical and reasonable. If it seems plausible and persuasive to others, so much the better. Thus we see that rationalizing is little better than a process of mere self-justification and excuse-making. It is a matter of inventing "good" reasons to cover up socially non-acceptable real reasons. And to appreciate how logical and elaborate the process is in many cases just put someone to work defending his actions or beliefs and listen while he talks. You may initiate the interesting process perhaps by simply questioning the reasonableness of his recent purchase of an automobile; his adherence to the Republican party, or the church he belongs to; his views on vaccination or the Word of Wisdom; his support or non-support of the eighteenth amendment; his joining of a college fraternity or a lodge; his conclusions on organic evolution or the higher criticism: his attitude toward the Boy Scout Movement, or toward higher education for girls; the amount of his contribution to the Red Cross or to the Community Chest; the amount he paid as tithing; and so on. No matter on which point you challenge him he is more likely than not to offer you so-called good reasons instead of the real reasons. Possibly you are prepared to carry the experiment a step further and make doubly sure that your friend is rationalizing but not reasoning in any very worthy sense of the word. This is almost an infallible test if you can make it. Try calmly to win against his mere rationalization, by means of some straight thinking which has due regard for the crucial evidences in the case. As Morgan well says, "If he keeps his poise throughout, and if finally outdone, he placidly accepts the outcome of
123
reason, he is not rationalizing, but reasoning. If, on the other hand, he shows great perturbation should he be defeated in the debate, and finally goes into a rage, one can be reasonably sure that all his arguments were simply attempts to convince himself and others of the truth of something that he wished to believe."
5. We are now ready to more fully appreciate a kind of thinking which needs to be encouraged and stimulated in all of us. We refer to genuine reasoning or creative thinking?the more or less rare and difficult types of mental activity comparable to that engaged in by the true scientist or philosopher when he is seeking earnestly for new truth. The careful thinker is in no undue hurry. He has ever a "passion for facts" and will go to considerable trouble to see that they are reliable. He knows at the outset that the apparently simple process of perception or observation is beset with many difficulties. It has been well said that "we see things not as they are but as we are." (Patrick.) We seem bound in the very process of careful observation to interpret sense data in terms of our past experience and our mental set at the given moment. In other words, sense data do not impress themselves upon a passive and indifferent mind, but are given meaning as a result of the very active mental process of perception. To facilitate accurate perception very often sensory defects need to be remedied, or again normal perception is aided by means of microscopes, photographic films, telescopes and other instruments of precision. Very often observations are made under conditions of experimental control. Considerable patience is exercised in making accurate measurements,
124
records and other provisions to facilitate verification by subsequent observers. Precautions are taken all the way along the line to guard against errors, unrecognized artifacts, illusions, data collected under the influence of hampering distractions or prejudices, etc., etc. In short, experts make observations under the most favorable conditions possible and keep suitable records of the same as a basis for carefully guarded inferences which come into special prominence later. For convenience we shall now take up a separate consideration of the process of making inferences. Before we begin, however, it may be well to remind ourselves that in reality the collection of facts and the making of inferences about them, are not wholly separate processes. In his recently published "Psychology" Woodworth says, "There is a close relation between sense perception and reasoning, and inference is an extension of the pattern-grasping activity beyond the sensory field. * * * From simple cases (of perception) we can trace a continuous series extending to the most abstract reasoning imaginable." The person who has acquired the habit of straight thinking not only insists that his facts be thoroughly tested and verified, but he is even more cautious, if possible, to have his theories carefully checked up by other competent workers so that they may approach as nearly as possible to the status of well tested probabilities or practical certainties. So cautious is he that he never claims for even very well established laws or principles the status of absolute truths. One is impressed by the steps involved in the gradual development of the laws or principles of science. First, we have phenomena to which are attached a minimum of meaning. Second, an
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
attempt is made to understand these phenomena by means of one or more preliminary guesses or speculations. Other inquiring minds cooperate in checking up on the validity of the proposed guesses. A third step is taken when one of these is found to fit the known facts sufficiently well to raise its status so that it may be properly designated as an hypothesis. Fourth, when this in turn becomes considerably more well established by means of further scientific procedure it becomes proper for the first time to call it by the rather dignified name of theory. Fifth, after much more extended verification by many trained investigators, it is finally referred to as a law or principle. An important safeguard which careful thinkers have learned to use during this whole process is known as the law of parsimony. The New English Dictionary explains it as "the logical principle that no more causes or forces should be assumed than are necessary to account for the facts." When scientists apply it in helping to choose between two or more rival hypotheses they choose the one which is the simplest, and which best takes into account all of the thoroughly established facts and generalizations of science. Sound reasoning also implies great care in avoiding a number of well known pitfalls of thinking which we can do little more than mention at this time.
1. Rationalizing as a substitute for the ideational search for truth may perhaps be regarded as one of the very common hidden dangers to be avoided.
2. Some people "reason" like this: "Christianity is either the most vicious fraud ever perpetrated upon the world, or it is the most glorious revelation of divine truth which has ever blessed mankind." It may be
LESSON DEPARTMENT
the latter, but it should be clear that this process of so-called reasoning does not establish the proposed generalization. Is not this simply an example of the familiar disjunctive fallacy?
3. Then there is the danger of false analogy. Even a true analogy does not prove a conclusion. Its only proper use is to help explain it and even here we should be aware of the danger of attempting to carry an analogy too far.
4. Hasty generalizations should be carefully avoided. All of us may well cultivate more of a tentative attitude toward knowledge, for as indicated above, many of our generalizations are in the constant process of formulation and reformulation and they all rest upon various degrees of tested probabilities rather than upon absolute certainties. Our "hankering for certainty" should not lead us into the pitfall of prematurely fixed ideas.
5. Sometimes thinking is done by incorrect causal relationships. How common is the tendency to "jump to conclusions." It seems so difficult to wait until we have data which are not only fair and typical, but also sufficient in amount. Who has not seen the typical politician fall into this error when trying to explain the cause of either hard times or prosperity? Patent-medicine testimonials are full of the same type of "reasoning."
6. Too often people attempt to think through ambiguous terms. They may confuse making the world safe for democracy with making it safe for the Democratic party, or prophecy with mere prediction, or tax reform with the undue increase of the average tax burden. Most of us have doubtless heard wasted arguments end with remarks something like this: "Oh, if that is what
125
you mean then I agree with you and there is no use of further argument."
7. Another well known pitfall which careful thinkers avoid is to base a line of reasoning on one or more unsupported assertions. At times prominent people who may have splendid insight or access to abundant evidence in one field, attempt to have their assertions accepted just as readily in other fields where they really should assume a much more humble position. Why should anyone be confused by the views of Edison on intelligence tests or those of Burbank on immortality, or the half-baked notions on chemistry put forth by a prominent psychologist, for example?
8. Again people are hindered from doing straight thinking by the notion that is sometimes entertained that because seemingly valid objections can be raised against a proposition it should therefore be wholly rejected. Recently the proposal to abandon the use of a little ungraded school in a certain district was at least temporarily defeated largely because certain quite irrelevant objections were played up by certain interested parties and the anti-superintendent local paper. To win out there seemed to be no real need of discovering the possible valid objections that might have been brought forward. The fact that objections could be raised was convincing enough. How foolish!
9. Sometimes sound conclusions cannot be reached because the main issue is either lost sight of, or purposely evaded. We say that the person is arguing "beside the point." Many a lawyer with a weak case to defend wastes time on non-essentials, often on mere trivialities, instead of using his energies on the really crucial points that rightly
126
should be stressed. A rather low form of this error is when he resorts to the "calling of names" or some worse form of personal abuse.
10. At the risk of seeming to over-lap somewhat in our enumeration of common pitfalls, let us go on to a brief statement of the danger of shifting ground. When this slippery practice of refusing to be pinned down even when you are wrong is consciously engaged in, it is indeed a despicable thing, but very often people seem to fall into this error quite unconsciously. An argument becomes endless and at the same time gets nowhere because one or both of the participants have acquired such automatic facility in shifting from one proposition to another one, the moment he seems pressed to face a decision on the one he started with. In honest thinking one ought to first clearly define the problem, then bring forth the evidences that are relevant and accept the appropriate conclusions no matter what becomes of one's preconceptions.
11. We should not fail to call attention to the importance of discounting our prejudices and those of the ones whom we choose to help us with our thinking. No one likes to be taken in by a mere propagandist. Yet everyone has prejudices of some kind. Even the so-called impartial scientific investigator has them as part of his equipment. The important thing is to allow sufficiently for probable prejudices that would tend to unduly hamper a person in making a given investigation or in appraising its validity or significance. We are helped in knowing how much to discount these by becoming acquainted with investigations or conclusions made by others who are inclined to show partiality in the opposite direction. If your
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
own bias is very pronounced, it is a good practice to give the benefit of a possible doubt to the opposite side, especially if your selfish interests are involved in the decision to be made.
12-14. We could go on enumerating cautions against trying to do clear thinking under conditions which make us highly suggestible. Against basing important decisions on what we sometimes call "chance" such as the mere flip of a coin, against being swayed to a warped conclusion by strong but very temporary emotional factors and so on. But surely we have been impressed with the fact that straight thinking is not a simple and easy matter. We also know that the trained thinker is well aware of many guide-posts, and that when he in cooperation with many others finally announces careful inferences as high probabilities or practical certainties that it is not the result of mere child's play that anyone who has reached his majority can engage in as successfully as anyone else. Let us be grateful that we have many carefully worked out observed uniformities which are sometimes disparagingly styled the "theories of men." And let us also resolve that as adults believing in the dignity of man and his eternal possibilities we will accept Overstreet's challenge and proceed immediately to get rid of our possible "museum of immature fixations, snap judgments, picked-up prejudices, and unverified 'hand-me-downs' * * *. The great hope of straighter and more fruitful thinking among adults," he goes on to say, "(lies) in the increasingly wide recognition of the fact that education should not be confined to a few preparatory years, but should be a continuing process throughout life."