Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Northern States Mission. Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, president of the Relief Society of the Northern States mission, recently entertained the members of the three Chicago branches at a delightful social at the mission home. These branches are Logan Square, Roseland, and University. There were in all seventy-seven present, including ten children. A delightful musical program was given, including piano numbers by Brother Sam Williams, the well-known Salt Lake musician, who is studying in Chicago, and vocal solos by Sisters Anderson, Matheson, Swartwood, and Solum, who were accompanied by Mr. Williams. Delicious refreshments were served by Sister Taylor who was assisted by her charming daughter, Lucy, and the lady missionaries. During the afternoon the accompanying picture was taken which shows Sister Taylor in the center of the group, surrounded by her Chicago Relief Society workers. When one hears the three Chicago branches spoken of, it sounds as though they might be immediately adjoining one another. However, such is not the case. Although these branches are all within the city limits, it requires an hour and fifteen minutes on the elevated to go from Logan Square, where the mission headquarters are located, to University branch, and about two hours to go to Roseland, almost the same time in travel as going from Salt Lake to Ogden and from Salt Lake to Provo. If one can imagine a Relief Society stake president in Salt Lake with a ward in Ogden to visit, and another in Provo, one would have a conception of the time it takes the mission president at Logan Square to visit the other two Chicago branches. The largest of these three organizations is Logan Square. The officers are: President, Margaret Johnston; first counselor, Gwennie Matheson; second counselor, Aurora Dixon; secretarytreasurer, Elizabeth Dedekind; Magazine representative, Anna Lingreen. The University branch is located near the University of Chicago, where the majority of the students and their families live. It meets the needs of the people from the west who are temporarily there, as well as the resident members of that district. The president is Florence Anderson; first counselor, Alyce Perry; second counselor, Jessie Cardwell; secretary-treasurer, Erzel Mickley; Magazine representative, Edna Wadley. In Roseland the president is Paulena De Vries; first counselor, Maggie Walker; second counselor, Sadie Sutton; secretary-treasurer, Janette Walker. 
 These organizations hold meeting at eight o'clock in the evening, as so many are employed in the business world during the day, or else have no one with whom they can leave their children until evening. I In the Northern States mission there are in all thirteen Relief Society branches. They are all in splendid condition and enthusiastic over their work. Utah Stake Reorganized. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, early in the year, resigned her position as president of the Relief Society of the Utah stake, and was honorably released, but with sincere regret, at the Utah stake conference held in January. Mrs. Allen's entire board was released with her. Mrs. Allen had served six years as president of the stake Relief Society and during that time she made an enviable record for real accomplishments. Previous to being appointed president, she served the stake three years as secretary and ten years as counselor. A woman of rare vision and real genius in public work, Mrs. Allen early in her administration made a survey of the work being done by her organization and also a survey of the needs in the community covered by the stake. She found that very effective work was being done in some of the departments, but the survey convinced her of two things: First, that more service and better service should be given along welfare lines in order to meet the real needs of the communities, and secondly, that it would be necessary to raise and distribute more money if certain types of constructive human welfare work were to be accomplished. After counseling with her board, and after consulting her priesthood authorities and elief Society worker, was appointed to succeed Mrs, Allen as president of the Utah stake Relief Society. She will be assisted by Counselors Emma S. Jensen and Zina Murdock; Esthma C. Tanner, secretary-treasurer; and the following board members: Emily Nielson, Clara N. Giles, Nellie S. Thornton, Susie W. Poulton, Allie W. Clark, and Anna S., Bird. Rigby Stake. On the evening of January 18, 1924, in the Rigby stake amusement hall, the stake presidency and board members of the Rigby stake Relief Society gave a delightful entertainment isy honor of the stake presidency and their wives, and members of the following auxiliary boards: Sunday School, Y. M. And Y. L. M. I, A., Religion Class, Primary, and Genealogical Society, with their wives and husbands and the bishopric and wives from First and Second wards. A total of one hundred and thirty guests were seated at two long banquet tables, which were loaded with the good viands that the Relief Society women know so well how to prepare. Red and white carnations and ferns formed the table decorations. Before being seated the guests all sang "O Ye Mountains High," and Stake President J. W. Hart offered the opening prayer. After the splendid banquet the following program was rendered: Address of welcome, by President Elizabeth J. Hart; a retold story, by Mrs. Martha Ballantyne; a vocal solo, by Mrs. Belle Tall; a reading, by Mrs, Laura Watson and Mrs. Minnie Elsworth; piano duet, Mrs. Stella Brossard and Miss Blanche Brossard. A prognostication of board members was read by Mrs. Cora Burton and created much merriment. A short sketch was given by Brother William Hatch. The program was closed by 
 vocal numbers by Mrs. Alida Call Dixon of Oakland, California. After the program the floor was cleared for dancing. Very splendid music was furnished by the Smiles Orchestra, a company of young boys under direction of Mrs. Lucile Stowell. The old-time dances were much enjoyed by the merry company assembled. Mrs. Laura Watson, a retiring board member, was presented with a beautifully bound volume as a token of appreciation for her labors. At twelve o'clock the benediction was pronounced by W. W. Selck, Jr., of the stake presidency. Samoan Mission. The Samoan mission Relief Society has been reorganized. Mrs, Thurza Adams, who served faithfully and efficiently during her 'husband's presidency in this mission, was released to return home with President Adams. Mrs. Nettie L. Butler, wife of the new mission president, Ernest L. Butler, has been appointed Relief Society president, and is actively engaged in the work. Logan Stake. Mrs. Annie W. Clark of Logan First ward writes the Magazine as follows: "T have enjoyed very much my visit to every family in our ward in the interest of our very splendid Magazine. I could talk much better for it than I could 'have done had I been getting ten cents out of each subscription. I got as much pleasure out of this work as any Relief Society work I have ever done. 1 assure you I gladly contribute my time to help the Magazine hold the price as low as possible. I believe we have the largest number this year in our ward we have ever had?sixty-one subscriptions now, and I have two more prospects a little later." Hyrum Stake. A very interesting review of the literary lessons of the past year was the feature of a program in the Mendon ward Relief Society early in the year. Paper and pencils were passed to all present and fifteen questions were asked. The answers were represented by different pictures and objects, which were numbered?the odd numbers representing the writings of the various authors and the even numbers, the authors. Two of the members got 100%' in the examination, others got from 75% to 98%, the results showing that the lessons during the year have been well understood. Two prizes were given, the first prize being a book of One Hundred and One Famous Poems. The lesson and the examination| were given in a very interesting and attractive manner by the class teachers, Sisters Jensen and Baker. After the program a tempting luncheon was served. The lesson work in on NOTES FROM THE FIELD - 199 Mendon is always exceptionally good. Many of the literary lessons have been dramatized and features have been introduced in the other departments to make the class work interesting and successful. Mrs. Rebecca Allen, who has been a member of the Hyrum stake board for twenty years, serving a goodly portion of that time as stake secretary, has resigned her position, due to change of residence. Mrs. Allen recently became the bride of William Lindley of Ogden and has gone with her husband to her new home. Mrs. Allen was a faithful member of the Relief Society and a most efficient secretary. She will be greatly missed by the women of Hyrum stake. Mrs, Millie Peterson has been appointed stake secretary to fill the vacancy caused by Mrs. Allen's release. South Sanpete Stake. Owing to the segregation of the South Sanpete stake into two stakes, Gunnison and South Sanpete, which took place last May, two new wards were organized in both Manti and Ephraim. This change really resulted in the reorganization of the Relief Societies throughout the South Sanpete stake with the exception of Sterling, and most splendid results have followed. There has been a reawakening throughout, and greater interest in Relief Society work. The teachers have been active in their work and in promoting a good feeling throughout the stake. In one of the wards, the Relief Society teachers in districts No. 2 and 4 entertained the old folks of those districts together with the mothers of the teachers. No. 2 served a tray luncheon, while No. 4 set tables. Splendid programs were rendered and calls were later made upon those who were unable to attend the function. In early autumn the health centers were established, one in Manti and one in Ephraim under the supervision of the Relief Society stake board. Two clinics were held shortly after, under the management of the State Bureau of Child Hygiene. During the past year two of the members of the stake board have each taken into their homes an infant to rear. These sisters have the responsibility of caring for these children and of bestowing upon them every attention with a tender solicitude for their need and comfort. Be noble! And the nobleness that lies In other men, sleeping, but never dead, Will rise in majesty to meet thine own; Then wilt thou see it gleam in many eyes, ?Then will light around thy path be shed, And thou wilt never more be sad or lone. ?James Russell Lowell, DOROTHY Q. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in June) THE PARABLES OF THE SAVior (Continued) A. The Draw Net "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: Which, when is was full, they drew to shore, and set down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away. "So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come - forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire; there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth." Matt. 13:47-50. Evidently this parable was intended to teach two things: First, that in the Kingdom on the earth there would be found both righteous and unrighteous people; and, Second, as in the case of the tares there would come a time of segregation or classification according to real character worth. Incomplete interpretation of this parable and the one of the tares has undoubtedly led to the doctrine of the consignment of the soul to one of two places. It is scarcely conceivable that in the net there would be but two kinds of fish, the worthless and the valuable, for it is a well known fact that the Sea of Galilee contained a variety of fish varying in usefulness, and the natural classification of the haul would be illustrative of the doctrine of gradation in salvation as plainly revealed in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 76.. This parable is a good illustration of the difference between being in 'the Kingdom and being of the Kingdom. B. The Unmerciful Servant?Matthew 18:23-25. "Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents. But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment. To be made. The servant therefore fell down, and worshiped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. 202 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants, which owed him an hundred pence, and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellowservant fell down. At his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts for- ' give not every one his brother their trespasses." Jesus, having taught the doctrine of justice, with figurative emphasis, now turns to the parabolic teaching of the doctrine of mercy. In the parable of the unmerciful servant we see a portrayal of the truth that the perfection of justice depends upon mercy. The parable seems to be an answer to Peter's enquiry as to how many times one should forgive another. Among the heathens, the law "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," prevailed; among the Jews the limit of forgiveness was the fourth offense. Peter's inquiry extended beyond the three when he asked if even the seventh offense should be forgiven, and the announcement, not seven times but seventy times, was a startling one, and even that number was but figurative. This parable has hidden in it the doctrine recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 64:9, 10, 11. The Savior vividly illustrated the beauty of the leniency of love and the ugliness of the oppression of greed. He showed the relationship of bigsouledness and forgiveness. The debt of the unmerciful servant which was forgiven him by the merciful Lord was over three hundred million dollars, while the debt for which the greedy ca a cast his fellowservant into prison was less than twenty ollars The parable brings into play the usual inherent justice of public sentiment and the application of the law announced in the Lord's prayer "Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." The forgiven debtor forfeited the forgiveness of his lord through unwillingness to forgive his fellowservant. The parable plainly teaches that the moment we become unforgiving we become unworthy of forgiveness. ? {