Phoebe Nourse Donated the First Money for a National Cathedral in Washington 'This is the 22nd of February. All over the United States people are observing the anniversary of the birth of George Washington. Today as one visits the city of Washington it is impossible to suppress a feeling of admiration that is aroused by the beauty of the city. Every new building that is erected with the thought of adding to its attractiveness; every bridge that is made artistic as well as useful; every road and boulevard that is improved; and every building that makes for the majesty and glory of the National Capitol is but fulfilling the dream of George Washington who ' 'wanted the Capitol to be the expression of the best in "the nation."' To this end he spent a great amount of time planning with Major L'Enfant detail after detail in the city's development. In L'Enfant's plan for the city, among the structures listed to be erected is found a suggestion for a church. Today there is a National Cathedral being built on Mount St. Olvens. The thought in erecting this cathedral is to make it an American Westminster Abbey where great Americans may be entombed. It will doubtless be of interest to our readers to learn that the first money contributed for. The erection of this cathedral was contributed by a young girl. The story goes that Joseph Nourse, who lived in a fine, colonial mansion on St. Olvens, who was the first Registrar of the Treasury, and a friend of Washington and Jefferson, prayed, because of the beauty and vantage point of the hill, that a church might some day be built where he stood. 
 Phoebe Nourse, his granddaughter, invalid though she was, devoted herself to making real her grandfather's prayer. She made little articles of fancy work with her needle, and relatives and. Friends bought them; then she put the money away very carefully, never telling anyone why she did so. In 1848 she died. A small box among her effects contained $40 in gold. The receptacle that held the money was marked "For a free church on Olven's Hill." So deeply touched were her relatives and friends by the beauty and sincerity of her offering that a number of them set to work to increase the fund. The boys of the church school, who found lodging in her grandfather's mansion, dug the foundation of a church. From that humble beginning has grown the idea and the realization of our present National Cathedral where a number of church officials, prominently connected with the church, are buried, and where Woodrow Wilson's remains are now resting.