Motoring To Mexico By Ivy W. Stone OULD you enjoy a trip ABROAD, without the expense of steamers and minus the hazard of seasickness? Would you like a vacation different in every respect from any that our United States can offer? Would you get a thrili from picking orchids and bananas and oranges in a virgin jungle, and have as a climax for such adventure the knowledge that the cost of the trip was not prohibitive—that it actually was NOT breaking your bank account? If you wish such an experience, turn southward into Mexico. Drive in your own car over the new Pan American Highway: see provincial Mexico as she has been since the. Days of Cortez; see the native jungle Indians as they have lived for centuries, and travel at your own pleasure, stopping when and where you feel the urge. If you enjoy sports, you may attend the fiestas in the large cities, where red flags wave, crowds become vociferous, and the matadores and toreadors are always successful. If you are studiously inclined, you will revel in the numerous attractions of the National Museum in Mexico City. You may wanider at will through numerous old cathedrals which Cortez and his followers built, and which are frequently lighted with alabaster domes, decorated with ornate altars of twentytwo carat gold, and whose gardens are luxuriant with rare tropical flowers and blossoming shrubbery. Many of these old churches are closed, and are rapidly falling prey to the elements and ravages of insects and time. TIME was when the Mexicans expended all of their surplus energy on revolutions. Uprisings and outbreaks, revolts and insurrections were the common and to-beexpected procedure. But ten years ago the Republic started a new conquest. The soldiers were peons, armed with shovels and machetes. The guns were road machines. A highway northward from Mexico City was constructed, the first big link in the proposed South American Highway, a road that linked Mexicans with their northern cousins of the United States. Less than a year ago the road was dedicated, and we of the United States were invited to come down as friends! "El Camino," as the highway is called by the natives, is a marvelous piece of roadwork. It is thirty feet wide on curves and twenty feet wide on the straightaway. All curves, underpasses, etc., are plainly marked. The deep sluggish rivers are beautifully bridged, and the mountain road has a six per cent grade which you can easily make in high gear. The road dips to only five hundred feet above sea level and rises to eighty-two hundred feet. It leads through tiny villages, manufacturing cities, sugar cane plantations, citrus orchards, fields of maguey plants and miles upon miles of virgin jungle. The response to the invitation was so overwhelming that for the moment the abilities of the hosts were over taxed. We did go down; we are still going down, and it is estimated that many more will go down in '37. Those who have been tell such glorious tales, display such marvelous MOTORING souvenirs, that Motoring To Mexico has become the slogan for the tourists of 1937. It is an exceedingly cheap trip. Gas stations are not competitive, and gas costs about the same as in the States. In the large cities, like Mexico City, Monterrey and Victoria, the motorists may designate a choice of two or three brands of gas; but out on the open highway, Gas is Gas, every motorist patronizes every station, grateful for a full tank. The local gas may give your car a little "knock, knock," but it does no harm, is all in the day's experience. EXCELLENT, English speaking guides may be obtained for about $2.50 per day. They are good TO MEXICO 483 drivers, are versed in Mexican history, and save you both time and money. Splendid hotels may be obtained for about $2.00 per day per couple, with meals ranging from 25c for breakfast to 75c for a six course evening dinner. Mexico is so colorful, so variegated, that no matter what your tastes, you are constantly diverted and enthralled. At the International Bridge over the Rio Grande River we were inspected by customs officials with long waxed mustachos and holstered pistols. They looked forbidding, but actually were genial, good natured and leisurely. Our luggage was inspected merely to ascertain that we were not smuggling narcotics, liquor or firearms. We had to establish proof that we actually owned the 1-THE FLOATING GARDENS OF XOCHIMILCO, 2—WASH DAY NEAR PUEBLA. 484 car; then for the nominal sum of $1.00 each and another for the car, we were given passports, entitling us to tour Mexico for a period of three months, for pleasure only. Mexico does not wish her northern cousins to enter into business down there, as they resent the exploitation of their natural resources by foreign capital. WITH a feeling of exhilaration we headed southward, over the longest straight piece of auto highway in the entire world—45 miles. We felt safe and secure in the knowledge that the car was in good condition, that we had two good spares, that we were vaccinated against small pox, inoculated for typhoid fever, had two gallon jugs filled with certified water, and that a twenty dollar green back had been changed into enough pesos to pay all expenses into Mexico City. What a Change! It did not seem possible that only a river separated two such widely divergent countries. Here the word "leisure" is always spelled in capital letters, and no one ever hurries; Ford trucks gave way to burros, shoes became a rarity, diverging roads became mere paths, women and girls balanced huge wooden trays on their heads, or staggered under the weight of water jugs. Little naked boys tended their goats on the roadside, unconscious of their nudity. Tiny burros trotted along, loaded with huge cargoes of hand-made chairs, pottery, charcoal, firewood or corn. Windowless huts of square cactus or palm thatches became commonplace. Gorgeous flowers surrounded every hut, while the family baby, pigs, chickens, burros and pet parrot shared the dooryard in pleasant comradarie. The jungle is thorny and resentful of trespassers, but lures the traveler RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with its flambuoyant flowers and colorful parrots. We soon realized that nature has provided all things with a means of protection, and that the jungle is no exception. Its thorns and density repel the animals which have to forage for a livelihood, and consequently all loose cattle, pigs, burros and horses turn to browse in the deep, sun-kissed barrow pits made by the recent road builders. Here the grass is sweet with no thorns or brambles. Thus these stray animals have come to accept the new highway as theirs by divine right. A burro browsing on-the left hand side of the road is very apt to nonchalantly jay walk across the road. Once there, he changes his mind, and at his own peculiarly slow pace he ainbles back again. The cattle are long horned and are apt to choose the middle of the new road as their resting place for the night. Thus the warning of the Mexican. Government to drive only in daylight is quite in order. The orchids of the jungle are parasites and may be found in season. The bougainvillaea, a tall flowering shrub, tosses its purple sprays of blossoms toward the poinsettias, which reach a height of twelve feet. The highway is nearly eight hundred imiles long, and in November of thirty-six, no Mexicans had thought to put up a road side stand to display their native wares! S° far, the tourists have been tolerant and patient, trying to avoid hitting any wandering animal. But whenever a stubborn animal has been the loser over a disputed right-ofway, the ever present turkey buzzard is always Johnny-on-the-spot to do his bit of sanitary regulations. Mexicans claim they need no garbage wagons, and so long as the turkey buzzards are protected, this claim is substantiated. The long necked, MOTORING bald headed, drab colored, ugly bird has remarkable eyesight, and is forever circling overhead, waiting, waiting, waiting! The instinct which tells him his vigilance is rewarded is uncanny. As we motored southward, we did not pass a single dead animal. Returning twelve days later, however, the carcasses of four burros were along the roadside, and the voracious buzzards were too engrossed in their occupation to note our passing car. Whenever I saw a dead burro, I thought of some sorrowful family, who had lost a treasured possession. For a burro is the peon's contact with the outside world. It is the family carriage, truck and carryall. Mexican Foods? Of course you may eat them, if you wish. After you leave Monterrey and until you reach Mexico City, it is difficult to obtain American foods, for the Mexican cooks, though most willing, have not yet learned the mild dishes which their northern cousins prefer. But the tourist should remember that a stomach which has been accustomed to little or no seasoning cannot suddenly adjust itself to highly spiced foods without protest. A traveling stomach is quite apt to become a temperamental stomach. You must decide for yourself if you are willing to forego the novelty of eating foreign, highly flavored foods or of running the risk of spending part of your valuable time in bed. Personally, I took my breakfast eggs soft boiled, instead of having them served "eggs rancherio," which means fried and floating in a deep red sauce! J was content to watch other diners gasp and reach for water as they swallowed the hot enchiladas tortillas, tamales, and the black coffee cooled with boiling milk! In the provinces the goat butter, home made, smelled as though it might TO MEXICO 485 have been stored in a pyramid. But in Mexico City, Sanborn's and Lady Baltimore serve as fine foods as the most epicurian could wish for. ALL Mexicans love their burros and their chickens; consequently even in the large cities there is a night long chorus. In the tropical large village or small town of Valles we slept in an excellent tourist camp operated by a Mexicanized native of Sweden. Other large hostelries were in process of construction. But the builder of today hesitates to invest overmuch, due to the strange law known as "expropriation," wherein the government may purchase your property at any time, and pay the owner only the assessed valuation! IN the Moctezuma mountains the skill of the young engineers met a real test. The road rises to a height of 8200 feet above sea level. It is safe, and wide, and was blasted from the solid rock of the mountains. Round and round it curves and winds, with many laps above you and many below you! Scarcely a day is free from fog, and the tourist watches eagerly for the rift in the low hanging vapor that he may see the vista of the endless mountain range. At the peak of the pass, we were fortunate in having the mists roll away and disclose the farm lands of the native Indians, tiny patches of cleared jungle on the south side of the densely covered mountains. Here, with endless toil, the natives have cut away the ever encroaching jungle and planted their corn, fully a mile above the river. Road crews and soldiers patrol the mountain road, ever watchful for the safety of the nation's guests. Retaining walls are being built, and the careful driver need have no qualms over safety. But as we rode along, secure THE PYRAMID OF THE SUN. A LITTLE SHEPHERD BOY. THE PALACE OF FINE ARTS.  MOTORING in the luxury of a good car, we passed many an old cargadore (burden bearer) scantily clad, ofttimes barefooted, slowly making his way afoot, bent over with the weight of marketable goods which he would pack into Mexico City, fully fifty miles away! MOST old style Mexican homes are built with an austere plastered front facing the street, with the solitary door and two windows heavily barred. Thus they conceal their real beauty. But once within the walls, the visitor sees a welltended patio, with a well and tropical flowers. MOST tourists will find it convenient to establish hotel connections in Mexico City, to engage a guide and plan daily trips to the various points of interest. Days could be spent in the National Museum, if you have an archaeological turn of mind. You must not miss the opera, if only to see the famous glass curtain, installed by Tiffany. You must inspect the Bordia Gardens, where many rare tropical flora are nurtured. Diego Rivera murals, painted on the veranda of the old palace at Cuernavaca, are destined to become famous. The Pyramid of the Sun, second largest pyramid in the entire world, is only 27 miles from Mexico City. At Toluca you may see the sixty thousand Indians milling about on their market day; at Saltilla you may see the gorgeously hued serapes as they are woven from native wools. Taxco is charming, as it is the one city where the government insists the architecture shall adhere to the old style. The floating garden of Xochmilco will entice you with its canals, gondolas and flowers, and Chilula where Cortez built three hundred sixty TO MEXICO 487 churches is replete with old history. About ten miles north of Mexico City you will drive over the identical road which Cortez built. Flowers are everywhere! Orchids in corsages cost only 28c; gardenias fresh every morning for 3c; colorful markets, selling everything from beds to bananas, from spices to ground fish, and old auto tires for sandals! MEXICO CITY has thousands of beggars; every auto is a potential taxi. Every street corner has its vendor of tickets for the national lottery. The "Lotteria Nationcal'' they call it, and it is government controlled. Every purchaser knows that his money goes for the maintenance of schools and hospitals, and the odds are twelve to twenty that he will win something. In Chapultepec Castle the visitor may see the relics of the great and the dead; mementoes of epochal history, including the silver ink stand of the ill fated emperor Maxmilian I, and the solid gold wash bowl of his consort, who was later named the "Mad Carlotta." WE spent twelve days south of "the Rio Grande River, and traveled 3500 miles in Mexico. We ate and slept very comfortably; bought over fifty dollars worth of souvenirs, and did not spend over $250.00. It was the cheapest and the most enjoyable trip we have ever taken. We were not robbed or cheated. Our hosts were courteous, obliging,- genial and patient. The manager of our hotel even permitted us to pay our bill with a check drawn on our local American bank! "THs new highway will link the two Americas. It is conducive to understanding, tolerance and good will. We, as a nation, will soon realize that while Mexican ways are  not our ways, they are still good ways. We must learn that Mexico does not wish to become a carbon copy of our machine controlled civilization. They have a civilization of their own which they honor and desire to maintain. WE left with regrets, wishing that we might acquire the siesta habit. How we longed that custom would permit us to "shut up shop" in the middle of the day, ing to our United States we had to satisfy our own customs officials that we carried no plant life of any kind, not even an orange, banana or a cotton boll; that we did not have a green parrot or a baby anteater tucked into a dark corner, and that we were vaccinated against smallpox! Each one of us was permitted to bring in one hundred dollars worth of souvenirs duty free. Happy carefree Mexico, we will and take a three hour rest. Returnyet return!