Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon AUGUST—Hope soars high, for smiling nature offers her most precious gifts. DURING the summer months, the book lover finds for his delectation a choice variety of books to amuse and delight for an idle hour, either in the garden hammock, the woodland camp, the canyon cottage, or on the ocean cruise. GLADYS HASTY CARROLL, author of "As the Earth Turns," has written another story of Maine farm life, "Neighbor To The Sky." Edith Thomas Nettleton is interesting and amusing with her new book, "Grandmother Bates Sees The World," while for deeper thinking Thursa Graymar has written an appraisal of the present division in the schools over progressive and traditional theories of education titled "The School At The Cross Roads." Genevieve Wimsatt offers a dramatic Chinese story of mysticism, ""The Lotus Flower." DAPHNE DU MAURITIER, granddaughter of the great Victorian author, has furnished a distinct contribution to biography with her book "The Du Mauriers." VIRGINIA WOOLF has _received the highest praise from the literary critics for her last book, "The Years." ANNIE HURST, luxuriously ensconced in a palace overlooking the Grand Canal in Venice, is working on another novel, doubtless with Hollywood rights in mind. ELIZABETH of England and her father, the Earl of Strathmore, received the Order Knights of the Garter together, at Windsor Castle last June. Queen mother Mary and Elizabeth are the only two women members of the Order. LADY NANCY ASTOR made a prolonged visit to her homeland this summer and while she refused to talk for the press on public questions she did make some astute observations on the labor question. AMELIA EARHART'S tragic adventure in the South Pacific threw all other thrills of the year into the shadows. JADWIGA JEDREZEJOWSKI of Poland, brilliant tennis player, won the championship at Wimbledon this summer. American women have held it for the past seven years. HELEN GAHAGEN has been invited to sing the lead at the Salzburg festival this summer. She also expects to tour Europe in concert before returning to her American home. HELEN HAYES, charming actress, was as "nervous as a school girl" when she had conferred upon her the degree of doctor of letters this summer. MARY NORTON as chairman of the labor committee of the House of Representatives with Frances Perkins secretary of labor in the cabinet almost places a monopoly of the labor question in the hands of women.