Spanning a Century By Alice R. Rich OMETIMES while searching S in our garden for late blooms we are surprised to find, sheltered among the heavy foliage, a rare flower with all the strength and beauty of the earlier summer time. Sometimes, too, while re-reading a choice piece of literature, a favorite chapter in scripture or an oft read poem, we find a new thought, a new meaning and an added beauty in construction or diction or a thought that has never before so impressed us. These charms have always been present but we have not been in just the mood to see and appreciate them in their fullest. It has been my pleasure very recently to stumble on such a value, here in Toronto where I have lived for nearly two years. One of our German speaking converts, Bertha Puckness, an active church worker, has lived for months with a dear old lady, Mrs. Henry Gunter, who came from that far off land of Germany many years ago to this great melting pot of America. When a girl of 19 she left her home in Germany and landed in New York with only three pennies in her pocket but with a lot of good advice from her father. "Elizabeth," he said to his daughter, " you keep away from the young fellows. If one of them asks you to marry him, ask him if he can keep a wife, what his trade is, has he any money, who his parents are and where he comes from? Remember that." Elizabeth did—to the letter when that man came. She reached New York 1863. It was a very different place from the New York of to-day. There was in the hustling little city a wellknown German hotel proprietor who always sent his son to meet the boats and collect his stray countrymen. So before long, this immigrant girl found herself established with her countrymen as a servant in the hotel, and here, two years later, she met Henry Gunter, a handsome young piano maker and after a short courtship they were married, not however until she had carefully asked him all the questions her father had suggested. They lived together sixty-nine years,—the greater part of that time here in Toronto where they have been very happy 502 ELIZABETH GUNTER among their friends. Both she and her husband have been active in musical circles. BECAME interested in Mrs. Gunter when Bertha told me of her childhood activities with the early Kindergarten movement in Germany. I wanted to talk to someone who had really known the great Froebel, so I took the opportunity to visit her in her neat home on Roxton Road. I was welcomed by the plump, white haired little woman just past her ninetieth birthday, but still active and bright, doing all her own work, and looking after the furnace. In her broken English, with her black eyes sparkling with enthusiasm, she told me the following,— "Yes, I was born in Schweina, Germany, and with my sister and a small group of little children I was enrolled in a Kindergarten under Fredrick Froebel (the founder of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Kindergarten) at Mariental, Germany. Of course the real work of this school was conducted by young women teachers, but Froebel, himself, a man of medium height with rather long hair and a kind face and gentle voice, was much of the time at the school, conducting the play and teaching the little songs, dances, and finger plays. Oh! It was lovely all the time at the little school! And we were so happy together. If you like I'll sing you one of the little songs we sang almost daily at the play school." With her wrinkled little hands she held up the white apron she wore over her black dress and danced around her-living room floor gathering flowers from imaginary bushes and filling her apron and arms, singing in her broken English, occasionally lapsing into the language of her native Germany.; AFTER all these many years Mrs. Gunter's soul is full of love and tenderness awakened in her at the tender age of four or five when she came under the wise training of Froebel. This great teacher felt that pre-school children were neglected and he planned for them graduated courses of exercises, modeled on the games in which he found them most interested. It was during the years that Froebel was training young teachers to carry out his wonderful plans that my dear old friend found her way into his Kindergarten. Self activity was the keynote. The children were taught to do things; it was play but as they played, they learned. Now past ninety, Mrs. Gunter is keen and alert, active every minute. When she is not busy with her household duties, she works in her little flower garden in the summer SPANNING A CENTURY . As she explained there were no "jounger" in her family and to pass the hours during the cold weather, she spends her time crocheting. The rooms were filled with her handiwork. There were appliqued borders on the window blinds, doilies on the table and mantel, centerpieces on the cushions, and across the front window was hung a beautiful curtain with a large peacock design in crochet. This, she explained, had taken her over a year to finish "by doing two rows every night." She is proud of the curtain and proud to see people stand on the sidewalk to admire it. It was a most pleasant experience for me to partake of her humble hospitality and to her, I am sure, it was a real joy to have someone listen with keen interest to her reminiscences of the long, long ago. It reminded me of the years in Brigham City when my older children were babies. There I belonged to a Mothers' club where we studied Froebel's Mother's Play Book. As we discussed his methods and attempted to put his suggestions into use with our own little ones, Froebel and his early inspirational methods of training children seemed a thing far removed from us here at home. Now after only a few years, I mingle with one of the very first of his disciples and an ardent admirer of him. To me this is quite wonderful. In our conversation she said to me, "Oh! I love children. Whenever I see children on the street, I stop to watch them at their play. When I know of an entertainment or operetta, where children take part, I try to go, and many, many days, I visit the Kindergarten here where children are taught much the same as 503 I was taught back in Germany. Oh! I love them and I love to be near them. When the lawyer makes out my will, I am going to leave to the children all of my money, above that which will take care of small wants during my life." DAVID STARR JORDAN says: "There is nothing in all the world so important as children, nothing so interesting. If ever you wish to go in for philanthropy, if ever you wish to be of real use in the world, do something for children." "The life of my dear old friend, Mrs. Gunter, bears out this bit of philosophy. The tender love and kind consideration she has for little children fairly beams in her gentle face. Evidently these virtues were awakened in her at a tender age when she sat at the feet of Froebel and absorbed from his understanding heart, his great love and appreciation for the child, the hope of the world. Such a rare and lovely find has quickened me to pay my humble tribute to her: 'Tis sweet to have acquaintance with a soul like hers. To hear her reminiscences Of joyous childhood days, Now near a century gone, Is like an echo from a fairy realm. Her love for little children, Her faith, her hope of heaven, Her joy in making bright A home for those she loves Have left on her an imprint sweet. Her radiant kindly face Reflects the joy she feels. Truly a life like hers Has been a light to some one's feet, Has done its bit To make this good world better.