The Work and Business Project By Donna D. Sorensen
SEWING, laundering and the preparation of food will probably last as long as human beings exist. Formerly these activities were performed in the home but during the past century tremendous changes have occurred. The home has gradually been relinquishing these three activities to outside agencies. Some sweeping generalizations have been made from time to time as to just how wide-spread this transferrence has been and how advantageous or disadvantageous it has been to the family. With these facts in mind the work and business project was planned for next year to achieve two objectives: first, to supply factual data to verify or challenge general statements about present day family life; second, to help women to understand and to evaluate their own work and problems. The first objective will be reached when the results from the ward surveys are compiled; the second objective we anticipate will be achieved at the end of our work next year. The survey which will have been conducted will be revealing and decisive in helping the ward and stake leaders of the work and business departments to outline their programs for the coming winter. The tri-fold project may be approached and stressed from the economic issue involved, the desire for greater solidarity in family life and the consumer angle.
WOMEN should feel a general satisfaction in making their personal contribution to the family income. This may be made through organized and systematic effort in their legitimate field—the technicalities and details of housekeeping and homemaking instead of leaving the house to disinterested agencies—a decisive step toward the restoration of sound and healthful living. One woman with a family of four, after keeping records of what it costs to produce things in the home not for sale says: "I have found little in the way of food, clothing and services of various kinds which could not be produced in less time than the average woman would find it necessary to spend in order to earn the money with which to buy factory-made things. Record-keeping covering the cost of raw material, cost of fuel, cost of overhead and time involved has convinced me that if the average woman were to do a complete job of cooking and baking at home she would earn the equivalent of $6.00 net per week. If to what she could earn in her kitchen were added to what she might earn in her sewing room, her laundry and above all, her garden, the sum would show that she could earn far more than does the average woman who leaves her home in order to earn cash, and if women were to use modern appliances to do this work, not only would they pay for the appliances with the cash now expended for goods, which they would be producing at home, and not only could they have better food, better clothing, and better laundry work, but they could have them without the drudgery formerly associated with home-making, with plenty of leisure for cultivating the graces of life." This project approached from the 514 standpoint of the economic values involved will be truly enlightening and some profitable discussion and splendid demonstrations can be arranged. Some suggestive topics and activities follow:
Bread Making Home experiments conducted by women as to cost of home-made bread and comparison with bakery products. Discussion and tests as to value of hard and soft wheat flours. Varieties of quick breads. Demonstration of mixing and baking bread. Demonstration on making refrigerator rolls if the community has a large number of refrigerators. Exhibit of breads from favorite recipes and exchange of recipes. Score several loaves of both homemade and bakery bread using the score card for yeast breads. Discuss nutritive value and the varieties of yeast bread.
Sewing Demonstration of short cuts in sewing. (Various women active in sewing could be asked in advance to demonstrate the short cuts they have discovered.) Demonstration in simple tailoring. Demonstration of how to oil and care for a sewing machine. Suggestions for remodeling clothing. Have a "cotton dress" day probably in the spring in which you ask each member to wear a cotton dress which she has made or purchased ready-made. Compare the two types from the standpoint of (a) cost and durability, (b) satisfaction to wearer, (c) workmanship. Exhibit other types of articles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE both made at home and ready-made and use above comparison.
Laundry Presentation of accurate data as to the cost of home and commercial laundry. Demonstration of methods for laundering woolen blankets, quilts, and woolen fabrics. Discussion of soaps and water solvents. Discussion and demonstration on stain removal. Latest methods in washing and rinsing. Equipment and supplies.
ONE prominent woman tells that she found herself involved in a multiplicity of duties outside the home. She became dissatisfied at the demands on her time as she felt she was not spending enough time with her two growing children. She remembered with delight the closely knit family life which prevailed in her girlhood home and when she evaluated her activities with this in mind she decided to engage in some of the activities in the home which she remembered her mother performing which brought her such happiness. She wanted her children to remember as she had done the smell of newly baked bread and spicy cookies and she deliberately sacrificed some of her activities for just such homely tasks in order to further a more closely allied relationship in the minds of her children between mother and home. There is decided value in the family and the mother working together in this best of family units, the home. It makes for solidarity to all contribute to a common end. Probably some of our work and business leaders will want to stress just such an appeal THE WORK AND BUSINESS PROJECT in their treatment of the project. If this thought predominates it will color the presentation of the material with a consequent minoring of the economic issue.
APPROXIMATELY 80% of the family buying is done by the housewife. Where the majority of the homemaker's time in a community is put to some economic use that is of greater service than it would be in the home probably the consumer approach to this project would be found more profitable. In such an event the program would probably include discussions as to how the public is protected in the buying of foodstuffs, trade-marks and their value and reliability, report of visits to the local laundries, discussion as to installment buying, inspection in the community, etc.
THE value of this project lies in the leeway which is allowed stakes in their interpretation of the survey and the adaptation of their program to meet community needs and conditions. One of the responsibilities of Relief Society is to teach mothers to help themselves and assume their tasks by fitting them in greater measure for those tasks. Mothers who desire to learn to sew or make good bread, if convinced that it pays, could be assisted on work and business day, or individual instruction could be given in the home. To those who have been making such contribution all their lives in their homes a new appreciation 515 should come to them at the realization of what their economic contribution alone has been. Judgment and imagination and the ability to enlist and interest the ward membership in the project will be needed but at very least our women at the end of the year will have faced and evaluated their own problems and will have come to an understanding of their own choice of life.
Articles and Bulletins Which Will Help in Furthering Project
Cost All About Laundering, Hamilton and Jeffryes, The Service Editor, McCalls, Dayton, Ohio..............30 Soaps and Cleansing Agents, Household Finance Corp., 919 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill............2 for .05 Circular No. 88—Bread Making in the Home, Elna Miller. Circular No. 480—Soap and Water Softeners, Ellen Agren. Circular No. 676—Home Made vs. Ready Made. All three obtainable from U. S. A. C. Extension Service, Logan, Utah. Selection of Cotton Fabrics F. B. No. 1449 .........................05 All three obtainable from Supt. Of Documents, Washington, D. C.
Magazine Articles American Home, January, 1934—"Is There Actual Economy in Doing the Family Wash at Home?" Della T. Lutes. Scribner's, Feb. 1937—"The New Woman Goes Home," by Mrs. Ralph Borsodi.