Notes to the Field
Theology Department
IN HIS "The Archeological Discoveries and Their Bearing Upon the New Testament" Dr. Camden M. Cobern says, "In the lifetime of our Lord there was a 'widespread habit of writing among all classes of the population,' and no doubt the leading facts were written down and circulated 'almost as soon as they took place'—though doubtless at first in fragmentary form—so that probably the first account of the death of Jesus 'must be presumed to be written in the year he died.' (Milligan). As soon as the converts became so many that the original apostles could not easily carry authoritative facts personally to all Christian communities, a need of records would be felt which, because of this general habit of note taking and writing, could be readily supplied." To the Latter-day Saints it is inconsistent and untenable to hold that Christ made no formal attempt to have records made of His teachings. When Lehi's sons were sent back to obtain the records, Nephi pointed out that it was necessary that they should obtain the plates in order that they might have "the words which have been spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets, which have been handed unto them by the spirit and power of God, since the world began, even down unto this present time." And when great difficulty was encountered in obtaining the record, Nephi was told that it is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief. Joseph Smith was admonished, "Behold there shall a record be kept among you."—D. And C. 21:1; and John Whitmer was appointed to keep Church records and history continually—D. And C. 47:3. Had a record of the Master's teachings not been kept, the loss would have been so great that no mortal can estimate it.
Literary Department
THE character of the Indian girl, Sacagawea, is a moot point. Many reviewers said the portrayal of the character of Sacagawea made her too simple, to ingenuous; said she should have been more enigmatical, a Mona Lisa among savages, far beyond her race and her times. I did not find her so. She was loyal, loving, sympathetic and brave; but many of the other Indians, both men and women, were the same. I found her virtues entirely the natural, innocent, virginal virtues of an unspoiled, noble young girl. She was a little vain, wanted to make a good appearance. She coveted sweets and rare tidbits, and secreted them with childish greed. She didn't take care of herself when she was sick; but she took good care of her baby. She admired the white men, recognizing their superiority; she wanted to be like them. An innocent virtue. When Clark was sick, she gave him the portion of spoiling white flour she was preserving to show her child when he was older; womanly, generous, kind-hearted. To me, she is a powerful proof that all the great, heroic, spiritual virtues have root in unspoiled nature. She was not a Mona Lisa; she was just a brave, big-hearted, good young woman. I feel it is only fair to call attention to the fact that up until very NOTES TO recently, it has been argued, rather brilliantly, that Sacagawea returned to her own tribe; never went to St. Louis; did not send her children down to Clark; and lived to a ripe old age and died on the reservation. Dr. Grace Hebard wrote a masterful book on that premise. But she gathered her material before the presentday sources were available. Now in the St. Louis historical society, they have the actual records where Clark paid for the schooling of the children; they have a copy of the letter Clark wrote to Charbonneau; they have the actual diary of Luttig, THE FIELD 517 the clerk at Fort Manuel where she died; as well as the words of the English traveler, Breckenridge, who was on the boat with her on that long and laborious trip up the river. And every date, and every word of description, tallies with other records. I examined all records with minute attention and was obliged to accept this version. And I am happy to say that almost without exception, the American historians and Historical Departments of the different States are in complete agreement with me."—Ethel Hueston. Letter to Prof. H. R. Merrill.