Answered (A True Story) By Fern J. B. Russon
A SLIM little lady with a halo of wavy gray hair and a shy, sweet face sat on the back row in the cozy Relief Society room. She always sat there, as her retiring nature demanded just such a place. She was an earnest member, and as a visiting teacher had many a day trudged through heat of sun and cold of snow and wind to carry comforting words into a bereaved home. Many a night she had stood faithfully near a weary mother, worn with anxious hours of waiting and watching over a sick child. Many a dish of hot wholesome food had she carried to the lonely old couple around the corner from her little home.
But she was so shy. Timidity always conquered when she felt an urge to arise and give voice to the testimony that lay deep and sincere in her heart. Timidity tied her tongue when she felt sure she knew the answer to a question or the proper solution of a problem in the lesson. Timidity nearly ruined her joy every time the idea struck her that the Sister in charge might call on her to offer the opening prayer. And if such a calamity passed her by, she would sit in fear until some one else had been called to pronounce the benediction. But as the years went by and her anxieties had proven groundless, she gained a slight degree of assurance that she needn't worry.
One day when she really didn't happen to be thinking about it, she was startled by the softly spoken words, "Sister Silver, will you offer the opening prayer for us, please?"
She sat for an instant, stupefied. Then, quickly sensing the silence hanging on her response, she said slowly and in a low tone, "I'd rather not. I'm sorry."
SOME one else answered the repeated request and nothing was said about the refusal. Apparently, it was only what almost anyone there would expect from shy, sweet Sister Silver. But down in the heart of the little lady in the back row, there was turmoil, chilling her, reproving her.
"Anna May Silver, why did you do that?" chided a voice within her. "Where is your testimony? What has become of your faith?the faith left to you as a heritage from your pioneer parents and strengthened by your activities in this organization? Really, you ought to be ashamed."
And she was ashamed. "You ought to arise and apologize before this group," continued her prompter, "and tell your President she didn't deserve that answer from you."
These darts and more pricked her soul. She looked sorrowfully at her leader, then bent her head and rested her eyes on the cold, thin hands in her lap. She prayed a deep, silent prayer, "Lord in Heaven, forgive my weakness and my refusal. Truly, Lord, I repent and plead for Thy help in this my hour of great need."
PRESENTLY conscience, whose stern voice first aroused her, was silent. Only Faith and Courage came to meet her and each took one ANSWERED of Anna May's hands in her own warm ones. Faith looked firmly into her eyes and said, "Your mother bent low in sorrow over the new-made grave of her first-born somewhere out there amid the stones and the storms of Wyoming. She offered a prayer, 'Lord, I do thank thee for the sweetness this little one has brought into my life. And now wilt Thou watch over his grave and keep his spirit safe with Thee? I thank Thee for the other child given to me and for others that may yet be given. Help me, Lord, to ever praise Thy wisdom and trust in Thy kindness.'"
Courage said, "Anna May, your father and his companions faced a band of howling hideous savages to protect the homes where you and dozens of other helpless infants slept, and by the magic of their daring and strength, turned their enemies back on their course and sent them fleeing in terror."
Anna May thought, "And I can stand before my Sisters and give thanks for my blessings and theirs," and a new feeling of strength filled her being.
WHEN she emerged from her introspection, she found the President looking at her with kind, understanding eyes that bore no trace of rebuke and that saw in her face traces of a new emotion she had never before noticed. And now, miracle of miracles, Anna May knew she wanted to pray. She actually wished the President would ask her again. But how was 547 the President to know? She couldn't ask for the privilege could she? But she turned a hopeful glance toward her leader.
Only parts of the lesson here and there did Anna May grasp as she glanced up more often from her lap. And only a thought now and again did the President gather as her eyes wandered increasingly often in Sister Silver's direction. No one noticed the silent little drama being enacted during the peaceful progress of the meeting. No one knew that in the heart of the one there was deep, sincere repentance and a yearning for another chance. And no one knew that in the heart of the other there was simple, divine inspiration that bade her overlook the refusal and read the message written on the pale face in the back row.
At length the lesson ended. It had been beautiful; but not less beautiful was the spirit that had turned a timid refusal into a desire to be asked to pray. The closing song "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire" was sung by the Sisters. Then the President said, "Sister Silver, will you offer the benediction, please?"
The words that fell from Sister Silver's lips in humility and fear, were laden with gratitude, sincerity, and strength. And while some wondered?and still wonder?others realized the battle that had been fought and won in the heart of the little lady in the back of the room.