(To be continued) Music Department ESSENTIALS OF GOOD CHORAL DIRECTING IN THE CHURCH SERVICE A Talk Delivered to the Choristers' and Organists' Section of the Relief Society during the April Conference b y Lorin F. Wheelwright, Supervisor of Music, Salt Lake City Public Schools NE splendid quality of the Relief Society and one that is - not often mentioned is its excellent influence on the young people of the Church who as babes in arms accompany their mothers to the weekly Tuesday meetings. I could never claim an active membership in the Relief Society but I can claim a regular attendance for a period of five years. Having a mother who has been on the Mt. Ogden Stake Board during the past seventeen years, I think I can still claim an honorary membership. Through this close contact I know how zealously the members of your organization attack the vital problems of life. I wish to speak today on one of these problems, namely, the development of spirituality through worshipful music; and I wish to concentrate on the function of the choral director in the church service. There are four points I would like to develop. The first one is this: the Church wishes for worship IN music but not for worship OF music. This means that our first object is the worship of God. Therefore the mere beauty of a piece of music does not justify its use. It must be appropriate. An art song, such as "I Love You Truly" is undoubtedly a beautiful piece of music but it could hardly be classed as worshipful music. The following questions might be asked in regard to any church service to aid in the selection of appropriate music. A. What is the dominant theme of the meeting? The theme may vary considerably from the various topics of the literary lessons which might call for music employing the writings of certain authors to more highly religious themes dealing with theology. B. Do the hymns, solos, and choruses appropriately fit the main theme? If the service is the Tuesday Re- MUSIC DEPARTMENT lief Society meeting and the lesson theme concerns the home, it is quite obvious that the music should concern the home. However, a mere subject appeal is not sufficient. The music in text and melody should engender the spirit of warmth and congeniality characteristic of the L. D. S. Home. This is best achieved through music which does not emphasize the love motive ordinarily. Characteristic of the secular love song, but rather such a selection as "Love at Home," or "Our Mountain Home So Dear." Both of these songs possess the beauty of music and text which might express the 'dominant theme. C. Is the sequence of selections arranged according to a_ sensible plan? Every program should have some form of organization. It might be the development of mood, or the development of a chronology, or the development of associated topics. Whatever plan best fits the theme should be followed in the musical selections as well as in the talks and the discussions. A very humorous example of an incongruity of the various parts of the service is this one given by Mr. Gehrkens in his book, 'Essentials of Conducting" (published by Oliver Ditson Company). 'During the first year of the great war a choir had just finished an anthem written by an English composer as a prayer for peace, the concluding strains being sung to the words, 'Give peace, O God, Give peace again. Amen!' As the choir sat down after an effective rendition there was a hush in the congregation showing that the message of the music had gone home to the hearers, but a moment later the spell was broken as the speaker arose and in a stentorian voice proclaimed the text of the day, 'For I come not 499 to bring peace unto the world but a sword,' " d. Are the selections to be sung or played of such a character that they may be sincerely expressed? A careful reading of the text by the director in advance of the meeting will often be sufficient to eliminate the cheap and the trivial. If it is too silly to be spoken, why sing it? If the text has fine literary value and the musical setting is appropriate, singing can enhance its effectiveness. The second point I wish to emphasize is this, a musical organization will advance just as far as the leader can take it and no further. It has often been demonstrated in the na-- tional band and orchestra contests that the finest organizations usually come from the least expected sources. Invariably the superiority of the organization can be traced to the superior leadership rather than to superior talent. The chief characteristics of this leadership may be expressed in four qualities as follows: a. Scholarly approach to the problems of musicianship, which implies that the director is always primarily a student of good music. B. Confidence in one's own ability, which is. Usually evident in the directness of approach and the tenacity to fine standards. C. Clearness of speech and expression, which necessitates wellformulated ideas effectively spoken. D. A loving care for the thing being done—a quality that inspires supreme loyalty on the part of organizations. It is this aspect of devotion to beautiful music together with willing workers, which knits an organization into an effective whole. The third point I wish to mention is this: Worshipful music flourishes best when audience, conductor, and 500 organist are ready to pursue a joint enterprise. To accomplish this it is necessary that: a. The musical planned in advance. B. Books be in the hands of all those who are to sing. C. Numbers be announced distinctly and the verses to be sung be clearly stated. D. If interludes are to be used, the audience, conductor and organist should know ahead of time. E. The length and type of introduction should be determined. F. A key note should be clearly sounded before actual singing begins (the beginning phrase). G. The singing group should stand together. The fourth point and the most important one for the musical director is this: The effective conductor must be a musical craftsman who knows the tricks of his trade. The essential problem of good directing is one of communication. The musical conductor exists only for the purpose of exerting leadership in the execution of a musical enterprise and that enterprise in our particular case is the expression of choral music. In a sense the conductor's position embodies a generalship in which ideas must be conveyed from a central source to a participating body. The principal means of this communication is the use of gesture. It cannot in any sense be confined to baton technique. I would like to speak, therefore, on several phases of this communication which are essential to effective leadership. A. The posture of the conductor must express alertness and purpose. He must be "on his toes" in the sense that he embodies a perfect example of good singing position. This means that one foot is probably slightly to the front, that his weight program be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is well balanced, that "'his ears are up" (straight spine, controlled diaphragm, head in line with body, avoiding any protrudance of the chin). - b. The facial expression should portray an inner feeling of readiness to act. During the actual singing the conductor's countenance should anticipate the changing moods of the music and suggest to the audience what is in store. C. Hands, arms and baton should be used with freedom and economy of movement. The preparatory beat is decisive; the indications of dynamics are consistent; the tempos are clearly defined; the holds and releases are definite; and the beats of the measure are indicated by a consistent pattern which always gives the first pulsation a decisive down stroke. Mannerisms, such as bending of knees, holding the baton crooked, beating time entirely on the right side of the body instead of the center, continual use of the left hand and angularity and monotony of beat pattern, must be religiously avoided. Every conductor should get before a full length mirror and study his own idiosyncrasies.- The finest way in the world to improve one's style oi directing is to '"'see yourself as others see you." d. The text should be memorized by the conductor, so that full attention can be given to an adequate interpretation of the words through appropriate gesture. Rarely should the conductor sing with the group because he can listen more carefully and guide the performance better when his attention is not placed in his own singing. Good conductors often appear to be singing when conducting a congregation because they "mouth" the words. In reality they are merely giving the cues for the text without vocalization. It is MUSIC DEPARTMENT extremely dangerous to sing while conducting special choruses because the director's whole attention must be focused on the response of his group and means for varying that response. We might summarize this discussion by the generalization that the best conductors are the ones who are easiest to follow, because they select music suitable to the occasion, they possess the personal qualities of superior leadership, they prepare all details in advance, and they communicate their ideas to the perform- 501 ing organization through significant and appropriate gestures. The reward of this kind of musical leadership in worshipful music can best be expressed in the words of Longfellow's poem "The Arrow and the Song." Note: Any choral directors who desire help in selecting anthems and choruses should contact the Church Music Committee, 50 North Main Street, Salt Lake City. Carefully graded lists of effective materials are now available.