Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? VACATIONS TAKE TIME FOR REST By Lella Marler Hoggan
"After the turmoil of the day God sends the quiet, kindly night." —Selected.
IN THE beginning it was divinely arranged that night should follow day; that a rest period, a holy Sabbath, should come after consecutive days of toil. There is a rhythm, a vibration in everything in nature, an ebb and flow, effort and relaxation, toil and rest, struggle and reward. Labor without cessation defeats its own purpose. Life demands time out, in which to rebuild and reanimate the weary body and to refresh the soul. Remaining too long in the quiet valley of uneventful days of toil does not promote growth. The spirit demands diversion, recreation.
NOW that man has taken life into his hands, as it were, and lightened labor and lengthened leisure, there is an ever increasing quantity of free time to be programmed. With fewer work obligations and more free hours, the problem of giving direction to our leisure time activities demands serious consideration. If free time becomes empty time the very purpose of leisure is defeated. Hours of unemployment are an opportunity for creative effort, education, self-realization; a time for meditation and prayer, a time to cultivate the soul. Our lives are seldom a materialization of our ideals. Shifted about like pawns on a chess board, we fail to realize our most cherished aspirations. The accomplishment of lifelong desires is postponed from year 512 to year, until the vision of hope becomes dimmed or outgrown. Are we not going to awaken some fine morning shocked and disappointed because of unfulfilled promises, frustrated plans, broken dreams? Why should we continue to surrender to the caprice of fate the realization of our highest hopes?
THE visions that come to us are but prophecies of our ability to make them realities. Why not demand a settlement with ourselves this very year? When our vacation season is over we want more than a record of wasted empty hours. Let us see to it that our free time this season yields something of joy, of beauty, of growth, the beginning of some accomplishment that will satisfy the far cry of the soul. Let us take out of our vacation some genuine, lovely thing that will enrich life. That will bring joy and inspiration to the heart. If our vacation is limited to a day in the canyon or an afternoon in the park, we still need not surrender our hope of some fine accomplishment. Many beautiful experiences can come out of one's own backyard. A few days or a few weeks of time can be set apart as a rest period, and plans can be made for a vacation at home. The summer hours from dawn until the stir of the day's activities begin, are most delightful hours. And with a little previous planning it is remarkable what can be achieved in the quiet early morning. There are little rests all along the way of life, quiet moments of relaxation that may be used in any number of delightful ways. The use to which one puts these unemployed moments is the governing factor in his development and promotion. In the utilization of leisure one must RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not fail to take time to rest, to relax, to recreate the inner life.
THE person who indulges a hobby needs no suggestions as to how he shall spend his leisure, for most of his free time is directed toward the perfection of the activity that glorifies and shapes his life. Effort spent in the pursuit of a hobby is not toil, for it refreshes and recreates one, body and soul. No better leisure activity could be found, providing the hobby satisfies some inherent urge. When it does that, the participant finds purest joy in the execution of any labor it may necessitate. He puts into it his best effort and highest inspiration. And he takes out of it joy and satisfaction. And in the end it often amounts to some fine achievement, some worthy contribution to humanity.
LIFE demands solitude. We need time for meditation and prayer if we would develop our spirituality. Have you not felt the nearness of the Divine when you have stood alone under the stars in the silent night? And have you not sensed an unseen presence in a sheltered nook in some deep canyon as you listened to falling water in the distance or to a soft wind whispering through the leaves? Should we not take time to cultivate our finer sensibilities, to put ourselves "in tune with the Infinite"?
LET us make the most of our free time, and deliberately plan to cultivate all that is best within us, "to meet leisure time," as Jay B. Nash urges, "with a supreme personal enthusiasm." Let us lift ourselves on the wings of the morning to the greatest heights we are able to ascend, and demand of our hours of leisure that they yield something significant and beautiful, something that satisfies the soul.