The Life and Letters of John Galsworthy By Lais V. Hales hours of January 3ist, 1933, England and the world experienced a great loss. John Galsworthy, who on Nov. 10th, 1932, had been awarded the Nobel Prize for literature, passed quietly and unknowingly away at his beloved home, Grove Lodge, England. Memorial Service was held on February 9th in Westminster Abbey and on March 28th, at the top of Bury Hill, far. From the road, his ashes were scattered upon the sunbaked turf near the gorse-fragrant hedge, according to his bidding in his poem, Scatter My Ashes! YEARS ago in the early ALSWORTHY lived richly in his sixty-five years. In surroundings, of which the keynotes were health, beauty, and sanity, he spent a pleasant, wholesome, and unspectacular boyhood. He early made himself short-sighted by too much reading. In school he was nicknamed "Peace" because of his reserve and pleasant aloofness. His father was his idol. Ill health of his mother deprived him of her companionship but he wrote many tender, charming letters to her while away at school. "I loved my mother; she loved me," he has recorded in his diary. DURING his few brief years at Oxford his fondness for wandering about at night in the poorer districts, listening to the conversations of the poor, was the first inkling that he was no ordinary boy. I suppose he was even then gathering material for his knowledge of mankind. In 1890, to get away from 'the gift of writing. An unfortunate love affair he sailed for Africa. It was on this eventful voyage that he met Joseph Conrad. A lifelong friendship resulted. In one of his letters, about this time, Galsworthy writes: ''I do wish I had I think that is the nicest way of making money, only it isn't really the writing so much as the thoughts that one wants. What is a good thing to quicken the sympathies?" An incident which was to quicken, more than any other event in his life, his sympathies, took place on the last day of April, 1891, when his first cousin, Arthur, married Ada Cooper. This marriage was a tragic mistake. Blameless and helpless she lived in extreme unhappiness. First through chivalry and compassion Galsworthy was attracted to her. In 1895 she said to him: "Why don't you write? You're just the person." By this and other steps they were drawn together. Not until 1905 did Ada and Galsworthy marry. Those years between were frightful to them both. It was a love which tried Galsworthy as in a fire, and yet yielded him the greatest happiness that man can know; a love which was the shaping and the making of his life. Galsworthy learned at first hand the frightfulness of a loveless marriage. Those years left an indelible mark upon his life. No wonder that so much of his work deals with love, marriage, tenderness, companionship. Never did two people love each other more, nor with better cause. Their communion endured unshaken to the end. At one time he wrote—"I am probably the most happily married man in Eng- 492 land." His Forsyte Saga, which is a study of love at its best and worst, he dedicated to his wife—'the dearest and most lovely companion." Ada Galsworthy, by her share in them "halved his sorrows and redoubled his joys." FoR eleven years Galsworthy wrote and made not one penny. Those were years of reflection, meditation, searching of heart and mind, unbroken aspiration. Then in 1906 appeared that most beautiful book, The Man of Property (the beginning of The Forsyte Saga). It had taken him three years to write it. With it his name was made and his income commenced. Written here, there, everywhere, the most scattered of his books, it is his most poignant one. In answer to a woman who questioned him as to his object in writing, he wrote—"My object is only that of expressing my philosophy and my philosophy is merely a belief that if we all understood and tolerated each other a little more than we do the world would be a happier place to live in." During the next six years Galsworthy wrote plays, novels, poetry, short stories, always with this object back of them. IN 1912 he and Ada visited the United States. New York City and the Grand Canyon they appreciated. With the lengthening of their visit here they failed to sail, as they had intended, on the Titanic on its fatal voyage. They returned in 1919. Galsworthy lectured very successfully realizing a profit of $4000. This he handed over gracefully to his publishers—Scribners — for Armenian and Syrian relief. Again in 1931, for the last time, they visited here. It was after this last visit that Galsworthy wrote to a friend—"I never feel happy lecturing." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DURING the years of the World War Galsworthy suffered deeply. His fertile imagination magnified his suffering. Even before the war he had made it a rule to live on half of his salary and give the rest away. But from nothing published during the war did he personally profit one penny; it was all given away among an amazingly wide array of charities. The war, spun out, constant writing, the heavy administrative responsibility of the P. E. N. Club made of John Galsworthy a tired man at the beginning of the year 1921. He said he was tired. The sands were running out. 1922 found him a "best-seller." He had written his most beautiful short story, The Appletree, and was ready to start on his End of the Chapter. He was corresponding with Thomas Hardy, John Masefield, G. B. Shaw, Conrad, and often _ enjoying their presence in his beloved home. For him "home life was in the true sense a private matter; and so comparatively few knew more of him than that he had perfect manners and a kind heart. Many thought him a cold creature. For it was only with a few intimates that the essential warmth of Galsworthy's nature shone through his gravity, that the tender, almost caressing quality of his affection was made manifest." By 1926 he was lecturing too much for the good of his health. By 1927 honors were coming to him with great frequency. H. V. Marrot in his book on Galsworthy quotes from a letter of Granville Barker's written to Galsworthy, "No one wears honours with more unconscious grace than do you." THE next ten years Galsworthy spent reading, writing, playing tennis (in which he was far too great THE LIFE AND LETTERS an individualist ever to play doubles really well) horse-back riding, traveling, always giving generously of his time and money. He and Ada were particularly happy in assisting the numerous members of the Galsworthy clan. While Galsworthy wrote, Ada, "the scent and the colour and the shape of his life," would work among her flowers. She filled the highest function of all in bringing beauty into Galsworthy's life but she helped him in many other ways. For thirty years she was his secretary. Galsworthy's letters, kindly, encouraging, honest and interesting pay many tributes to Ada. In one he writes—'I think of her sometimes as a piece of rare silk, with a bloom on it as delicate as that on grapes, but which you can't rub off."" Yes— the years between 1922-1932 were happy ideal years for them both. N November, 1932, Galsworthy received the Nobel Literature Prize. The Prize money—something over 9000 pounds—he made a Trust Fund for the benefit of the P. E. N. Club with its Centres in thirty-five different countries. About the same time he made his final living appearance before the public with his novel, Flowering Wilderness. After this the shadows began closing in fast about him. Slight ailments which he had long resolutely ignored began to appear more markedly. Then came the day when he remarked: "You had better look at me well now, because it's the last time you'll ever OF JOHN GALSWORTHY 493 see me quite well again." He was right. Everything seemed just a little more difficult to do. Gradually he became confined to his room and then to his bed. His nephew records: "Not one word or gesture of complaint did he ever show through all the indignities of the sick room. He just looks, and looks, and looks." His last conscious contact with the world was to gently caress the sorrowful face of Ada. Of his death H. V. Marrot says: "One rebels at the thought that such a man, with so much yet to give, with so much service yet to do, should thus untimely be swept away, that one whose life of mercy more than most had deserved mercy at the hands of Life, should have died as he did. But he outlived neither his art nor his love. His last conscious moments were brightened and made sweet by his beloved Ada. Instead of protesting against Life let us find a source of pride in his career, and encouragement in his example. None that ever knew him can lose him from their hearts while they live: and, in the time that must come, when none are left who looked into his face, who heard his voice, who touched his hand, when this poor record is all that remains to conjure up the living man he was, his works —so like himself—will still endure to speak for him. Alike for us and for future generations there abides, a strength and a refreshment, the beauty that he made in all his writings as in all his life."