Ferdinand's Strategy By J. S. THE sun shone like brass in the little mesa and even the herd seemed to wilt in its hot glow. Scattered along the river edge and the hillside, they grazed with their big, mellow orbs half-shut. Ferd looked down at them from his post on the hillside. It was hard watching, these hot July days. Nothing less imperative than the strict discipline of his uncle's establishment could keep him awake and alert, as one must be, with some of the finest stock on the ranch under his supervision, and lawless Mexican cattle thieves about everywhere wanting only a chance to drive off a stray from the herd. Ferd prodded himself with this fact as he found himself nodding dangerously under the shade of the scrub-oak where he sat with his dog. Ferd gave an extra sharp glance around to see that none of the cattle were straying. They were all there, even to Black Moll, the pig, who disdaining the society of her kind, devoted herself exclusively to the company of the cows as steadfastly as Touse, only that Touse was wont to run the wanderers down and bring them back, while Moll enjoyed straying as well as any of her bovine friends. HE story of Moll's eccentricity was the choicest bit of history going about the ranch. In trying to get some corn that had fallen through cracks in the corn-crib under the barn, she had managed to wriggle through the hole made by two broken boards, and finding food plentiful, had been in no hurry to extricate herself from her retreat, though the ranch hands had tried in every way to induce her to move. With the water, which was shoved under the barn daily, providing against suffering in this way, she lived under the barn for two weeks; when one day she suddenly appeared, having almost broken her back in her attempt to get out. Exile had changed Moll materially; for when she came back, she displayed a lofty and grunting contempt for her companion-pigs, keeping exclusively to the society of the cows. There were a pair of dun-colored Jerseys to which she seemed particularly attached, and the spot where these chanced to be was a certain indication of Moll's whereabouts. Ferd saw the three now close together, near the outer line of cattle, and smiled as he thought of Moll's queer partiality. But how hot it looked down there in the valley! The glaring sunlight seemed to scorch the grass. Ferd put his hand over his eyes to shut out the glare as he stretched himself out in the shade of the tree. FERD opened his eyes with a start. Touse was down by the river edge scampering after the cows that were making for a bridge down the stream. Ferd roused himself with an effort and with sleepy eyes watched the dog round them in. It did not take long and as Touse raced in with the strays, Ferd, who was just beginning to realize how low the sun was, stood up and began hurriedly to count the herd. When 506 he had finished he went over it all once more. Thirty-three—there was no mistake, and before he had closed his eyes the thirty-five were all in the valley. He got up on a big boulder and looked around. Apart from the herd there was no sign of an animal anywhere in sight. He went to where his pony was tethered at the foot of the slope, and mounting her, rode swiftly around the spur of hills that cut off the view of the lower valley. His new vantage gave him command of a stretch of level plain for at least two miles on either hand, and in that area no sign of the cows was visible. Ferd's heart sank as he thought of the home-going. What would his uncle say when he knew that he had slept at his post? He could guess beforehand the stern look that would come into his face—and who could tell that it might not result in his being sent back home in disgrace? Ferd shuddered as he thought of it. Affairs at home had been bad enough before his mother's death: but with her restraining influence removed, his stepfather had made their place a reproach to the locality; and when, a month since, Uncle Jake Perly rode over from his ranch in the next county and offered Ferd a home, the change was a comparative paradise. Ferd's instincts were of the better sort, and his uncle's household, though ruled with stern discipline, was a haven of righteousness after Pete Rider's lawless one. There were no idlers permitted at his uncle's ranch, and Ferd was given charge of the herd through the day.