Uncle Jake had already suffered considerable loss through the carelessness of his hired herdboys, and in entrusting Ferd with the charge of the cattle, he had impressed upon him a clear sense of his responsibility. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It was with sorrowful heart that Ferd reflected upon the possible outcome of his mid-day sleep. If the cows were stolen, it would mean total loss, for it was not easy to gain possession of cattle that had been rebranded. If there were only some one here to go in search of them at once it might not be too late to save them! He looked back longingly in the direction of the ranch. If only one of the hired men would appear! But there was no one in sight in that direction, though a horseman had just turned the bend the other way and was coming toward him. It was Joe Riley, a boy who sometimes worked for Ferd's uncle, and Ferd hailed him with eagerness. "Have you got anything special to do, Joe?" "No. I've been trying herding over at Rugby's, but they were too tough for me and I left." Ferd told him about the strays. "Won't you stay with the herd till I take a look around? I can't bear 'the thought of going back without them." "I don't wonder," said Joe with asmile. "I wouldn't face your uncle with the news for fifty dollars, if I'd been to blame. By the way, I wonder if the animals Sam Smith told me about could have been yours. He passed our place awhile ago and asked me if we'd lost any stock. Said he'd seen two cows and a black pig makin' tracks towards the top of Hyde's hill as fast as their legs could carry them." "Black Moll and the Jerseys!" exclaimed Ferd. He had not had time to notice which of the cows were gone—or that Black Moll was not among those left, but Joe's story left him no doubt as to the identity of the strays. "You'd better get on your horse and go after them as quick as you FERDINAND'S STRATEGY can," said Joe. "I’ll stay with the herd till you get back, and if you don't catch up with them before sundown I'll drive the rest home." FERD hurriedly proceeded to act upon this advice, and as he turned to gallop away he called out, "Tell uncle I shan't come back till I can bring them with me, Joe." Hyde's hill was only two miles to the north. With Bess at her best, it did not take long to reach the spot, and spurring the mare up to the easy ascent, Ferd passed the crest and looked eagerly around. He could see no sign of the strays, and as the valley below was broken by big clumps of timber, he was afraid his search was to be difficult. Riding down the hill he left the road and rounded the nearest stretch of trees, hoping to gain a glimpse of them beyond, but without avail. In the clearing, a short way ahead, he espied a house, and rode up to the door. An old man answered his knock and Ferd hastened to put his question. "Jerseys?" he repeated. "Why I saw two Jerseys and a black pig about an hour back skirting along them trees the other side of the road. They were druv by a man a-horseback; looked like one o' the Rugby gang, but I couldn't make out for sure because o' distance and the sun bein' in my eyes. If the Rugbys have got hold of 'em you might's well go back home." "Where is Rugby's place?" asked Ferd with sinking heart. “It's about five miles northwest o' here; you keep the road till you're clear o' the next strip o'woods and then take the one that turns west." Ferd touched Bess lightly with his spurs and galloped away. It was nearly sundown, and there was no time to lose. It was in fact just as 507 the sun sank from sight below the hills that he came in sight of Rugby's ranch, which was known as _ the haunt and refuge of outlaws throughout the country. IN his ride to the ranch Ferd had mentally formulated a daring plan. He knew Rugby's by reputation well enough to guess that if the strays had fallen into their hands, he could not hope to regain them except by strategy. His uncle had suffered once before through their trickery; and though the clue given him by the old man was indefinite, it was the best and only one he could act upon. Riding boldly through the gates, which were still unfastened, he spoke to a couple of men who were washing their hands and faces at a pump in the back yard. "Is Joe Rugby here?" he asked. "I'm Joe Rugby," answered the elder of the two, eyeing Ferd as he wiped his hands on the rough towel. ~ "I'm Pete Rider's step-son,"" volunteered Ferd, his knowledge of some of his step-father's dealings with the Rugbys making him use his name with assurance. "You're all right then," the man answered with tardy cordiality. "Pete Rider's all right, and I'll be glad to hear what word he has sent." "I wanted a change, and I've come to see if you'd take me on the herd," said Ferd. "I heard you was without a boy, and thought maybe you'd give the job to me." "You're right about our wantin' one, and if you think you're fit for the job I don't see why you shouldn't have it." "I've herded nearly ever since I can remember," said Ferd confidently. "Well, I guess if you can suit Pete Rider you'll suit us," said Jake with 508 a meaning laugh. 'Did you come purposin' to stay tonight?" "Yes," said Ferd stoutly. "Had your supper?" Jake questioned. "No," Ferd answered. "I haven't had anything to eat since breakfast." "Well, I guess you're ready for a meal then? Tie your horse to the fence there and come in to supper." Ferd did as he was bidden and was led into the kitchen, where a half dozen men were already gathered at the supper table. Jake introduced him by stating Ferd's business, and after a few minutes' talk among them he was left to eat his meal in silence. After supper the rest of the men went down to the corral to do the milking, and after putting his horse in the stable, as Jake directed, Ferd eagerly followed them. Leaning over the low bars, he made a rapid but cautious inspection of the cattle in the inclosure. There were four or five Jerseys among them; the most of them duncolored, and having a general resemblance to the two strays. He did not dare go close to them for fear of awakening suspicion; and though he knew that they might be driven away through the night as a precaution in case of search being made for them, he was forced to go to bed at last, without having satisfied himself with any positiveness as to the strays being at Rugby's ranch. THE next morning he was up before five, helping with the milking; and as he sat with his head against the flank of a gentle white cow, a queer, crescent-shaped brand close up on the under side of her foreleg attracted his attention. He had heard his uncle tell how he had tried to trace a valuable brace of cows that he had lost three years RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE since, by that mark, but though a search had been made at Rugby's, who were generally suspected of the theft, no animals of the color ever were found at the ranch. Ferd guessed that they had driven the two cows off in the night and sold them; but here certainly was the same brand in the identical spot as described by his uncle; and it was not unlike the Rugbys to make a bold bluff and bring the cattle back into the vicinity. While he was busy surmising upon his chance discovery, scraps of conversation carried on between two of the men near him came to his ears. "Seems to me 'twas a big blunder to kill her so near home. The squealin' must o' been heard for miles around." "I didn't hear it," said the other. "You wouldn't hear a cannon fired in your ear, when you're asleep," laughed his companion. "All the same 'twas enough to rouse the dead." "What set Jake on killin' her?" "Had to—she made such a row tryin' to git to them cows. Squealed and fought like mad when we put her in the pen with the rest o' the pigs." Ferd's heart begun to beat furiously. What further proof needed he than this? There could be no doubt they were talking of "Black Moll" and if she were here, then too, were the cows, and if so, probably were of those he had seen in the corral last night. After breakfast Jake came to him with detailed instructions as to the cattle. "We don't want you to take 'em beyond ear-reach today," he said. "There may be people round here makin' trouble about strays, and if there is, just you blow three times FERDINAND'S STRATEGY on your whistle and we'll come and settle em. People round here seems to think we keep a free stray pound," he went on with pretended indignation, "and go through our herd for everything in the shape of animals they lose, the year round." Ferd drove the cattle out of the gates hardly able to conceal his joy, as he saw the five Jerseys among the others. The spot Jake designated took him in the direction of Hyde's Hill; and driving the cattle beyond the nearest stretch of timber, he selected a suitable place for pasturage. With the help of the dog they had sent out with him he succeeded in keeping them rounded in within "ear reach" of the ranch, as Jake had instructed him. But not within eye-reach. No sooner had the strip of woods shut him from view of the ranch, than Ferd dismounted, and fastening his horse nearby, proceeded to inspect the brands on the dun Jerseys. They were all cleverly executed, but Ferd was too familiar with the entire business not to detect the odor of the newly-singed hair on two of them, and the slight bungling that had let the iron slip short of the stem of the initial letter "P" that was to convert it into an "R." It had been indeed an easy chance for rebranding, as they had only to add the tail of the R to his uncle's initial, and add the "J" with the ring, to complete the Rugby brand. The newly scorched hair was Ferd's best proof, and so sure a one to him that he determined to lose no time in acting upon his conviction. He had already decided what to do. To attempt to drive the cows home would be madness, as they would probably miss him before half of the twelve miles could be covered with the slowmoving cows. The only way was to ride towards 509 home himself as swiftly as possible with his news, trusting to the chance of meeting some one who would bear his message while he could perhaps return to his charge and allay suspicion. His plans were to succeed even better than he had hoped. Keeping in the shadow of the spruce and pine trees that lined the slope of Hyde's Hill, he had just reached its crest when he saw riding up the opposite ascent, his uncle, with two of the farm hands, who were searching both for himself and the cattle. In a few words he told them of his strategy and the discoveries he had made, and acting upon his suggestion the three men waited till Ferd rode back to the herd to report conditions. In a few moments they saw Ferd's red handkerchief below waving them to come forward; and a short ride brought them in sight of the herd. It took but a short time to verify Ferd's discoveries. Henry Perly finding among the cattle not only the white cow which Ferd had by chance identified, but also the other valuable animal that had disappeared at the same time. Not wishing to dispose of the two valuable milch-cows, the Rugbys had boldly brought them back to their ranch, trusting to their usual luck, and the fact of the long time of their absence to guard against their being identified. It was no easy task driving the four cows back through the trees and underbrush to the top of the hill beyond sight of the Rugbys ranch, but they knew if they were once seen it would mean an onset by the entire gang at Rugby's who outnumbered them three to one. Previous encounters with them had satisfied the little party that discretion was the better part of valor, even with right distinctly on their 510 side. It was not yet noon when they arrived home safely with their property, and a telegram sent to the county seat brought the sheriff with a half dozen deputies to the ranch in two hours' time. It needed only the positive proof in Henry Perly's possession to give the sheriff a long-yearned-for chance of arresting the members of the Rugby outfit, and breaking up an establishment and organization that had been a menace to the county for many years. ON the day following the arrest, Perley called his nephew into the best room, a spot usually reserved for state and momentous occasions. "We have got to have a reckoning Ferdinand," said his uncle with one of his sternest expressions on his face. "You proved unfaithful to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the trust I placed in you, and I must punish you, however much I dislike the task. I have engaged Joe Riley to take charge of my cattle henceforth, and I am going to send you away." The swift tears started in Ferd's eyes. "Where can I go if I leave you, Uncle?" he asked chokingly. "You are to go to school in Denver for two years," said his uncle in a surprising matter of fact tone; "and after that to Annapolis University, if you prove yourself as smart in your examinations as you have in this Rugby business." Then his stern face relaxed into a kind smile; and though Ferd's tears flowed unrestrainedly at his sentence of banishment, it was for joy exclusively, and with no sense of shame.
SIDE BY SIDE By Linnie Fisher Robinson
We sit by the fire—we are bound, he and I, By a hundred small ties and by large ones a score; He reads in his paper—I read in the fire And travel when free to memory's shore.
He thinks I'm content to remain here as he, He doesn't suspect how I roam far and free With youth in my eyes and slender white hands And eager young feet for the questing of lands.
He looks up and turns and smiles real as life, And says, "I declare you look young tonight, wife." I nod and smile—he turns back to his paper And I travel on, now the journey is safer.
Oh, once I was young and did fret while men read And wondered how grandma could sit still as dead, With a sweet patient smile as content as could be; I never did guess—I never did see—
Did she travel, too, while grandpa was newsing? Perhaps—for he made the same speech Jim was using.