Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
SOME MORMON CONTRIBUTIONS TO AN UNDERSTANDING OF THE LIFE AND TEACHINGS OF CHRIST (Cont'd)
SUFFICIENT references are given in the body of the lesson as well as in the questions and problems. Those persons who have good library facilities may desire to extend their reading and to compare points of view as represented in the books listed in Lesson I. See introduction to previous lesson.
1. Did Christ Command Records to be Kept?
Many have held that Christ made no formal attempt to keep records of His discourses. It is pointed out that He merely wanted to establish a fellowship among men, that the formation of a church was not in His program. Hence, there would be no special need for the keeping of records. Moreover, the very retentive memories of Christ's disciples have been held responsible for the preservation of the incidents and teachings in the gospels. The gospels are supposed to have been written long after His death. The Modern Scriptures, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, make clear the fact that these conjectures are, in the main, only partly correct. The Book of Mormon records in some detail very valuable observations made by the Christ during His appearance to the Nephites. In 3 Nephi 23:8-11 the Savior criticises the Nephite records because they did not contain an account of the fulfilment of the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite, to the effect that many saints arose from the dead after Christ's resurrection. "And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written according as he commanded." (3 Nephi 23:13) We immediately ask ourselves why the Christ should be so careful to see that correct records were kept among the Nephites and not among His disciples in Palestine. Reason would seem to tell us that records were kept in the Palestinian Church. We are confirmed in this by revelations recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. One ought to study carefully sections seven and ninety-three in which reference is made to records kept by John. "And it shall come to pass, that if you are faithful you shall receive the fulness of the record of John." (Doctrine and Covenants 93:18) Neither ought we to forget that when the Christ preached His first great sermon to the Nephites, He delivered the main part of it substantially as it is given in the Sermon on the Mount. (Matthew 5, 6, 7) The extremely close likeness of the account in Matthew to that of the Nephite record (3 Nephi 12, 13, 14) is explainable to us only on the assumption that the first named account was written at or about the time the Sermon was delivered. Furthermore, it will be noted that Matthew's and Luke's (Luke 6:20-49) records of the Sermon differ in details. We believe that this was due to the fact that the latter is a second-hand account.
2. Was Paul the Author of the Sermon on Love?
The sermon on love found in I Corinthians 13 is LESSON DEPARTMENT generally admitted to be one of the choicest bits in all literature. But was Paul really the author of it? For many years the writer has pointed out that it is doubtful if Paul was. The reason for this judgment will be indicated directly. Some time between 400 A. D. And 421 A. D. Moroni, the last of the Nephite prophets, wrote some of the words of his father "which he spake concerning faith, hope, and charity." In the course of these teachings Mormon quotes words that are almost identical with those found in I Corinthians 13. (Carefully compare Moroni 7:45, 46 with I Corinthians 13:4-8). The similarity in these passages can not be accidental. Why does a Nephite prophet on this continent quote passages so nearly like those attributed to Paul? It seems to us there is a logical solution of this problem. It is, namely, that neither Paul nor Mormon were the authors of the passages in question. Both were quoting from a common author. And who was that author? Our suggestion is that Christ was the original author of the sermon, and that He delivered it both to the Jews and to the Nephites. Who would be a more likely author of such a sermon than the Savior of the world? The contribution of the Book of Mormon on this subject is of obvious importance and interest. What a rich mine this book will be to future generations of scholars!
3. The Savior's Use of the Scriptures.
An interesting book could be written with the above title. Here we shall only refer to certain instances of the Savior's use of scripture, that are of 523 special interest. The first reference that catches our attention is to the Book of Daniel. We shall refer to the Savior's sermon recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew as revised by the Prophet Joseph Smith and as published in the Pearl of Great Price. In verse 12 the Savior is recorded as saying, "When you, therefore, shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, then you shall stand in the holy place; whoso readeth let him understand." Another reference to Daniel in a somewhat different connection is given in verse 32. The interest of these references to Latter-day Saints lies in the fact that modern authorities generally agree that the book of Daniel was written about 165 B. C. If this date is correct, the book, in any instance, could not have been written by Daniel, the prophet. And if Daniel did not write it, why should the Savior make reference to him in such important matters as the coming destruction of Jerusalem and the destructions imminent to the Second Advent? From our point of view it is quite unlikely that the Christ was referring to any other than the Daniel of the Babylonian captivity who lived about 600 B. C. Most modern authorities also agree that the greater portion of the book of Isaiah was not written by that prophet. Particularly, chapters 40-66 are said not to come from him. But few chapters from 1-39 are attributed to him. It is interesting to note, however, that the Book of Mormon quotes extensively from different parts of Isaiah. The Savior quoted Isaiah to the Nephites with approval, including what are now disputed chapters. (cf. 3 Ne. 20:11, 12; 22; 23:1-3) We rather suspect that modern writers hack the book to pieces and deny that Isaiah wrote most of it because they do not sufficiently understand it. The message of the book as a whole is not clearly comprehended. 524 The Book of Ezekiel is another much misunderstood book. A modern author writing of Ezekiel says, "There is much in him that is fantastic, and much that is legalistic. His imaginations border sometimes on the mechanical.... The order and precision of the priestly mind are reflected in the unusually systematic arrangement of the book." Another writer says, "He is one of the few persons definitely pictured as a trance prophet. In his home, or in a council of elders, he suddenly goes off into acute psychic states which stimulate ideas and focus attention upon grave issues." How different the attitude taken by the Lord toward Ezekiel's "grotesque imaginations" and "legalistic" turn of mind! In a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith (Doctrine and Covenants 29:21) the Lord refers with approval to some of his "grotesque" and "legalistic" writings. The world may someday realize that Ezekiel was a real prophet and not a "priest," in the narrow sense now current. The people of the Church, generally, have not had their attention called to the fact that the Christ quoted and explained quite a considerable passage from the book of Micah, the prophet. The reader is invited to compare 3 Nephi 21:12-21 with Micah 5:8-15. It is significant to us and of great interest to know that our Lord singled out part of Micah's prophecy and applied it to the latter days. Micah was a great prophet. All the illustrations given above are indicative of the fact that the Church has some real contributions to make to the world in respect to the life and teachings of Christ. We ought to study and appreciate them more. Revelator. Covenants 93:6-18 and compare RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Questions
1. What interesting contributions to our knowledge, other than those brought out in the lesson, are given in the seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants?
2. What contribution does modern revelation make relative to Christ's teaching about the New Jerusalem?
3. Could you explain the teaching of Christ in John 14:12-27 without the help of a modern prophet? (See Parry?Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 21-23, or History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 380.)
4. Do you think Christ taught the doctrine of the three glories to His ancient disciples? Hint: Compare Doctrine and Covenants 76:70-89 with I Corinthians 15:40-42.
Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Find as many references as you can in our Modern Scriptures which show that God's people in all ages were record keepers.
2. Some claim that the record of the Christ found in the gospel of John was not written by John the Revelator. Examine Doctrine and Covenants 93:6-18 and compare John 1:1-32; John 21:21-23 and compare Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 7; I Nephi 14:20-27. Do you believe the Church has a contribution to make on this subject?
3. Interpret Micah 5:8-15. Hint: Compare the passage with 3 Nephi 21:12-21. It will be helpful to read the whole chapter in 3 Nephi.
4. Compare Moroni 10:9-17 with I Corinthians 12:8-11. How do you account for the similarities in the two records?
LESSON DEPARTMENT 525
Teacher's Topic
THE FIRMNESS OF JESUS
CHARACTER grows, we are all on the move. Some of the most beautiful miracles are the slow but steady remoldings of character. Let each man take the character of Jesus of Nazareth as a form for his own." "Be sure of the foundation of your life Know why you live as you do. Be ready to give a reason for it. Do not in such a matter as life Build on opinion or custom Or on what you guess is true; Make it a matter of certainty. Then be firm." ?Anonymous.
"Character is wrought out in the arrival of life When duty and desire are welded by the hammer strokes of will." ?Geo. H. Brimhall.
Firmness is a character trait no less desirable or praiseworthy than tenderness, gentleness or graciousness. "Gentleness of nature is not a virtue but a defect unless accompanied by tenacity of will. Sweetness is not enough to make a man useful and noble. Along with sweetness there must go strength and underneath the moods soft as velvet there must lie a resoluteness hard as steel." Sometimes the character trait of firmness is spoken of as "back bone" and again as "will power." Some one has said, "the Will is character in action." Firmness in character must be exercised under the guidance of intelligence; of effective thinking and sound judgment. Otherwise it becomes headstrongness, stubbornness, obstinacy. The willed character under the control of intelligent willing on the part of those who have learned how to think effectively, has given to the world its leaders. The behavior of an individual is powerfully influenced by the social group in which he moves. Firm must be the one who upholds his standards when they run counter to those of his associates. Firm must be he who would not walk in paths marked out by custom. The strongest and most independent often submit to customs against which the heart protests. The majority of people are not strong enough to be themselves but are echoes of their neighbors and walk in paths marked out by others. Great strength is required not to yield to the wishes and demands of people of influence. Only one of unusual firmness will not compromise principles to win the favor of the influential. The respect and good will of neighbors, friends, and loved ones is genuinely sweet but the purchase price of these should not be a sacrifice of principles. The world is ever calling for men of stability, men who stand firm. In Jesus of Nazareth we find firmness super-abundantly. Here was a man whom nobody swerved or dominated. He did not yield to the wishes and demands of a nation. His countrymen had formed definite ideas of the Messiah. They wanted and expected him to be the "King of Kings." Jesus did not attempt to carry out the program on which the hearts of his countrymen were set. He stood firm "in choosing the road that led to supremacy by way of Gethsemane and Golgotha." He had the strength of will to perform his duty even though he had to disappoint the dearest wishes and expectations of his people. Jesus was the greatest of all re- 526 ligious leaders. He stood out firmly in defiance of certain teachings and ceremonies of the Jewish Church such as Sabbath observance, the use of the Temple, etc., until his nonconformity labeled him a blasphemer. He had abundant opportunity to win the favor of the influential of his day by compromising his principles. His steadfastness to them made for him enemies who finally crucified him. To turn a deaf ear to the entreaties of loving friends requires a firmness possessed by few. Jesus did this with Peter. "Jesus began to show unto Peter how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes; and be killed, and be raised again the third day. "Then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord, this shall not be unto thee." But he turned, and said unto Peter, "Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men." Jesus firmly resisted the importunities of his family. His mother's exhortation went unheeded in order to obey the call of his Father in Heaven. His experience in the temple when twelve years of age furnishes an illustration. Mary said to Jesus, "Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." And he said unto them, "How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Jesus was not only firm himself. He wanted all men to be firm and steadfast. Consider the quotation, "And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake; but he that shall endure to the end, the same shall be saved." All His promises and warnings to mankind remain unshaken and unchanged. Steadfastness in human character is admired by all. Individuals must learn to recognize bigness and importance, must develop worthy principles then be loyal to them against all persuasion. Lacking this we are unpredictable and poorly fitted for workaday service. No one can exercise will power for another. Each one must do that for himself. Never let it be said of you, "Anyone can talk him into anything," or "He is a good enough man, but so easily influenced."
References Character of Jesus?Jefferson. Mark 2:27. Matt. 21:12-16. Matt. 17:21-23. Luke 2:41-49. Matt. 10:22.
Questions
1. Compare obstinacy with firmness and give examples of each.
2. What present day conditions require firmness on the part of Latter-day Saints in upholding Church standards?
3. Why must Parental attitudes with regard to L. D. S. Standards be as firm as conduct?
4. Show why firmness of character is essential to success in life.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 527
Literature Lesson II
SACAGAWEA
THREE boats constituted the fleet which carried the Lewis and Clark Expedition up the river. On the largest and best of the boats was the leather lodge which Sacagawea shared with her husband and the commanders. "Clark recorded the dramatic moment of their departure in his Journal. "Two Capts.,' he wrote. 'Three sergeants.' 'Two interpreters.' To complete the record he included a roster of the men. Of the original twenty-nine who started from St. Louis three were gone: Sergeant Floyd slept on his bluff above the river; Red and Newman had been sent to St. Louis in disgrace. LaPage had been recruited in Mandan in place of Newman and Charbonneau had been added; Charbonneau and Sacagawea. Sacagawea! Clark hesitated. He scratched his head. "'Charbonneau'," he said, 'spell your squaw's name for me. I want to put it in my Journal. Spell slowly'." But Clark almost gave up in despair after Charbonneau had pronounced and spelled it several times. "'I spelled it,' said Clark with considerable pride. 'It was not easy, but I did it. She's got a right to go in the record along with the rest of the party'." How much of a right to go into the record she was to have he was to learn over and over before the long journey was finished. She became somewhat important immediately by being able to add to their food supply from the native fruits and vegetables along the way. "Usually they stopped for the main meal of the day at 2 o'clock. Then while the cooks prepared food, Sacagawea wandered in the woods, searching for small grains and vegetables. She discovered wild artichokes, hidden in holes by mice for winter provender. She raided their nests prodding in the earth about small collections of dead wood with a sharp-forked stick until she had collected all she could carry, and was sufficiently rewarded by Clark's warm smile. "Janey, what an unexpected asset you are turning out to be!' he declared. 'I dare say in the end it will be you and no one else who keeps us from starving, saving our lives and our expedition'." "She flushed happily. Poor Sacagawea! If only she could understand the important words that went with the friendly smiles. She tried hard to pick up a little English, but it was not easy. Not only Charbonneau's imperfect knowledge made it hard, but the odd dialects of the men themselves?Scotch and Irish, rough frontier vernacular, Yankee, and pleasant Southern drawl." The journey must have been a delight to the little Indian woman. Ever so many new and wonderful things! Flour and sugar were wonderful to her. She asked the cook if she might have some of each to put away to show her little son when he grew up. Sacagawea often walked on shore with the Captains and especially with Clark whom she trusted most. They plied her with questions about her people and made an attempt to learn some of the Shoshoni language. " "When you see my people,' Sacagawea told them, 'tell them quickly that you are white men. Tab-ba-bo-ne. That is the word. Tab-ba- 528 bo-ne. White man. Tell them at once. For you are now burned black as the Indians, and no Indians come here except to fight and steal their horses and their women. Pull up your sleeves and show them your white skin, quickly and cry, 'Tab-ba-bo-ne!'" As the boats got farther up the yellow river, hardships increased, but Sacagawea was one of the staunchest and complained the least. To Charbonneau she was an abject slave waiting upon him, obeying his slightest wish. The Indian woman not only kept her own moccasins and clothing mended, but she mended those of her worthless husband as well as those of the party. Eager to do her share to make the expedition a success, with her boy on her back she ranged the banks of the river in search of foods that only the natives could find. ' Sacagawea's courage and resourcefulness were exhibited one day when a squall of wind nearly capsized the boat. The Captains were on shore and the boat so nearly sank that many precious articles would have been lost had not the Bird-Woman kept her seat in the back of the boat and gathered them in as they floated past. "'Janey, you are a good soldier!' they declared. 'You are a great mariner! How did you get all this stuff?' "'I picked it out of the river,' she said simply. 'As it went swimming by, I caught it with my hands. It is our Great Medicine. Our Great Medicine must not drown.' "Janey, you should be captain of our fleet?no, our admiral! You are a real hero! You have saved the expedition!'" After the party had landed and had eaten, the Captains said to each other: " "The squaw is a good woman. She is no coward?like some'." In the meantime, as they went along, the two Captains, Ordway, Whitehouse, and Gass were recording the incidents of the trip from which this book we are studying was made. Mrs. Heuston took those same journals with her and made the trip up the Missouri and down to the Ocean, just as they had done except, of course, she went in an automobile and not in the slow-moving boats. So impressed was Clark with the intelligence and loyalty of the Bird-Woman that "In mapping the tributaries of the Missouri, Clark suggested that they name a creek for Sacagawea in recognition of her resourcefulness and courage in salvaging their goods from the river. The voyagers went slowly toward their goal. The boats gave them trouble; the bears attacked them; a buffalo bull nearly wrecked their boat, but they kept on until at last they were beyond the trail ever made by any white man. And all the time the little Bird-Woman grew in favor. ' Hardships, poor food, and the care of her boy had their effect upon Sacagawea. She finally fell ill and came close to dying, to the sorrow of the entire party who waited upon her as best they could, the two Captains giving her every aid. Lewis prescribed, but Clark gave her the medicine. Whitehouse wrote in his book: "Our squaw is very sick and I am very sick myself." The men of the party had been so fine, on the whole, that one day when they were near Great Falls, Montana, Clark said: " 'We could have combed the world and not found a finer crew....' "'There is God's truth in those words,' Lewis replied. 'There must have been some divine influence > back of their selection'. LESSON DEPARTMENT The portage around the Great Falls was most difficult. Storms added to their peril and hardships. Clark, Sacagawea, Charbonneau and the baby came nearly being swept to their death by a flood, but the little Indian woman was as courageous during floods on land as she had been on the river and her husband about as worthless. Near this spot they celebrated July 4, 1805. It was only a few days later that Lewis noting the abstraction of Sacagawea, asked her if she were ill. " 'This is the land of my people,' she said dreamily. 'I have been here. Many snows ago. My tribe comes here. The Three Forks is very close. We shall see my people soon'." They went on and soon came to "three noble rivers" which they christened the Gallatin, Madison and Jefferson, "the author of our enterprise." As soon as Clark, who had been sick, was able, they went on halting for dinner on that day on the exact spot where Sacagawea had been captured by the Minitarees. The men clustered about her following her from point to point, to hear her exciting tale afresh on the side of its occurrence." As the party went forward, Sacagawea became more and more agitated. Her meeting with her brother, Chief Camehwait is very cleverly told by our author. Sacagawea was so much perturbed that she was unable to continue as interpreter. Lewis, the fine gentleman that he was, seeing her agitation, postponed the council until she could converse with her brother and learn about her people. It was for this contact that the little Bird-Woman had been brought along. Had she not been with the party, it is doubtful if the Expedition could have succeeded. She 529 learned of the disaffection of her brother in time to tell Lewis who, through his diplomacy, won the chief's aid. While camped with her own people, Sacagawea was told by Lewis that White Bear, who had been her betrothed, still claimed her. The little woman, so long a slave, felt that there was nothing to do but to remain with her husband. However, Lewis once again revealed his sagacity and bought White Bear off, allowing Sacagawea to continue with them to the very edge of the great Ocean. After almost unbelievable hardships, the expedition finally got across the Rocky Mountains and on October 7, 1805, launched their improvised boats upon the Snake River and were off for the coast. At last the party came in sight of the great bay and later the ocean. They had made the trip in safety. Spending a miserable winter on the cold and rainy coast they set out upon the return journey the following spring. Many of the incidents of that winter, Mrs. Heuston has related with charm and a deep understanding of human nature. The closing paragraphs of chapter fifteen, beginning with "Going home!" might well be read in class. It was on a Sunday, March 23, 1805, that the little party, the Indian woman and her half-breed child among them, took to their boats for the long journey up the Columbia and back over the shining mountains. Poor little Indian slave of the lazy bad man! How surprised she would be to learn what has been written in many books about her! How surprised to know that thousands of white women are studying the incidents of her life gleaned from the things that "were written in the book. 530
Suggestions for Study
1. Trace the movements of the party from the Mandan towns to the mouth of the Columbia River. The map could well be brought into use again here.
2. Have members of the class, where more than one text is available, have passages of beauty ready to quote.
3. Picture as best you can Sacagawea's meeting with her brother.
4. Note that in the second paragraph of Chapter 13 the Lemhi River is mentioned. It might be well to have someone give a brief sketch of the Lemhi settlement in Idaho, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the first white settlement to be made in that state. It was made by the Mormons, Lemhi being a Book of Mormon name.
5. Picture Christmas 1805 as these people celebrated it at the mouth of the Columbia. Note Sacagawea's Christmas present to the "Red Head."
6. Evaluate Mrs. Heuston's story as literature. Has she succeeded well in presenting situations, characters, actions?
The quotations in this lesson from Star of the West, by Ethel Hueston, Copyright 1935, used by special permission of the publishers, The Bobbs-Merrill Company.
Social Service Lesson II
FREEDOM OF SPEECH
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXI.
FREEDOM of speech is one of the rights of an enlightened culture which people should respect and cherish as a privilege. In comparison to the history of man, free expression in society, both in its written and its verbal form, is of very recent date. Even the idea that each member of a country has the right to expect his government to protect his person and his property is a comparatively new acquisition to citizenship. Such a concept has developed gradually through the passing of the centuries in which government has slowly taken shape. And hundreds of years of struggle have been required to extend civil liberty to include such rights as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and fair trial for misdeeds. But, as with all desirable rights, the enjoyment of these privileges is attended by corresponding dangers and responsibilities. Personal liberty incurs the responsibility of obedience to law. Freedom of speech and of the press also necessitates very definite obligations. As always, the greater the amount of freedom and the number of privileges which a government grants to its people, the more sacred is the trust which has been vested in them, and the greater is the responsibility for respecting the trust. To contemporaries, the privilege of freedom of speech might seem old, but comparatively speaking, it is of recent date. The law is still new in its application, and even today, it is sometimes questioned. Because neither its meaning nor its obligation is very generally understood, the following purposes will be indicated in regard to the subject in this lesson: 1. To understand the meaning and privileges of freedom of speech. 2. To understand the limitations LESSON DEPARTMENT which should act as a restraint upon public utterance in order that the law may be exercised with caution. The expression "freedom of speech" will here include both its written and verbal aspects, or the freedom of the spoken word and that of the press. It means that a citizen has the right to speak for himself or an organization without restriction. The opinions which he expresses may harmonize with or directly oppose the established order. But in either case, according to the legal rights of the individual, the freedom to express himself may not be questioned. The early foundations of the Western nations was laid upon the struggle for civil and political rights. Those who settled the New World desired freedom to worship, to write, and to speak as they pleased. They also claimed the right to earn a living as they wished. Before the constitution of the United States was accepted those who drew up the document found it necessary to attach the Bill of Rights. This Bill included the specifically mentioned guarantees that no law could ever be passed which might limit the freedom of worship or abridge the right of free speech, free assembly, or the right of petition. Similar provisions have been incorporated in each state constitution as it has been drawn up. It is under such guarantees that street and public meetings for the preaching of the Latter-day Saint gospel and similar functions have been guaranteed. It is an understood fact in democracies that people do not belong to the government, but that the government belongs to the people. No problem can be solved in a representative nation without the fullest and freest discussion. Ideas and theories on practices of governments, " 531 economic policies, principles of worship, and the value of social customs always differ. But unrestrained discussion of such differences lends stability to the basic institutions which are under consideration. Naturally there is no escape from much that is neither wise nor provident. But although a subversive condition may gain ascendency from time to time, falsehood and unsound ideas usually become gradually sifted out and discarded once they are made plain to the public. Thus freedom of speech becomes a great asset to a nation. Freedom of speech also acts as a safety valve by which grievances find an escape through discussion. If they are justified, rectification may occur; if not, their folly may become plain. Freedom of discussion in regard to vexing problems on which there is great diversity of opinion also helps to clarify the spirit and logic of opposite points of view. Although the wisest course is not always taken, the discussion should help to point the way towards the achievement of what is desirable, or, at least, worth attempting as a measure of government. Oliver Wendell Holmes said: "The best test of the truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market." Even though these rights have been found very useful to both the government and to the governed, and although they are guaranteed by the organic law of the land, they have been repeatedly challenged. Although new conditions are constantly arising which call for interpretation, there are some elements in society which would suppress the freedom of speech. In times of national stress and disaster, laxness in moral standards produces a temporary breakdown in law enforcement. The right to free expression is then 532 restricted. For example: during the struggle between the forces of abolition and those of slavery that preceded the Civil War, the suppression of civil liberties occurred in many states. Among these suppressions was the curtailment of the freedom of speech. During labor controversies strikers have been repeatedly imprisoned and driven from their homes in spite of the constitutional guarantees of personal protection, property rights, and that of freedom of speech. Present disputes over new governmental forms and over the rights of laborers versus their employers are bringing the same rights into question. It is true that although some rights which are guaranteed by law have not always been protected, such rights are often spoken of as "sacred" by those who at times violate the guarantees. However, freedom of speech is a right which should be exercised with care. It is a tool or a weapon of defense to be used by individuals and organizations throughout the nation. But it has been used in the past, and it can be used during the present, so unwisely that it has created a reactionary force which has in turn resulted in greater restriction of freedom. When mob violence was used to drive the Mormons out of their successive settlements, with its culmination in Illinois and Missouri, the mob suffered, as did the country in general, in the reaction to the violence. The government restricted the right of freedom of speech to a large extent for some time after the persecution. Because the mob took upon itself the punishment of those whom its defendants wished to restrict, the whole country lost a portion of its right to free speech for some time. The loss was shown in the restrictions which were placed upon all people in the matter of exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pressing their honest religious convictions. It is well to realize that such possibilities exist in order to avoid them with due consideration for proper restraint. It is important that the privilege of freedom of speech should not be abused. It is unpardonable to exercise the right towards the destruction of liberty. Although freedom of speech is a fundamental law of the country, it should never be interpreted to justify a concerted attack upon government or upon any form of society. There is a limit that must be placed upon the freedom of speech. It shall not directly give rise to an unlawful act. The Supreme Court of the United States has clearly pointed out some of the limitations of this law as the following quotation illustrates: "That a state in the exercise of its police power may punish those who abuse this freedom by utterances inimical to the public welfare tending to incite crime, disturb the public peace, or endanger the foundations of organized government, and threaten its overthrow by unlawful means, is not open to question." United States Supreme Court, 268 U S 652. It is clear however that it is the use and not the abuse of free speech that should be emphasized. And because fanatics and demagogues frequently do wrongfully appeal to sympathy or resort to violence to gain their ends, the public should be on constant guard against their devices in the name of free speech. People must learn to recognize the natural and reasonable restrictions that really act as a safeguard to the law. Along this line of thought, Mr. M. C. Harrison in Censorship of Speech and the Press, by Berman, LESSON DEPARTMENT has suggested limitations somewhat as follows: 1. There is no excuse under the plea of free speech to one who directly or intentionally incites unlawful action. 2. All governments have the power to determine how near to, or how remote from immediate incitement to crime, the law will take cognizance of spoken words. 3. The extent of free speech, or better, the amount of social tolerance to minority opinions, depends directly upon the general sense of security within a country. In war times the margin of security is reduced. Since the public mind then becomes hysterical and apprehensive, a large degree of social tolerance and the so-called right to free speech disappears. For example, during the World War, any one who expressed sympathy for any belligerent was apt to be branded as an undesirable citizen. If the person was of foreign birth the social intolerance was extreme. Arrest or ejection from the country was often demanded. But in times of peace the same kind of remark is not subject to particular notice. During periods when communism, Anarchy, or other radical departures from accepted governmental forms are being widely discussed, the basic guides for restriction should be kept in mind. Although free discussion is lawful and may contribute to a wholesome philosophy of life, no one has the right to promote or encourage unlawful acts under the protection of the law. Just as mob violence weakened the principle of law observance and order in the United States, the Inquisition which was the persecution of protestants who were bold enough to express their religious views, prolonged the Dark Ages in earlier history. 533 When restriction originates in government itself, liberal citizenship is denied. For example: the once great religious leaders in Russia and Germany have disappeared. Loss of property and other dire consequences have also resulted. And when citizens do not respect the right of free speech, we have such dreadful occurrences as assassination of presidents. Two United States chief executives, Abraham Lincoln and William McKinley, have lost their lives because radicals have not granted those presidents the right to express their views according to law, and also because the radicals were unwilling to attempt the accomplishment of their purposes through the regular channels of discussion. Thus there is a happy medium to be sought. Both repression of the law of freedom of speech by a government and its abuse by the citizens result in periods of restriction to the exercise of the right. That group or organization which understands the meaning and privileges of freedom of speech has within its grasp a powerful means for the achievement of many desirable purposes. But where such priceless and hard-earned privileges are enjoyed, those who have the right to them should sense the obligations and limitations of such power. People should realize that freedom of speech should be used for the building up of institutions and for the improvement and intelligent advancement of mankind and never for destructive purposes or discord.
Activities
1. Prepare a report on the difficulties experienced by missionaries in teaching the gospel through street meetings. How much of the opposition has been due to the failure of 534 people to recognize the rights of free speech?
2. On all questions of social policy and change why is it a good thing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to allow an organized minority ample time to discuss its opinions before any legislative step is taken?
Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 2
JENNETTE EVANS McKAY
SISTER HUEFNER was a German, born in Wales. We have seen that she suffered no handicap in the Church by reason of this fact. Let us now pass in brief review the life of a Welsh-born girl, Jennette Evans, born August 28, 1850, near the town of Merthyr Tydfil. It was in May of that year that her parents and their older children became members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Thus Jennette was born in the Church. But in those days in Great Britain, as generally elsewhere, it took very much courage to join the unpopular Mormons. The Evans family exhibited this courage in high degree. For joining the Church her father was disinherited and cut off by his relatives. In order to join the body of the Church in America, he emigrated with his family in 1856, sacrificing a comfortable home and considerable other property, being able to sell them for only a small fraction of their value. But undaunted, the Evans family went to Liverpool and sailed for America. Profiting by the sad experiences of some who began the long, hard trek across the Plains from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley in the Rocky Mountains very poorly prepared, Brother Evans exhibited the good judgment characteristic of him by making a thorough preparation for this trying journey. On his way from Liverpool to Salt Lake he stayed three years in Iowa working hard to acquire a satisfactory equipment for crossing the Plains. This done, he and his family crossed in the Summer of 1859 and settled in Ogden, forty miles north of Salt Lake City. Jennette was six years old when she left her native land with her family, and nine when they arrived in Ogden. Of course, she grew up with a keen memory of the experiences of that long journey and wisely profited by the many lessons she learned. Her parents were industrious, thrifty people. Times in early-day Utah were hard and life simple. Nevertheless her parents believed in education for girls as well as for boys; hence their children were given the best advantages the crude schools of the times afforded. Being studious and a lover of books, Jennette avidly seized every educational opportunity. These opportunities existed in the home, in Church organizations, in social contacts with her friends, as well as in the school room. None of them was neglected. Thus Jennette grew up to be a well-trained LESSON DEPARTMENT and beautiful young woman, popular with all her associates. One young man had been watching her for years. Finally he ventured a proposal of marriage, was accepted, and so Jennette became Mrs. David McKay on April 9, 1867. After marriage they moved from Ogden to Huntsville, a village in a high mountain valley a few miles east of Ogden. This continued to be their home the remainder of their days, a very happy one, made so by the love, unity and faith of the husband, wife, and their devoted children. It was always an ideal Latter-day Saint home. It must be clearly understood, however, that such a home is not necessarily free from difficulties and trials. The McKay home had plenty of these. Brother McKay was a farmer and stockman. He took his beautiful young wife to live in a farm home, a small one at first, furnished with only bare necessities. And he was even in debt for these and the farm. But hard work, thrift and wise management gradually reduced the debt until after thirteen years the farm was debt free and happiness supreme now reigned in the home though deep sorrow had previously entered there. Death had taken their two eldest daughters within a week of each other. But now another trial came into this happy home, just made debt free. It was a call from the President of the Church for Brother McKay to go on a mission to Great Britain. How could this call be answered? Brother McKay was now out of debt, but he had no money to pay his way abroad and support his wife and her three young children (a fourth was expected) while he was away. So he said to her: "There can be no argument about my going now; 535 it is absolutely impossible for me to leave. I shall write explaining conditions and ask for a leave of one year." This seemed to be the only reasonable thing to do. Sister McKay replied: "And do you think there will be fewer obstacles to your leaving in one year than there are now?" His answer was: "Certainly, my dear! You will be well and strong again: without any more notes coming due, we could have a small savings account, and the farm could be rented so you would not have that to worry about." After some deliberation, to this statement she quietly answered: "I think it will be better for you to go now." Get the picture: a strong young Scotch husband (Brother McKay was born and spent his early years in Scotland) who almost worshipped his wife, so great was his love, now looked into her face fully convinced that it was impossible to leave her now in her delicate and their impoverished condition; to do so would mean that she would have to manage the farm and support him and the children while he was away. This task seemed to him insufferable, especially in view of her delicate condition. But so great was her confidence in the Lord that she felt all would be well; hence she insisted that he leave for his mission without delay. Argue and persuade as he did, he could not change her decision. At the moment she, too, could not see how she would be able to manage. Yet had not the call come from the Lord through His inspired servant? She could not doubt it. Hence certainly all would be well. In this crisis faith conquered, for it was supreme. A delicate woman exhibited herculean strength, and she was not later disappointed. Her husband left shortly for his 536 mission. Ways unexpectedly opened; kindly friends did what they could; the Lord was ever near, though not without some trials, the McKay family prospered through the capable management of Sister McKay. The Lord made her equal to every task. Her baby girl arrived safely; her eight-year-old son, David, and his younger brother Thomas, willingly did their bits. Accordingly, she was able to keep the boys in school, to execute the plans made with her husband before his call to a mission, to enlarge and furnish the house, and to provide him with needed means. On returning home her husband saw with astonishment the enlarged dwelling, the well-kept farm, and the healthy, happy family. During his absence his wife had written him little about their material affairs. As they knelt in family prayer that night, as was their custom, the husband poured out his heart in gratitude to the Lord for the faith of his wife, that sent him so promptly, on his mission, and for the many blessings they all received during his absence. Sister McKay was the mother of ten children, eight of whom still live. The quality of the mother is usually reflected in the children. "A tree is judged by its fruits." Those acquainted with the fine family she left need no further proof that Sister McKay was a high-grade woman. It is no surprise to learn that she encouraged her children to educate and make the most of themselves. All eight of them attended college, though this involved sacrifice and the strictest economy. To attend college they had to go away from home to other towns. Sister McKay loved refinement and culture; but she loved service even more. Her husband was Bishop RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of their Ward for twenty years. As a Bishop's wife she found ample opportunity to exercise her sympathetic and generous nature. She was always looking after the sick in the Ward and those in need of comfort and cheer. Her home was as open as a public hostelry for the entertainment of visitors to the Ward. All callers received a warm welcome and were made to feel at home. She never sought for office; yet all her life she was an officer and worker in one or another of the auxiliary organizations of her Ward. She was always a strong support to her husband and encouraged him in his Church duties in every way in her power. She did the same for her children. Her four sons all filled one or more missions. Two of her four daughters filled missions for the Church. Sister McKay died January 5, 1905. On this occasion the Salt Lake Tribune, the largest circulating newspaper in Utah, and at the time bitterly anti-Mormon, said of her: "Few women in Weber County were more widely known or more universally loved than Mrs. David McKay, and the announcement of her death has caused a gloom of sorrow not only throughout Ogden City and Weber County, but over the entire State."
Questions for Discussion
1. What reasons may be given for the statement that Jennette Evans' parents were religious people?
2. What reasons may be given for the statement that her father was a wise, capable man?
3. Give reasons for believing that Jennette Evans was refined in her tastes. LESSON DEPARTMENT
4. Point out why she was a good wife.
5. Show that she was a good mother.
6. Show the value of prayer in daily life.
7. Give instances to illustrate the value of faith as a guiding principle in her life.
8. Her two eldest sons are David O. McKay and Thomas E. McKay, 537 Second Counselor to President Grant and President of Ogden Stake, respectively. Why do you believe their mother must be given great credit for the fine achievements of these two sons?
9. Show that Sister McKay found joy in serving others.
10. Show that she was sympathetic and unselfish.
11. Give reasons for believing she did not seek office or public positions.
Child Guidance Lesson 2
WORK AND PLAY
PLAY accomplishes several valuable results in the life of the child. In the first place, it helps him to gain muscular strength and accurate control of his body. The muscular coordination of children who have been brought up on a carefully planned play program is distinctly more developed than in the case of children whose play activities have been limited. In addition to muscular coordination, play brings the child into contact with many objects and situations which enrich his sensory experience. Manipulation of materials also permits him to develop certain concepts which are necessary for successful adjustment in the physical world, for example, how to fit things together, how to pile objects so they will not fall, and knowledge of what various materials will withstand without tearing or breaking. Even more important as an outcome of play activity is the growth of self-feelings and other aspects of personality. The child learns the joy of feeling himself as the cause of a ball flying through the air, or of a castle of blocks taking form and being shattered with a sweep of the hand. To pull the string of a kite or to walk a tight rope or fence gives the child the same sense of control, and this is frequently the principal delight in various forms of play. It is the reason why children play. Play also helps to prepare the child for future life and gives vent to surplus energy; but the child plays for the sake of playing, because the activity is pleasant in its own right; and it is pleasant, because it gives growth to his ego or self. Play, then, is activity which the child enjoys for its own sake and which is free from external control or interference, and with no fixed goal in sight. Work, on the other hand, is controlled from the outside and is directed toward a goal other than the activity itself. This distinction has important applications for the parent. The child who is busy at constructing a wind mill is usually irritated when the observing "dad" comes along to tell how it ought to 538 be done. Instruction or direction from without promptly changes the task from play to work. It is not play unless the child can change his plans at will or abandon them completely if he cares to. If the child can be led to find for himself instructions on how to do the job, it still remains play. So long as no harm is being done, let the child find his own way while he plays: put opportunity in his way, but avoid directing what he shall do. In recent years, educators have clearly recognized the value of play in the growth of the child, but the parent should keep in mind that the work attitude and the play attitude are essentially different, in that play is free activity initiated and controlled by the child while work is controlled activity restricted by the task and directions Originating in someone other than the child himself. To attempt to "sugar coat" work and routine in order to get the child to do it, is a mistake. To entice him into thinking his routine is a game sometimes helps to get him to bed or to wash his hands before dinner; but as soon as the novelty wears off, the mother still has the task of building up the proper habits in relation to these tasks. Early in the life of the infant, the mother should begin to establish a routine which is quite rigid and which must be followed for its own sake. Thus, regular hours of sleeping, eating, and attendance at the toilet should be insisted upon in order to build up physiological or bodily rhythms which will later take care of themselves without fussing on the part of either child or mother. The infant does not need to know why these things must be done in order for them to become habits which will attend to themselves, or with a minimum of urging. This is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the work side of infant training. Play or free activity should not be emphasized to the neglect of this very essential part of the child's training. Later other chores may be assigned for regular attendance and built into habits that will to some extent become automatic also. Routine and chores have an important relationship to play. Later in the life of the child play is a release from control; but if there is no control through routine and chores, how can play have its full value? Work may be made a condition for play by such teaching as the following: "Now, Jimmy, let's hurry and put the play things away and see how quickly and well you can wash for dinner so you can get back to your play that much sooner." If regular routine as to meal time has been established, hunger sensations will be present at this moment and will make dinner look like a pleasant diversion from play. We are all familiar with how even chickens can be taught to be hungry at a regular feeding time. The freedom that comes from getting the routine "over with" so the child can do as he pleases again makes real play possible. Play life for the only child, or the child in a small apartment or dwelling, suffers frequently from the interference of the parents. Interruption of activities in progress for the child (or adult) is distinctly distasteful at best. When the parent persistently shouts for the child to be quiet, to go somewhere else, or not to play with the telephone or sewing machine, his play life is definitely hampered and he may even fall victim of a certain degree of the treacherous feeling that he is not wanted. What is really wrong in a home where this happens? The parents have not taken the child's need LESSON DEPARTMENT for play seriously enough and have not made proper provision for it. A special room for the child or children to play in is as important as any other room in the house. It should be constructed so that there is little danger of damage to the room or injury to the child, and when he is in his room he should be king. Places should be provided for putting away toys and play materials, and proper light, heat, and ventilation should be provided so that the room will be pleasant in every respect. A number of cheerful pictures are often valuable aids to this end. Since the child's need for play is as real as his need for food, he should be provided with ample materials suited to his stage of mental development. A number of guides to the play materials most suitable for various ages are now available, such as, "Play and Playthings," by Wolf and Boehm, (distributed by Child Study Association of America, 54 West 74th St., New York City). Plain blocks, large and small, brightly colored, are especially desirable for small children because they permit much building up and tearing down, and permit so many novel tasks the child can set for himself. At a later age, Tinker Toys and the mechanical building sets are perhaps the most desirable type of playthings as well as the least expensive in the long run. Wind-up toys are not usually to be recommended because they so often have sharp edges, their paints sometimes contain poisonous amounts of lead, and the springs usually break within a few days. Provide plenty of paper to cut up and mark with crayons and a small blackboard if possible, also picture books in abundance. Teach the child to make as many of his own toys as possible, for the enjoyment 539 of making them is often as great as in using them. A well planned play room will soon become the most favored haunt in the house, and it will save the work and trouble of having the play things all over the house. The child should be left as much alone in the play room as is consistent with safety and peace among the other children. Occasionally the mother should interfere to settle difficulties among the children and to see that the child follows his daily routine. She should see that the child has plenty of interesting materials at hand and sometimes even play with him to get him interested in some new activity, but in general she should leave him to himself as much as possible. Before two years of age, as we saw in the lesson on social development, the child takes little interest in cooperating with playmates. It is not necessary, therefore, to provide playmates before this age and the child should be taught to play alone rather than to depend too much upon people to provide his amusement. After two years, however, he does begin to take an interest in other children and will play first in pairs and later in larger groups. It is important to see that the child has playmates of suitable age after he is two years of age. His social development is greatly hindered when he has no opportunity to learn to share with others and to cooperate with them. Outside play is generally to be preferred to indoor because it is more healthful, and because it gives the child more opportunity for a wide range of activity. After about four years of age, children generally become interested in group games with progressively more complex tules. These games generally call 540 for plenty of room. Some parents make the mistake of putting the growth of a beautiful flower bed ahead of the development of the child. If possible a special yard of sufficient size should be provided for outdoor games. A certain amount of play apparatus can be constructed at a small cost and should be considered a necessity in any home building program. (For suggestions on economical out-door play materials see "The Child from One to Six," Publication No. 30, Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Labor.) Many parents say, "Yes, my child will play; but what can I do to make him work?" Children should probably be taught early in their lives that some things must be done other than tasks of their own choosing. Routine in infant care is a good preparation for work habits in later years. The task should be carefully chosen and should not tax the child's strength and sense of responsibility so much that he will be forced to fail. Choose first those things that you are sure he can and will do, then gradually build his sense of responsibility by more difficult tasks, taking special care always to avoid a breakdown in his willingness. Naturally the more interest the task holds, the more easily he can be motivated. Some chores about a home are simply too dull for the child to ever want to do them for their own sake, in which event the parent must look for ways to motivate him. An appeal can sometimes be made to his selffeelings by pointing out his value and usefulness to you. Everyone likes to feel that he is necessary to someone else. Expression of appreciation is often neglected by the parent, and naturally when the job is distasteful the child cannot be expected to do it cheerfully unless he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gets something out of it in the way of praise, sense of being useful, or some material reward. Sometimes he can be shown that everyone has to do things he or she does not like to do, and that mother herself often does tasks for the child because she is interested in him and that the child should do likewise. This is dangerous ground, however, because devotion to mother can easily be overworked as a motive, and the devotion roc the work are both likely to sufer. It is possible for a parent to cultivate in the child an extreme distaste for work by forcing him to do drudgery with no other incentive except that she tells him to do it. We should look from the child's point of view whenever we set a task for him to do and take care that we do not ask the impossible. This does not mean that we should bribe him into doing everything we ask, but it means that we should set up some kind of incentive whenever we ask a difficult task. Dr. Goddard, who has had much experience in the training of dull boys relates the following incident to illustrate how the ego feelings of the child can be used to lead him to do the work: "John... Is one of the farmer boys, he has been carefully trained and can plough and harrow and drive a team and do various other work when once it is planned out for him. One morning he came over to the stable and the farmer said to him, 'John, you can plough that field today,' but John was not feeling happy. Perhaps he had a bit of indigestion, or he had not slept well. He did not appear with his usual good nature, and as a consequence he replied to the farmer, 'Ain't goin' to plough that field today.' To which the farmer replied pleasantly, 'Not going to plough the field, what do LESSON DEPARTMENT you want todo?' 'Nothing.' 'Nothing? Well all right, do you want to go back to the cottage and rest today? 'I don't know, I don't know, I don't want to do nothing.' 'All right, John, you just do nothing today. You just have a good time doing nothing. I'll find somebody to plough the field and you can do nothing all day. Of course, I am sorry that you don't feel like ploughing the field, because while I can find somebody to plough it, there isn't anybody that can plough it quite so nicely as you can. And the farmer worked about, pretending to do something but in reality waiting for John. John could not withstand that little bit of flattery?any more than a normal person. The fact is, it made him happy and the moment he was happy the whole situation changed. After a few minutes he came along, perhaps rather sheepishly and said, 'Well, I guess I'll plough the field.' He got the thing that made him happy." (Goddard, H. H., Psychology of the Normal and Subnormal, pp. 324, 325.) Old and young alike need a balance between work and play. Mothers would have better mental health if they would give themselves up to play more often. If a sharp dis- 541 tinction is drawn between work and play in the home, a great step is taken toward eliminating dawdling, procrastination, and slovenliness. The habit of working while we work so that we can really play while we play is invaluable for old and young. Problems For Discussion 1. Show how play contributes to muscular, intellectual, and personality growth. 2. Why is excessive parental interference incompatible with real play? 3. Characterize the difficulties you would expect the child to meet on his first steady job as an adult when he has never done any chores or regular work at home. What difficulties in marriage would you expect a girl to meet when she has grown up under a mother who has always assumed all responsibility for the "chores"? 4. What is the effect on the child when the parents are too arbitrary in insisting that he do dull tasks without proper incentives? 5. What concrete measures can you take to improve the conditions in your home so that the children will have better play opportunities?