MRS. C. FOWLER WELLS.

	The many instances which the world af-
fords of women who have excelled in art,
science, literature and business, prove be-
yond the possibility of doubt, that clear
perceptions, masterly intellects and execu-
tive ability are not peculiarly masculine
qualities.
	The lady whose sketch is here given has
not only threaded her way successfully amid
the intricacies and difficulties of a new and 
undeveloped science, but has competed fa-
vorably with the best class of men in con-
ducting a large and complicated business.
	Mrs. Wells is the sister of O. S. and L.
N. Fowler, the distinguished phrenologists,
and is herself, one of the ablest exponents
of that science the age has yet produced.
	Had it been a chemical laboratory which
her brothers established, or anything bear-
ing the stamp of antiquity upon it, her taste
in building up from penury a successful
business would have been much lighter
than it has been with the much questioned
science.
	The Fowler brothers established their
Phrenological Cabinet in New York in 1835.
They opened a branch office in Philadelphia,
and commenced the publication of their
journal in that city in 1838.
	They gave their attention largely to the 
development of their new science and the
editing of their magazine; while the sub-
ject of this sketch, who joined them in 1837,
looked carefully after the details of the
business.
	In 1842 they removed to New York, the
senior partner coming in advance, leaving
only a young and inexperienced woman at
that time to attend to the shipment of goods
and the closing up of the details of busi-
ness in Philadelphia.
	On her arrival in New York she found
her brother seriously ill; and before he
could again attend to business their stereo-
type plates and many other things belong-
ing to their peculiar business were seized,
and would have been sold at auction; as
would also the copyrights, but for the pre-
sence of mind and business sagacity of their
feminine business manager, who averted
the calamity.
	A year later she had occasion to leave
New York for a few weeks, and on her re-
turn found their office placarded "to let."
Before night, she had the obnoxious placard
removed from the door, and papers made
out leasing the premises for five years.
Handbills were immediately printed and
distributed, announcing lectures every eve-
ning is the same building, with both public
and private examinations of heads; and at
the end of a week when they counted their
cash, they had two hundred dollars above
expenses.
	Four other times in the history of the 
business has the office been about to close,
when her business sagacity and quiet deter-
mination have averted the calamity, and
under her management, as is a well-known
fact, has finally been built up one of the 
most successful publishing houses of the 
city; there, being not more than six that
rival it, either in capital or the number and 
extent of their publications.
	At the beginning of the panic in 1873 the 
firm was wholly free from any business en-
tanglements; but of course no publishing
house could meet the financial disasters of
the last five years and not suffer loss. They
still occupy one of the handsomest stores
on Broadway and are entirely solvent.
These details of business have been en-
tered into with some minuteness to show
how woman's skill has, in thousands of in-

[Column 2]
stances, saved a waning business, and how
it might have done so in many more were
they not so effectually ruled out of business
departments by the domination of sex on
the one hand, and their own easy subjection
on the other.
	Mrs. Wells was born in Cohocton, N. Y.,
August 14, 1814, making her now in her
sixty-fifth year.
	The remarkable skill with which she has
carried youthful vigor clear across life's me-
ridian, and maintained both the mental and
physical strength of early life even to that
advanced period is a strong argument in fa-
vor of the hygienic system taught through 
their extensive library.
	Another practical demonstration of the
effect of correct habits is found in the fact
that Mrs. Wells was born of a consumptive
mother, wh[-] died of that lingering disease
when she was only five years of age. But
the introduction of the water cure treat-
ment, a thorough system of hygienic living
or some unknown cause; have averted the
usual consequences which are so apt to fol-
low in such cases; and not one of the Fowl-
er family have since died of consumption
or ever shown a symptom thereof. The
youngest members are now over forty, and
all are hale, hearty and youthful for their
years. Mrs. Wells says that she expects to 
live till she is ninety, in the enjoyment of 
all her faculties.
	At the age of thirty she was married to
Samuel R. Wells, who, the year following,
became a partne[-] in the firm. His atten-
tion was first attracted to phrenology by ob-
serving a chart that had been marked for a
friend by Charlotte Fowler.
	He sought out the lady, made her acquain-
ance, and from that time became a devoted
disciple of the new science.
	Her very happy domestic life, and sym-
metrical development of character, show
that it is not fatal to woman's happiness to
remain single a few years longer than they
are generally wont.
	The "Phrenological Journal" has been
from the beginning uncompromising in its
advocacy of woman's equality. For a num-
ber of years before the Seneca Falls Con-
vention in '48, it had ably and fearlessly
sought for woman's recognition, an equality
of rights in all things. From that time
till the prosent never has a volume appeared
which has not contained one or more special
article looking to the elevation and better
education of woman.
	Mrs. Wells was one of the original foun-
ders of the Woman's Homeopathic College
of New York, and for twelve years one of 
its trustees.
	While she has acted a conspicuous part
in all the public enterprises of the day af-
fecting woman's advancement, by far the
larger share of her benevolence has con-
sisted in private charities. It has been her
aim to truly benefit those whom she be-
lieved worthy of help, without making any
public exhibition of either their necessities
or her own benevolence.
	Many a woman who reads this sketch
will remember with gratitude when the
kindness and benevolence of Mrs. Wells
was just the needed link in the chain that
enabled them to reunite their shattered for-
tunes, or the added plank that bridged
some fearful chasm of financial or social
disaster. Her labors have always been of
the unassuming kind, but whatever she has
put her hand to has been done with a quiet
determination that has seldom known de-
feat. In April, 1875, her husband, after a 
brief illness of but few days, was taken
from this world, in what seemed the prime
of a useful life.

[Column 3]
	Both of her brothers had previously with-
drawn from the firm, and thus was left en-
tirely to her care the responsibilites of a 
large and complicated business, and that,
too, at the most trying period of all classes
of commercial enterprise ever known in
the world's history.
	The ability with which she has conducted
its affairs amid the financial breakers that
have wrecked so many business crafts on
every hand, attest her skill, and add an-
other gem to woman's coronet of praise.—
C. A. Blodgett.					Ex.


