			PRACTICAL HINTS.

	We, the veritable women of Utah, are
more or less agitated and incensed with
the movements of the Anti-Polygamic wo-
men of our city, who are seeking to arouse
public sentiment against us to deprive us
of our rights and privileges as American
citizens; who are forming themselves into
societies to strengthen their forces that they
may better accomplish our ruin. And could
we feel otherwise, we would be unworthy
the name of wife, or mother; but as it is,
we feel the utmost contempt for those med-
dlesome friends who are taking such active
measures to regulate our family affairs.
	And while we are justly indignant with
them let us make room in our minds for
another subject—the "Word of Wisdom."
I wish it might be sent to every settlement
in the Territory, with instructions for the
Saints to write and talk about it in their
meetings and in all their social gatherings.
	Do we as a people realize the importance
of those precious words? Do we accept
them as the word of God unto us? Are
they observed by this people as they should
be? How few Latter-day Saints there are
in this Territory at the present time who
abstain from tea and coffee; and the use of
whiskey and tobacco is increasing, and how
few consider it worth while to even give a
thought to these and other unwholesome
practices. Is it not high time to wake up
and open our eyes and look about us? If
the Lord had no purpose in giving the
Word of Wisdom, why did He take the

[Column 2]
trouble to give it? And if it is not neces-
sary for us to observe it, why was it given
at all? Do we not know that all stimulants
taken into the stomach are unhealthy? We
see our little ones swept from our midst,
one here, two there; and four and five of
one family stricken down with this dread-
ful diphtheria. Do we realize that there is
a cause, and also a remedy for these things?
Does not common sense tell us that their
little bodies are charged with impurities,
and their blood is thoroughly impregnated
with poison inherited from their parents.
It affects the little ones more readily than
it does the older ones. I do not address
the ladies because I think the remedy is
altogether with them. No! the gentlemen
are more culpable; they take far more poi-
son into their systems than the women do.
I have heard of one or two women who
drink wine, etc., to excess, and it may be
that a few old ladies smoke their pipes; but
as for chewing tobacco (the worst poison of
all) there are no women who indulge in the
filthy practice.
	Of course it is not our province to teach
the Elders their duty, but we can intercede
with them; but if they will persist in pol-
luting their bodies with these filthy poisons,
the Lord may deal with them in a way they
think not of.
	When the word was sent forth to the sis-
ters to store up wheat they went to work
with a will, buying and gleaning, until
nearly every settlement in the Territory
has more or less grain garnered up. But,
sisters, what good will the wheat do you,
if your homes are left desolate, your chil-
dren stricken down with disease? Can you
not see that something must be done to
promote health and life, something to regen-
erate the human family? Let us begin by
observing the Word of Wisdom; there is a
promise in that we can claim.
	The evils that have been done cannot be
altogether undone, but those who may yet
be fathers and mothers should think of
these things, and not contract unhealthy
and degenerating habits, but observe the
laws of life and health, keeping their sys-
tems pure, that the human family may be
healthier and wiser. Dr. Foot says "Habit
is second nature;" so says the proverbialist.
How important then it is that we should
form such habits as will tend to develop
health and mental vigor, instead of physi-
cal decay and mental imbecility. He also
says: "If half the time and money expend-
ed to recover health had been timely de-
voted to the preservation of health, life
would be a more enjoyable and less expen-
sive luxury."
	We are a people that believe in revela-
tion, but how little heed do we give to its
teachings. Sisters, it is time to rouse your-
selves and see what can be done to remove
the causes of ill health. There are manyother things besides those I have mentioned
that should be dispensed with; we need a
reformation in dress from head to foot. We
can hear good lectures, and read good books,
and receive the word of the Lord and the
teachings of wise men, yet with all this
knowledge that we receive how slow we
are to listen to reason. We would rather
suffer with ill health all our lives, and see
our little ones pass away from us one by one,
than to part with our darling corsets and
our tight, thin shoes, which two articles
cause more sickness and death than any
other portion of woman's dress. The hard-
est thing for us to do is to face public opin-
ion, as far as regards dress. We care too
much for what people may think of our
looks. Let the sisters one and all take the
advice of Dr. Fairchild and cremate every

[Column 3]
corset in the Territory, and make room for
a healthy circulation of the blood; or, in
other words, make room for life to dwell in
our bodies. If we feel indifferent about
our own health and life, let us have some
consideration for our posterity. A great
responsibility rests upon this people in re-
gard to future generations, and unless we
take heed we will come under condemna-
tion. The Lord has a great work for this
people to do, and it will take all the health,
strength, ability, might and power we can
muster. The Lord will not force health and
happiness upon us, but He will help us to
obtain it if we will follow His instructions.
	Now I think we have got something to
do, and I think it is time we set ourselves
about it, before our little ones are all taken
from us and we are left to mourn in sorrow.
What can be more desirable than a strong
and healthy constitution, to see our sons
and daughters growing up to be mighty
men and women in Israel? If the physical
strength is good the mind will be more en-
ergetic and more susceptible to good teach-
ings. There is a complete sympathy be-
tween the spirit and the body, more intri-
cate than a great many imagine. They are
inseparable in progression. If the spirit
leaves the body it dies, and I think the
soul can make but little advancement sepa-
rated from the body.
	For the last few years of Pres. Young's
life he tried every way to impress upon the
minds of the people the necessity of reform-
ing both in dress and food. How to pro-
mote the most good should be our constant
study. Pork should be thrown to the dogs;
it is generally pork-eaters that are troubled
with tumors, and cancers, and worms, es-
pecially the tape-worm. They are more
liable to take the smallpox and other conta-
gious diseases. Educated men and women
physicians cry out against these things.
And while I write, the vision of my mind
is opened, and I see where our folly is lead-
ing us. I see death instead of life be-
queathed to our children, and yet our eyes
are closed and we persist in our death-
dealing course.
	I would I had the voice of an angel, that
it might penetrate the heart of every man
and woman, and rouse them to a sense of
their danger. Latter-day Saints, wake up
and save your children. Let common sense
have fair play; be governed by reason; lis-
ten to the Word of Wisdom; look about and
see where you stand and where you are
drifting to. These are not things of small
moment; great events depend upon our
course at the present time. Already have
we procrastinated too long. A speedy re-
form must be inaugurated, if we would es-
cape intolerable sorrow.
								ENG.


TRANSMISSION:—Is the title of a little
book of 68 pages recently published by S.
R. Wells & Co., N. Y. The author, Georgi-
ana B. Kirby, writing from Santa Cruz, Cal.,
says, and truly, it is but a hint in the right
direction. The book will probably receive
further notice in a future number of this
paper.			S. M. K.
	"WE EXTRACT the following from our cor-
respondent's letter: "We are rejoicing in
Santa Cruz over our first sufficient rain
fall, which began on the eve of the 30th
ult. The oldest Spaniards remember a win-
ter forty years, or more, ago, when there
was no rain at all and the people drove the
greater portion of their cattle over the
bluffs into the Bay in order to save the re-
mainder. So there is a slight distrust of
providence every year until the ground is
well soaked."		S. M. K.


