A FABLE BY LITTLE DEVEREUX BLAKE.
There lived at the West certain Wicked
Foxes who built large Traps in which they
caught great numbers of Foolish Field
Mice.  Now all  other Foxes who had
no Traps pretended a great horror at this,
although every one of them would catch
Field Mice whenever he could Secretly,
and devour them without the least com-
punction.  So the Foxes who had no Traps
assembled together to see how they could
destroy the Traps of the Western Foxes,
and one of Them ably said:-- "We must do
Something to Somebody, because the whole
nation of Foxes is disgraced by these
Traps."  Then another one said:-- "let us
cut off Somebody's Ears!" and they all
applauded the suggestion with admiration.
But when they come to consider whose
ears they should cut off, they were much
puzzled until one old Fox, who had eaten
a Vast Quantity of Mice in his Day, said,
"Cut off the Ears of the Field Mice."
There was great rejoicing over this
wise Proposal, and when one Fox feebly
whispered that as the Western Foxes were
the real criminals, it would be more sensi-
ble to Cut off their Ears, his Companions
all looked at him with scorn.  "Why" said
they, "the Western Foxes are as Big as we
are." No no!  These Field Mice are little
and weak; they cannot hurt Us whatever
we do to them."  So the Foxes solemnly
resolved to cut off the Ears of the Field
Mice in order to destroy the Wicked Traps,
MORAL.--Always hit some one Smaller
than Yourself.


ANNA DICKINSON, at the solicitation of 
friends, has consented to appear again on
the lecture platform, and give, in a series
of lectures, the result of her studies. Miss
Dickenson is said to have consented to this
arrangement with reluctance, fearing it
might be supposed that she had given up
her intention to follow the stage. Her
lectures will be delivered in only the larg-
est cities, beginning in New York, and her
subjects for the series, which will include
four lectures, will be "John of Arc,"
"Henry IV," "Voltaire," and "Danton."
She will be under the management of the
American Literary Bureau—Ex.


