WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			A PROPHECY.
	The decision of the Supreme Court of 
the United States, and its bearing upon the 
Reynold's case, is calculated to rouse the 
indignation of the Latter-day Saints; and
many express great pity for Brother Rey-
nolds.  Do I pity him?  Not if he is the
man I think he is.  If I was a man I would 
envy his position to-day.  He is the peo-
ple's offering, and their prayers will ascend
up into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth,
and the special care of the Almighty will
be over and round about him.  When I
view his case with a prophetic eye, I see
no cause for pity!  I pity the ignorance of 
our opponents and despise their temerity.
Brother Reynolds is guilty of no crime; if 
he suffers it will be for the principles of 
truth and right.  He is the Isaac that Abra-
ham is about to offer up as a sacrafice, and 
as in Isaac's case; a ram will be caught in
the thicket, and Haman (Anti Polygamy)
will hang upon the gallows, erected for
Mordecai, (Polygamy) while Mordecai is 
clothed in costly raiment, and a crown of 
gold placed upon his head, and nations will
bow in homage before him.
ENG.
12th ward S. L. City, Jan. 17, 1879.


[For the EXPONENT]
MY LITTLE HOME.
My little home!  I look around and days
and hours of happiness arise before me, I
recall the hours when my dearly beloved
husband sat and talked with me, or smiled
upon our children, or sang hymns with us
all.  Hours that come not again, save in
remembrance, the smile has faded from his
face and the song of "Sweet rest in Heaven"
has been realized; blessed hours of the past!
They live forever in the memory like the
fragrance of a crushed flower.  Those hours
will never be forgotton, and the memory
of them is often evoked by some slight oc-
curence, and a halo of happiness comes with
it. But then again arises the  memory of
hours of sorrow, at other times, hours of
bitterness of spirit, when death had inva-
ded the household, and life seemed a blank,
save for the comfort of my children.
Gloomy hours, sorrowful hours; but than
God, time has taken the keen edge from
those deep griefs, and I can look back upon
them now without sorrowing.  Here where
memory paints its pictures the happy hours
that I have spent with my children com
trooping before me, though anxious hours
again intervene.  Sunshine and shadow,
chase eacc other.  But all these have en-
deared my little humble home to me.
EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, Jan. 4th 1779.


IT is now generally conceded that woman
is largely the moral teacher of the race:
that, by the sacred office of motherhood,
she becomes the primary instructor of eth-
ics.  But she has consulted Man's text book
of morals, imparting its lessons, age after
age, generation after generation.  Yet in 
this period of her awakening, she discovers
that Man's ethical standards are in great
need of revision; in short, that woman
herself should now largely determine the 
standard and method of moral education
for the race.  This work she will perform,
for the most part, through all womanly
methods in the home-life, and through all
the gracious spheres of her loves and friend-
ships.  She will thus fertilize the roots of
social life with the genius of an unselfish
spirituality. --E. C. BRISTOL.


