	MY SOCIETY OF SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	The Ladies of the Anti-Polygamy Society
of Utah respectfully represent to Congress
that while Delegate Cannon and represent-
atives of the Mormon Church in Washing-
ton are petitioning for amnesty and promis-
ing obedience for their people to the anti-
polygamy law of 1862, the expressions and
actions of the Mormons in Utah give no
evidence that this promise will be fulfilled.
	Apostle John Taylor, president of the
Mormon Church, in an interview with a
Federal official, published by himself, de-
clared that the revelation enjoining poly-
gamy came direct from God; that it is his
religion, and that neither Congress nor the
Supreme Court has any right to interfere
with his religious views, and in doing so
they are violating their most sacred obliga-
tions. He said further that the Supreme
Court decision would have no effect except
to unite, confirm and strengthen the Mor-
mons in their faith. And this same Taylor,
when in France about the year 1853, he
having at that time five wives, denied in
toto the existence of polygamy among the
Mormons, and in order to the greater pub-
licity to this untrue statement, employed a
French lady, Madame Brouse by name, to
translate his denial of polygamy into French,
and then circulated it in pamphlet form
throughout the country. In this spirit the
Mormon people concur, and it is a matter
of common notoriety that they are contract-
ing unlawful marriages the same as ever,
that John W. Young has married Miss A. Wil-
kins, of this city, for his fifth wife since the
decision of the Supreme Court in the Rey-
nolds case was published; that James Welch
of Coalville, Summit county, has married
Ellen Vaughan for a second wife; that John
White, of East Mill Creek, Salt Lake coun-
ty, married Mrs. Samuels (a widow) for a
third wife, all since the decision above re-
ferred to.
	"The Deseret News," the official organ
of the Mormon Church, casts reproach upon
the Supreme Court, by declaring that the
decision was rendered under popular pres-
sure, by judges who are feeble-witted and
cloudy-minded; and in the ward meeting
houses, the most violent diatribes have
been uttered against the judges and the
judgment of the highest court of the land.
	We therefore respectfully ask Congress,
during its present session, so to amend the
act of 1862 that it may become operative by
making the general reputation of conjugal
relations, proof of marriage and living to-
gether in polygamy, to constitute the of-
fence. Unless the prosecuting officer of the
Government is enabled by some such appro-
priate legislation to prosecute and punish
offenders against the above named law, we
feel warranted in saying no regard will be
paid to the statute; polygamous marriages
will be as numerous as ever, and the de-
luded Mormons will be encouraged in their
violation of law from the religious belief
that the Lord has interposed in the behalf
of His people by confounding the designs
of their enemies.
	By resolution the Secretary was directed
to forward a copy of the above to Senator
Edmunds, with a request to present them
in the Senate, and a duplicate copy to Hon.
Martin Maginnis of Montana, with a re-
quest to offer them in the House, also to
send them by telegraph to the newspapers
of the United States for publication.
	The Secretary read a number of letters
from ladies and ministers in different parts
of the country, reporting the progress of
the work being done in their respective
localities, and giving assurance of the
hearty co-operation the ladies here are
meeting with from their sisters in the
States.		SARAH E. COOK, Pres.
			VICTORIA REED, Vice Pres.
