		GOD'S LAW VS. MAN'S LAW.

	I have been thinking of the vast amount
of testimony we and the world have of the
truth of the Latter-day work. Is there
any possibility of our being mistaken?
Even the Pyramids are confirming the
truth. The United States are testifying to
the truth of this work; also the sea, plagues,
war, famine and fire are uttering their ter-
rible voices in confirmation of the truth.
Our Elders went, a small and feeble band,
to declare that an angel from on high had
come and restored the Gospel to the earth
as anciently! also that these angels ushered
in a gathering dispensation, to gather to-
gether those who would believe them, to a
place where they could learn of the ways
of the Lord. All was peace then. They
said that after them should come the testi-
mony of fire and of the sword, of thunder
and lightning, of the sea heaving itself be-
yond its bounds, plagues, famine, persecu-
tion and unjust legislation, not only against
this people, but against one another—that
the strong should oppress the weak, that
the floodgates of religious persecution
should be lifted by the decision of unjust
judges, first to crush this people, then to
crush one another; that it should never
cease, till its fearful waves had rushed over
the whole land; until every man's hand
should be raised against his neighbor,
father against son, son against father, mother
against daughter, daughter against mother.
	I bear my testimony that I heard the
Elders declare that the time would come
when the highest judiciary power in the
land would decide unjustly against this
people. That was thirty years since. Has
that time arrived, or is it yet in the future?
Judge ye whom it may concern. Is it just
to dishonor men, women and children for
their religious opinion? We know that
God has revealed from the heavens the
principles of everlasting salvation, and fear-
ing God rather than men have obeyed him;
knowing that He will require at our hands
obedience to His will, shall we be obedient
to Him rather than man's command? Yes,
decidedly yes. The past is the chapter
read, the future we can read just as plain.
We know that offences must come, but woe
unto them by whom they come; God will
not always be mocked. Let us be faithful,
stand firm, fear nothing man may do, for
he can do nothing but that which he is
permitted. All the prophecies must be
fulfilled. Let us be united; there is more
to fear from ourselves than all the world
besides. Let us remember Daniel and his
victory, and rejoice when all men speak
evil falsely against us for Christ's sake.
								MARY.
	Grantsville, Feb. 6, 1879.


