	THE WASHINGTON CONVENTION.

	We have no wise to tire our readers by dwell-
ing too much or too ardently upon our visit to
Washington, but as we have never given a 
summary of the proceedings of the convention
in order, and as it is a subject in which women
who hold the franchise should have a deep in-
terest, we propose now to take the convention in
order, commencing with the preliminary meet-
ing of the Executive Committee, held at Mrs. B.
A. Lockwood's on Wednesday evening, Jan. 8.
At this meeting the programme for two days
and evening sessions was all arranged.  Miss
Susan B. Anthony, Chairman of Executive
Committee read the call for the Convention,
and after a thorougu discussion upon the sub-
ject in question the following committees were
appointed, &c.:  Committee on Credentials,
Matilda Joslyn Gage, Elizabeth Oakes Smith,
Caroline B. Winslow; Committee on Resolu-
tions, Sara Andrews Spencer, Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Emmeline B. Wells, Helen M. Cool[--]
and Belva A. Lockwood; Committee on Fi-
nance, Ellen Clarke Sargent, Helen M. Slo-
cum, Julia B. Dunham, Zina Young Williams
and Ellen H. Sheldon; Committee on Pro-
gramme, Susan B. Anthony, Lilliee Devereux
Blake, Marilla M. Ricker.  Morning session—
Opening address, Elizabeth Cady Stanton; re-
port of the Committe on Frinance. Afternoon ses-
sion—Speeches by Lillie Devereux Blake; Eliza-
beth Oakes Smith, Lavinia C. Dundore and
Caroline B. Winslow.  Evening session—
Speeches from Emmeline B. Wells and Susan
B. Anthony.  Friday morning—General dis-
cussion on Utah and Wyoming—United States
Rights vs. States Rights, to be discussed by
Mesdames Gage, Stanton, Williams, Smith and
others. Afternoon session—Speeches by Helen
M. Slocum, Zina Young Williams and Sara
Andrews Spencer.  Evening session—Speeches
by Belva A. Lockwood, Frederic Douglas and
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	This was the original programme as laid out
by the Executive Committe; and here let us
say that this committee know how to make
the most of their time, and possess in a large
degree the requisite qualifications for dispatch-
ing business in an orderly and systematic man-
ner.  Women who travel hundreds and thou-
sands of miles for the sole purpose of laboring
in these Conventions are not the ones to waste
must time in dilly-dallying.
	The first morning of the convention was
very dark, and the rain literally poured down
in torrents, the wind blew furiously, and it
seemed as if the elements had combined to-
gether to show their disrespect.  However, a
tolerably fair audience was convened in Lin-
coln Hall just before eleven o'clock.  Mrs.
Stanton, who presided with dignity and grace,
called the convention to order.  Upon the plat-

[Column 2]
form were Elizabeth Cady Stanton, of Tenna-
ny, New Jersey, President, Susan B. Anthony,
of Rochester, New York, Matilda Joslyn Gage,
Editor of the "National Citizen," from Fay-
etteville, N. Y., Sara Andrewa Spencer, of
Washington, Editor of "Woman's Words,"
Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York, connect-
ed with the "Daily Evening Telegram," Caro-
line B. Winslow, M. D., Editor of the "Alpha"
at Washington, Helen M. Slocum and Helen
M. Cooke, of New York City, Belva A. Lock-
wood, lawyer of Washington, Marilla M. Rick-
er, of New Hampshire, and Lavinia C. Dun-
dore, of Maryland, also lawyers, Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, the poet and author, from North
Carolina, Julia Brown Dunham, of Iowa, Han-
nah M. Sheppard, of Washington, Misses Julia
and Rachel Foster, of Philadelphia, Mrs. Zina
Young Williams, of Utah, and your humble
servant Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City.  Many delegates
from other States and Territories were scattered
through the audience.  From time to time
during the two days' session many other dis-
tinguished ladies and a few gentlemen (woman
suffrage advocates) were seated upon the plat-
form.
	First business was the reading of the call by
Miss Anthony, with a few appropriate com-
ments.  Next Mrs. Lockwood read the list of
the committees; these were confirmed and the
programme adopted.  Mrs. Stanton prefaced
her address by saying the heavens were weep-
ing over woman's wrongs, and the weather was
in keeping with the woman's rights conven-
tion, to which we would have added and while
heaven wept for woman Old Boreas, king of
the wind, with mighty power blew a loud
blast, strong and deep, for the lords of creation.
Mrs. Stanton then proceeded to deliver her elo-
quent speech in the most easy and graceful
manner.  She seems to possess in a great de-
gree the power of pleasing her hearers, though
she tells them many plain, unvarnished truths,
yet it is all done without the least apparaent de-
sire to offend the most sensitive. Mrs. Stanton
has not in the least degree the quality of sharp-
ness, not perhaps in its usual significance, but
in the sense in which it is applied to women
speakers and lecturers.  She commenced by
saying that for eleven consecutive years women
citizens of the United States had been in the
habit of assmebling in Washington to ask that
the principles of our government may be car-
ried out, making women equal with men before
the law.
	At some future time we will publish some of
these speeches in full, that our readers may
have the benefit of the expressed opinions of
some of these leading ladies in the woman
suffrage movement.
	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer next presented
the resolutions, which we published in our last
issue.  Upon motion the resolutions were tak-
en up separately to be discussed and voted up-
on.  Objections to some points were made by
some of the ladies and gentlemen present,
which occupied the morning hour.
	In the afternoon a much larger audience was
present.  Mrs.  Lillie Devereux Blake was the
first speaker.  Mrs. Blake is shrewd, witty and
sarcastic; she is well suited to the platform,
indeed she is perfectly at home in addressing
an audience.  Her subject was "The Propriety
of Abolishing Women."  She argued that
since woman had so often been ignored she
might as well be abelished, and all further
trouble saved by taken them to the end of the
world and dropping them off.  Judging by
present indications she thought it better to
abolish women altogether, and added that per-
haps some ingenious Yankee would invent a

[Column 3]
new kind of woman that would suit men bet-
ter; she said in this connection that the suc-
cessors of the noble progenitors of the race
spoken of by Mr. Blaine surely will be able to
hatch a new being without the help of woman.
(Loud bursts of applause.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Oakes Smith read an article
entitled "Biology and Woman's Rights." She
reads extremely well, has a very sweet, low
voice and a charmning manner; her reading was
frequently applauded.
	Mr. Frederic Douglas, by invitation of Mrs.
Stanton, made a few remarks suitable to the
occasion, the audience manifesting their plea-
sure of applauding him freely.
	Mrs. Stanton then announced as a committee
to wait upon President Hayes and inform him
of the existence of 20,000,000 women citizens in
the United States, which fact he failed to rec-
ognize in his recent message. Mrs. Elizabeth
Oakes Smith, Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage and
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.  Miss Anthony then
made some very clever, cutting and humorous
remarks.  Mrs. Dundore then addressed the
convention. In her remarks she said hers was
a guerilla warfare, she was bound by no parties
or methods.
	Evening session.  The rain poured in tor-
rents, the wind blew fiercely, and yet the hall
was crowded in every part.  Mrs. Wells, of
Utah, was the first speaker.  Miss Anthony
followed, delivering her very celebrated lecture,
"Bread and the Ballot."  She is a very earnest
woman and impresses every one with her indi-
viduality.  She was frequently applauded, and
certainly made some strong arguments and
good hits.  Mrs. Wells made a few more re-
marks.
	Friday morning.  Mrs. Blake made a few
remarks, and introduced Mrs. Helen M. Cooke,
who read the report of the suffrage association
of New York city.
	Dr. Cora Bland then spoke on the growth of
liberty, and began with the assertion that his-
tory teaches us in all ages that man is a natural
brute. After this there was some discussion
upon the resolutions, and Mrs. Gage stated
that Pres. Hayes had mentioned one woman
in his message, because she was the widow of 
some man.
	Mrs. Spencer related the interiew with the
President when Mrs. Sargent and herself had
called upon him asking him to say a good word
for women in his first message, and again in
the second.  They then asked if the bill re-
moving the poltiical disabilities of women
should pass, would he approve it.  "Probably."
"Would he indicate his friendliness in his mes-
sage?"  He could not tell; it was a huge ques-
tion, requiring great deliberation.  Mrs. Spen-
cer concluded by saying, "You see he did not
know what to say."  Whereupon Miss Antho-
ny remarked that men didn't know which
was the safe side of the fence.
	Hon. A. G. Riddle, a Washington lawyer,
then addressed the convention; his subject was
suffrage, and he spoke to the point.  He closed
by saying that the emancipation of woman
was as inevitable as any other fixed fact that is
foreshadowed.
	Mrs. Stanton made some remarks upon her
labors at the beginning of the movement; and
her husband's protest, Lucretia Mott, the sweet
Quaker lady, saying, "Now, Elizabeth, don't
thee make the whole thing ridiculous by say-
ing that the women want to vote, I beg thee."
She asked Fred Douglas to urge the resolutions
as she had not then learned to put three words
together before an audience, and the resolu-
tion was carried.
	Marshall Douglas then came forward and
gave a brief account of the first woman's con


vention. At the close he asked what he would
have been without the ballot. By it he was
made Marshall of the the District of Columbia,
and then recited in an impressive manner a 
poem upon liberty. Mrs. Zina Young Williams
of Utah was then introduced, and proceeded
to address the audience. Mrs. Wells and Mrs.
Spencer, each made a few remarks and the
morning session adjourned.
			To be continued. [handwritten] E. B. [---]


