A SKETCH AND THOUGHTS.

	The "new crusade" has inspired many a 
dormant pen to try its skill in defense of 
the principle of plural marriage, and pro-
claim to the world the honest sentiments of 
the "women of Utah." As an American
Citizen—a child of Deseret, born amid the 
hardships incident to the Latter-day Saints,
toiling to make homes in this then barren
desert, I claim the privilege of expressing
my firm belief in the despised, abused, but
still heaven-revealed principle, that is re-
ceiving the unqualified disapprobation of 
the majority of the civilized world. I feel 
highly honored to be one of that "peculiar
people" who dare serve the Lord according
to His revealed will despite the opposition
and ridicule of Christendom. I will draw
a short and truthful sketch of one of the 
"down-trodden women of Utah," who have
excited the sympathy of our less fortunate
sisters. A long and very intimate acquain-
tance justifies the praise I may accord to 
my ideal—yet real woman. She is one of 
the most truly religious persons I ever met;
her high sense of duty to God and faith in 
His promises form striking characteristics,
making her heart a constant wellspring of 
cheerfulness, and friends love to linger near
to feel the sunshine of her social qualities.
Her trials are such as those that fall to 
wives and mothers in general, and added
to a frail body are the duties of public of-

[Column 2]
fice. In her family she reigns as a light
set upon a hill, that cannot be hid, and her
children call her blessed. Perhaps some
who affirm that a woman cannot be con-
tented, much less happy in Celestial mar-
riage, will not credit the fact that this hap-
py, intelligent woman is the first wife
of a number all married to her husband
with her cheerful consent, and welcomed
to her fireside as honorable and loved mem-
bers of the same family. Has true affection
decreased between husband and wife in
consequence of these additions? No, it has
not, for they each feel that their affection is 
built upon the solid foundation of mutual 
confidence, and each honors the other for
their faith and integrity in keeping God's
commands, while she is generous enough
to believe that man's heart is capable of ex-
pansion, which enables him to bestow affec-
tion upon more than one wife, even as a 
mother may love each of her several chil-
dren. How often have I wished that the 
whole world could witness the scenes of 
happiness in which I have participated with 
this family, and I think it would not con-
demn polygamy as being averse to the 
"peace and good order" of any community.
Could you see my ideal woman sitting at
the bedside of a frail, sick one, her hand laid
caressingly upon the frail brow, while her
low, gentle words were spoken and looks
were exchanged which told of deep and 
pure affection that was a fountain of happi-
ness to each—could you have heard a low
sweet voice warble forth two or three charm-
ing melodies at the request of the weary
invalid—could you note the earnest desire
to please, entirely forgetful of self, you
might ask if these were sisters with the 
ties of kindred? No; they are sisters of
Gospel tie, striving unselfishly to bless each
other as the wives of one man. From this 
peaceful scene goes forth the loving com-
panion to officiate in a meeting of her sis-
ters, where her influence is felt for good as
she urges all to lives of righteousness and 
purity, sowing seed to gladden the hearts
of the harvesters in after years, who will
surely reap the reward of the labors now 
being performed.
	From the performance of this duty she
joins the social evening party, only to win 
new laurels of esteem as a blessing and or-
nament to society. Besides visiting the 
sick and administering to the poor, she 
finds time to read good books, to correspond
with friends and even write many articles
in prose and poetry. She has no time and 
no disposition to indulge in morbid fancies
and vain imaginations, producing despon-
dency and dissatisfaction; she chooses to be
useful and happy, and of course succeeds.
	This description is from no over-wrought
fancy; it is a reality to which my feeble,
untried pen has not done justice, because 
there are always many instances of mental
conflict and battles with self, which result
in deeds of true heroism, and are not known
or appreciated by any save that "All-
searching eye," the just Judge above.
	May I ask, Where is the bondage in this 
case? Is such a life, a life of slavery? To
those ladies interested in improving the
condition of Mormon women, whose zeal
and sympathy are worthy of a wider field
of action—relieving those who are in the

[Column 3]
chains of sin and wretchedness in all the
cities of our Union—the victims of the
wickedness and abuse of men, many be-
trayed and abandoned. I ask, Is this not a
nobler work, a higher aim than to separate
families living in peace and comfort, be-
lieving in all sincerity that they are serving
God in the most acceptable way? From
whence springs this desire to disunite and 
send portions of a family adrift, dishonored
and disowned? Could you stand calmly by
and not be conscience-stricken and hear
the cries of thousands of women and chil-
dren, whose condition would be more pitia-
ble than that of widows and orphans, as-
cending to Almighty God against you?
	Would you separate children who play
together in the sweet relationship of brother
and sister? Would you tell women who
have lived in happy companionship for
years, who have watched over each other
in sickness through many a silent midnight
hour, rejoicing with almost equal enthusi-
asm over the birth of each other's children,
and together shedding bitter tears of be-
reavement when they were called heaven-
ward—women who have vowed to each
other, even as did Ruth of old to her
beloved mother-in-law, to share each other's
joys and sorrows together in preference to a 
life spent only for their own interest—that
such devotion and union is an evil course
and an abomination in the sight of God?
Was the Anti-polygamy Circular presented
to me, I would feel like inviting the car-
rier to an inspection of my comfortable
home—tell them of my husband's care and 
tenderness, my unbounded confidence in 
his virtue and honor; I would introduce
my home associates and their children, and 
ask them what they had to offer me in ex-
change for all this? Have they the power
to better our mental, physical and social
condition? We know they have not, so we
will continue to trust in Him who has been-
our unswerving friend in the past.
