BY HANNAH T. KING.

	We live in an age of wonderful events,
whether the people will believe it or not;
the vision of some is very opaque. they can
not or will not see anything very uncom-
mon in the marvelous events of the 19th
century--others, who watch the "signs of
the times," whose eyes are open, because
the vision of their mind is clear, have the
key that unlocks the cypher! and many
there are of that number. We hear of
"wars and rumors of wars," of fire and pes-
tilence, yes, of the most fearful kind. We
have seen empires overturned and sove-
reigns dethroned, and a few months ago
the Queen of England made Empress of
India! Though she has long had immense
possessions there, no one dreamed of
such a thing. Thirty years ago a musing,
far-seeing young mind, hid up in compara-
tive obscurity, wrote a book; he suggests a
policy for the then young Queen of Eng-
land; he elaborates the subject, shows a
neccessity for it. The book is not read by
the mass, it is "too dry, too visionary;" the
writer shows he believes in present revela-
tion, that he waits, watches for it! And
who will believe such nonsense in this en-
lightened age? He wrote other books, they
were watched and criticized by the "Litera-
ti;" there is something in them so unique,
so original, minds of strong calibre feel
there is in them an under current, a gulf-
stream if you please, that the common mind
does not see or realize; the policy he sug-
gests in his first book, thirty years ago, is
in these words: "Let the Queen of England
collect a great fleet; let her stow away all
her treasures, bullion, gold plate and pre-
cious arms, be accompanied by all her court
and chief people, and transfer the seat of
her Empire from London to Delhi! There
she will find an immense Empire ready
made, a first rate army and a large revenue;
we will acknowledge the Empress of India
as our Suzeram, and secure for her the
Levantine coast."
	He now leaves book making; he works
to become a Statesman; he seeks to enter
Parliament, he meets with great opposition;
he speaks on the Hustings; he attracts all 
ears; his language is glowing, fervid and
electrifying, his voice magnetic, and he is
felt to be a rising planet! He speaks in the
House of Commons, he is ridiculed; his
hearers forget to be gentlemen. He rises
and is put down, rises and is put down; at
last he calmly sits down, saying: "Gentle-
man, you will not hear me now, but a time
is coming when you shall hear me." Through
all he rises--he is the first of his race that
ever entered Parliament--he rises higher,
higher, till he stands Premier of England,
with the entire confidence of his Sovereign!
He stands to-day a power behind the Throne,
God being the power behind both the
Throne and the man. His first grand act
is to realize his dream of thirty years ago!


He proposes to the nation to make the
Queen Empress of India, as a necessary
policy to meet the times.  The influential
part of the nation, as usual, oppose the
measure—they feel it will compromise their
honor—but it is carried.  Queen of Eng-
land and Empress of India are her titles to-
day!  This is only a tithe of all he has ac-
complished in staying the hand of Prussia,
without shedding one drop of blood.  Is
not all this a subject for meditation when
we ponder on present events?
	Now I will come nearer home.  If the
Lord will help me, I will at some future
time try to give a brief poetical history of
the work of the Latter days.  At present I
wish to look at an event which twenty, per-
haps ten years ago would have been thought
impossible, and by some it would have
been ridiculed; to-day it is an event of the
past, and seems to have been all in the pro-
gramme.  It was mooted something in this
way: Mrs. Spencer, one of the prominent
women in the Woman Suffrage movements
wrote to Mrs. E. B. Wells, imperatively:
"Come and take your hitherto vacant chair
in the Woman's Suffrage Convention; come,
or our words concerning you will fall to the
ground. Come!"  Accordingly, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, accompanied by Mrs. Zina Young Wil-
liams, went and took part in the Convention
at Washington.  They go! are received by
the ladies as sisters.  President Hayes also
receives them with all the kindness and
affability of the true gentlemen; he talked
freely with them, and said he wished them
to put their statements in writing, and
let him have it, that he might not for-
get in the press of business all they had
told him.  He was most kind, saying:  "Tell
me what I can do for you."  The "Golden
Sceptre" was indeed held out to them at
every interview, and he himself fetched
Mrs. Hayes and introduced them to her,
and left her with them, not fearing the
least contamination, or perversion of her
mind or morals from association with the
women from Utah, and both plural
wives!  All honor to the President of the
United States of America and his true-
hearted wife! one day he will rejoice that
his feelings as a man and a gentleman over-
came all prejudice and bigotry, and enabled
him to receive them as sister women by
their brother man.  Mrs. Hayes also had
the very spirit of her husband, and treated
them with all the freedom and liberality
which ever springs from true nobility.  She
took them over the Executive Mansion
herself, with all ease and affability.  God
bless Mrs. Hayes, and may He grant her
her hearts desires in righteousness before
Him!
	Is not this an event, my sisters, in the
annals of our Church?  To me there is more
in it than meets the eye of those who look
only upon the surface of things.  God works
by instruments, sometimes the weakest as
a common observer would think, but in His
hands they become powerful, because they
are content to be "as clay in the hands of
the potter."  God will make such mighty.
They were received with the kindest
deference, and obtained interviews with
men of influence; this was true polite-
ness, for they had come from afar to
present the cause of their people.  They
spoke freely and I have no doubt wise-
ly and well; they have left an impres-
sion that God will daguerotype on the minds
of the influential men of Congress, nd
also on the women of that august assembly,
which will have a bearing, and I hope make
them forbearing.  My sisters, fear not!
Let us be prayerful and watchful--God is
with us; yes, the God of Jacob, is our refuge!


