CORRESPONDENCE.
WOODRUFF, ARIZONA, Dec. 28, 1878.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
Dear Sister--It is with pleasure that I
again have the privilege of addressing a
few lines to my dear old friend, Editor of
EXPONENT. I appreciate the privilege of
corresponding more than ever, because I
have not been able to write in consequence
of having had sore eyes since we stopped
traveling, which is about three months.  I
have not seen a No. of the EXPONENT later
than July.  I should have written for it to
be sent here on our arrival, but not being
permanently located, and no regular mail
to this place, I have waited until the pre-
sent, hoping to gain a knowledge of the 
country and the circumstances controlling
the organizing of settlements; and having
remained here for three months on the pub-
lic road running through the settlements
on Little Colorado, leading from Camp
Apache to Prescott, the Capital, as there are
a great many enterprising gentlemen look-
ing after the development of this country,
I have had the opportunity of hearing the
opinions of a good many, which have been
favorable, now I feel willing to give mine.
	Arizona is a better country than I expect-
ed to find, and I believe it to be the best
that the Mormons have ever settled since
they were driven from their homes in Mis-
souri.  Notwithstanding the country is
wild and romantic, there is a sacred, peace-
ful influence brooding over this land, which
betokens the guardianship of holy angels,
and the many ancient relics that cover the
land give evidence that a mighty nation
once dwelt here; and that this land has
been held in reserve for the Saints of the
Most High is a consolation to those who
have left their beautiful homes and friends
to build up the waste places of Zion; for
everywhere that the Eternal Priesthood has
bowed the knee and left their footprints
upon this soil the earth gives evidence of
the blessing of redemption sealed upon it,
by an increase of water and vegetation,
which will continue to increase until it will
not only abound with flocks and herds; but
become a fruitful field, abounding also with
the cities af the Saints, where the voice of
thanksgiving and melody shall be heard,
and the earth thall be made glad and re-
echo the praises of God because of the in-
habitants that dwell upon her, even as the
ancient Prophet has said.
	An additional proof of the blessing at-
tending the settling of this country is the
good feeling and welcome that our people
meet with  from the Indians and Mexicans;
our children will [-]arn their language and
teach them the plan of salvation.  We
have free schools, and they seem inclined
to learn the English language.  Men hold-
ing responsible positions in the Territory,
Gov. Freemont and Members of the Legis-
lature, have expressed themselves favora-
ble to our people colonizing the country and
organizing counties and electing their own
officers.  The citizens have sent petitions
for mail routes and Post Offices to be estab-
lished throughout the settlements.  Bishop
Tinney, visiting Prescott recently, said he
never was treated with a more hearty wel-
come to the hospitality of the Governor
and Mr. Beach, Editor of the "Arizona
Miner," who has visited the Mormon set-
tlements, and whose acquaintance we made
on our arrival at Sunset.--He also expressed
himself favorably.
	Now I know you would like to hear some-
thing concerning the United Order in those
settlements at Sunset and Brigham City.
They all eat at the big table.  We stopped
there two days, and gladly accepted an in-
vitation to dine with them; we found every-
thing orderly and cleanly and plenty to
eat. Through the courtesy of Bro. James
Woods, we visited the milk house, which
was superior to any I ever saw, and also
the kitchen and bakery, which were ar-
ranged so that three or four persons could
do the cooking for a hundred, or more, per-
sons.  Those who do not wish to unite in
this order of things have the privilege of
co-operating or settling where they choose;
this will enable them to locate the land
much faster.
	We have received several copies of the
"Deseret News," containing an account of
Apostles Pratt and Smith's visit to the
East, which was very interesting; and also
an account of the Mass Meeting of the sis-
ters, held in the Theatre, which caused our
hearts to rejoice exceedingly, and say there
are thousands of noble women whose hearts
beat responsive to the defense made by
their sisters on that occasion.
	Jan. 4th.  All well.  We have Sunday
School and meeting in all the settlements.
There are about a hundred families who
have come in this winter all well, and have
had a successful journey.
With love to the brethren and sisters I
remain devoted to the kingdom.
W. EAST.
WOODRUFF, RICH CO., Feb. 3, 1879.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
* * *  We are a small settle-
ment, yet we are trying to do what we can
toward building up the kingdom of God on
the earth, realizing that the time is short.
How little time have we, as Latter-day
Saints to spend in pride and folly.  It seems
to me, when I think of the destitution
there is among the Saints of the Old World,
that we as Saints should put aside some of
our unneccesary expenditures, and see
how much might be saved towards gather-
ing the poor.  It may look to us a small
matter, but I think it would amount to
quite a sum in the course of a year.  Let
us, as Daughters of Zion, awaken to the
duties that rest upon us, and perform these
obligations faithfully in the fear of the
Lord. Praying for the welfare of the
daugthers of Zion, I remain your sister in
the covenant of truth,
