		AMERICAN LITERATURE.

	Attention is drawn anew to this subject
by the very recent History of American
Literature by Moses Coit Tyler, Professor
of English Literature in the University of
Michigan.
	The book cannot be characterised as a
great work, yet it supplies a long felt want.
The authors of whose life and writings
these two volumes give an account, are for
the most part little known, if at all, by the
great reading public, but will be known in
future, not through their own writings but
through the copious extracts from their
works given in those volumes. This is one
of the merits of the "History". Professor
Tyler has had access to the most valuable
libraries of our country,—not merely to our
large public libraries, but to those private
libraries where only is to be found our earli-
est American Literature. These two vol-
umes cover the period from 1607 to 1765.
This fact suggests the very important ques-
tion. Have we a distinctively American
literature covering this period, or must we
mark a later date for the birth of our liter-
ature?
	Unlike the early literature of England,
we cannot point with the pride of ancestry
to our Chaucer, the Ballads of Robin Hood
the vision of Piers the Ploughman and
others. We must remember that at the
date which Professor Tyler has placed the
birth of our literature, England was at the
summit of her literary fame, was in the
glory of the Elizabethan age. Shakespeare
had written most of his plays; had become
proprietor of the Globe Theatre; was now a
respected squire, and lived in gentlemanly
competency, riding in his own carriage. At
this period Elizabeth had been dead four
years; Francis Bacon had become solicitor
general, and thirteen years after gave to
the world his Noverm Organan; Rare
Ben Jonson had written "Every Man in
his Humor" nine years before; Beaumont
and Fletcher were young men seeking pres-
ent fame and acquiring future fame; Milton
was born a year after, he whose name was
to last so long as lasts the English language.
	America can at this period present no
such names, nor since. We think that the
succeeding volumes of Professor Tyler's
mark will be the history of American liter-
ature. The subjects that the hundred
years of our national existance will present
are the cues which create the same lan-
guage as the literature of England but a dif-
ferent type of mind and manner. A. L. F.


THE BILL generally known as the Lock-
wood Bill, but technically as the Legal Disa-
bilities Bill, recently passed the House and
Senate. This bill has won a victory for
women, and after this let women be encour-
aged, however adverse circumstances may
be, for difficulties and obstructions are giv-
ing way before endurance, perseverance,
persistency and tenacity of purpose. The
bill provides that "any woman, a member
in good standing of the highest court in
any State or Territory, or of the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, for three
years, shall be admitted to practice in the
United States Supreme Court." The bill
passed at last without amendment, 40 to 20.
Senator Sargent, who has been an able and
magnanimous friend of woman suffrage,
has been untiring in his efforts in advocat-
ing the passage of this bill. This noble
friend and defender of the rights of all
women merits the highest approbation and
esteem of all who desire to see woman
stand free and equal beside her brother
man.


THE NEXT annual convention of the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association is to be
held in May in St. Louis, Mo. This city
has been chosen because of the proposition
there to license the Social Evil law. The
suffrage women consider, and all deep-
thinking women surely will agree with
them, that this licensing of vice by govern-
ment is an infringement upon the liberty of
all women. Wherever this law has been
enforced, instead of securing the object for
which it was (professedly) designed it "has
had most oppressive moral and physical
tyranny over woman. As far as women
are concerned it reverses that rule of law
which holds all persons innocent until they
are proven guilty, for under it all women
are held guilty until proven innocent." The
call for the Convention made through
the "National Citizen and Ballot Box" says,
"Now let every Western and North West-
ern suffrage woman prepare herself to be in
some way represented at this great meeting,
either personally or by delegate from her
society	No more important convention
has ever been held than this will be; none
in which all women of whatever shade of
opinion are so deeply concerned.


[Column 1]
MULBERRY TREES.
FOR SALE at the Forest Farm, from Six cents each
and upwards.
☞ Please forward all orders to
			MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
					Salt Lake City.
Orders by mail or otherwise are promptly attended to.

