MEMORIAL.
The Speaker laid before the House the me-
morial of Emmeline B. Wells and Zina Young
Williams, of Salt Lake City, Utah Territory,
asking for the repeal of the anti polygamy law
of 1862, and for legislation to protect the wo-
men and childeren of Utah Territory.
MR. CLARK, of Missouri.  I ask that the
paper be read.
The paper was read, as follows:

To the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States in Congress assembled:
Whereas a recent decision of the Supreme
Court of the United States has declared the
anti-polygamy law of 1862 to be in accordance
with the Constitution; and
 Whereas we, and Mormon women generally,
previous to that decision implicitly believed
that this law was in violation of the Constitu
tion. which says, “Congress shall make no law
respec[-]ing an establishment of religion, or pro-
hibiting the free exercise thereof;" and
Whereas under our present civilization we
have a peaceful, prosperous and healthy con-
dition of society, our children are owned and
supported by their fathers and are equally rec-
ognized as heirs to their father's estate, and our
women are protected from the temptation to
infanticide and kindred crimes; and
 Whereas the enforcement of the law of 1862
would imprison our husbands, despoil and de-
stroy our homes, render our children illegiti-
mate before the world, and leave ourselves and
many thousands of women desolate and un-
protected; and
Whereas this example set by the United
States would encourage mobs to violently as-
sault and afflict us as in times past, when we
were driven from State to State far out beyond
the pale of this Republic; and 
Whereas we went far out into the wilderness
by the advice and at the suggestion of eminent
leading American statesman, that we might
worship God according to the dicta'es of our
own consciences, without fear or molestation,
and at the same time extend to all, of what-
ever faith, the same precious privilege; and
Whereas, after the United States had taken
possession of the land which our people had
redeemed from the desert and made prosperous,
and which the Mormon battalion under Colonel
Philip St. George Cooke had togther with
what is now known as California, Nevada,
New Mexico and Arizona, helped to conquer,
President Fillmore, "by the advice and consent,
of the Senate," appointed Brigham Young,
then a practical polygamist, governor of Utah,
we had good reason to believe the Govern-
ment would continue to protect us in our reli-
gious faith and its practice, and 
Whereas harsh measures toward our people,
such as destruction of families and homes, will
have a tendency to drive many to desperation,
while just and humane treatment will foster


and strengthen love and affection for the Gov-
ernment, thereby securing a more peaceful is-
sue of affairs now pending; and
Whereas we ourselves and a majority of our
people are native-born citizens of the United
States and desire to live in obedience to the
laws of our country; Therefore
We pray your honorble body to repeal the
anti polygamy law of 1862; and
We further pray you to enact such legisla-
tion as will securely legitimatize our children
and protect our names from dishonor by pre-
serving unbroken the existing relationship of
families which are already bound together by
the strongest ties of affection, and whose lives
would be forever wrecked through separation;
and
We further pray that in any future legislation
concerning the marriage relation in any Terri-
tory under your jurisdiction you will consider
the rights, the hearts, and the consciences of
the women to be affected by such legislation,
and that you will consider the permanent care
and welfare of children as the sure foundation
of the state.
 And your petitioners will ever pray.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		ZINA YOUNG WILLIAMS.
MR. CANNON, of Utah.  I move that the me-
morial be referred to the Committe on the Ju-
diciary, with leave to report at any time.
MR. TOWNSEND, of New York.  I object to
leave being given to report at any time.  I do
not object to the reference.
The memorial was referred to the Committee
on the Jndiciary.
ENFORCEMENT OF ANTI-POYGAMY LAW.
The Speaker also laid before the House a let-
ter from the Secretary of the Interior, trans-
mitting a number of petitions for the enforce-
ment of the anti-polygamy law referred to that
Department by the President; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.


