VISIT TO WASHINGTON.

	In our last editorial, written from Washing-
ton, we promised our readers to tell them some-
thing more of our visit to the National Capi-
tol, and perhaps we ought to say a trifle more
concerning the Convention. The suffrage la-
dies espoused the cause we represented nobly,
and gave us more opportunities of bringing the
Utah question forward than we could possibly
have expected. Indeed, we felt delicate in re-
sponding to their kind and pressing solicita-
tions to speak, knowing how very unpopular
Mormonism is in the world. We have a grate-
ful remembrance of these noble women, and
trust in the future we may have an opportunity
of returning the kindnesses and courtesies we
received at their hands. We are sorry we are
not able to publish a book and mention all the
ladies who impressed us favorably, but we
really must notice a few more with whom it
was pleasant to meet and converse. Elizabeth
Oakes Smith is a lady of the finest culture, her
soft beautiful grey curls clustered about her
fair forehead and suggested the face of a poet.
We had read and enjoyed her writings from
our earliest childhood, and to stand face to face
and converse with her was like the fulfillment
of some bright dream.
	The Misses Foster, from Philadelphia, were
young ladies of fine attainments intellectually,
and devoted to the promotion of the advance-
ment of woman. They represented the Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia. Mrs. Sey-
mour was a lovely little woman from good old
Massachusetts. Her dress, her manner, her
tone of voice, her very presence bespoke refine-
ment, culture and a finished education.
	Mrs. Helen M. Slocum, of New York, Mrs.
C. B. Winslow, M. D., editor of the "Alpha"
in Washington, each addressed the Conven-
tion in Lincoln Hall, speaking eloquently on
the terrible evils of society at the present time
and the great need of reform, and woman's
help.  Both these ladies are fine scholars and
fluent speakers.
	The reporters of Washington papers who at-
tended the Convention, and the ladies who 
represented newspapers from all parts of the
country were extremely gracious to us, and in
many instances gave us favorable notices in
their letters. Among this number we must
not forget Miss Grundy, whose letters to the
Philadelphia "Times" and Boston "Herald"
are always considered "par excellence." Miss
Woodbury, Mrs. Garrigan, and many others
too numerous to mention by name were very
kind indeed, and several gentlemen and gen-
tlemanly reporters were also extremely polite.
We have no reason whatever to complain of
this class; we were always admitted to the re-
porter's gallery, either in the Senate or House,
through the courtesy of Mrs. Spencer, whose
name was a talisman to open the way to all

[Column 2]

such places. We became [tolerably familiar
with the Capitol, and spent much of our time
in watching the doings of Senators and Con-
gressmen; indeed, it puzzled some people to
see how easily we obtained a hearing.
	We cannot tell you now just how we man-
aged to see everybody we wanted to see, and
say what we wanted to say, but we will pass
on to the White House (at some future time
we will tell you about the receptions) and our
interview with President Hayes. His Excel-
lency made the appointment himself, and after
we had given him a few facts in relation to the
condition of this people, and what was likely
to be the consequences of severe and harsh
measures, he remarked that he had never be-
fore considered the subject in the light we had
presented it, and he felt it was of too much
importance to trust to memory, and desired us
to make a similar statement in writing, which
we prepared and placed in His Excellency's
hands before leaving Washington. We also
had the pleasure of a private interview with
Mrs. Hayes, who is certainly a most remarka-
ble woman; her simplicity in dress, her home-
like air, her friendly greeting for all those who
call upon her, her sweet expression, her benevo-
lent face and charming manner all attract the
admiration of visitors, and her firmness in per-
sisting in discarding wine and all intoxicating
drinks from the White House, all these things
stamp her as a woman of remarkably strong
character. To our party she was kindness per-
sonified; she listened attentively to all we had
to say in regard to the circumstances of our
people, and her womanly sympathies were
very perceptibly aroused.
	We frequently met with people who mani-
fested the greatest interest in the Mormon
Question. How far their influence might bene-
fit our people, or how much popularity they
would sacrifice for the sake of aiding the Mor-
mons, we have no way of determining.
	After having spent a little more than three
weeks in this famous city, striving to do some
little good in removing prejudice, we bid adieu
for a short season at least to the seat of govern-
ment and took the train for Chicago. We had
a quick and pleasant journey to that city,
reaching there at 6 o'clock in the morning; we
drove to the Palmer House and breakfasted.
There we met some of the members of the Ju-
diciary Committee of the House, who had
come there to investigate in the impeachment
of Judge Blodgett. We traveled on the Chi-
cago and Northwestern Railway to Omaha,
then took the U. P. for Ogden. On this road
we formed some pleasant traveling acquaint-
ances. There was a great variety of persons
to interest a student of human nature; Jews,
Gentiles and Mormons, all sociable and in-
clined to play the agreeable with each other.
There were doctors, lawyers, judges, scholars,
merchants, and, of gentleman and ladies the
Pullman car was full. There were two or three
charming young widows who seemed to have
manifold attractions for the gentlemen passen-
gers, and indeed the ladies were a little smit-
ten with their handsome faces and brilliant
conversation. There was a sweet-faced young
bride from Washington, accompanying her
husband to San Diego, Cal. She had never
been away from home and mama, and her
artless and innocent manner, her devotion to
the man of her choice, her youth, her beauty
and her subdued gaiety all awakened a pecu-
liar interest, which called forth emotions akin
to sorrow, for it carried us back many, many
long years, when we, then in the sweet trust
and innocence of early girlhood embarked on
the sea of matrimony, and leaving our happy
home, mother, and all we loved and held dear,

[Column 3]

journeyed westward, with perfect faith in him
to whom we had consigned the keeping of our
soul's treasures. But alas! the sequel remains
locked in our heart of hearts, too sacred for
the eyes of the curious. Forgive if we digress.
Suffice it to say we offered a silent prayer that
the future path of the young bride might be
strewn with the fairest of earth's flowers.
	The passengers were many of them going to
San Francisco and other places west, for busi-
ness purposes, a few were traveling for health
or pleasure. Mr. Tevis, of San Francisco, was
returning home from a tour abroad; he had
visited the European .continent, the British
Isles and Greenland Theodore M.Lilienthal,son
of the Rev. Dr. Lilienthal, of Cincinnati, a very
genial man of education and culture, a most
agreeable traveling companion, was one of the
party. Thomas Godey, jr., of Baltimore, very
young and attractive, was making his first trip
west to visit relatives in the far famed city of
the Pacific. To mention all the party's full
names would be useless, as our readers could
not appreciate the compliment not knowing
the persons, but we will close this part of the
chapter by saying that the time was agreeably
spent and left a happy impression of the party
in our minds. We arrived at home on the
evening of Feb. 4, finding all well, prosperous
and happy in the "City of the Saints."
	Once more we are sitting at the same desk,
seeing the same faces come in and out, and we
might almost fancy we had been dreaming, if
it were not for the hearty congratulations, the
warm welcomes, which remind us we must
have been absent, doing something, or saying
something—we scarcely realize ourselves; yet
with a perfect consciousness that there must
have been an unseen power which guided us,
sustained us in our labors, and brought us safe
home to the "valley we love."
	E. B. Wells


