	READ AT THE Y. L. M. I. A.

	As generosity is the subject before the
house, for discussion this evening[-] I will
commence by saying that generosity[-] not
only consists in being open-handed but in
exhibiting those qualities which are prop-
erly regarded as belonging to noble minded
men and women. It is not always those
who are the most liberal in giving, but my
idea is that those who can endure the most
privations and hardships[-] taking every
thing for the best, and being contented
with what they have to endure are truly
generous. Look at our Heavenly Father
how magnanimous He is, pouring blessings
down upon all, with-holding nothing which
is for our good, nothing which is truly
beneficial. Certainly there are times when
we feel down[-]hearted and think we are not
very liberaly blessed with his holy spirit;
but all our trials and harships are for the
best. God has a purpose in all things, and
He sometimes allows stumbling-blocks to
be put in our way to try us, for[-] if we are
never tried with any thing and[-]our paths
are always flowery, of course we would
feel much better, but could not have the
same experience; God has not willed it so,
He tries us every day to see what we can
stand, some few bear their trials nobly, and
others sink under them. I do not profess
to show the magnanamity of God, but mere-
ly speak of it in my humble way, and as
generosity is our subject—I do not think
we can find a more generous, or just person
for example than Joseph Smith. Look at
the trials and hardships that this noble per-
son passed through for this people, and to
show them the right way, the greatness of
his mind, the elevation and dignity of his
soul, how he encountered dangers and trou-
ble with tranquility and firmness. He dis-
dained injustice and meanness, and his no-
ble spirit prompted him to sacrifice all for
this same noble object. And then our be-
loved President Brigham Young took up
his great work and followed in his footsteps,
giving generously ta the poor; helping and
blessing all who were in distress and need-
ful of his attentions and benevolence; nev-
er faltering until he was called to join his
brother, Joseph Smith, in the land of the
blessed, where we all sooner or later will be
called to go; that is if we prove faithful to
the end. When I picture the narrow, con-
tractedness and selfishness of our souls
with the nobleness and generosity of these
great persons it causes me to shudder.
While we are speaking of the generosity of
those great persons, we must not forget our
kind and generous hearted parents who
toil night and day striving to give us ad-
vantages, which some day will exalt us
among the[--]number of great men and wo-
men. How many [-]s yaung people now
could endure what our parents have been
called to go through in times past and
never falther, but with untiring diligence
stem the tide and at last win the victory.
I am afraid not very many, I think after
we go through as much as they have been
called to pass through, and preform as
many noble and generous acts and never
falter it will cause us all to shout "Eureka."
