CONTINUED.

	The persecutions brought upon our peo-
ple in Nauvoo and other places adjacent, by
the wicked misrepresentations of such men
as Dr. Bennett, William and Wilson Law,
and others who had been members of our
Church, increased rapidly. Every now and
then Joseph Smith was arraigned before
the magistrates on some pretext or other,
and the Saints were threatened with mobs,
and they felt there was no security for them
because of their betrayal by designing and
treacherous men.
	In January, 1844, my youngest daughter
was born. She was the first child born heir
to the Holy Priesthood and in the New and
Everlasting Covenant in this dispensation.
I felt she was doubly a child of promise,
not only through the priesthood, but through
Joseph's promise to me when I gave him
my eldest daughter to wife. He prophe-
sied to me that I should have another
daughter, who would be a strength and sup-
port to me to soothe my declining years;
and in this daughter have these words been
verified. My health was very poor, but I
remained strong in the faith of the Gospel,
and full of courage to persevere in the lat-
ter-day work. My two youngest children
were frail little tender blossoms and re-
quired the most constant care.

[Column 2]
	During the ensuing summer a fearful and
continuous storm of persecution raged, un-
til it led to the massacre of Joseph and Hy-
rum Smith: and John Taylor, who, although
pierced with bullets until his life scarce
hung by a single thread, afterwards recov-
ered. After this horrible tragedy, the peo-
ple sorrowed and mourned for their Patri-
arch and Prophet. Indeed, the terrible
grief and consternation which were the re-
sult of the untimely death of these noble
men was beyond description.
	The Gentiles, our opposers, thought they
had destroyed our religion, overthrown our
cause, and destroyed the influence of our
people, and actually had accomplished all
that was necessary to do away with Mor-
monism.
	But God's work cannot be thus ignored;
another prophet, Brigham Young, was
raised up to succeed Joseph, and the work
rolled on. We were not allowed, however,
to rest in peace; those who had apostatized
from us and were filled with a spirit of re-
bellion against the work sought by all their
power and influence to stir up the authori-
ties of government in the State of Illinois,
and to drive us from the bounds of civiliza-
tion. At this time the people were ener-
getically at work upon the Temple, and
President Brigham Young and his brethren
of the Quorum of the Twelve, with the
Bishops and all the leading men, were
pushing everything forward towards com-
pleting the Temple, in order to obtain cer-
tain blessings and confirmations that had
been promised to the Saints when the
Temple should be so far finished as to ena-
ble them to work in it. The people were
most of them poor, and they denied them-
selves every comfort they possibly could to 
assist, in finishing the Lord's house. In
the latter part of the fall of 1845 we com-
menced work in the Temple, and then I
gave myself, my time and attention to that
mission. I worked in the Temple every
day without cessation until it was closed.
	We were making preparations to leave
Nauvoo and go into the wilderness. I had
a large family, and my household cares and
my many other duties were indeed arduous;
I worked constantly day and night, scarcely
sleeping at all, so great was my anxiety to
accomplish all that was necessary and go
with the first company who left in Febru-
ary, 1846, crossing the Mississippi river
on the ice.

To be continued.


