PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

	The Vice-President presented the peti-
tion of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, and Susan B. Anthony, of-
ficers of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association, praying for the passage of Sen-
ate Joint resolution No. 12, providing for
an amendment to the Constitution of tne
United States protecting the rights of wo-
men citizens, and also that the House Ju-
diciary Committee be relieved from the 
further consideration of a similar resolu-
tion.
	Mr. Ferry.  If there is no objection, I 
ask that, the petition be read at length.
The Vice-President.  The Chair hears no
objection, and it will be reported by the 
Secretary. 
	The petition was read, and referred to 
the Committee on Privileges and Elections,
as follows:
To the Senate and House of Representa-
	tives of the United States in Congress
	assembled:
	Whereas more than forty thousand well-
known men and women, citizens of thirty-
five States and five Territoriers, have peti-
tioned the Forty-fifth Congress, asking for 
an amendment to the Federal Constitution
prohibiting the several States from disfran-
chising United States citizens on account 
of sex; and 
Whereas a resolution providing for such
constitutional smendmen is upon the Cal-
endar, (Senate resolution No. 12, second
session Forty-fifth Congress,) and a similar
resolution is pending upon a tie vote in the 
Judiciary Committee of the House of Rep-
resentatives; and
Whereas the women citizens of tee Unit-
ed States are are joint heirs with men of this
Republic, constitute one-half of the peopl,
and have an inalienable right to an equal
voice with men in the nation's councils
and
	Whereas this Republic is governed by 
opinions, and not by force of arms; and
	Whereas women citizens, being denied

the right to have their opinions counted at
the ballot-box, are compelled to hold all
other rights subject to the favor, passions,
and caprices of men; and 
Whereas in answer to the appeals of so 
large a number of peaceable, law, abiding, 
honorable petitioners, it is just and courte-


ous that the Forty-fifth Congress should ex-
press its opinion and leave its record upon 
this grave question of human rights; There-
fore,
We pray your honorable body to take
from the Calendar and pass Senate resolu-
tion No. 12, (secood session Forty-fifth Con,
gress,) providing for an amendment to the
Constitution protecting the rights of wo-
men citizuns; and
We further pray you to relieve the the
House Judiciary Committee from the fur-
ther cnnsideration of the sixteenth amend-
ment women suffrage resolution brought
to a tie vote in that committee Februaary
5, 1878, that it may be submitted to the 
House of Representatives for immediate
action.
And your petitioners will ever pray.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President.
Matilda Joslyn Gage, Corresponding
Secretary.
Susan B. Anthony, Chairman Exec-
utive Committee.


