			LIFE AT THE CAPITOL.

	Washington, the famous city of all oth-
ers, where American Statesmen annually
assemble to make and devise laws and em-
power the nation's courts; where genius,
fashion and wisdom vie for mastery; where
great men bow to human laws, and cowards
grovel at the feet of diplomatists--here I 
find myself looking on and wondering,
taking an active part, too, in work which
erst seemed distasteful.  From Senate to
House, from one Reporter's Gallery to the
other, through long corridors and halls,
up and down wide staircases, and narrow
ones - getting interviewed by newspaper
people on the way - into Committee Rooms,
and waiting in window recesses - all these
things I've been doing, but with a personal
feeling of intense abhorrence, yet with a
strong sense of duty.
 To be sure there are many beautiful his-
torical paintings, and pictures of great men,
statuary, etc., pillars of polished marble,
magnificent, ornamental and the most elab-
orate and artistic architecture, all these and
much more, but here where beautiful
things predominate, viewing the greatest
men who are before the nation to-day, there
arises within me the most peculiar feelings
and curious thoughts, and although the
surroundings are calculated to inspire one
with reverence for the past and those whose
figures in painting and sculpture adorn
Washington's most magnificent building,
"the Capitol," yet the scenes going on
around me, the conversation which falls up-
on my ear, dispels the semi-enchantment
and drags the senses back to a keener ap-
preciation of the phases of human life, as
they present themselves to those who are
looking on.
	Here and there, alone and in groups, are
numbers of people all eager and expectant,
each with the very impress of their own na-
ture visibly stamped upon the countenance.
Some tired, restless, but earnest ones, some
careless, frivolous, gay ones; they wait
around the staircases, in the halls, at the
doors of Committee Rooms, men and wo-
men, all with a purpose - to carry some
measure, to obtain some favor, or to influ-
ence some member of Congress for or
against the passage of some bill, or appro-
priation.
Pretty little scenes of a ridiculous or sen-
timental nature are constantly occurring.
Noticing one day a woman of decidedly
odd appearance, I observed her actions as I
sat alone waiting the audience of a Senator;
she called a messenger and sent her card;
a very dignified elderly gentleman came
from the Senate.  She rose and took his
proffered hand, welcoming him most cor-
dially, never letting go his hand one minute
- he was evidently much embarrassed,
there were many people in the room; she
looked up into his face, and smiled as she
urged her question.  He stammered and
hesitated; she persisted, she coaxed, and at
intervals laughed aloud like a young miss
of sixteen; she kept him in agony, until he
could not, or would not, endure it any
longer (holding his hand up to the last mo-
ment), and at last she was obliged to let
him go.  I could not hear except now and 
then a word, but that was sufficient to
arouse my curiosity in the woman.  She
soon sent for another Senator, and after
persecuting three of them in a similar man-
ner, she hobbled out.  I always had a great
respect for age, but this woman, over sev-
enty years old, as I afterward learned, as-
suming the costume and manners of a young
woman, with yellow wig, "rouge" and
powder, disgusted me.  A newspaper man
to whom I had been introduced, noticing I
observed her, asked me if I knew who she
was; I replied in the negative; he told me
her name; it was one with which I was fa-
miliar, through Washington papers.  There
are scores, I may say, of young women who
coax, and flirt, and practice all sorts of in-
nocent little arts to carry out their own pur-
poses, and looking up into the Senator's
handsome faces, tell them in the most grace-
ful manner they are the very nicest and
best men in all the world, etc.  "O that I
should see what I have seen!" and "such
is life" at the Capitol.  Here, as elsewhere,
those who pander to the caprices of men
are the women who win, while those who
maintain a firm integrity to principle are
generally unheard and unheeded.  It is
enough to make one exclaim in the lan-
guage of the Psalmist, "How long!  O Lord,
how long?"
	The short session of Congress this year,
and the great amount of work to be done,
causes some strong arguments to be used
on questions to be discussed, and this spar-
ring is really entertaining, if one could
only have time to hear it.  But we came
here for a purpose, and consequently cannot
devote much time to any question, except
such as bears upon our own.
 In the Riggs House, where Mrs. Williams
and I are staying, there are great men
stopping, whom we have a good opportunity
of seeing as they sit at dinner, or in the
parlors. Vice-President Wheeler and At-
torney-General Devens take their meals in
the large and elegant dining-room where
we take ours.  There are also Senators and
Representatives from several States; some
have brought their families and some are
here alone.
	Most of the ladies dress very elegantly.
Many of them are very tall, and I have no-
ticed that there are many more elderly
ladies than young ones; also that the mem-
bers of Congress are in a large proportion
men advanced in years, whose locks are
grey, and who are undoubtedly possessed
of great wisdom and large experience in
politics and matters of state.
 The ladies devote themselves to society,
and spend most of their time in making
elaborate toilettes, calling and receiving
and at evening parties in honor of each
other.  Occasionally there is a grand wed-
ding, where the silks, satins, flowers, laces
and velvets abound still more profusely.
	There are two ladies of talent, each highly
gifted in her own art, in the Hotel, who
have both been particularly kind to us.
Mrs. Morrell, a painter and a real artist,
whose pictures are not only beautiful, but
many of them are historical, is one of these.
She speaks French and German, has trav-
eled on the continent, in fact resided in
Paris and other famous cities of the Old
World, and has all the polish of a true
Frenchwoman.  The other is a writer of
rare ability, quite young and very popular,
whose letters from Washington are espe-
cially entertaining.  These two ladies we
shall always remember with pleasure.
							AUNT EM.
