HOME AFFAIRS.
PRESIDENT ELIZA R. SNOW has been visit-
ing Relief Societies in Weber Co., and holding
meetings In the various settlements for more
than a week past.
SISTERS ZINA D. YOUNG, M. I. Horne and
E. S. Taylor visited the R. S. in Tooele and
held a meeting there on Saturday, returning on
Monday the 10th inst.
WE trust our patrons will excuse any seeming
neglect in publishing R.S. Reports and notices
of mass meetings in the various stakes and
towns as we have so recently returned and find
so much copy awaiting publication that we
have scarcely had time to arrange it all proper-
ly.  Our correspondents must not think their
letters lost or rejected because they have not
yet appeared; for our desk is full, and we will
answer those that require answers just as
soon as possible.  Meantime we hope we shall
still be favored with their future correspond-
ence; the more we have to select from the bet-
ter; and we shall seek to cull the very choicest
articles of prose and poetry.
ON Thursday, Feb. 6, we attended a special
meeting of the Relief Society, held in Union
Hall, in Ogden City.  Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
President of the Weber Co. R. S., presided.
There was a large and attentive assembly.
After the usual exercises of singing and prayer
Mrs. Richards made a few opening remarks,
and was followed by Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs.
Zina Young Williams.  These ladies gave a
short sketch of their trip to Washington, and
their interviews with some of the leading men
of the nation. President Eliza R. Snow was
the principal speaker on the occasion, she gave


items of her experience in Missouri and Illinois,
when she had sought for justice at the hands
of leading men in those States. She
spoke strongly and earnestly upon home
industries and urged the sisters to use
their utmost powers to help in establishing
home manufacturers. Elder Franklin D. Rich-
ards made a few closing remarks in which he
expressed himself in regard to the work in 
which the sisters are engaged. For all good
words of appreciation and encouragement from
men and especially brethren, we feel truly glad,
for woman's cause and man's cause is insepar-
able, and must be a mutually co-operative
work.


