		MARY CAHOON.


ANY ONE ordering the "National Citizen"
with "Woman's Words" will be sent both
papers one year, postage paid, for $1.50,
thus saving fifty cents on the two subscrip-
tions.
	MINORITY REPORT ON SIXTEENTH
AMENDMENT.—The minority report of Sen-
ate Committee on Privileges and Elections
in favor of a sixteenth amendment to the
Constitution, protecting women citizens in
the right of suffrage, was made Saturday
morning, February 1st, by Hon. George F.
Hoar, of Mass. It had been waiting only
for the signature of Senator Cameron, of
Wisconsin, who was absent.
	The report will therefore be presented to
the Senate the first week in February. It
occupies about thirty-five pages of manu-
script, and will probably make about ten
pages of octavo print. It will be electro-
typed at the Government Printing Office,
and, with Senator Wadleigh's adverse re-
port, will be added to the pamphlet of ar-
guments before Senate Committee on Privi-
leges and Elections in behalf of a sixteenth
amendment by delegates to the Tenth
Washington Convention of the National
Woman Suffrage Association, January 11th
and 12th, 1878.
	The volume will thus consist of about
sixty pages, and will be standard material
for carrying on Woman Suffrage campaigns
until the victory is won.
	The friends of woman suffrage cannot
more effectually advance the interests of
women than to send money to the Treasurer
of the National Association, Mrs. Ellen
Clarke Sargent, 1733 De Sales street, Wash-
ington, D. C., to print this material. While
ten thousand copies could be immediately
used to advantage in preparing friends of
woman suffrage for an intelligent advance
upon the Forty-sixth Congress, for want of
means only one thousand copies can now be
printed. Thus at every step of this reform
want of money bars the work. Single
printed copies of the minority[-]report only
will be mailed to any one who encloses a
stamped envelope, properly addressed to
the applicant, to Mrs. Sara Andrews Spen-
cer, Spencerian Business College, Washing-
ton, D. C., after February 20th.—Ex.


