Living in Memories By LaVon Spencer ELL me, Grandma, what you keep looking at the fire for and are so still and sad. You haven't spoken a word for over an hour, but have just sat watching the flames crackle in the fireplace. Aren't you feeling well?" As these words from my little granddaughter met my ears I quickly brought myself back from the land of memory to look into her wide, curious eyes and answer with a gentle smile. "No my dear, it isn't that I'm not feeling well. Grandma was just playing over some old, old records on her memorygraph. Do you know that you have a memorygraph all your own? You haven't many records to play on yours as yet but when you grow to be an old lady like I am, you will have a great many priceless records stored away and you will love to play them over and over especially when you get so you can't get out and enjoy yourself." "Where do you get the records, Grandma?" "Just by living your life through, my dear. Some of the most beautiful records are made by just living naturally with a happy smile on your face, and the utmost faith that life is just what you make it." "Play me some of your records— some of the prettiest ones." FOR two fast flying hours I played my favorite records to her. Some of them were "School Days", "Pals", "The Old Home”, "Mother", "Sweethearts", and all the things we naturally hold closest to our hearts and love to dream about. As I looked into her young and innocent face I could not help wishing that I had taken more of the opportunities that had come my way so that I would have had a larger supply of beautiful memories upon which I might ponder now that my years are but few to live. If young people could be made to understand that someday they will have plenty of time to think of all the acts and deeds they do in their lifetime they would be more willing to help, more happy in their companionships, and would surely take better advantage of the opportunities that come their way. Young people fail to appreciate the glorious privilege of living. They are too occupied with the worries and vexations of living today to think of building up memories for tomorrow.