Notes to the Field
Our Literary Course
We suggest that those who have the time would do well to read the following list to fit them for the Literary Work in our organization this winter:
Reading List Text. The Story of the World's Literature......................Macy Matthew Arnold Sohrab and Rustum. Tennyson Ulysses The Princess Shakespeare Julius Caesar The Tempest Emerson Self-Reliance Compensation Ibsen Brand Peer Gynt Plutarch's "Lives" Julius Caesar Mark Antony Brutus The Bible Book of Ruth Book of Job Book of Proverbs Psalms Songs of Solomon Sappho Poems Keats Ode on a Grecian Urn Plato The Death of Socrates.
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Contest Announcement, 1933
The General Board conducts the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Poem Contest annually. Two prizes are awarded—a first prize consisting of $20, and a second prize consisting of $10. The prize poems are published each year in the January issue of the Relief Society Magazine. Other poems of merit not winning special awards, receive honorable mention. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, and to pay for the published poems at the regular Magazine rates. The contest opens each year upon publication of the announcement in the August number of the Relief Society Magazine, and closes October 15.
Rules of the Contest
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem should not exceed fifty lines, and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done it should be legibly written.
4. The sheet on which the poem is written should be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. Only one side of the paper should be used.
6. Each poem must be accompanied by a stamped envelope, on which should be written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes should not be used.
7. Statement should accompany the poem that it is entered in the contest.
8. The contestant guarantees the poem submitted to be her original work, that it has never been published, that it is not now in the hands of an editor, or other person, with a view of publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted for publication until the contest is decided.
9. Members of the General Board, and persons connected with the Relief Society office force are not eligible to enter this contest.
10. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
11. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person selected from the English department of a reputable educational institution, and one from among the group of persons who are recognized as writers.
12. The poems must be submitted not later than October 15.
13. All entries should be addressed to Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Relief Society Song Contest
One hundred and sixty-three songs have been entered in the Relief Society Song Contest. We appreciate the wide interest taken in this activity. Announcement of the winner will be made at the October Relief Society Conference.