[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Dyer]
[Recipes From the West Germ.an Mission Bernice O. Dyer]
cJhe    vi/est   i^ennan    1 1  iission 
Preston  R.  Nihley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
npHE  First  Presidency  announced,  on  December  2,  1937,  the  formation 
of  a  new  mission — the  West  German— with  Philemon  M.  Kelly  as 
president.  President  Kelly,  who  had  been  presiding  over  the  East  German 
Mission,  with  headquarters  in  Berlin,  moved  to  Frankfort  am  Main  during 
the  first  week  of  January  1938,  and  began  to  organize  the  new  mission. 
Elder  Sanford  M.  Bingham  was  chosen  as  the  secretary  of  the  West 
German  Mission,  and  Fred  William  Babbel  as  secretary  to  the  mission 
president.  The  new  mission  embraced  the  following  districts:  Bielefeld, 
Bremen,  Frankfort,  Hamburg,  Hannover,  Karlsruhe,  Munich,  Nuremberg, 
Ruhr,  and  Stuttgart. 
President  Kelly  was  released  as  president  of  the  West  German  Mis- 
sion in  June  1938,  and  was  succeeded  by  M.  Douglas  Wood.  President 
Wood  and  the  missionaries  were  prospering  in  their  work  when  the  great 
World  War  II  broke  out  in  fury  in  September  1939.  The  First  Presidency 
promptly  ordered  all  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries,  who  were  not  citizens 
of  Germany,  to  leave  Germany  and  gather  in  Holland  or  Denmark.  This 
order  was  carried  out,  and  the  American  missionaries  were  soon  returned  to 
Dolf  Siebert,  Dusseldorf 
Submitted  by  Bernice  O.  Dyer 
AFTERNOON   STROLL   ALONG   THE    RHINE    RIVER, 
DUSSELDORF,  GERMANY 
Page  366

THE  WEST  GERMAN  MISSION 
367 
Josef  Muench 
VILLAGE  OF  TODTNAU  IN  THE  BLACK  FOREST,  GERMANY 
the  United  States.  The  West  German  Mission  was  left  to  the  care  of  local 
brethren,  who  were  directed  during  the  war  by  Thomas  E.  McKay  from 
the  Church  headquarters  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
For  a  number  of  years  the  great  war  engulfed  Europe,  then,  on  the 
2d  of  November,  1946,  it  was  announced  in  the  Church  Section  of  the 
Deseret  News  that  a  new  mission  president  had  been  appointed  for  the 
West  German  Mission: 
'Tor  the  first  time  in  more  than  seven  vears,  the  West  German  Mis- 
sion,  with  headquarters  in  Frankfort,  will  have  a  president  assigned  from 
the  stakes  of  Zion.  He  is  Bishop  Jean  Wunderlich  of  the  Las  Flores  Ward 
of  Pasadena  Stake." 
President  Wunderlich  presided  over  the  West  German  Mission  until 
October  1950,  when  he  was  succeeded  by  Edwin  O.  Cannon;  President 
Cannon  was  succeeded  in  December  1953  by  Kenneth  B.  Dyer;  President 
Dyer  was  succeeded  in  July  1957  by  Theodore  M.  Burton,  who  presides 
at  the  present  time. 
On  December  31,  1957,  there  were  5,827  members  of  the  Church  in 
the  West  German  Mission,  located  in  58  branches. 
Seventy-one  Relief  Society  organizations,  with  869  members,  were 
reported  in  December  1957.  Minnie  Susan  P.  Burton  presides  over  the 
West  German  Mission  Relief  Society. 
Note:  The  Co\er  for  this  Afagaziue,  A  View  in  Rothcnburg,  West  Germany,  was 
submitted  by  Bernice  O.  Dyer,  former  president  of  the  West  German  Mission  Relief 
Soeiety.  See  also,  "Recipes  From  the  West  German  Mission,"  by  Sister  Dyer, 
page  379.