[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Rubin]
[POETRY As I Pass By — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart 345 What Grower's Children by Iris W. Schow, 351, Garden Rendezvous by Eva Willis Wangsgaard 357, And seek No More by Velma Simonsen 382 Lullaby of Silence By Maude Rubin]
Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
jyrRS.   RUTH   MAY  FOX,  who 
was  Utah's  oldest  citizen,  died 
April  12,  1958,  at  the  age  of  104. 
She  has  290  living  descendants.  She 
was  a  member  of  the  general  presi- 
dency of  the  Young  Women's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association  for 
thirtv  vears,  and  when  seventy-five 
years  old  became  president  of  that 
organization.  A  natural  leader,  she 
was  a  woman  of  many  talents 
especially  in  the  fields  of  writing, 
speaking,  and  homemaking.  She 
was  the  author  of  the  words  of  that 
stirring  song,  ''Carry  On."  She  was 
a  spiritual,  inspirational,  practical, 
and  delightfully  witty  person,  great- 
ly admired  and  loved. 
]Y|RS.  ELSIE  RICHARDS  KOH- 
^  ^  LER  (Mrs.  Albert  F.  Kohler) 
of  Midway,  Utah's  Mother  of  the 
Year,  is  the  mother  of  twelve 
children  and  foster  mother  to  an- 
other ''son,"  and  through  the  years 
has  been  active  in  Church,  civic, 
and  intellectual  life.  She  was  a 
Relief  Society  officer  and  teacher  for 
thirty-five  }ears.  As  a  girl,  she 
earned  her  education  money  by  baby 
sitting  and  helping  busy  mothers. 
Her  children  are  highly  educated 
and  are  outstanding  in  various  fields 
all  useful  to  humanity.  Mrs.  Fern 
Lewis  Brockbank  of  Spanish  Fork, 
an  outstanding  mother,  Church 
worker,  and  community  leader,  was 
named  alternate  Mother. 
p  R  I  N  C  E  S  S  MARGRETHE 
^  ALEXANDRINE  TORHIL- 
DUR  INGRID  (familiarly  called 
"Daisy"),  daughter  of  Frederik  IX, 
and  heir  to  the  Danish  throne,  be- 
came eighteen  years  old  in  April, 
1958.  At  Christiansborg  Palace,  she 
was  formally  introduced  to  the 
Council  of  State  and  signed  an  oath 
to  uphold  the  Danish  Constitution. 
She  received  the  designation  "Tron- 
folger,"  future  Queen. 
lyiRS.  ANNIE  SCHENK  HUM- 
PHREY, ninety-two,  former 
World  War  I  army  nurse  and  later 
an  assistant  national  director  of  the 
American  Red  Cross  Nursing  Serv- 
ices, died  in  February  1958  in  the 
Veterans  Hospital  at  Perr}^  Point, 
Maryland,  and  was  buried  in  Arling- 
ton National  Cemetery. 
pDNA  FERBER,  popular  as  an 
American  novelist  for  several 
generations,  has  written  a  new  novel, 
\cQ  Pdace  about  Alaska  and  people 
living  there. 
rjAME  EDITH  SITWELL,  Great 
Britain's  distinguished  poet,  has 
given  some  moving  readings  of  her 
own  and  other  poets'  work  and  has 
given  some  enlightening  and  inci- 
sive comments  on  poetry  over  the 
National  Education  Television  Net- 
work, a  rare  treat  to  the  countless 
listeners. 
Page  373