[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Young]
LESSON DEPARTMENT These can be made easily by using stencils and tape. A useful visual aid for Lesson 21— "How Do I Rate?" will be found in the social science lesson itself for May 1959 to be published in FebTuary 1959. Magazine Representatives and Secretaries These leaders could make use of posters or charts to stimulate interest in their work, to clarify or put across an idea in one fleeting glance, or to introduce or present information in a tabulated or methodical form. Music Leaders will find material in the text, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall, which can be used as visual aids in their departments. Flash cards may be used before the group to give a_ brief message, or they may be used for emphasis regarding individual tresponsibilities. 401 Lesson previews appear far enough in advance of the time the lessons are presented to acquaint teachers with the year's course of study, so that they may be alert to collect pictures, articles, and various aids which will enrich their lessons. Class leaders are expected to use suggestions which have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in previous years, and to plan visual aids to fit their particular situations in keeping with the standards of Relief Society. Layton, Leone G.: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27. Layton, Leone G.: "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418. Exvuiott, Epiru S.: "Teaching Aids for 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400. Eyrinc, Miiprep B.: "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403. * « Eyrinc, Mixiprep B.: "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475. Younc, Mary R.: "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398. > Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Elder Roy W. Doxey HERE were some suggestions made in the preview of last year's lessons that will continue to be applicable each year we study The Doctrine and Covenants. We hope that the five points quoted below from that preview will continue to be fully noted for application. To us living in the year 1957, the Lord has provided in his book of revelations: (1) the counsel of our all-wise Father whose object is to bring joy into the lives of his children today by their following instructions given to individuals, groups of persons, and the Church over a century ago; (2) a knowledge of how to live in this present world of uncertainty and insecurity; (3) the meaning of world conditions and events; (4) a philosophy of life that enables one to see God's justice and purposes for mankind; 402 (5) a spirit of conversion to the truthseeker which bears witness that Jesus is the Chnst and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1957, page 403). These same purposes are found in the revelations outlined for study this year. 'There have been included some revelations which were omitted from the chronological sequence studied last year. Sections 7, 11, 15, and 16 are in this group. The revelations studied to the present have been preparatory to the organization of the Church. 'The lessons in this series are divided almost equally between that period and the post-Church organization period. From the beginning, the Lord revealed the blessings which would follow adherence to the principles of righteousness. 'The first lesson for this year is written principally from one verse of Section 11. 'This verse sets before us the great reward offered the sons and daughters of God if they are obedient to his word. In preparation for that lesson, it is suggested that every member of the Relief Society memorize this important truth: Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D & C 11:7). There is considerable satisfaction in memorizing some of the great truths from the scriptures, especially when they give encouragement and faith to carry on in the only true way of life. Many persons came to the Prophet Joseph Smith seeking answers to questions. One of the most common questions raised at this early RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 period seemed to concern the desires held by those persons. The prophets have said much about this subject. 'The lesson about the desire of the people to serve in the Gospel Plan is an attempt to answer a number of questions where the desires of people affect their salvation. We are also to learn' about the importance of missionary work, and why we are of great worth in the sight of the Lord. An important revelation on doctrine provides us with a reason why the Lord declared to Joseph Smith that the creeds of men were an abomination in his sight. With Lesson 13 and the remaining lessons for this year, emphasis is placed upon basic instructions regarding Church organization and its successful functioning as the kingdom of God. Additional important gospel teachings are set forth; the opportunities and_ privileges of Church membership are made known; the importance of the sactrament is indicated; and the final lesson deals with items of counsel to the Relief Society, together with a discussion of the callings received by Emma Smith. The sections omitted from the chronological sequence in this new — series are numbers 23 and 24. The lessons for 1958-59 have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 9—"... Behold, He That Hath Eternal Life Is Rich" (D & C 11:7). (D & C, Sections 11:7; 14) Objective: "And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D & C 14:7). LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 10—The Desire to Serve in the Gospel Plan (D & C, Sections 7 and 11) Objective: "If you will live for the blessings you desire, you will obtam them" (Joseph Smith, Sr. To Brigham Young). Lesson 11—The Worth of Souls (D & C, Sections 15, 16, and 18) Objective: "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God" (D & C 18:10). Lesson 12—A Message From Him Who Is Eternal (D & C, Section 19) Objective: To indicate that by modern revelation the Lord has leavened the religious world. Lesson 13—The Church Organized in the Last Dispensation (D & C, Sections 20:1-36; 21) Objective: To emphasize the preparations made for the formal organizing 403 of the Church and to indicate a relationship between the teachings of The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon. Lesson 14—The Responsibilities of the Members of the Church (D & C, Section 22; 20:37-84; 26) Objective: To set forth Priesthood responsibilities that mothers might teach their children. Lesson 15—The Sacrament (D & C, Section 27:1-4; 20:75-79) Objective: 'To emphasize the reason for partaking of the sacrament, and of the necessity to be worthy to receive it. Lesson 16—The Revelation to Emma Hale Smith (D & C, Section 25) Objective: "And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better' (D & C 25:10). Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Christine H. Robinson ACH generation is faced with its own problems and with the need for making its own special decisions. 'The present generation, with the complexities of modern life, must make unusually important decisions. 'Today's world is filled with uncertainties. Conflicting ideologies and advances in scientific helds have brought new problems and new responsibilities to the individual. In order to solve these modern-day problems _ effectively, and to shoulder these new responsibilities, each. Individual must have a deep-rooted faith in the divinity of our Lord and Savior and in his plan of salvation. In order to live a happy and useful life each individual must have an appreciation for the spiritual values of life. The 1958-59 visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From 'The Doctrine and Covenants," provide solid source foundations on which to base the solutions to many present-day problems. 'These modernday messages give counsel, and ad- 404 vice, and encouragement, and, as instructions from 'The Doctrine and Covenants, come directly from our Father in heaven — the source of all wisdom. This year's messages provide fundamental counsel on the importace of prayer. 'They counsel us to keep always a prayer in our hearts and thus enjoy spiritual strength, comfort, and courage. 'These messages point out that affliction, which can come to any of us, actually can bring us closer to the Lord. 'These messages admonish us to "beware of pride" lest it become a tool of temptation in Satan's hands. We are reminded to search our souls and make sure we do not seek to counsel the Lord. 'The messages tell us what we must do, if we would merit mighty blessings from our Father in heaven. 'They give us the simple but effective formula for gaining one of the Lord's choicest blessings, peace within our souls. These "Truths to Live By" point the way to a happy, more abundant life. 'They emphasize the fact that happiness is not dependent upon wealth or worldly success — nor upon the accomplishment of great deeds — but, rather, upon simple, everyday kindnesses and small personal victories — virtues which lie within the reach of each and every one of us. By applying the truths in these messages to our lives, our faith in the inspired word of the Lord should increase and we should develop firm and lasting testimonies of his divinity. 'These messages should impress us with the love and concern of our Father in heaven for us his children, and, through this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 realization, we should strive to live in accordance with his teachings. This year, as in the previous year, the material used to highlight the messages is of a practical nature aimed at helping each sister visualize how the message can be applied to her individual life. Each message contains a true life incident illu-— strating how the message has influenced others and, thereby, by personal application, how it may influence us. The messages and their objectives for the year 1958-s9 are as follows: Message 9—""Yea, Whosoever Will Thrust in His Sickle and Reap, the Same Is Called of God" (D & C 14:4). Objective: 'To show that both through active Church work and through selfless service to others, we can all help in the Lord's work. Message 10—"'Remember the Worth of Souls Is Great in the Sight of God" (D & C 18:10). Objective: To show the importance of saving souls. Message 11—"... I Will Bless All Those Who Labor in My Vineyard With a Mighty Blessing..." (D & C 21:9). Objective: To show how we can labor in the Lord's vineyard and qualify for a mighty blessing. Message 12—"Learn of Me, and Listen to My Words; Walk in the Meekness of My Spirit, and You Shall Have Peace in Me" (D & C 10,220 Objective: To show that the only sure way to have peace within one's soul is through learning and keeping God's teachings. LESSON DEPART MENT Message 3 Seek Not to Counsel Your Cod" (D&C 22: iy. Objective: To emphasize the imortance of seeking the Lord's counMessage 1477 °° Beware of Pride, Shouldst Enter Into Temptation" (D&C 23:0)" Objective: To show that Satan uses pride to tempt us and that "Pride before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall" (Prov. Message is— Pray Always, and I 405 Will Pour Out My Spirit Upon You, and Great Shall Be Your Blessing.-- (D&C 19:38): Objective: To emphasize the importance of constant, sincere prayetMessage 16—"Be Patient in Afflictions, fOr Thou Shalt Have M But Endure Them, for, lo, I am With Thee, Even Unto the End of Thy Days" (D&C 24:8). Objective: To show that afflictions are a normal part of life's experiences and can be the basis of great blessings if we trust in the Lord. (Vork Meeting— Nene a Home Preview of Discussions for 1958-59 Vesta Wright Barnett for a long time that there ls nO ome is of prime importance. The provides the "rowing ground" to help each mem: ber of a family develop into the nest individual possible. We must be aware of the importance of good home management. We must also recognize that home management 18 q skill that can be acquired, if one is willing to cam emcee study tO quire it. It has been said that men, women, and children, in any family unit, ate not getting 4 full share of life if only their food, shelter, and clothing needs are satisfied. It 18 also the homemaker s function to consider in her planning the mental and spititual well-being of family members. The home management discussions this year have been planned to show the part good management can to help her realize the importance of her role as the homemaker, and to assist her i the management of daily family problems, such as money, ume, attitudes, ambitions, knowledge, skills, and energy in such 4 manner as to provide for each family member the ercatest possible erowth and development. Titles for the 1958-59 course of discussions are as follows: Discussion 1. Managing 4 Home Discussion 2. Setting Goals lm Homemaking _ Managing Responstpilities of the Homemaker Discussion WN 406 Discussion 4. Qualities of the Effective Home Manager Discussion 5. Operating the Household. Discussion 6. Making the Most of Time and Energy Discussion 7. Food Planning and Preparation I Discussion 8. Clothing the Family. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Bibliography CRANDALL, ELizaBeTH, and Gross, Irma: Management for Modern Families, Appleton Century-Crafts, Inc., New York. GoopyEar, Marcaret R., and Kionr, Mivpren: Managing for Effective Living, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York. NIcKELL, PAuLena, and Dorsey, JEAN Murr: Management in Family Living, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York. DY egeeA ee Literature— Meet the New World Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HROUGH accumulating July 24 celebrations and less formal moments of reminiscence, it has become comfortably easy for Latterday Saints to speak in revered tones of Latter-day Saint forefathers who came to "the Valley" in 1847 and before the advent of the railroad as the pioneers, almost as if there had been no others; almost as if they had originated in a vacuum; as if in predominant measure the truths Latter-day Saints hold most dear had their beginnings with them. While the magnificence of their accomplishment should never for a moment be forgotten nor minimized, neither should their own considerable debts to their forefathers remain unacknowledged or unrespected. At no time since the Renaissance has modern man lived "by bread alone" or by spirit alone. America's heritage, rich and proud as it is, has achieved its enduring greatness by combining its various values into a pattern complex yet balanced. Nor are America's values only economic or political, imaginative or spiritual: they are all inclusive, and as varied as her people. And the best, the greatest of these endure because they are stated in the "great and marching words" which for centuries have formed the collective heart of the people of the United States. It is these words which, in each generation, become indispensable to all those sincerely seeking to define relationship to the past, that they might grant it honor in their hearts or by their deeds. From its beginning, American literature has been built of the bone of the age out of which it came. While its aesthetic or imaginative qualities have sometimes been weak, sometimes scarcely present at all, it has never forgotten its responsibility to the society which produced it, not only to muror the fears and LESSON DEPARTMENT hopes and beliefs of its age, but to create them. In studying periods of literature earlier than our own, we can never earn true insight and understanding if our dominant intent is to judge earlier periods by present values, so that we may point out how different they were, how superior we are. We should, for the moment, forget ourselves—as we strive to think, to feel, to hope as we would have done had we lived in the writer's own age, he being our neighbor. Finally, American literature is not merely a branch of English literature, to be measured by the achievements of the great English writers or by the degree to which American literature conforms to the workings of the English mind. 'To say that American literature is only Finglish, is as foolish as to say that citizens of the United States are only American. 'They are made up of English and many other citizens as well; all transformed into the unique newness which can only be defined as American. Actually, a literature can be compared to no other standard but itself, nor be measured by any measure but its own. As we studied English literature, our reward came when we gradually realized that, being created out of its own world, it was unique. Likewise the world of Shakespeare we found to be unique unto itself, and so it is with American literature. Similar, yes, yet how different. And in that difference lies that genius which is peculiarly America's own. It is this which, through our own creative reading efforts, we will strive to possess, and to gain an insight which, in its depth and splen- 407 dor, will be its own sustaining reward. During the first year of this new course, we shall consider the Renaissance, or "great awakening" and its influence in freeing mankind from a dark and medieval world. We shall find that the brave explorers of uncharted lands and seas were inspired by the new knowledge that the world was not small and restricted as conceived by the medieval mind; and that those seeking religious freedom, were moved by that part of the Renaissance tradition which freed man from the dominance of one authoritarian church and led him to think and act for himself. We shall recall the historical events contemporary with and following the Reformation and discuss the religious movements which were the outgrowth of this great religious revolt. Recalling these facts we shall be reassured that the Reformation and discovery of America were not only significant historical events, but were essential factors in the restoration of the gospel upon the American Continent; that without freedom of thought and action the gospel could not have been restored or lived. Against this background of discovery and widened horizons of thought, emerge great and interesting men and women whose recorded words constitute the beginnings of America's literature. Acknowledging an indebtedness to the Old World, we now turn our hearts and our interest to the people of the New World who evolved a literature which was distinctly and unmistakably their own. The lessons and objectives for the first year are as follows: 408 Lesson 1—The American Dream (Text, pp. 1-4; 33-36) Objective: 'To review the roles of adventure, financial gain, and _ religious freedom in bringing the first explorers and settlers to the shores of what now constitutes the United States. Lesson 2—Calvinist, Puritan, Pilgrim ('Text, pp. 4-10; 36-44) Objective: To relate New England Puritanism to its origins and to its contrasting contemporary beliefs. Lesson 3—Roger Williams and the Puritan Theocracy (Text, pp. 10-11; 45-49) Objective: To realize that our present-day broad freedoms were first won by Roger Williams as he successfully resisted ecclesiastical controls of conscience. Lesson 4—Some Puritan Women (Text, pp. 11, 53, 54, 55°57) Objective: Through glimpses into the hives of Puritan women, to acknowledge some of the common bonds which tie them to their sisters, regardless of time. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Lesson 5—I'wo Puritan Poets: Wigglesworth and Taylor (Text, pp. 50-53; 57-60) Objective: To contrast two different modes of Puritan poetry. Lesson 6—The Mather (Text, pp. 12-14; 61-73) Dynasty Objective: To become more familiar with the Puritan theocracy as exemplied in three generations of the Mathers. Lesson 7—Young Jonathan Edwards (Text, pp. 83-84) Objective: To understand Puritanism more fully as revealed in young Jonathan Edwards. Lesson 8—Jonathan Edwards, Puritan (Text, pp. 4-95 ) Objective: To see in Jonathan Edwards a harmonizing of various phases of New England Puritanism. Note: The special teaching aid packet for the literature lessons, being prepared by Brigham Young University, and described on page 400 of this issue of the Magazine, will be available September 1, 1958. Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Elder John Farr Larson There is no substitute for the home. And its mission has been ordained of God from the earliest times.. Its foundation is as ancient as the world,.. From that day to the present, the home has been the chief characteristic of superior over inferior nations. The home then is more than a habitation, it is an institution which stands for stability and love in individuals as well as in nations (Joseph F. Smith: Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 300). Att things established by the Lord have been founded on law and order, and the family is no exception. Family ties begin, operate, and dissolve according to law, both spiritual and temporal. 'The strength and effectiveness of these ties depend largely on obedience to prescribed laws governing family living. This requires a constant process of education and growth most of which is established and promoted by par- LESSON DEPARTMENT ents. It has been observed by experts that even small changes in parental attitudes, understanding, and conduct can improve the child's adjustment. Each can complement the other. To mature and "grow up" at proper tempo requires careful training and the kind of discipline which will eventually lead to self-discipline and self-mastery. This includes education in the art of living. There is a need to restore and keep father in his rightful place as head of the household, with mother as his teammate, assisting and sustaining him. If their efforts appear united to their children and they move consistently in the right direction, children will grow in respect, deference, and admiration for their parental influence. 'They will sense the security of counsel and leadership. When it becomes necessary to apply the parental brake, family ties are sometimes strained. But if satisfactory parent-child telationships have been established from the beginning, youth will accept limitations, knowing they exist for a wise and protective purpose. It is often too late to begin to establish this relationship after children find themselves in serious trouble because of lack of controls. If Latter-day Saint families are to achieve their maximum potential in family living, they must grow together—not apart. "'And the spirit and the body are the soul of man" (D & C 88:15). If we are to progress and grow as "whole" individuals, we must educate the spirit along with the mind. If we can possess good mental and physical health, much stress and strain can be eliminated from the family circle. 'The total training of mind, body, spirit, 409 and personality represents a fulltime assignment for family members. If we can strike the right balance of work and play, the practical and the artistic, the spiritual and the temporal, the intellectual and the physical, our efforts will pay rich dividends in family living. Conscious planning and pursuit are required; the non-essential must be weeded out. But if the spirit of the Lord directs our efforts, the whole program can be a joyous one. How well we succeed may never be entirely evident, but a frequent reevaluation will help us know our progress in some measure. 'The social science lessons for this concluding year on the "Latter-day Saint F'amily" will attempt to help point the way and suggest a check sheet for evaluation. The lesson titles and objectives for 1958-59 follow: Lesson 15—The Family Ties Objective: To obtain an awareness of family ties and to know of their strength in meeting family problems. Lesson 16—"The Law Also Maketh You Free" Objective: To show the relationship between law and the family. Lesson 17—Weighed in the Balances Objective: To learn of the factors which influence deviate behavior, and how they may be used advantageously in the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency. Lesson 18—The Restraining Hand Objective: To learn the role of discipline as an influence in our lives. Lesson ig—"We Seek After These Things" 410 Organ Collections for the Church and Home — AT THE CONSOLE—Felton 2.00 — CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser.. 1.50 — DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM—Asper — --.--- 2.50 — EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES—Nolte 1.50 — FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3— Oe eeea. 1.50 — ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 a. ORGAN VISTAS—Presser 1.50 2 ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1 & 2—Schreiner ea. 3.50 — REED ORGAN PLAYER— —————EEE——— 1.00 — REED ORGAN SELECTIONS— I ee 1.00 — 70 SOLOS FOR HAMMOND OR REED ORGAN 1.25 — 33 FAVORITE SOLOS FOR CHURCH AND GENERAL USE 1.50 The above organ collections are a very small part of our organ stock. We carry a large stock of books for every make of organ. Try us for your musical needs. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank AYNES MUSIC COMPANY 5 E. Lst South alt Lake City 11, Utah wo Please send the music indicated above. CL] On Approval [] Charge LJ] Money Enclosed ao > a. A = r " a" Daynes Mace, AUTUVTETTVTTTTITIN 7s 4s: seen 145 WORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Objective: To illustrate the impertance of wholesome educational influence in the home. Lesson 20—"A Principle With Promise" Objective: To illustrate the importance of health and recreation in finding "a fulness of joy." Lesson 21—How Do I Rate? Objective: To provide an inventory for self-evaluation in family living. Notes on the Jian of the A hme HIS year there is only one author who has not previously been represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Mrs. Vesta Wright Barnett, author of the work meeting discussions, follows. ESTA Wright Barnett, author of the discussions recommended for work meeting, "Managing a Home," was born in Lincoln, Idaho, the sixth child in a family of eight, born to Moses J. And Sarah Stanger Wright. Her father died when she was twelve, and she went to Salt Lake and lived with her sister and brother-in-law, the Ebenezer J. Kirkhams, to attend the L. D. S. High School. She attended Ricks College for two years and then the Brigham Young University from which she received the B. S. And M. Ed. Degrees. She also did graduate work in home economics at the University of California in Los Angeles. She taught in Iona and Lincoln, Idaho, and Nephi, NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS Utah. In 1935 she went to Wyoming as a home demonstration agent for the Extension Service of the University of Wyoming, serving in Lincoln and Uinta counties. Sister Barnett is the wife of Owen L. Barnett, professor of Educational Administration at the Bngham Young University. He had four children at the time of their marriage: Wilmer L., Maurice, Maunel Williams, and Arlene Riley. The voungest daughter, Arlene, was eight vears old at the time of their marriage. Thev have had two daughters, Barbara fifteen. And May twelve, students at Bngham Young High School. At the present time Sister Barnett is chairman of the Department of Economics and Management in the College of Family Livi ing at the B. Y. U. She teaches classes in Home Management and Famulv Finance. Always active in the Church. She has worked in all the auxiliary organizations. She served as president of the Palmyra Stake Primary for many vears, and has served in the Stake Y. W ALTA. Presidency i Palmyra and Utah Stakes. And on the Relief Society Stake Board in the Palmyta Stake. She has taught classes in Pnmary, Sunday School, M. I. A, and Relief Society. At the present time she is president of the University Ward Y. W. M. DA. In Utah Stake. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Eider Rov W. Doxey. Author of the theology lessons. The won Society Magazine. June 1057. Page 4 Chnistine H Seiteeen: author of the visiting teacher messages, June 1957. Page 412. 411 VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 @ LONDON TEMPLE DEDICATION We have several tours that will be in Europe for the London Temple Dedicotion. One for every pocket book. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT The Historic Train and Historic Bus tours both leave August 1, 1958. Moke your reservations early. NORTHWEST Tour to the Northwest will include Vancouver, Victoria, and Loke Tchoe, California, ete. Leave July 21, 1958 for two glorious weeks. Write or phone for free itineraries and programs of these above mentioned tours. VIDA FOX CLAWSON The Best in the West Travel With Us 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 Elder Brant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons. July 1040. Page 471. Elder John Farr Larson, author of the social science lessons, June 1956, page 412. ~~ (andal Dorothy J. Roberts Once I watched the hands of a child Destroy a rose; bruise the petaled Form, bang unlearned in pain And its dark finale. Death. Oh, uncompassionate one Who wounds by tuming away, A tenderer than a flower's heart, With as frail a gesture, but more Cruel than those vandal fingers, Wanting them mnocence. LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! Al New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE LONDON Temple Tours.00 ae $69 up Air Polar Route Write: KEITH GUDMUNDSON L. D. S. Tours 327 East Manchester Blvd. Inglewood 1, California SALT LAKE CITY Telephone DA 2-1129 LOS ANGELES Phone EM 3-2765 Telephone OR 8-2913 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah e BEAUTIFUL eo HANDY = e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles 45 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles.64 1400 to 1800 miles. 76 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 33 ee St. Lt a5, 1, vr HD) Page 412 Love Js Enough Eunice ]. Miles Our love had need of words when young, For that was when its songs were sung. But now we have matured together, And autumn gold illumes the weather. When our hearts beat in tender mood, Even lyrics may intrude, A poem frail as aspen leaf, Singing happiness and grief, Is fitting for the young to sing. We have small need of anything! Sunday Dinner an Unstitution in Our Home Mabel Law Atkinson I have always been an advocate of a lovely and special Sunday dinner. Lest I be misunderstood, let me hasten to add: a dinner mostly prepared on Saturday and not prepared on Sunday morning by the mother of the family. In the home in which I was privileged to be born and reared, along with nine others, the Sabbath was recognized as a holy day, a very special day, and a very special dinner, as the noon meal was called in the country, was revercntly and gratefully and joyously enjoyed. In fact, Sunday dinner was an institution in our home, an institution which contributed to Sabbath worship and welded us together as a family unit. I recall that those Sunday dinners meant so much to us that when one or more of our number accepted an invitation to eat at the home of a friend, it was done with a feeling of regret that we must forego the pleasure of being with our own family, dressed up and dignified, yet joyously free, enjoying a dinner that simply could not be duplicated, a warm, appetizing dinner, for Mama said we needed a good meal before we went quietly and happily back to sacrament meeting at two o'clock, and that Papa needed such nourishment also to bear up under his stern responsibilities. Never will any of us forget that meal of roast chicken and dressing, or chicken fried or stewed, or roast beef and brown gravy, with dried corn with cream sauce, mashed potatoes (creamed with separator cream), vegetables mostly of our own raising, fresh and cooked, pickles—Mama had made, home-canned or home-pickled fresh fruit, homemade bread and home-churned butter (molded with a sheaf of grain on top of each half pound), and always, always an extra special cake. Even now I can see Mama's masterpiece, three-layer yellow cake with boiled cream, vanilla-flavored filling, and sliced bananas in between the layers and on top. No wonder childhood friends loved to eat Sunday dinner with us. Sunday morning was orderly, with all of us preparing for Sunday School. Each knew his task, for our home functioned as a small democracy. Dinner would be left on the back of the stove or in the oven or warming oven of the old black Home Comfort wood-and-coal-burning range during Sunday Schol. No one was left at home to do the finishing touches, for 10 a. M. Found Papa and Mama, with all of us children, clean and shining, in our places in Sunday School, unless illness prevented. A little after twelve noon found us on our way home, where each had his part to do to get dinner on, some just tending the little ones, putting on bibs, and placing the chairs at the table, while others mashed the potatoes and did the few last touches necessary to the perfection of the meal. 'There was no dallying, nor did we feel rushed. Dinner was served family style and leisurely enjoyed with Mama a queen in her own right. I remember at those dinners it seemed we were in the presence of royalty. And who shall say we were not? We were privileged to have many wonderfully fine and chosen people in our home. Papa was superintendent of the Sunday School and a counselor in the bishopric for twenty-five years and held other offices, as well, and Mama was president of the Relief Society, and stake visitors to the different organizations and to ward conferences, ate dinner at our home, (it was near the church) and sometimes stayed overnight, for in those days they drove several miles with the horse and buggy. Always they left their blessing in our home. I remember more than once when member of the stake presidency and others in their talks in sacrament meeting told of what a wonderful housekeeper, mother, and cook Mama was; of the exceptionally good warm dinner they had enjoyed with no one staying home to prepare it. Time cannot dim, but rather enhances my memory of the joy of the Sabbath in my childhood home. Often now as my own family, which has decreased to three, sits. Down to Sunday dinner, I see again a long, simply, yet beautifully set, bourtifully Jaden table with twelve of us around it, our heads reverently bowed while the blessing is. Being said. I see Mama smiling, as her eyes, glowing with pride, happiness, and contentment, go from face to shining face, and I hear Papa say, his voice vibrant with gratitude, "Children are an heritage of the Lord. Blessed is he who hath his quiver full of them." Page 413 Temple Tour Logan, Idaho Falls, and Cardston Temples. Also includes Lake Lovise and Banff. Leaves June 2nd for 8 days. $70.00 Hawaiian Tour Leaves June 17th on the S. S. Leilani, and returns by plane, July 5th. Northwest Scenic Tour Includes Passion Play at South Dakota, Yellowstone Park, Glacier Park, Vancouver, and Victoria, B. C. 17 days for $185.50 Historical L. D. S