[Vol45 | June 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
[You Can Sew — IV. Seams and Seam Finishes Jean Ridges Jennings]

In preparation for that lesson, it is suggested that every member of the Relief Society memorize this important truth: Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D & C 11:7). There is considerable satisfaction in memorizing some of the great truths from the scriptures, especially when they give encouragement and faith to carry on in the only true way of life. Many persons came to the Prophet Joseph Smith seeking answers to questions. One of the most common questions raised at this early RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 period seemed to concern the desires held by those persons. The prophets have said much about this subject. 'The lesson about the desire of the people to serve in the Gospel Plan is an attempt to answer a number of questions where the desires of people affect their salvation. We are also to learn' about the importance of missionary work, and why we are of great worth in the sight of the Lord. An important revelation on doctrine provides us with a reason why the Lord declared to Joseph Smith that the creeds of men were an abomination in his sight. With Lesson 13 and the remaining lessons for this year, emphasis is placed upon basic instructions regarding Church organization and its successful functioning as the kingdom of God. Additional important gospel teachings are set forth; the opportunities and_ privileges of Church membership are made known; the importance of the sactrament is indicated; and the final lesson deals with items of counsel to the Relief Society, together with a discussion of the callings received by Emma Smith. The sections omitted from the chronological sequence in this new — series are numbers 23 and 24. The lessons for 1958-59 have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 9—"... Behold, He That Hath Eternal Life Is Rich" (D & C 11:7). (D & C, Sections 11:7; 14) Objective: "And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D & C 14:7). LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 10—The Desire to Serve in the Gospel Plan (D & C, Sections 7 and 11) Objective: "If you will live for the blessings you desire, you will obtam them" (Joseph Smith, Sr. To Brigham Young). Lesson 11—The Worth of Souls (D & C, Sections 15, 16, and 18) Objective: "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God" (D & C 18:10). Lesson 12—A Message From Him Who Is Eternal (D & C, Section 19) Objective: To indicate that by modern revelation the Lord has leavened the religious world. Lesson 13—The Church Organized in the Last Dispensation (D & C, Sections 20:1-36; 21) Objective: To emphasize the preparations made for the formal organizing 403 of the Church and to indicate a relationship between the teachings of The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon. Lesson 14—The Responsibilities of the Members of the Church (D & C, Section 22; 20:37-84; 26) Objective: To set forth Priesthood responsibilities that mothers might teach their children. Lesson 15—The Sacrament (D & C, Section 27:1-4; 20:75-79) Objective: 'To emphasize the reason for partaking of the sacrament, and of the necessity to be worthy to receive it. Lesson 16—The Revelation to Emma Hale Smith (D & C, Section 25) Objective: "And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better' (D & C 25:10). Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Christine H. Robinson ACH generation is faced with its own problems and with the need for making its own special decisions. 'The present generation, with the complexities of modern life, must make unusually important decisions. 'Today's world is filled with uncertainties. Conflicting ideologies and advances in scientific helds have brought new problems and new responsibilities to the individual. In order to solve these modern-day problems _ effectively, and to shoulder these new responsibilities, each. Individual must have a deep-rooted faith in the divinity of our Lord and Savior and in his plan of salvation. In order to live a happy and useful life each individual must have an appreciation for the spiritual values of life.