[Column 1]
others she has something to say. Many do
not understand the voice of nature and
either add an artificial punishment or some
corrective that in no way relates to the
offence. By way of explaining the first
thought we offer the following story: A
little boy who was forbidden to go into the
street alone was persistent in this action.
One day he came in contact with a horse
and cart and was knocked down but fortun-
ately was not injured. The mother seeing
his danger rushed out in the street and
when the frightened boy ran to meet her
she gave him a vigorous whipping.
	Now we ask was not the severe fright
from which the child suffered punishment
enough of itself? We think the natural
result of his disobedience was severe, and
sufficient to teach him his mistake; but the
punishment of his mother turned his
thoughts from it and very likely filled him
with malice and distrust.
	But I think I hear you say not all
offences are pursued to that issue where the
dire consequence is manifest. For instance
we take the familiar case of a child who
continually disregards his mother’s request
by going into the water. It may be of no
avail to tell him he will catch cold or take
some violent disease, for many children are
so blessed with health that these results do
not follow. In such a case depriving a
child of liberty by tieing him up or keeping
him in the house because he has disobeyed
the laws of liberty seems a more rational
method than whipping. Another illustra-
tion we think will serve to impress the
thought of rational punishment:
	A woman who had a large family of boys
and no girls made use of her boys in the
home. She appointed one—a lad of about
12 years—to take care of the wash tubs.
He was to put them in the cellar after
the washing and keep them there. She
explained what would happen to them
if they were left out in the sun, and gave all
the caution she thought necessary.
	However, not many days after she found
one of the tubs broken down. She did not
lose her temper and punish—she simply
told him he must try to set the tub up
again. After he had worked all the after-
noon he realized the graveness of his
neglect and was filled with regret.
	If this mother had inflicted a severe
punishment her son would very likely have
been filled with anger and would have felt
glad that her tub was destroyed.
	Those who discuss juvenile discipline
often attribute all the faults to children and
none to parents, but as we readily see that
the child is for the most part what his par-
ents have made him we do not hesitate
to say that much of the blame should go to
parents. The duties of the parent are
innumerable, but the first and most im-
portant of all, are those he owes to his
children and in this direction he should put
his best efforts.
	Perhaps the hardest and most beneficial
lesson for the mother to learn is the lesson
of self control. Some one has said that
a mother should be an angel and it seems
she would need to be if she were able
to control herself at all times. She cannot
be perfect in this respect but she can exert
herself toward this end, and by having
a definite purpose in view she can accom-
plish very much. The mother who does
this will find that she can coolly reason
when she is called upon to administer
punishment. She can look for the cause of
the disobedience and can decide on the

