[Column 2]
	Meeting opened with singing “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.”
	President Young gave a few words of
welcome, rejoiced to see the dear faces
of the sisters who had come so far to enjoy
the blessing of the conference; testified that
the spirit of God had been with His ser-
vants to reveal His holy will to His 
people, and the society had the utmost
reason to be thankful and appreciate the 
blessings bestowed upon them in these
vales of the mountains.
	Roll called and minutes read and ac-
cepted, after which the secretary also read
the “In Memoriam” of the late President
Sarah M. Kimball, as recorded in the
Society Record.
	Prest. Bathsheba W. Smith bade all
welcome, prayed that we might have a
good time and our voices be so strong that
all in the house could hear, was glad to see
so large a congregation; the society was
for the sick, the needy and unfortunate,
if we lived up to the requirements of 
the organization we would accomplish
a great and good work.
	Prest. Young then asked all sisters in the
audience over forty years of age to stand,
and it was a great majority of all assembled;
she then asked all over eighty to stand and
five sisters arose; she then spoke concerning
Joseph the Prophet and the key of knowl-
edge turned for women. Sister Zina spoke
lovingly of the late Sister Kimball, one
of the honored members of the society, who
had passed away since our last conference,
wished her to be remembered; they had
been girls together in the days of Kirtland,
some of those associated with them in
the Church had lost the faith, even some of
the “Twelve,” she was proud of the faith-
ful sisters, and added, “The Lord will
not withhold His blessings from the faith-
ful, if we ask in faith,, there are many
mothers in Israel before me today, and 
may God help us all to be faithful. Amen.”
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde in a few brief
remarks reported Sanpete Stake, and al-
luded to the faithfulness of the sisters there,
and afterwards spoke in the gift of tongues
which was interpreted by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts next gave a
report of the nurses class which she had
been teaching under the auspices of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, and
which had been a success and so help-
ful among the sick and suffering since they
had graduated in their training and com-
menced practise.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses’ class, then read a written ad-
dress giving much of the work of the
sick room in detail, which quite inter-
ested the audience in the systematic work.
	Prest. M. Isabella Horne thought there
was a larger number of sisters in attendance
than at any previous conference, in speak-
ing of our associating together and trying
to help each other she quoted the old saying
“The rebuke of a friend is better than
the kiss of an enemy.” Thought
we should not settle down and think 
all was well with us, Bishop Hunter had
said he could see a lethargy was coming
over the people, we must not fall asleep, we
must renew our faith and wake up to
the present conditions. Prest. Wilford
Woodruff had said “The sword was un-
sheathed, and the word had gone forth,”

[Column 3]
as foretold in the holy scriptures; obedi-
ence is heaven’s first law and order is
the second, we must abide by these, we
must examine and purify ourselves; let
us as a society store up wheat, the time 
is coming when we shall need it, and
the day spoken of when he who will 
not take up the sword against his neighbor
must needs flee to Zion for safety. Sis-
ter Horne added, she did not want to be
condemned for not keeping her covenants,
“we are all weak and frail, we want
more love and stronger faith in the Gospel.”
	Prest. Jane S. Richards spoke a few
words, alluded to the nursing class, what 
good they would accomplish, approved
of the work they were doing, was glad
to see so many present, while she was
speaking of Sister Riter coming forward
had thought of her father, hoped other
young women would be induced to take
part in the benevolent and charitable work,
it would be a blessing to them if they
would, she felt to have charity for all
who stood in need of assistance, no matter
who they were, they were all our Father's
children, the Savior said do good to those
who despitefully use you; we must have
greater love, love to do for all who are 
needy, sorrowing or unfortunate; it gave
her great joy to be of some service in
the great work.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p m. with
singing Doxology and benediction by Dr.
R. B. Pratt.
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by
singing “O, say what is truth.” Prayer
by Prest. Rachel R. Grant. Singing “How
firm a foundation ye Saints of the Lord.”
	The first Stake called was Alberta, Can-
ada, reported by Sister Thomas, who spoke
of their good president, Sister Mary L.
Woolf, and of Sister Zina Y. Card as
a pillar of faith among the Saints there,
and referred to the sick being healed when
the sisters anointed and prayed for them;
they were also doing what they could to
assist in erecting a building in this city for
the General Society, bore a good testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Young exhibited a piece of natural
colored silk made in St. George, and urged
putting out mulberry trees and raising silk
worms, that we may have silk to wear and
to dispose of, she had always tried to pro-
mote the silk industry and knew it would
prove a source of wealth if the people
would take hold of it and be diligent and
persevere.
	Prest. Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, related much in detail of the silk
industry in that locality, they had three
looms put up to weave silk that were doing
well, and wanted to purchase a ribbon
loom, they could make 50 per cent more on
ribbons, they expected now to do scouring
and coloring and not have to send it East
to be done; this industry will give employ-
ment to the young people that they may
earn their own living. We are told to orna-
ment ourselves with the workmanship
of our own hands; we use the Japanese
 reels. The bounty on cocoons has been
a great blessing to old and young. In
reporting the Stake the speaker said, “We
have 18 branches and 614 members 
enrolled, we travel 400 miles to visit and
have no railroad, we go 100 miles to visit
three settlements; the railroad is in pro-
gress of building now; the Lord is opening
our way, Sister McDonald is making artifi-
cial flowers, very beautiful, and we have a 
good shoe factory and other industries.”


