[Column 2]
she delighted in the work of the Lord and
in this labor of love.
	Prest. Lucy Grant reported Woodruff
Stake, it had only been organized last June,
1898, she had visited some of the branches
and was kindly received, she felt very new
to the work, but was anxious to do her
duty, and had found all the sisters willing
to assist and help the work along.
	Prest. Eliza Oram of Pocatello Stake,
Idaho, stated that the Stake was organized
last August, had visited all the branches
and found there was a good average at-
tendance of members, and there were many
good, faithful sisters, they had given liber-
ally to missionaries, had stored considerable
wheat and owned some granaries, they had
responded in four wards to the ten cent
fund and more would give, some sisters
live ten miles from a post office; she desired
to take advice and counsel from those who
presided, felt all the poor were well taken
care of.
	Wayne Stake, represented by Sister Julia
Blackburn they were encouraging young
women to join the society, they were
planting thousands of mulberry trees and
cuttings, caring for the poor and for the
sick, storing grain, building society halls;
they had many widows among them, their
president was a very humble woman who
visited the sick and all who needed comfort,
gave an excellent report. 
	Apostle F. M. Lyman who was present
in the stand responded to President Young’s
invitation to address the sisters; he said
many excellent things and gave much
valuable counsel, which was greatly appre-
ciated by the sisters who labor in the
society the speaker expressed his pleasure
in meeting with the sisters and said he, felt
it was the first and choicest section of the
Church; he had met with 74 sisters in
Tooele on Relief Society day, March 17,
and felt the day would be held sacred in
the future, thought every married wo-
man should be enrolled in the Relief So-
ciety, there should be no exception, we
should make the society popular, it is a
great thing to be registered, this society
ought to be so popular that not one woman
should be left off, there are many engaged
in this work now, but there is room for
many more, and we want to see
as many as can possibly be enlisted in
this good work and the Lord will bless
them, follow after the Priests and Prophets,
“we love the sisters and we love the Relief
Society, no section of the Church receives
such commendation as does the Relief
Society, I find it so in all my travels.”
Apostle Lyman said he came laden with
the blessing of President Lorenzo Snow
to Sister Zina, and all the sisters, they
have his love and confidence, the speaker
then blest all assembled in the name of
Jesus.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke of
her visit in Chicago, her meeting with
the sisters of the Relief Society, wanted
the sisters to remember them in their pray-
ers, Sister Rosa Smith of Nephi is presi-
dent of the Relief Society in Chicago.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, gave
out some notices of meetings, etc., and
spoke of the Relief Society in Omaha in
Denver, in Pueblo and in St. John’s,
Kansas, she also presented at the request of
the president of Panguitch Stake, the resig-
nation of Sister Barbara Myers, president
of the Relief Society of that Stake, it
was moved and seconded that she be
honorably released and that the assembly

[Column 3]
give her a vote of thanks for her faith-
ful service for many years, the vote was
unanimous. The speaker also alluded
briefly to the recent visit of the sisters
to the National Council of Women in
Washington, especially the Committee
work.
	Prest. Richards felt we had been greatly
blest in the conference, rejoiced in the
reports but realized we never had time
to hear from all, which she regreted, would
like a conference of several days, that
all might have a chance to speak, especially,
the distant ones, Sister Young feels she
is a mother to all the Relief Society. Sister
Richards sustained Brother Lyman in say-
ing all women should join the Relief
Society, young women should join, they
need it, they will learn to be liberal and
charitable in this organization; it need
not interfere with the young ladies meet-
ing in their own association the speaker
approved of boys attending these meetings,
then when they go on missions they can
give instructions. “We do not know what
is before us; I would rather feed my spirit
than my body, feel rested after a good
meeting.” Regreted that we could not
continue the conference two or three days
and get all the young folks to join us;
spoke lovingly to those from a distance.
	Prest. Young blest the sisters and prayed
they might have retentive memories, and
said, “May we be fit temples for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in, carry home the spirit of
the Lord, be punctual in your daily prayers
and you will never grow weary in the
good work, and may you live to the age of
a tree. Amen.”
	Conference adjourned until next Oc-
tober. Singing, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.” Benediction by Prest. Sarah J.
Cannon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


