WEBER STAKE.
	It may be interesting to those readers of
the “Exponent” who are laboring for
the uplifting of woman and the betterment
of the race, to learn something of the labors
of Sister Hannah Sorensen during the past
winter.
	She is an earnest worker among her
students and as usual much good has been
derived from her teachings. Although her
classes have not been large they have been
appreciated, and the seeds of purity she has
sowu in the hearts of the people of the
Weber Stake Academy, where she has been
engaged as special instructor to the young
ladies, as well, as those sisters from the
surrounding settlements who have attended
her lectures, will in future years redound to
her honor.
	The following is the program of the
closing exercises held in the hall of the
Weber Stake Academy, Friday evening,
March 31, 1896, by the combined classes of
Sister Sorensen: Introductory remarks,
Miss Cora Wilson “Woman’s Social Con-
dition of Today,” Miss Emily Tanner;
“Preparation for Marriage,” Miss Sarah
Dye; “Duties and Obligations of Wives to
Husbands,” Miss Ida Ferrin; “Training of
Children,” Miss Susie Beecroft; “Hygenic
Cooking,” Miss Eillie Smuin; “Dress,”
Miss Marguerite Thomas.
	All of the above were in the form of well
prepared papers, and exhibited great care
and a thorough knowledge of the subjects.
	A beautiful poem, “Build Well,” was re-
cited by Miss Lottie Heninger, and an


original poem addressed, to Sister Sorensen
and written by Miss Nellie Beecroft was
read by Miss Lovina Griffin.
	Remarks on the work done by Sister
Sorensen were made by Miss Milla Stevens,
Miss Sarah Larkin and Mrs. O. M. Drumi-
lor.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards commented
on the papers which had been read, and
expressed his approval of the work. Stated
that the truth imparted had been of the
grandest and purest character.
	Senator F. J. Cannon and Prof. Richard
T. Hoag both paid a high tribute to the
teacher, the students and the work. Prof.
Hoag also read a beautiful poem of his own
composition which we hope will ere long
appear in the “Exponent.”
