[Column 1]
	Sister Mary E. Cluff, one of the “aids”
in St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, spoke for the
Relief Society of that Stake, said she
thought their president and counselors
equal to the work, and the society was
in good condition, everything greatly for-
warded under Prest. Kimball, were going
to build an elevator for grain; they were
all trying to be Latter-day Saints, and
to start home industries.
	Maricopa Stake, Arizona, represented
by Sister Bergen, an “aid,” she was proud
of the society, they had 6 branches, had
lately been reorganized and felt they should
be able to advance, their’s was a semi-
tropical climate, they had not been able
to keep wheat from weevil until the Indians
taught them how to keep it in mud huts
sealed up. Prest. Hakes had been very
sick and could not come to the conference,
they had a new branch started, the “Pine.”
“The climate is two months in advance
of Utah, grain growing verdure every-
where, it is a good country for silk, we
have mulberry trees planted and intend
to push the silk industry.” Referred to
the nursing class in which she was much
interested, thought all the branches should
have the instruction, it is a labor of love,
had herself some experience in nursing.
	Bannock Stake, Idaho, was represented
by the secretary, Miss Millie Campbell, the
president, Mrs. Mary A. Call, had visited
Salt Lake at the October conference, in one
society in their county the president had
only been absent from the meeting once in
seven years, speaker bore a good testimony,
felt the Stake officers were new to the work
as they were only recently called to preside.
	Box Elder Stake was represented by
Prest. Susanna P. Booth, had been recently
reorganized because of the death of the
beloved president, Sister Olivia Wider-
borg. Sister Booth made an excellent brief
report and expressed a desire to press on-
ward in the good work in which so many
noble women were engaged, and bore a
good testimony.
	Fremont Stake, Idaho, reported by
Elizabeth Atkinson, “aid,” as the president
could not come, the president and aids had
visited all the Stake and encouraged the
sisters to be diligent, had over 1,700 bush-
els of grain stored up, and were striving to
live good and pure lives devoted to good
works.
	Los Angeles branch, California, reported
by Prest. Elizabeth Woollacott, the society
was first organized by Prest. E. H. Nye,
and it had done much to strengthen and
help the sisters. “Our teachers go out and
visit families two by two, we live far apart,
but we are progressing and gathering in
some means, we have had no poor only
exceptional cases, and therefore we have
used our means to purchase books, etc.”
They had a bazar and accumulated some
money with the disposal of articles; good
people have come to a knowledge of the
work, she had herself been a member of
the Church 48 years, bore a faithful testi-
mony.
	San Francisco branch represented by
Sister Harriet Nye, who gave a very good
account of the work in that city, and
she spoke of the society organized in Sacra-
mento and San Diego. The speaker re-
ferred to the Mission house in San Francis-
co as a home and resting place for the
Saints who visit that city and for the
traveling Elders, and spoke enthusiastically
of the joy she felt in her labors in minister-
ing to those who come from time to time;

