[Column 2]
proper punishment. She does not make
threats nor say fifty things she will re-
gret the next minute.
	On the other hand look at the mother
who knows no self control; she loses her
reason, whips, scolds, makes threats that
she never keeps and is a picture that
the child will always remember—yes and
imitate if he is ever left in control of baby
sister.
	It is this lack of self control that makes
a tyrant of the parent. A mother who
is thoughtful in dispensing reward or
punishment is a director—a sympathetic
adviser; while a parent who punishes be-
cause he feels irritable or angry is tyrrani-
cal. Parents who are swayed by differ-
ent emotions fall into many errors that tend
to make disobedient children.
	The mother should early establish her
authority—she should impress upon the
mind of the child that she has many re-
sponsibilities in caring for the home, that
she understands what is for the best of
all and more than all that she is the
authority and must be obeyed.
	There is nothing more desirable, as re-
gards the life of parents and children, than
that perfect confidence exist. And in order
to secure this confidence so desirable the
parent must be truthful. So often dis-
obedience is aggravated by parents who
disregard this law. It is sadly common
to hear mothers press children into obeying
by promising them results which they
know will never come. A mother should
be truthful and constant in all her dealings
with the child—if she tells him such a
consequence will follow a certain act
she should see that it does follow and that
it follows every time the act is committed.
	She should be firm but loving and
affectionate. If she says no she should
mean no. A mother who changes her
mind often, “who makes rules in haste and
repents of them at leisure, who treats an
offence with severity at one time and with
leniency the next, is laying up miseries for
herself and for her children.” Even if
a mother has a poor method it is better
to stick to it and be firm than to have
a good method and be changable. Lack
of firmness fosters the habit of coaxing—a
firm mother will seldom be annoyed in
this.
	When children make requests (or ask
for privileges) the mother should think
a moment before answering in order to
decide exactly in the right, for if she is
busy and worried, she is very apt to say
“no”—and on reflection find that the
request could as well as not have been
granted. But if she has said a thing she
should see that it is carried out at what-
ever cost; for it is better to deprive a child
of a pleasure than to first refuse him and
then give permission. Many enslave them-
selves by offering bribes and by threats.
Children should not be bribed into obedi-
ence—if once this habit is begun there
is no opportunity to stop and in time
children will not exert themselves in the
least degree unless they receive some re-
muneration. Threatening is also to be
avoided—a child soon learns that a THREAT
means nothing and pays little attention to it.
	A mother should be just and reasonable
—reasonable from her own standpoint and
from the standpoint of the child. Sbe
should never ask him to make promises
which she knows he cannot keep and
should not measure his judgment and
ability by her own.

[Column 3]
	In making requests of him she should be
polite, for if a reasonable request is made in
a polite way the mother is very apt to
be obeyed. In severe cases if it is necessary
to command she should do so—and with de-
cision but in no case should she nag.
	She should avoid asking a child to do a
thing when he is in a bad humor and
would just as soon refuse as to obey. If
she feels that he will refuse she should
not press him into disobedience—better
first divert his attention and thus avoid
an outbreak.
	There should be established between the
mother and child a standard of right and
upon this standard all their dealings with
each other should be based. She should
be conscientious herself and teach him to be
the same. It is much easier to be obedi-
ent to law because it is right than to
be obedient, because somebody has asked us
to be.
	The position of the child to the parents
is not unlike our position to God. The
child is placed in their care and is sub-
ject to their will and upon his conception
of their qualifications will be based his
faith in them. By a moment of reflection
it will be seen that our faith in God depends
entirely on our knowledge of His attributes
—we could not trust nor believe in a God if
He were without judgment, justice and
mercy; we could not have faith in Him
if He were varying in His action; neither
will the child have faith in a parent who
lacks these qualities—his faith in them
will be in proportion to the extent of their
perfection. Let parents then bear in mind
that if they would keep the faith of
their children they must so live that their
actions will appeal to the child.
	No doubt it occurs to many mothers
as they listen to the ideas advanced, that
they are very well as theories but will
not stand the test of practice. Let me say
to those mothers if any such be here that by
exerting ourselves in this direction much
more can be done than we may at first
think. In all cases the mother must use
her judgment. Each case will need some
special attention but the ultimate good
flowing from such patience and considera-
tion will be ample reward.
	The prophet uttered a truth that the
history of the world is ever emphasizing
when he said “obedience is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of
rams.”
	Obedience is the great law that the
universe is ever emphasizing. One who
does not obey this divine command written
on every page of nature’s book finds himself
at war with everything in the world; while
the man who grows up in obedience finds
himself in harmony with everything in the
