A  FLOURISHING BRANCH.

San Diego, April 10, 1899.
	In this far off, beautiful southern city
of between twenty and twenty six thousand
inhabitants, there is a little band of Saints
organized, numbering probably thirty five
souls, all told.
	Truly they feel to rely upon the gener-
ous promise made by Christ, that “where
a few meet together in His name, there
He will be also,” and thus far the people
have received an abundance of the Holy
Comforter to inspire them with a deter-
mination to serve the Master in defiance of
the alluring snares lain in their pathway by
Satan.
	Such determined effort is most gratifying,
and is another evidence that the injunction
laid upon the missionaries to ‘preach the
Gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue
and people,” thereby gathering out from
the nations of the earth the honest in heart,
and all those who comprise the house of
Israel, is being literally fulfilled. That the
honest in heart are being gathered is
evinced by the strenuous efforts made by
those converted to live up to the mandates
of their faith. Such anxious desire to com-
ply with all religious obligations proves the
sincerity of the soul, and it is decreed that
“by their works ye shall know them.”
	Charles Hoag, president of the San
Diego branch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, is a man very capable
of the position, being full of faith, humility,
kindness and good principle, and an ex-
ample of diligence in the performance of his
duties.
	The Relief Society is under the able
management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at
whose home the sisters convene twice a
month, for the purpose of testifying of
God’s goodness and blessings, and to lend
themselves physically for the relief and
succor of those in need.
	About ten juveniles comprise the Prim-
ary, controlled by Sister Anna Burhorn.
Every Sunday afternoon their little voices
are raised in song and verse, striving to
excel each other in the performance of their
little duties.
	The M. I. A. is one of the most attrac-
tive features of religious worship, having
the mutual support and assistance of old
and young, which adds greatly to the in-
structiveness and interest so necessary to
success. President William Hunt is very
energetic, and anxious to make the associa-
tion merit the name given it, that of
“Mutual Improvement.”
	Indeed the grand impetus which actuates
the proper living of all true followers of
Christ, that of at last receiving His divine ac-
knowledgement, “Well done,” sheds its
soul-inspiring influence among the few
here, as well as those in all the world, who
live righteously. With such a stimulus to
obviate the contrary influences so prevalent,
it is not presumptuous to say their efforts
will prevail, and their hearts be gladdened
by the glorious plaudit which reaches the
ears of the faithful only, “Thou art of my
kingdom.”
