[Column 2]
waves that perpetually wash on the shore.
	Thus the heart that is full of love, the
spiritual thoughts well developed, reaches
out for the land of glorious, sunny land-
scapes, and life as a river flows on and on
to Eternity’s sea, across which God, the
perfection of love, welcomes the weary
traveler home.
	All these feelings produce music in the
mother’s heart, thrilling her offspring with
holy emotions, and though they may drift
away from its melody, yet some chance
changing breeze may touch the chords and
they will vibrate, playing the tunes sung of
old by the mother, and her undying influ-
ence will again be felt. She may be sleep-
ing on the hillside, mountains and oceans
may separate the child from her resting
place, but the visions of youthful days will
arise, and again he will hear her loving
words and listen to her counsels. The love
of poetry also has a strong refining force,
touching other chords of melody awakened
by the words of inspiration, which flow into
the soul making all things glad and fair.
	I have known young men who spoke
disparagingly of the religious girl, choosing
one who is lively, vivacious, and withal a
chum of thoughtless youth. But they
should consider well before staking so much
of weal or woe upon this momentous choice.
	In whose hands would you entrust the
eternal welfare of your child? With the
giddy and frivolous, or the calm, serene
eye of faith, that clearly weighs life’s ac-
tions, determining a life beyond the bounds
of earth? That hears the voice of God in
the babbling brook, and the rustling of the
leaves of the forest.
	Solomon said of old “With all thy get-
ting, get understanding,” this is as true to-
day as when it was uttered. Should we
get education? Yes, but with it get under-
standing. Oh, daughters of Eve who
choose some profession for your life com-
panion have you thought of the bye and
bye? Of your barren lives, when you sit
alone and desolate, that you can only gath-
er husks when the reaping time comes, as
it surely must ere the sun goes down?
Mothers (there are many still of the old school)
be your daughters’ companion, teach them
there is nothing of earthly happiness, that
is not known when their babe first clasps
its tiny arms around their necks; and as
sweet as the songs of angels, their infant’s
first cry; while her very being trembles
with emotion when the prattler calls her
“Mother.”
	The days of book lore, to some extent
being over—her love directing the growing
ntelligence of the child—her knowledge
should be used in instructing the men and
women of the future. Should the mother
neglect her own mind, starve it that it bear
not precious fruit, because of these endear-
ing ties? No! assuredly not. The knowl-
edge stored in days of youth can be brought
forth from time to time, to enrich the
minds of the children. They must look up
to the mother feel that she possesses the
very acme of wisdom; then they are willing
and respectful subjects. Mothers live with
your children, answer all their manifold
questions, for as often as you say you don’t
know, just as often you lose a part of your
supremacy in your home kingdom. Must
you live a life at home, and one outside of
it? Yes! Must you retain and add to the
education of early years? Yes! 
	I call to mind an instance when I had
two sons in one of the higher, classes at
school, one being two years older than the

[Column 3]
other, though both in the same grade;
while working their mathematical problems
one evening together, they could not obtain
the correct answer to one that was rather
more difficult than the others. They tried
first one method then another, but always
with the same result. Then they appealed
to mamma. These were some of my
younger children, and as it was some thirty
years since my school days, I was fearful
that I had become rusty in some of these
things. After they had read the problem
over, I read it myself, then asked the
different methods they had used in trying
to solve it. It became clear to me that
they had not used the right rule, so I said
try the rule of seven. They immediately
went to work and the long desired answer
was obtained. Looking up at me admir-
ingly, one said to the other, “Mamma knew
didn’t she?” And a realizing sense came
to me of the different feeling they would
have had, had mamma not known.
	The education obtained in school days, is
only the foundation on which to erect the
life structure. As the stones rise higher
and higher on a building, they must be
polished more and more, the eyes of men
resting upon the surface as it rises to view.
	So men scan your life work, mothers,
noting its roundness, fullness or complete-
ness; for as your children attain to manhood
or womanhood, they display to a greater or
less extent the nature of the great oak that
bore them; and like branches they spread
out into the world, reaching heavenward, or
being of the earth earthly, showing weak-
ness and failing. But I must add the
judgment is not always a righteous one;
for perchance when you were weary and
resting in fancied security, an enemy
entered your garden, sowing thorns among
your choice wheat. Mothers be early and
late upon the watch tower, constantly over-
looking your own little garden plot. Will
you become weary? Yes, verily! Will
you always thus have to watch? No! For
the day comes, aye too soon, that they will
go forth into the great wide world leaving
you to rest on the battlefields of the Past.
	How much good has your early education
done in raising your sons and daughters
who today shine in the world? Has not
your heart beat warm and fast with thanks
to God, that you were thus well equipped
for the race of life ? Then to the knowl-
edge early obtained, how many glorious
principles, not then dreamed of, have been
added. Your views and thoughts have
widened and deepened until mellow with
years, your wisdom doth shine.
	Then educate the girls, not one sided, to
shine as butterflies in the world of fashion,
O, no, not that! Of all things imaginable
this is the most foolish and hollow—but to
be true, noble women, like Timothy’s
mother, Eunice, and grandmother, Lois,
whose faith was so well known to the
Apostle Paul.
	So that with all the advantages and edu-
cation of the 19th century, so nearly the
20th—you may never be shipwrecked from
God, who is the same yesterday, today and
forever. Let the office and position now
within the reach of woman, but serve as a
means to an end; that end being a higher
and nobler womanhood. Then this age so
fruitful in invention and progress, with the
rapid strides made for the elevation and
education of woman, will shine in the an-
nals of the world forever.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Salt Lake City, Jan. 24, 1899.


