world. A Central Committee having been
formed including some representatives from
every country, largely, she states, through
the influence of Frau Professor Salenka of
Munich. Lady Aberdeen, the present
president of the great International Council,
is one of the committee.
	We are anxious to respond to Mrs. Sew-
all’s suggestions and to invite representa-
tives from all women’s organizations and
from all parties and sects to unite in this
meeting in Salt Lake City and elsewhere in
the State, to show our appreciation of the
efforts being made for peace among nations,
and that we are in favor of all difficulties
and differences being settled, if possible, by
arbitration.
	The desire and feeling on the part of the
committee seems to be “to reduce blood-
shed, to reduce the awful immorality that
always attends and follows war, and to re-
duce the awful expense of it.” These
sentiments make common appeal to all
hearts.
	We are hourly expecting to receive
other more definite suggestions in reference
to the meetings, but certainly prayers,
hymns and speeches bearing upon the sub-
ject of peace made by both men and wo-
men cannot fail in producing good and har-
monious feelings. Leading men and wo-
men already consulted on the subject are in
full sympathy with the movement.
	The first meeting of the International
Council after the formal opening on June
26, will be devoted to the subject of Inter-
national Arbitration, which shows the in-
terest this subject has awakened in the
minds of people of many nations and coun-
tries. Carefully prepared papers and dis-
cussion will awaken many more to the im-
perative need of a better method of settling
difficulties than going to war, with a view
to conquer or kill or both, and the effect
upon the world and upon society is most de-
basing in its tendency. With the enlight-
ment of the age should come a higher
sense of honor, and a more thorough under-
standing of the rights of all nations to a
government by its own people, or at least
the consent of the governed. But nations


are slow in coming to a knowledge of each
