strong will power displayed it is a mani-
festation of selfishness.
	Children do sometimes have strong
instinctive desires in the right direction;
therefore their motives should be most
cautiously considered. But it should be
kept in mind that there is a vast difference
between desirable will power and stubborn-
ness. If we would have our children con-
tented and happy themselves and if we
would make of them desirable associates, it
is imperative that we should have them
overcome blind and unreasonable stubborn-
ness. A stubborn, unconquered child is
sure to develop into a man so self-centered
and so determined to have his own way that
he will forego pleasures and even success
rather than retract, and will be as he was
when a child, his own greatest enemy.
	But this spirit of obedience so intimately
connected with peace, order and prosperity
and so beneficial to the young man in the
outer world comes only after long training
and unceasing effort in the home.
	It is here that his first ideas and im-
pressions are formed, and it is here that
he first learns to respect the rights of
others. However, this training in obedi-
ence should be pleasant to both parent and
child, it should result from a system of
kindness and love, rather than from one
of harshness; for while we aim to prepare
the child for his life’s work it is not less
important that the home be made pleasant
to himself and others.
	It is possible to train children into strict
obedience by violent methods; but a child
so trained will be obedient only through
fear; and when he assumes responsibility
over others he will use the same harsh
method. It is in this manner that tyrants
are made.—None are so tyrranical as they
who have been reared in bondage.
	Such a plan as described may produce
obedience; but it is obedience that is de-
structive to the life of the individual and
the home.
	If then we denounce obedience through
fear the question naturally arises,—“What
should be the motive prompting proper
obedience?” The right kind of obedience
is prompted not by fear but by love,
unselfishness, and a strong regard for the
rights of others. 
	Now we are confronted with another
question. We admit in the abstract that
love is the law which should govern our
effort, but how shall we put this thought
into practice?
	Educators say that the best way to
lessen evil and develop virtue is to begin
early—the earlier the better—to cultivate in
children desirable habits; that a good habit
well formed is the best fortification against
temptation. They even go further and say
that through the power of habit the possi-
bilities in moral training are infinite.
	We all know that habits formed in early
life are the most lasting; that those formed
in later years never attain the same stability;
therefore the mother should begin early,
and from babyhood to school age—a period

[Column 3]
wherein her influence is unopposed by any
outside one—she should work with per-
sistence and determination, so that by the
time the child is 6 or 8 years old the habit
of obedience will be thoroughly established.
	We have emphasized this thought be-
cause of the tendency of so many mothers
and guardians to say, “O, he’s the baby,
let him go,”—and thus they cultivate
habits entirely opposed to those they would
form.
	It will take time and patience to train the
infant or very young child to be obedient—
but less time and less patience, than it
takes to break up the habit of disobedience.
One writer even declares that it requires
more than four-fold the power to change a
habit, than to form one.
	Thus we would make habit building the
first step.
	In forming the habit of obedience in
children and in treating cases of disobedi-
ence mothers will find that there are many
methods of procedure; but she who gives
time, study and careful thought to this
subject will very soon conclude that she
will seldom need to resort to severe
methods.
	Bolton Hall says—“It is high time to
awake from sleep in things intellectual
as well as things spiritual; in things edu-
cational as well as in things material. We
have begun to deprecate either contempt or
neglect of the rights of man, but it has
hardly yet been admitted that children
have any rights which grown people are
bound to respect; so though we have ceased
to club women, we still beat children and
make the best excuse we can for our
brutality.”
	While this “beating process” is followed
up by many mothers of today, others are
spoiling their children by unwisely indulg-
ing them in every whim—a method which
fosters selfishness and like the rule with the
hard hand also makes tyrants.
	It would appear that punishment of some
sort is not to be avoided in this mortal
existence; but when it is necessary it should
be chosen wisely and be properly applied.
	Many parents are in favor of corporal
punishment because it requires LESS TIME
and brings partially desirable results—and
indeed the results are but partially desir-
able, for while it is natural to connect the
blow with the physical nature ONLY, the
harm done the child’s spiritual nature is
infinitely greater, for it makes obtuse and irre-
sponsive those fine and tender emotions 
upon which so much reliance must be
placed for future complete development. 
	A very small child who cannot reason
will perhaps profit by having his hands
spatted, but it seems plain that you can
teach a larger child nothing by beating him
“except that you are a bigger animal, and
as revengeful as he, and that a blow hurts
which he already knows.”
	We have admitted that punishment is
necessary and now we would state that
just punishment is just;—it is an irrevoc-
able law of nature.
	Nature stands as THE GREAT teacher
of humanity, and on this subject as on all


