“EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD.”

	This is a day when much thought is ex-
pended and a great deal said upon the sub-
ject of education. The colleges have long
flourished for the higher education of man,
but now their doors have been thrown open
and woman is invited to enter there. She
can choose what she will be, minister,
lawyer, doctor, or any other calling that is
there taught, or that she naturally inclines
to.
	The arts and sciences have their admir-
ers and true devotees. Music charms the
minds of some and painting of others.
Theology claims some attention, and wo-
man is now a regularly ordained minister
of the Gospel; and why not since she is
more spiritual minded than man, and living
in her heart is the fire of love and devotion
for things human and divine. Thus wo-
man’s field has expanded, grown wider and
broader, but is she happier with all this
knowledge, all these dignified positions at
her command?
	Can office or emolument fully occupy her
heart, or cause the throbbing of tender
emotions? Can aught make up for the
loss of noble motherhood? Does not this
over advanced education have a tendency to
fascinate the mind and draw it away from
the true elixir of life, wifehood and mother-
hood? The question may be asked, should
girls be educated as much as boys? I
would answer yes, and if I could only edu-
cate a part of my family I would bestow the
most upon the girls. Why? Because they
have the moulding of the next generation in
their hands. They form the characters and
regulate the standard, either high or low, of
our future Statesmen, Presidents and
Governors.
	The teachings of the mother last forever;
indelibly they are stamped on the minds of
their children. This power of the mother
for good or ill is indescribable. Then how
should a woman be educated? For some
vocation in life either high or of prestige,
or the greater, grander mission to bear the
souls of men? Being a wife, holding that
sanctified position in the home, to be a
mother, a very queen in that world, where
all her subjects are her lovers. I advocate
the highest order of education, not that
alone contained in books, which is excel-
lent, useful and perhaps indispensable, but
the broader education of the heart; to under-
stand its language, and bring to perfection
the spiritual nature implanted therein. To
comprehend its whisperings, its desires for
a higher, fuller life.
	The mind cultivated alone can be likened
unto the beautiful, green oasis, amid a
desert of sand; banks of sand where the
footsteps of men are lost. Such green
spots are veritable gardens, beautiful to the
eye, but leaving them for the onward
journey of life, they are only vaguely re-
membered while plowing with heavy feet
the vast oceans of sand.
	But the heart, consider its beauty! A
garden where luxurious flowers bloom be-
neath a Southern sun; whose grounds roll-
ing and verdant, in. perfect order, are ex-
tending as far as the eye can reach. Groves
of trees, tall and stately, where the song
birds of summer trill their sweetest notes,
hopping from bough to bough, and twitter-
ing among the heavy leaves all the happy
day through. Yonder is a river, broad and
clear, slowly and peacefully winding its
way to the sea; the great sea that ever ab-
sorbs rivers unnumbered by its restless

