[Column 1]
love among us, seek the Lord and cling
unto Him. We have a great deal to do
let us not be found wanting. Don’t for-
get to pray, we can then have the power of
discernment and will know what our duties
are. “I do wish to raise my voice in
warning to those who are going aside,
but those who need the warning are not
present.” She exhorted all who were
present to use their influence to help others.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “I feel as if
I were looking upon the Lord’s jewels.
There is a strength in the Saints coming
together, for we need spiritual food; the
way to store up spiritual food is to come to-
gether, in that way we become strong
in integrity and build a firm foundation. I
rejoice to see the sisters, I can bear testi-
mony of the work of God. It has now
been 63 years since I embraced the Gospel
and I have always thanked the Lord for
it.” Prayed God to bless all.
	Sister Armeda Young said she knew
we each could influence those around us for
good or evil; she knew by persevering that
we gained strength; she hoped she would
never be turned from the truth and desired
to live to do all the duties the Lord re-
quired of her.
	Sister Irvine said she did not think she
could tell any one what a blessing these
meetings had been to her, they always
built her up and gave her strength to
do her duties. Spoke of the visit of our
sisters to the National Council and how
they were blessed of the Lord, said it
was only another proof to her that the
Lord will help us to fight our battles.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the goodness
of the Lord in permiting her to be one
of this people and of the lesson she had
learned by passing through trials, of
the necessity of our speaking in praise of
one another and in this way building
each other up. Felt full of the spirit of the
Lord, hoped the Lord would help us to
hold on to the rod of iron.
	Sister Tora Hafen said she needed a
blessing and desired to receive one here.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger had learned
to love the sisters present, all seemed fami-
liar as she had been here so often. Felt
we must draw nearer together, we must not
find fault with each other. The Lord had
blessed her abundantly and had given her
a great testimony.
	Sister Paul knew that holy angels were
here, the Lord blessed her by day and
by night, she tried to influence for good in
building up the Church, was the only one
of her father’s household that was in the
Church, but she had been permitted to
work in the Temple. The Lord had given
her the gift of tongues, she had had
promises through this gift that had been
fulfilled.
	Sister Emily Stevenson knew that the
Lord would hear and answer prayers,
spoke of the healing of herself through
the prayer of her son.
	Sister Shoenfeltd thanked her Heavenly
Father that she was privileged to be a
member of this Church, spoke of the
promises of Brigham Young to the Saints
and how they were fulfilled in her behalf.
	Sister Nightingale said words could not
express the joy she felt in thus mingling
with her sisters. Sister Maxwell spoke
of the blessings of prayer and the power
little children have with God. Sister
Fisher spoke in tongues, the interpretation
was given and was very comforting.
	President Horne said there would be

