WOMEN.

	The International Council of Women
which will hold its Quinquennial session
in London, England, commencing June 26,
1899, will undoubtedly be the greatest and
most interesting gathering of women that
has ever been publicly convened.
	Women from all countries are expected
to be present, the countries that have al-
ready organized National Councils and
affiliated with the International Council are
the United States, Great Britain, Germany,
Sweden, Italy, Austria and Belgium; others
are organizing with the intention of affiliat-
ing in June at the meeting in London.
	Holland organized a National Council
March 15, at Utrecht, with delegates from
sixteen woman’s associations, and resolved
to apply for admission to the International
Council at the quinquennial in June. France
has been intending to organize for some
time past, and other countries are plan-
ning to do the same.
	The Council will have congresses in ses-
sion in several different places at the same
time, similar to the World’s Congress in
Chicago. All the places of meeting are
very popular, and Westminister Hall
which is, I believe, the headquarters for the
International Council, has never before
been opened to a woman’s assembly.
	Each National Council affiliated to the
International Council is entitled to two
votes, and at its business sessions the most
important questions concerning the largest
nterests of mankind as a whole and future
policies of the world, will be discussed by
some of the greatest minds of the age.
	Lady Aberdeen is the president and will
preside, and with a corps of officers commit-
tees and sub-committees have the superin-
tendence of this great Council and Congress.
	The social functions will be very elabor-
ate. Garden parties and receptions, re-
ception at Stafford House, garden party at
Pulham palace and lawn party at Gunners-
bury Park by Lady Rothschild are among
those mentioned. Some association of this
kind brings people into closer proximity
and social acquaintance than the formality
of meetings will admit of, and breaks the
continuous strain of mental exertion; for
when one hears so many good speakers and
papers dealing with such profound subjects,
it is a positive relief to have something now
and then in a lighter vein, that sort of equal-
izes the individual condition.
	It is to be hoped that women who can
afford the time and money will attend this
magnificent congress, where so much that
is being done will be known and better ap-
preciated forever after. Such opportunities
should be grasped and their benefits utilized
in the world’s great work of progress.


