SOCIETY.

	(Republished by request, and permission
of President Lorenzo Snow.)
	Being very frequently receiving letters of
inquiry relative to duties, practices, privi-
leges, etc., of officers and members of the
Relief Society, and being unable to devote
sufficient time to answer individually, we
gladly accept the privilege extended by
Mrs. Wells to respond in general manner
through the columns of the “Exponent.”
	“Should a president of teachers be ap-
pointed in each branch?”
	It is better for small branches not to
appoint a president. In those the teachers
should report in the general meetings, and
keep no separate minutes. In every
branch the president of the organization
virtually presides over the teachers, and
presidents of teachers are needed only in
those branches where there is such accumu-
lation of work as to render it necessary
to relieve the presiding board.
	“Should the teachers’ minutes be read at
the general meeting?”
	All members who attend meeting should
be made acquainted with and have a voice
in all business transactions of importance in
both departments. No “change has been
made” in this respect.
	“Is it right for the sisters to raffle?”
	We say emphatically, no! Raffle is
only a modified name of gamble. Presi-
dent Brigham Young once said to me,
“Tell the sisters not to raffle; if the mothers
raffle their children will gamble. Raffling
is gambling.”
	Some say “What shall we do? We
have quilts on hand—we cannot sell them
and we need the means to supply our
treasury, which we can obtain by raffling,
for the benefit of the poor.” Rather let
the quilts rot on the shelves than adopt the
old adage: “The end will sanctify the
means.” As Latter-day Saints we cannot
afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial
gain.
	Let us investigate the subject:—Suppose
an article, quilt of other property, is put up


for raffle; twenty persons donate 25 cents
each; all hope to draw the prize, and only
one wins while nineteen who have each
contributed as much as the successful one,
gain nothing but disappointment, which is 
almost certain to arouse feelings of jealousy
to a greater or less extent.
	Why not donate 25 cents each to re-
plenish the treasury, as well as to run the
chances and only one succeed? And then
by mutual consent donating the article
or articles in question to some charitable
purpose, they prevent the cause of jealousy
and dissension—the same amount will go
to the treasury and no unworthy example
and no sacrifice of principle will stain their
record.
	“Should members of the Relief Society
go to the Bishops for counsel?”
	The Relief Society is designed to be a
self-governing organization: to relieve the
Bishops as well as to relieve the poor, to
deal with its members, correct abuses, etc.
If difficulties arise between members of
a branch which they cannot settle between
the members themselves, aided by the
teachers, instead of troubling the Bishop,
the matter should be referred to their presi-
dent and her counselors. If the branch
board cannot decide satisfactorily, an ap-
peal to the Stake board is next in order;
if that fails to settle the question, the next
step brings it before the General Board,
from which the only resort is to the Priest-
hood; but, if possible, we should relieve
the Bishops instead of adding to their mul-
titudinous labors.
	“Is it necessary for sisters to be set apart
to officiate in the sacred ordinances of wash-
ing, anointing and laying on of hands in
administering to the sick?”
	Is certainly is not. Any and all sisters 
who honor their holy endowments, not
only have the right, but should feel it a
duty, whenever called upon to administer
to our sisters in these ordinances, which
God has graciously committed to His
daughters as well as to his sons; and we
testify that when administered and received
in faith and humility they are accompanied
with almighty power.
	Inasmuch as God our Father has revealed 
these sacred ordinances and commited them
to His Saints, it is not only our privilege
but our imperative duty to apply them for
the relief of human suffering. We think 
we may safely say thousands can testify
that God has sanctioned the administration
of these ordinances by our sisters with the
manifestation of His healing influence.
	“What age is most suitable for young
lady officers?”
	The young should fill all official posi-
tions in the Young Ladies’ branch (ward)
Associations. No matter how unequal
they feel to the situation, if they possess
sufficient energy of character and the true
spirit of the Gospel, trust in God, they will
be sure to succeed.
				E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, September 12, 1884.


