
CONTENTS FEBRUARY, 1920 

Emmeline B. Wells 63
Jedediah M. Grant 64
What Do We Know of the Other Side? 65
Dedication of the Hawaiian Temple 79
Promoted L. Lula Green Richards 89
The Will and the Way Ida Smoot Dusenberry 90
Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson 93
Oh Lad O'Mine Annie Wells Cannon 95
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon 97
On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson 98
The Official Round Table 101
Editorial: The Discipline of Fear 109
Guide Lessons 111

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
Patronize those who patronize us.

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan
AMUNDSEN STUDIO, 240 Main Street, Salt Lake City
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Salt Lake City
BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City
BURIAL CLOTHES, 67 E. South Temple Street
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City
S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City
GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East Second South, Salt Lake City
INTER-MOUNTAIN ELECTRIC CO., Salt Lake City
KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City
LAMBOURNE, ERNEST, Florist, 67 S. Main St., Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, "The Jeweler," 64 Main Street
MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City
ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City
SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 E. S. Temple St., Salt Lake City
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City 

PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS 29 Feb., 1S28 — 29 Feb., 1920 PRESIDENT JEDEDIAH M. GRANT Born, 21 February, 1816;  died, 1 December, 1856. First Counsellor to President Brigham Young. THE Relief Society Magazine I Vol. VII What Do We Know of the Other Side? FEBRUARY. 1920 No. 2 (Yes;  what do we know about the World beyond the grave? We know a great deal, and the world knows very little. In this article we have grouped a number of well-authenticated descriptions from our Church leaders.) PREST. JEDEDIAH M. GRANTS VIEW OF THE SPIRIT WORLD. A Memorable Incident Recalled to Mind by L. Lula Greene Richards With the several eventful days of the present month, February, the 21st may be noted and remembered by the Latter-day Saints as the birthday of one of their early heroes. President Jedediah Morgan Grant, he having been born on that date, in the year 1816. And on March 21, 1833, sixteen days before the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was three years old, that valiant and fearless advocate of the principles of the restored gospel was received into its sacred folds by baptism and became a most energetic and powerful teacher, both by word and example, of the plan of salvation, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Jedediah M. Grant, the father of President Heber J. Grant who now presides as prophet, seer and revelator and president of the Church, after his baptism strenuously devoted his whole remaining earthly existence to the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth and the salvation of God's children. In 1854, when a vacancy was occasioned in the first presidency of the Church, in Utah, by the death of the second counselor. Elder Willard Richards, Brother Grant was chosen as Brother Richards' successor. A beautiful and enduring tribute and testimony of the love and confidence with which President Brigham Young regarded 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE his counselor, President Grant, was evinced in the fact that two sons of the former were named for the latter, but they both died in childhood. All students of the early history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are more or less familiar with strikingly interesting and faith promoting anecdotes and stories wherein Jedediah M. Grant became noted for the prompt inspiration, brilliant wit, and masterful logic with which he always succeeded in confounding and putting to silence those who opposed his message of truth as a "defender of the faith." It is not, however, the purpose of this article to reproduce any of those richly entertaining narrations. Yet, the desire is to recall briefly an account of the most remarkable of all President Grant's earthly experiences, as related by himself to the brethren and his family, a few days previous to his death which took place in Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec. 1, 1856, when he was forty years old. This last wonderful story was repeated at President Grant's funeral by President Heber C. Kimball from whose discourse the following abridgment is made: President Kimball told of having visited Elder Grant a short time before his death and said, "He could not speak, but shook hands warmly with me. I laid my hands upon him and blessed him and asked God to strengthen his lungs that he might be easier;  and in two or three minutes he raised himself up and talked for about an hour as busily as he could tell me of what he had seen and what he understood." He said to me, "Brother Heber, I have been into the spirit world two nights in succession, and of all the dreads that ever came across me, the worst was to have again to return to my body, though I had to do it. Oh, the order and government that were there! When in the spirit world, I saw the order of righteous men and women;  I beheld them organized in their several grades, and there appeared to be no obstructions to my vision;  I could see every man and woman in their grade and order. 1 looked to see if there was any disorder there, but there was none, neither could I see any death, nor any darkness or confusion. The people were organized in family capacities, grade after grade, in perfect harmony. Why it is just as Brother Brigham says it is;  just as he has told us many a time. The righteous gathered together in the spirit world and no wicked spirits among them. I saw my wife, Caroline, who was the first person that came to me. I saw many that I knew, but did not have conversation with any but my wife. She looked beautiful and had our little child that died on the plains in her arms. She said, 'Here is little Margaret;  you know the wolves ate up her body, but it did not hurt her;  here she is. all right.' WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 67 "To my astonishment, when I looked at families, there was a deficiency in some;  there was a lack, for I saw families that would not be permitted' to come and dwell together, because they had not honored their calling here. I asked m)'' wife where Joseph and Hyrum and Father Smith, and others, were. She replied, 'They have gone away ahead to perform I and transact business for us.' "Buildings! The Lord gave Solomon wisdom, and poured gold and silver into his hands that he might display his skill and ability;  but the temple erected by Solomon was much inferior to the most ordinary building I saw in the spirit world. "Gardens! I have seen good gardens on this earth, but never any to compare with those that were there. I saw flowers of numerous kinds, some with fifty or a hundred different-colored flowers growing on one stalk. We have many I kinds of flowers on the earth, and I suppose those very articles came from heaven, or they would not be here. The spirits of those things are made as well as ours, and it follows that they can exist upon the same principles. After seeing the beauty of everything there, I felt extremely sorrowful at having to leave so beautiful a place and come back to earth, for I looked upon my body with loathing, but was obliged to enter it again." The account of the marvelous vision of those two nights in which so much that was exceedingly choice and valuable, as well as intensely interesting to learn, as was revealed to that great and good man, Jedediah M. Grant, was reverently repeated among the Saints for years afterwards. And some, who were little children then, have always remembered and cherished the wonderful story as one of the dearest and best descriptions of heaven, or the spirit world, ever uttered by mortal men. More lengthy particulars concerning the subject have been published in Church literature. Let us add to this picture of conditions in the Other World, this remarkable article: Origin, Object, Destiny of Women. The following is taken from "The Mormon," published in New York City, by the late President John Taylor, August 29, 1857, the paper containing it being furnished by Robert Maw, of Plain City. "The Latter-day Saints have often been ridiculed on account of their belief in the pre-existence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity, both being Bible doctrines. 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We have often been requested to give our views in relation to these principles, but considered the things of the kingdom belonged to the children of the kingdom, therefore not meet to give to those vithout. But being very politely requested bya lady a few days since (a member of the Church), to answer the following questions, we could not consistently refuse, viz: 'Where did I come from? What is my origin? What am I doing here? Whither am I going? and, what is my destiny, after having obeyed the truth, if faithful to the end?' "For her benefit and all others concerned, we will endeavor to answer the questions in brief, as we understand them. The reason will be apparent for our belief in the preexistence of spirits, and in marrying for time and for all eternity. "Lady, whence comest thou? Thine origin? What art thou doing here? Whither art thou going, and what is thy destiny? Declare unto me, if thou hast understanding! Knowest thou not, that thou art a spark of Deity, struck from the fire of his eternal blaze, and brought forth in the midst of eternal burnings? "Knowest thou not that eternities ago, thy spirit, pure and holy, dwelt in thy Heavenly Father's bosom in his presence, with thy mother, one of the queens of heaven, surrounded by thy brother and sister spirits in the spirit world, among the Gods? That thy spirit beheld the scenes transpiring there, and thou, growing in intelligence, thou sawest worlds upon worlds organized and peopled with thy kindred spirits who took upon them tabernacles, died, were resurrected, and received their exaltion on the redeemed worlds upon which they once dwelt? Thou, being willing and anxious to imitate them, wert waiting and desirous to obtain a body, a resurrection and exaltation also, and having obtained permission, thou madest a covenant with one of thy kindred spirits to be thy guardian angel while in mortality. Also thou didst covenant with two others, male and female spirits, that thou wouldst come and take a tabernacle through their lineage, and become one of their offspring. Thou also didst choose a kindred spirit whom thou didst love in the spirit world (and who had permission to come to this planet and to take a tabernacle), to be thy head, stay, husband and protection on the earth, and to exalt thee in the eternal worlds. All these covenants and matters were arranged, likewise were the spirits appointed that should tabernacle through thy lineage. Thou didst long and sigh to come, and thou didst pray to thy Father in heaven for the time to arrive when thou couldst come to this earth, which had fled and fallen from where it was first organized, near the planet Kolob. Thou didst pray to leave WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 69 thy father and thy mother's bosom and all thy kindred spirits, to come to earth, to take a tabernacle, and to imitate the deeds of those thou hadst seen exalted before thee. "At length the time arrived, and thou heardst the voice of thy Father, saying: "Go, daughter, to yonder lower world, and take upon thee a tabernacle, and work out thy probation with fear and trembling and rise to exaltation. But, daughter, remember thou goest on this condition;  that is, thou art to forget all things thou hast ever seen or known to be transacted in the spirit world;  thou art not to know or remember anything concerning the things that thou hast beheld transpiring here;  but thou must go and become one of the most helpless of all beings that I have created, while in thine infancy;  subject to sickness, pain, tears, mournings, sorrow and death. But when truth shall touch the cords of thy heart thy soul will vibtate in response thereto;  then shall intelligence illumine thy mind, and shed its lustre in thy soul, and thou shalt begin to understand the things thou didst once know, but which had been forgotten by thee;  thou shalt then begin to understand and know the object of thy creation. Daughter, go and be faithful in thy Second Estate;  keep it as faithfully as thou hast kept thy First Estate. "Thy spirit, on hearing this, wast filled with joy and thanksgiving, and thou didst rejoice in thy Father, and rendered praise to his holy name, and the spirit world resounded in anthems of praise and rejoicing to the Father of spirits. Thou badest father, mother and all dear ones over there farewell, and along with thy guardian angel, thou camest upon this terraqueous globe. The spirits through whom thou hadst covenanted to come and to get a tabernacle, left the spirit world some years previous, thou camest a spirit pure and holy, to take upon thee a tabernacle. Thou hast obeyed the truth, and thy guardian angel ministers unto thee and watches over thee. Thou hast chosen him whom thou didst love in the spirit world to be thy companion. Now, crowns, thrones, exaltations and dominions are in reserve for thee and thine in the eternal worlds, and the way is opened for thee to return back into the presence of thy heavenly Father, if thou wilt only abide by, and walk in, a celestial law, fulfil the designs of thy creation, and hold out to the end. That when mortality is laid in the tomb, thou mayest go down to thy grave in peace, arise in glory, and receive thine everlasting reward in the resurrection of the just, along with thy head and husband. Thou wilt be permitted to pass by the Gods and angels who guard the gates, and go onward and upward to thy exaltation in a celestial world among the Gods;  to be a glorious queen unto thy heav- 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enly Father, and a glory to thy husband and offspring, to bear the souls of men, to people other worlds (as thou didst bear their tabernacles in mortality), while eternity goes and eternity comes;  and if thou wilt receive it, lady, this is eternal life. And herein is the saying of the Apostle Paul fulfilled, 'That the man is not without the woman in the Lord, neither is the woman without the man in the Lord.' That 'man is the head of the woman, and the glory of the man is the woman.' Hence, this is thine origin, the object of thy creation, and thy ultimate destiny, if thou art faithful. Lady, the cup is within thy reach, drink, then, the heavenly draught, and live." Editorial View. The editor is glad to present these vivid pictures of conditions on the Other Side to our readers, just at this time, for the whole world seems to be filled with the mists and clouds of superstition and spiritualism. Europe and our own country are flooded with stories, books and articles in the daily press from men and women of the highest reputation who detail their experiences with the new spiritualism which goes now under various titles, such as the "New Thought," "Psychical Research," and "Spiritualism." But they are all the same thing — dealing as they do with communications had by mortals with spirits in the spirit world. When such scientists and authors as Sir Oliver Lodge, Conan Doyle, Dr. William Crookes, the famous William James of Harvard, Mrs. Reginald De Koven, Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett, Marie Correlli, and now even our staid and sober New England author, Margaret Deland, enter the ranks of these dabblers in spiritualism, we stand aghast before the tide of rising testimony. Do we accept their findings as true, we Latter-day Saints? Ah, that is quite another question. We certainly believe they can have and do have communications with the Other World;  and we concede the open-minded attitude of some of these seekers. But when our own people get confused with this issue, and assert that such books as, "Thy Son Liveth," is true revelation, and that these peepings and mutterings of mediums, found published in most of the current magazines, are true, because they show much that only Latter-day Saints have known heretofore about that mysterious region, and life over there, it is quite time that the watchmen on the towers of Zion rise up and combat error. Then, you may ask — may we not believe that these mediums tell many startling truths? Most assuredly they do. And no one wonders that the great mass of people in the world are startled and fascinated by their revelations. But, WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 71 remember the expression of Brigham Young: "The Devil will give you nine truths to believe one lie." That they themselves acknowledge their frequent deceit by "mischievous spirits" is shown in nearly all the articles written by these famous people before mentioned. What, then, is our duty as women in Israel, women of the Relief Society which is the leading organization of women in the Church and in the world — what are we to say to our young people who wish to bring these books into our homes, or to play with the Ouija board, or to run after the various forms of spiritualism? Tell your associates and your families just what was told by the mother of President Heber J. Grant, as shown later in this article. As for spiritualistic books, the papers are advocating the destruction of Bolshevik books. An editor for the Salt Lake daily press recently remarked: "Why shouldn't such books be destroyed the same as plants of dynamite and nitroglycerine, which are occasionally found secreted by conspirators against the peace and welfare of communities? It was only the other day the dispatches stated that a certain book published by a well-known firm in New York had been pronounced immoral and unfit to be distributed on account of its possible pernicious influence on the minds of the youth of the country. One of the publishers was arrested and booksellers everywhere were given notice that sale of copies of the book were forbidden by law and offenders would be punished. Such a proscription is unquestionably right, and it no doubt met with the approval of the better element of the people everywhere in the United States. Yet, when one comes to measure the possible evil results of the circulation of an immoral book with a book teaching the rightfulness of anarchism, the glories of free love and the overthrow by violence of the American government, the former is tame by comparison. An immoral novel may have an evil effect upon a youth;  it may be an incentive to adopt wicked practices that may steep his mind in sin and destroy his body, yet the literature of the Bolsheviki will not only have all these evil tendencies, but in addition may incite its readers to deeds of violence against the lives and property of others. The constitutional guaranty of freedom of the press was never intended to permit the dissemination of books written for the avowed purpose of destroying the government. It is far better to destroy the books." If this is true of immoral and "Red" literature, how much more careful would we not guard our young people and silly old people from contamination by the possession of books on spiritualism? A Bolshevist might destroy your body but 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE spiritualism will destroy your soul. Shall we not, then, allow liberty to all men? Yes, certainly. Allow them to choose their course. But let your motto be old Joshua's: "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." These are the days when the very elect shall be deceived, if possible. There is a deep craving, a hungry longing in the human heart, for things spiritual, for sight and sound of the great unknown. And the Lord has amply satisfied that craving for the Latter-day Saints. We cannot wonder that those outside of this Church are reaching out after spiritual comfort and satisfying revelation concerning their loved ones, dead. They have only the husk of tradition and the battered remnants of the old mother church's counterfeit doctrines to feed upon. They have no authority of the Priesthood, no vision, for it is closed. They have no assurances, except such as are begotten from the mere belief in the mission and name of our Savior. But that Name, powerful as it is, requires the authority of the Priesthood and the administration of the ordinances of the gospel, in order to make its use of complete value and power to save the children of men. "Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other wav, the same is a thief and a robber." -(John, 10:1.) There is a woman, in the East, going about on the lecture platform in the temple clothes. Her picture appears in the papers, and she tells the story of the endowments, and her story is printed. To be sure it is a distorted story as such tales are and always have been;  but it is sufficiently near the truth to cause some people to gasp, and our people to be filled with amazement. Would anyone claim, least of all any of our own people, even the youngest and least acquainted with the endowment ceremonies, that because this woman is thus laying open the sacred truths revealed rightly only in holy temples, built and dedicated for that purpose, that she or any one associated with her could give the divine power, the sure promises, the keys of the Priesthood, simply because she pretends to know about them, or betrays her covenants in her present occupation? Then why imagine for a moment that these sorcerers and mediums, and their tribe can do more than to reveal distorted remnants of the conditions on the Other Side? Even if they could faithfully describe heaven and its various kingdoms, where is their authority to administer in one saving ordinance of the gospel of Jesus Christ? And unless these ordinances are administered here, by those having authority from God, and unless the priests who thus administer are called and set apart as was Aaron, there is no hope of them nor those to whom they minister attaining exaltation WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 73 in the kingdom of God. Read the sermon of Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, in our last issue to know the difference between immortality and eternal life. James tells us that the devils know there is but one God, and they tremble. Knowledge alone will not save anyone. The Planchette or Ouija Board. We now present to you a story concerning the planchette or, as it is now called, the Ouija board, which was related by President Heber J. Grant and adds a marvelous experience of our honored President with one of these spiritual mediums: President Grant said: "Speaking of the planchette, reminds me of an incident in MRS. RACHEL R. GRANT AND SON, PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT my youthful days, that is intensely interesting, and it shows the inspiration of the Lord to President Brigham Young. "I happened to be in what is known as the Octagon House, one of the residences of the late William S. Godbe, situated on the corner of Second East and Second South streets. The old building still stands there. I was a young boy at the time and my mother was then going out sewing by the day to earn her livelihood. One of the things that she always arranged was that wherever she was going, I was to call for her after school and take supper with her. I remember that this night she was sewing for a wife of William S. Godbe, until a late hour after supper. While we were sitting in the little sewing 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE room mother was requested to go into the parlor where the people were laughing and joking over the messages they were receiving from a planchette which was operating on the table. My mother positively refused to go into the room, or have anything to do with a message received on the planchette, stating that 'Brother Brigham' had announced that the people should leave planchettes alone, and that those who received messages from them or had any faith in them would lose the testimony of the gospel, if they did not repent of it. She further stated that if you followed the planchette around through the city you would discover that it had left a trail of apostasy behind, especially if the people paid any attention to the messages. "I do not know that this was my mother's exact language, but this was the idea she conveyed. Finally they laughingly said that if she would not go where the planchette was they would bring it where she was, and they brought it into the room where my mother was sewing. She refused to look at it, and they could not make it work in that room where she was. It simply would not deliver any messages there. They went back into the parlor, where it worked splendidly, and they continued their laughing and joking. They soon came back and asked my mother to come into the parlor;  and very much to my astonishment she went into the parlor, notwithstanding she had said she would not go where it was. "As soon as she entered the parlor, the planchette would not work, and they were unable to make it move as long as she remained in the room. When we got home that night, I said: 'Mother, why did you go in the parlor where the planchette was when you said Brother Brigham had advised people to keep away from it?' She said, 'My boy, when they came into the little room where I was sewing, and brought the planchette, I prayed to the Lord that it might not have power to work in my presence;  I told the Lord that I had not gone where it was, and now that they had brought it where I was, I rebuked its power to work and it could not move, and as you know it did not work in my presence. When they afterwards asked me to go into the parlor, I again prayed to the Lord to give me the impression that I could stop the thing from working, and if he would give me that impression I would go into the parlor;  but if I did not get the impression I would not go where it was. I felt that if I could go where it was, and prevent it from working, I was willing to go. The impression came to me that it could not move about in my presence, so I went in the parlor, and as you know, they could not make it work while I was there." WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 75 In connection with this story it is related by our First Counsellor Clarissa Smith Williams, that some one presented to her children some years since, a Ouija board for a Christmas present. She paid little attention to it until one of the Little boys placed the thing on the table, as he had seen others do, and put his little hands upon it. It commenced to move at once, and so terrible was the influence which accompanied it that the child began screaming, and was almost convulsed with terror and distress. Sister Williams at once took the board and threw it into the fire, and no such thing has entered her home since. What about your homes, dear friends, and what about your children? Another experience related by President Grant follows: Power of the Priesthood, "After the death of my first wife, Lucy, on the 3rd of January, 1893, I took my oldest three girls to Chicago, New York, Boston and Washington, to see the sights of these great cities, believing that it would lessen the great sorrow which had come into their lives in the death of their mamma. At Washington my daughters Ray and Lutie were taken down with diphtheria and were sick, nigh unto death. Lutie was so sick that her pulse beat only twenty-eight times to the minute, and they fed her large quantities of the strongest whisky every fifteen minutes, all through the night, to keep her alive. She was given enough whisky to have made a dozen strong men drunk, and it hardly made her tongue thick. I was kneeling, supplicating the Lord to spare her life, pleading with him not to allow the additional sorrow to come to me of one of my children dying while I was away from home. I was shedding bitter tears, when the inspiration came that if I would send out for President George Q. Cannon and Bishop Hiram B. Clawson, who were then in Washington, as they held the Priesthood, they could rebuke the disease, and my daughter would live. I thanked the Lord for this manifestation, and shed tears of gratitude that my daughter's life was to be spared. President Cannon, in blessing Lutie, stated that the adversary had decreed her death and made public announcement of his decree. I subsequently learned that the lady who was the proprietor of the boarding house was a spiritualist, and that she had visited her medium and asked her to tell her what was going to happen in her home. The medium told of the sickness of two little girls, that the older of the two had been nigh unto death, but would recover. She told her that she saw the second little girl get worse and worse, and finally die. She described taking the body out of the house, and the 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE coffin being put upon the railroad train, and the railroad train going hundreds and hundreds of miles toward the west, and then she described the train going over high mountains and then stopping in a valley and the coffin being taken off the train and then taken to a burial ground upon the hillside, where she saw it lowered into a grave. President Cannon, in his prayer, rebuked the destroyer, and announced that Lutie should recover and Hae to be a mother. And in the providences of the Lord, she is now the mother of three children by her husband. Elder George J. Cannon, and their great-grandfather is the man who, in the authority of the Priesthood and in the name of Jesus Christ, rebuked the destroyer's declaration that she was to die and her body be carried home and buried upon the hillside." President Brigham Young's Testimony. We repeat now the clear and searching description of Spiritualism as given by President Brigham Young in the "Journal of Discourses," Vol. 13, Oct. 30, 1870: It was told you here that Brother Joseph warned the elders of Israel against false spirits. It was revealed to me that if the people did not receive the spirit of revelation that God had sent for the salvation of the world, they would receive false spirits, and would have revelation. Men could have revelation, women would have revelation, the priest in the pulpit and the deacon under the pulpit, would have revelation, and the people would have revelation enough to damn the whole nation, and nations of them, unless they would harken to the voice of God. It was not only revealed to Joseph, but to your humble servant, that false spirits would be as prevalent and as common among the inhabitants of the earth as we now see them. I will ask,' Is there any revelation in the world? Yes, plenty of it. We are accused of being nothing more nor less than a people possessing what they term the higher order of spiritualism. Whenever I see this in print or hear it spoken, "You are right," say I. "Yes, we belong to that higher order of spiritualism;  our revelations are from above, yours from beneath." This is the difference. We receive revelation from Heaven, you receive your relevations from every foul spirit that has departed this life, and gone out of the bodies of mobbers, murderers, highwaymen, drunkards, thieves, liars, and every kind of debauched character, whose spirits are floating around here, and searching and seeking whom they can destroy for;  they are the servants of the devil, and they are permitted to come now to reveal to the people." It was not so, once, anciently or formerly, when there was no Priesthood on WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? 77 the earth, no revelations from heaven. The Lord Almighty shut up this evidence, and all intercourse between men on the earth, and the foul spirits, so that the latter could not deceive and destroy the former with their revelations. But God has spoken now, and so has the devil;  Jesus has revealed his Priesthood, so has the devil revealed his, and there is quite a difference between the two. One forms a perfect chain, the links of which cannot be separated; , one has perfect order, laws, rules, regulations, organization;  it forms, fashions, makes, creates, produces, protects and holds in existence the inhabitants of the earth, in a pure and holy form of government, preparatory to their entering the kingdom of heaven. The other is a rope of sand;  it is disjointed jargon, confusion, discord;  everybody receiving revelation to suit himself. If I were disposed to go into their circle I could make every table, every dot, every particle of their revelations prove that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I could lay my hands on the table with them, and if I would consent to have the spirits rap. I would make them prove every time that Joseph Smith rap, I would make them prove every time that Joseph Smith place, a wicked man, and he would have all the evidence he desired that Joseph was not a prophet of God. I could make them say, every time, that this is the Church of Christ;  while a wicked man might enter the circle and he would be told that this is not the Church of Christ;  and the results of their efforts are confusion and discord. It is like a rope of sand. There is no order, no organization;  it cannot be reduced to a system, it is uncertainty. That is the difference between the two spiritual systems. The higher order of spiritualism is to be led, governed and controlled by law, and that, too, by the law of heaven that governs and controls the Gods and the angels. There is no being in heaven that could endure there, that could abide the heavens, unless he is sanctified, also purified and glorified by law, and who lives by law. But the others are without law, without organization or authority. Well, what is the result of their revelation? Death. What is that? Dissolution of the body. And what will be next? The second death, and I leave every person to speculate to suit himself with regard to that;  but the scriptures say, "Blessed is he on whom the second death hath no power; " and they who serve God and keep his commandments, who receive the Holy Priesthood of the Son of God, have something tangible, and if they live according to this law, the second death has nothing to do with them. They are above it, free from it, they are masters of it, for they command in the name of Jesus, and their words are obeyed;  and what they say shall be done, is done. This is the authority that God gives. As the scriptures 78 WHAT DO WE KNOW OF THE OTHER SIDE? say, "Whatsoever you bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven;  and whatsoever you loose on earth, is loosed in heaven;  and wahatsoever sins ye retain on earth, are retained in heaven." This sermon was preached in 1870. Let us close by quoting from a sermon preached by President Grant in 1920: President Grant referred to the sad and untimely end of a number of people, well known in Utah years ago, who had disregarded the counsels of the Priesthood, regarding spiritualism. He stated that the result in many cases had been sorrow, suicide, insanity and death. He contrasted the lives of these people with the lives of faithful Latter-day Saints who, through obedience to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, had enjoyed the blessings of life and health, and true happiness. He emphasized particularly the longevity of the Latter-day Saints, their high birth rate, low death rate, low divorce rate, and the fact that there is very little insanity among the people. "The fruits of the Gospel are life, virtue, integrity. Everything that is good comes from the Gospel. Nothing that is good ever comes from the source of evil. What are the fruits of spiritualism? — apostacy, insanity, suicide and death;  the fruits are evil from beginning to end." Section 3 of the Doctrine and Covenants says: "For although a man may have many revelations, and have power to do many mighty works, yet if he boasts in his own strength, and sets at nought the counsel of God, and follows after the dictates of his own will and carnal desires, he must fall and incur President the vengeance Grant of referred a just God upon ordination to the him." of President Charles W. Penrose as an elder on January 6, 1851, and called attention to the fact that two of the men, whose names appear on the certificate of ordination, had both lost their standing in the Church because they followed after the dictates of their own carnal desires. Then he said, "You never heard of a man, you never heard of a woman, in all your life, who apostatized from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who followed after the inspiration of the Spirit of the Lord, and not after the dictates of their own will and their own desires. You never heard of the apostasy of a man or woman who kept the commandments of God. But, on the other hand, if they say, 'Oh, it is nothing to drink a cup of tea, or a cup of coffee, to use a little tobacco and liquor;  it is nothing to find fault with the authorities of the Church, it is nothing to fail to pay your tithing;  there is something of more importance than these laws." People who take this attitude are liable to fall, unless they repent. But those who keep the commandments of God will not fall;  they will grow in health, in vigor of body and of mind, and in knowledge of the things of God. Dedication of the Hawaiian Temple When President Joseph F. Smith and Bishop Charles W. Nibley dedicated the site for a temple in Hawaii at Laie. Oahu, on Brigham Young's birthday. June 1. 1915. a psalm of praise arose in the heart of every Latter-day Saint. And every step of the way for its erection and completion has been observed with keen interest since that auspicious day. Hawaii once had a population of natives considerably over 100,000;  part today there Hawaiians, out of area only total 22,600 Hawaiians. population with 'l6,660 of 263.666. There rise& THE HAWAIIAN TEMPLE Dedicated November 27, 1919 are as many Chinese, as many Philipinos, and as many Portugese people there as there are Hawaiians. There are 110,000 Japanese and only 31,000 altogether of American. British, German and Russian people. Out of this number of Hawaiians, however, there are over 10,000 today belonging to the Latter day Saints Church. When we consider that these people are direct descendants of the Nephites, we are not surprised to find the wonderful affirmative testimony which is constantly arising concerning their likeness and similarity to the Hebrews, as demon- 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE started by scientists and students. Professor Huxley, himself, bears testimony to this curious fact. He, like most others, uses this traditional resemblance to prove the common origin of man in Egypt. He says, "But the correspondence between the old Israelitic and other archaic forms of theology extends to details. If, in order to avoid all chance of direct communication, we direct our attention to the theology of semi-civilized people, such as the Polynesian Islanders, separated by the greatest possible distance, and by every conceivable physical barrier, from the inhabitants of Palestine, we shall find not merely all the features of old, Israelitic theology, which are revealed in the records cited among them;  but that extant information as to the inner mind of these people which tends to remove many of the difficulties which those who have not studied anthropology find in the Hebrew narrative "President Heber J. Grant, accompanied by President Anthon H. Lund, President Rugder Clawson, Elder Stephen L. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, Presiding Bishop Chas. W. Nibley, and Elder Arthur Winter arrived in Honolulu after a delightful trip, ready to take train on November 26, for Laie, and there find about 1,500 Saints gathered at the plantation for this solemn occasion. The temple is very small, admitting only fifty at a time in the regular service, but between two and three hundred gathered in the one large hall when President Grant called the services to order on Thanksgiving morning. One of the vitally interesting features of this service, was the honor shown by President Grant and his associates to Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon who, as wife of President George Q. Cannon, and therefore his sole representative, honored herself and the occasion as well as her great husband in the acceptance of the marks of respect shown her. She not only sat upon the stand with Presidents E. Wesley Smith, Samuel E. Woolley and William E. Waddoups, and Recorder Duncan M. McAllister, but she was invited to speak during the services and above all was mentioned by President Grant in his dedicatory prayer. Every women in Zion, and especially every Relief Society woman and the General Board, of whom she is a representative, is honored in this recognition. All in all, it was a glorious occasion, as we learn from letters received from Sister Cannon and Elder Duncan McAllister. We rejoice and give thanks with our beloved Hawaiian Saints who deserve this gracious privilege;  we congratulate those who have been instrumental in bringing this event to pass;  especially do we remember with deepest gratitude and loving loyalty President Joseph F. Smith, who revealed and DEDICATION OF HAWAIIAN TEMPLE 81 organized the conception of the plan, practically bringing it to completion before his death a year ago. His closest friend, Bishop C. W. Nibley, was as vitally concerned in this whole matter and to them both, the Saints owe a profound debt of gratitude. Great credit is due President Samuel E. Woolley, who has successfully carried out the plans, and financed the whole scheme through donations and appropriations in the Islands themselves. And most especially do we add our loving greetings to President E. Wesley Smith, who represented his hero-father both in the services and in the carrying out now of the work there and then begun. We give President Heber J. Grant's dedicatory prayer in it's entirety. It is one of the most simple prayers ever uttered on such an occasion, humble, succinct, clear, and magnetically appealing. It touches every interest in the Church, and does not forget the Nation's stress, nor the serious plight of the President of the United States. It is a masterpiece of simple diction, wide vision, and touching appeal. Indeed, it is inspired and beautiful in its completeness of detail. The addresses delivered by President Anthon H. Lund, Elder Samuel E. Woolley, President Rugder Clawson. Bishop Chas. W. Nibley, Elder Stephen L. Richards. President E. Wesley Smith, Elder Arthur'inter. and Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, closing with a loyal and loving talk by President Grant himself were all moving and inspiring. It may interest our readers to know that President Clawson, in one of his addresses, followed the ancient Hawaiian custom of drawing out his pocket handkerchief, held carefully by the four corners until he could explain that he had brought the love, or "Aloha" of President Emmeline B. Wells, and all the members of the General Board of Relief Society to the sisters of Laie, upon which the handkerchief was opened up, and all of the Saints responded with an enthusiastic A-l-o-ha!" We now add the dedicatory prayer delivered at Hawaiian Temple, Laie, Oahu, Territory of Hawaii, Thursday, November 27, 1919, at 2 p. m. by Pres. Heber J. Grant: O God, the Eternal Father, we thy servants and handmaidens, thank thee, in the name of Jesus Christ, thy well beloved Son, with all the power of our being, that we are privileged this day to be present in this beautiful land, to dedicate unto thy Most Holy Name, a temple of the living God. We thank thee, O God the Eternal Father, that thou and thy Son, Jesus Christ, didst visit the boy, Joseph Smith, Jr., and that he was instructed by thee, and by thy Beloved Son. We thank thee that thou didst send thy servant, John the Baptist, and that he did lay his hands upon Joseph Smith and 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Oliver Cowdery and ordain them to the Aaronic, or Lesser Priesthood. We thank thee, for sending thy servants, Peter, James and John, Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ, who ministered with the Savior in the flesh and after His crucifixion, and that they did ordain thy servants Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery Apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ and bestowed upon them the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood, by which authority and Apostleship, we do dedicate unto thee, this day, this holy edifice. We thank thee for the integrity and the devotion of thy servants, the Prophet and Patriarch, Joseph Smith and Hyrum Smith. We thank thee that they labored all the days of their lives, from the time of the restitution of the Gospel of Jesus Christ until the day of their martyrdom, and that they sealed their testimony with their blood. We thank thee for thy servants Brigham Young, John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow and Joseph F. Smith, who have severally stood at the head of thy Church since the martyrdom of thy servant Joseph Smith, and who have led and directed thy people by the inspiration of thy Holy Spirit, and who have sent forth representatives to proclaim the everlasting gospel in nearly every land and clime. We thank thee for all the faithful members of the First Presidency of the Church, and the apostles, in this last dispensation and;  for each and all of the faithful men who have held office as general authorities of the Church. O God, our Eternal Father, we pray thee to bless the Presidency of thy Church — they servants Heber J. Grant, Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose. May these men, O Father, be guided by the unerring counsels of thy Holy Spirit day by day. May they be even as a three-fold cord that cannot be broken. May they see eye to eye in all matters for the upbuilding of the Church of Jesus Christ upon the earth. Bless, O Father, each and all of the Apostles, the Presiding Patriarch, the First Council of the Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric. Bless, we beseech thee, those that preside in all the stakes of Zion, and in all the wards and branches of the Church. Bless those who preside over the Missions of the Church throughout the world, together with all thy servants and handmaidens who have gone forth to proclaim to the peoples of the world, the restoration again to the earth of the plan of life and salvation. Bless those, O Father, who preside in the temples that have been erected to thy Holy name in the land of Zion. Bless, also, those who preside and who labor in the Church schools DEDICATION OF HAWAIIAN TEMPLE 83 which have been established from Canada on the north to Mexico in the south. O God, accept of the gratitude and thanksgiving of our hearts, for the very wonderful and splendid labors performed in the land of Hawaii by thy servants Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith. We thank thee for their devotion to the gospel to the people of this land. We thank thee for raising up thy servant Elder J. H. Napela, that devoted Hawaiian, who assisted thy servant President Cannon in the translation of the Book of Mormon, which is the sacred history of the Nephites, the Lamanites and the Jaredites. We thank thee that the plates containing the Book of Mormon were preserved so that they could be translated, and that thy words to the Prophet Joseph Smith might be fulfilled, namely, "That the Lamanites might come to the knowledge of their fathers, and that they might know the promises of the Lord, and that they may believe the gospel and rely upon the merits of Jesus Christ, and be glorified through faith in His name, and that through their repentance they might be saved." We thank thee, that thousands and tens of thousands of the descendants of Lehi, in this favored land, have come to a knowledge of the gospel, many of whom have endured faithfully to the end of their lives. We thank thee, our Father and our God, that those who are living and who have embraced the gospel are now to have the privilege of entering into this holy house, and laboring for the salvation of the souls of their ancestors. We thank thee that on this occasion the widow of thy loved servant, George Q. Cannon, even thine handmaiden. Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, is present with us today, and is permitted to participate in these dedicatory services. We thank, thee, O Father in Heaven, for our families, our friends, our relatives, and for all the many blessings which thou hast bestowed upon us. We thank thee for all of the temples that have been erected in this last dispensation, and we pray thy choice blessings to be and abide with all those who minister therein. We pray that that same sweet spirit which is present in all of the temples, may abide with those who shall labor in this holy house. We thank thee, O Father, this day that the promise made in a dream to thy servant, William W. Cluff, by thy Prophet Brigham Young, that the day would come when a temple should be erected in this land, is fulfilled before our eyes. We thank thee, O God, that thy faithful and diligent servant. President Joseph F. Smith was moved upon, while 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in this land, on the birthday of thy servant President Brigham Young, in the year 1915, to dedicate this spot of ground for the erection of a temple to the most high God. We thank thee for the long and faithful and diligent labors of thy servant President Samuel E. Wooley, who has so faithfully presided over this mission these many years. We thank thee for his labors in the erection of this temple, and beseech thee, O Father, that thou wilt bless him and all of his associate workers. We pray thee, O Father, to bless the son of thy beloved servant President Joseph F. Smith, E. Wesley Smith, who now presides over the Hawaiian mission. May the missionary spirit be and abide with him. May he have that same splendid love for the people of this land which his dear departed father possessed. We now thank thee, O God, our Eternal Father, for this beautiful temple and -the grounds upon which it stands, and we dedicate the grounds and the building, with all its furnishings and fittings, and everything pertaining thereunto, from the foundation to the roof thereof, to thee, our Father and our God. And we humbly pray thee, O God, the Eternal Father, to accept of it, and to sanctify it, and to consecrate it, through thy Spirit for the holy purposes for which it has been erected. We beseech thee that no unclean thing shall be permitted to enter here, and that thy Spirit may ever dwell in this holy house and rest mightily upon all who shall labor as officers and workers in this house, as well as all who shall come here to perform ordinances for the living or for the dead. May thy peace ever abide in this holy building, that all who come here may partake of the spirit of peace, and of the sweet and heavenly influence that thy Saints have experienced in other temples, and that has also been experienced in visiting the monument and cottage erected at the birthplace of thy servant Joseph Smith, the great Latter-day prophet. May all who come upon the grounds which surround this temple, in the years to come, whether members of the Church of Jesus Christ or not, feel the sweet and peaceful influence of this blessed and hallowed spot. And now that this temple is completed and ordinance work will soon be commenced, we beseech thee, O Father, that thou wilt open the way before the members of the Church in these lands, as well as of the natives of New Zealand, and of the Pacific Islands, to secure the genealogies of their forefathers, so that they may come into this holy house and become saviors unto their ancestors. We thank thee, O God, our Eternal Father, that the land DEDICATION OF HAWAIIAN TEMPLE 85 of Palestine, the land where our Savior and Redeemer ministered in the flesh, where he gave to the world the plan of life and salvation, is now redeemed from the thralldom of the unbeliever, and is in the hands of the great, enlightened and liberty-loving empire of Great Britain. We acknowledge thy hand, O God, in the wonderful events which have led up to the partial redemption of the land of Judah, and we beseech thee, O Father, that the Jews may, at no far distant date, be gathered home to the land of their forefathers. We thank thee that thy servants, the Prophets Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, were moved upon to send holy apostles to Jerusalem to dedicate that land for the return of the Jews. We acknowledge thy hand, O God, our Heavenly Father, that one of the benefits of the great and terrible world war, through which the nations of the earth have recently passed, will be the opportunity for the Jews to return to the land of their fathers. We thank thee, our Father in Heaven, for the victory which came to the armies of the Allies, and we beseech thee that that victory may lead to increased liberty and peace throughout all the nations of the earth. We pray for thy blessings to be upon the kings, and upon the nobles, and upon the rulers in all nations, that they may have it in their hearts to administer justice and righteousness, and to give liberty and freedom to the peoples over whom they rule. We thank thee that thou didst inspire the noble men who wrote the Constitution of our beloved country, and we beseech thee that the principles of that inspired document may ever be maintained;  that the people may overcome selfishness and strife, and contention, and all bitterness, and that they may grow and increase in the love of country, in loyalty and patriotism, and in a determination to do that which is right and just. We thank thee for this land of liberty in which we dwell which thou hast said is choice above all other lands. We do thank thee, O God, our Father, for the noble men who have presided over our country from the days of George Washington until the present time. We pray thee to bless Woodrow Wilson. the president of the United States. Touch him with the healing power of thy holy Spirit and make him whole. We pray that his life may be precious in thy sight, and may the inspiration that comes from thee ever abide with him. We pray for the vice president of the United States, for the members of the president's cabinet, for the senators 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and congressmen, and for all the officers of this great and glorious government in every state and territory, and in every land where the United States bears rule. We also remember before thee, all those who have been selected to administer the law in this favored land of Hawaii. We beseech thee, O God in heaven, that the people of the United States of America may ever seek to thee for guidance and direction, that thy declaration and promise that this is a land choice above all other lands, and shall be protected against all foes, provided the people serve thee, may be realized and fulfilled, and that the people may grow in power, and strength and dominion, and, above all;  in a love of thy truth. We thank thee, O God, that thy Son, our Redeemer, after being crucified and laying down his life for the sins of the world, did open the prison doors and proclaim the gospel of repentance unto those who had been disobedient in the days of Noah, and that he subsequently came to the land of America, where he established his Church and chose disciples to guide the same. We thank thee for restoring again to the earth the ordinances of the gospel of thy Son Jesus Christ, whereby men and women can be, in very deed, saviors upon Mount Zion, and where they can enter into thy holy temples and perform the ordinances necessary for the salvation of those who have died without a knowledge of the gospel. We thank thee, O Father, above all things upon the face of the earth, for the gospel of thy Son Jesus Christ and for the Priesthood of the living God, and that we have been made partakers of the same, and have an abiding knowledge of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. We thank for the words of thy Son Jesus Christ to the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon: "This is the gospel, the glad tidings which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us, that he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness, that through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him, who glorifies the Father and saves all the works of his hands." We thank thee, O Father, that thou didst send thy Son Jesus Christ, to visit thy servants Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland temple, the first temple ever erected by thy people in this last dispensation. We thank thee for the words of our Redeemer: "I am the first and the last, I am he who liveth, I am he who was slain, I am your advocate with the Father. Behold, your sins are forgiven you, you DEDICATION OF HAWAIIAN TEMPLE 87 are clean before me, therefore, lift up your heads and rejoice, let the hearts of your brethren rejoice, and let the hearts of all my people rejoice, who have, with their might, built this house to my name, for behold. I have accepted this house, and my name shall be here, and I will manifest myself to my people in mercy in this house." We thank thee, O God, that thou hast accepted, by thy testimony of the Holy Spirit, all of the temples that have been erected from the days of Kirtland until this present one. We also thank thee for sending thy servants, Moses and Elias and Elijah, to the Kirtland temple, and delivering to thy servants, Joseph and Oliver, the keys of every dispensation of the gospel of Jesus Christ from the days of Father Adam down to the present dispensation, which is the dispensation ofthe fulness of times. We thank thee, that Elijah has appeared, and that the prophecy of thy servant Malachi, that the hearts of the fathers should be turned to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, lest the earth be smitten with a curse, has been fulfilled in our day, and that our hearts in very deed, go out to our fathers;  and we rejoice beyond our ability to express, that we can, through the ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ, become saviors of our ancestors. We thank thee, O God, with all our hearts and souls for the testimony of thy servants Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon;  "And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony last of all, which we give of him, that he lives;  for we saw him, even on the right hand of God, and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father — that by him and through him, and of him the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God." We thank thee, O Father, for the knowledge that we possess in our very souls, that thou dost live, and that thy Son Jesus is our Redeemer, and our Savior, and that thy servant Joseph Smith, Jr., was and is, a prophet of the true and living God. And, O Father, may we ever be true and faithful to the gospel of thy son Jesus Christ, revealed through thy servant Joseph. We beseech thee, O Lord, that thou wilt stay the hand of the destroyer among the natives of this land, and give unto them increasing virility and more abundant health, that they may not perish as a people, but that from this time forth they may increase in numbers and in strength and influence, that all the great and glorious promises made concerning the descendants of Lehi, may be fulfilled in them;  that they may grow in vigor of body and of mind, and above all in a love for 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thee and thy Son, and increase in diligence and in faithfulness which have come to them through the gospel of Jesus Christ. We pray thee, O Father, to bless this land that it may be fruitful, that it may yield abundantly, and that all who dwell thereon may be prospered in righteousness. Bless all thy people who have named thy name in all parts of the world. Especially bless thy people in the Valleys of the Mountains, whereunto they were led by thy divine guidance, and where the greatest of all temples in this dispensation has been erected, and where thou hast blessed and prospered thy people even beyond anything that could have been expected. Bless, O Father in Heaven, all those that hold responsible positions in all the various auxiliary organizations of thy Church, whether as general, stake, ward, or mission authorities in;  the Relief Societies, in the Mutual Improvement Associations, in the Sunday Schools, in the Primary Associations, and in the Religion Class organizations. Bless each and everyone of thy servants and handmaidens who hold places of responsibility in these various organizations throughout the entire world. Bless, also, each and everyone who is laboring for the benefit of the members, as well as the members themselves, in these associations. We especially pray thee, O Father in Heaven, to bless the youth of thy people of Zion and in all the world. Shield and preserve and protect them from the adversary and from wicked and designing men. Keep the youth of thy people, O Father, in the straight and narrow path that leads to thee;  preserve them from all the pitfalls and snares that are laid for their feet. O Father, may our children grow up in the nurture and admonition of the gospel of thy Son Jesus Christ. Give unto them a testimony of the divinity of this work as thou hast given it unto us, and preserve them in purity and in truth. O God, our Heavenly and Eternal Father, sanctify the words which we have spoken, and accept of the dedication of this house, we beseech thee, in the name of thine only begotten Son Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. We have dedicated this house unto thee by virtue of the Priesthood of the living God, which we hold, and we most earnestly pray that this sacred building may be a place in which thou shalt delight to pour out thy Holy Spirit in great abundance, and in which thy Son may see fit to manifest himself and to instruct thy servants. In the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen and Amen. Promoted L. Lula Green Richards. Affectionately inscribed to the bereaved family and friends of the late Stake President and Brigadier General Richard W. Young. Again the widow's tears are shed, And children, fatherless, must weep Around the brave and stately dead Who lies in calm, unbroken sleep. Again is Zion called to mourn A Chieftain wise, beloved and great, Whose loyalty hath nobly borne Bright honors to his native State. Nor Home, nor Church, nor State may trace In full the annals of his worth;  His valor helped to fix in place The grandest Government on earth. Well may a Nation mourn such loss. Earth sorrow for so true a friend Called now "The Great Divide" across, Where more exalted paths extend. So great the scope, so broad the field Such men are needed over there;  To Sovereign will we can but yield, What e'er the portion we must bear. Thank God that, while we mourn, we know He was equipped for life above, — Transferred, promoted from below, In honor, confidence and love. The Will and The Way Ida Smoot Dusenberry. A clear, cold mid-winter. — Year 1912. The streets of New York City were thronged with busy shoppers. Decorated windows seemed to offer a challenge to the imagination to even dream of anything more artistically beautiful. Every bell that tolled seemed to breathe Christmas spirit. There were sad faces and glad faces, there were rich and poor. There were humble and haughty, but in spite of prosperity, suffering and sorrow, everyone was affected, because the world was radiant with the joy of the coming Christmas, and the hope of a brighter and more prosperous New Year. From this street atmosphere, of "Peace on earth and good will toward men," the writer, by invitation, entered a large building, stepped into an elevator and was wafted several stories high, and soon found herself attentively and breathlessly listening to a wonderful appeal for the life and honor of a boy, just nineteen. After about one hour of almost oppressive silence, the attorney concluded by saying, "Possibly the seed of this difficulty was planted by the hand of this Little mother who loved him unwisely and too well. Can you sacrifice his life for such misguided love?" Taking his seat, he turned and lifted the drooping head of the fainting spirit sitting crouched beside him, displaying a face drawn with care, wrinkled with sorrow and hopelessly despondent. My mind was dazed, and as I was pushed along by the surging crowd, I found myself back to my apartment almost wholly unconscious of how I got there, so intent was I on the thought of what changes life would hold with a world full of mothers as professionally prepared to direct lives as lawyers were to plead for them. Men for centuries have worked with but one impelling thought which is — professional efficiency. From the highest to the lowest they expect to acquire a logical amount of preparation for the certain work they anticipate following. It has been a world-wide demand, and the only course to pursue to avoid legal and social penalties. Were you ever on a train, and in the middle of a dark, stormy night, had the full realization come stealing over you of your dependence on the man at the brake? Could your spirit have found rest without the knowledge that he was an engineer, with a mind alive for every sound, sight or touch, together with a keen sense of responsibility toward his fellow WILL AND WAY 91 men. Imagine a practicing, untrained physician, an architect or builder, how long would the legal and social world remain passively silent, where money and lives were at stake? Justice demands that sufficient capability be acquired to protect the trusting public. Herein lies the most unprogressive step in the educational career of womankind. During the recent summer months, in an automobile stage, I listened to the following conversation between two ladies: "I am sending my daughter to a finishing school this fall." From the simple little unpretentious creature riding by her side, came the reply: "How lovely, what will she study?" "I am not sure, as yet, I have never asked, neither am I very particular, for the mere fact of her being there assures her an intellectual, distinctive experience that one must acquire to appear in society." I could readily see that "intellectual, distinctive experience," has many aims, ends and objects, and that in the same old way the mind is ever making associations along lines of greatest familiarity, for those three words interpreted meant to me psychology, hygiene, biology, and child study, all saturated and permeated with prayer, faith, and the principles of the gospel. The retarding of the world is due to inefficient mothers, and it makes little difference how much technical educational progress is acquired by womankind, it must eventually return and revolve itself around the same Divinely ordained decree, that it is only effective as it functions in the betterment of the wife, the mother and homemaker. If we want to become real benefactors, we must give to the world examples of "intellectual distinction" in honest intellects, that show moral courage through properly directed will power. Intellectual efficiency acquired for use and not for decoration, as well as spiritual vigor that makes for humility and love of mankind. We have lived to see many wonderful changes in the educational world. Women have not been idle. We have domestic science, social service, mothers' classes, parent-teachers' associations, child study, and child welfare organizations, all over the world, yet there are thousands and tens of thousands of young women marrying in a deplorable state of ignorance, so we must face the realization that the improvement in this important function has scarcely seen the light of day, and the discouraging educational situation is in the fact that there is little perception for the necessity of such preparation. This is not strange, nor is it unusual. A mother can never know the sacredness of her trust, until she understands 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE something of the laws of growth and development of the wonderful human structure devised and given life by God, our Father. For mothers to know the meaning of food and sleep would save thousands of lives, as well as relieve the world of tens of thousands of mental, moral and physical cripples. What does she know about watching for early manifestations of inherited instincts, or of the guidance of inborn impulses? And here comes stealing into the little life, all unconscious to the mother, the early habit-formations, the first steps to scenes above described or recognized and directed, and which mean unflinching stable character. The child's very weakness cries aloud for protection and care. Disturbances of mind and body occur in him with the greatest readiness, his early years are pre-eminently the stage of plasticity, a time of all others when the nerves are so sensitive that whatever happens to them, there is an immediate and permanent change. Every ounce of assimilated nourishment functions, every small bit of waste energy has its telling effect. Here the mother is given the power, but, alas, seldom the understanding, to fashion this little life into the great rhythmical harmony of the whole. Eventually must come a full realization that woman's greatest mission in life is intelligently to contribute her share to keep this harmony ringing true. Relief Society Magazine Office WILL PURCHASE THE FOLLOWING COPIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  At 20c per copy. All 1919 issues: Seven January numbers. Six April numbers. Seven June numbers. Five July numbers.  Five August numbers.  I Seven September numbers.  Six October numbers. Mail to  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  29 Bishops Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah I  s Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued) I found the shepherd lying on the ground at the foot of a large and steep ledge of rocks. As I appeared in view, he looked up at me and through his pain, he still smiled. Then a look of fear came into his eyes and he stared at me with his big brown eyes. He was a boy, a big, handsome boy. A mass of neat brown hair lay in deep contrast against the pallor of his cheek. I unslung my burdens from my shoulder and went up to him. Seeing the fear in his face, I spoke to him, telling him not to be afraid. My voice and face must have assured him of my friendliness, for he put his hands on his leg and uttered some strange words. Seeing that I could not understand him, he pointed up to the cliff, and then again to his leg;  and then I understood. He had fallen down the rocks and broken his leg. Oh, how my heart went out to that boy! I loved him from that moment even as I love him yet. At the sight of him lying there suffering, yet looking up into my strange face with a sad, trusting smile, something came back into my heart, something came back into my life, something of boyhood's life and joys, and oh, I was so glad! A little lamb came limping up to his master, but at sight of me, it stopped and gave its piteous cries. The boy looked as it, then at me, and then up again at the rocks. I once more understood. It was while rescuing the lamb from a dangerous position that he had met with the accident. I placed my blanket under the boy's head and then looked at the injured limb. I was unable to do much in such an emergency, but I placed the bones as nearly in position as I could, and then using small willow stems for splints, wound around it strips of cloth. Then the only thing to be done was to get him to other help. We tried to talk to each other, but that was useless. r Though he was a big boy, I lifted him on to my back and carried him down towards the sheep. The lamb limped along by our side. The boy pointed the way which I was to take, and it was not long before we came in sight of a small house, built of stones and covered with a turf roof. I carried him in and placed him on a bed in a corner of the room. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE His leg must have pained him cruelly, but he was very patient and considerate. I was somewhat faint from the exertion, and when he saw it he pointed to a cupboard-shaped piece of furniture in another corner of the room. I went to it, and on opening a door, found plenty of food. There was bread, cheese, meat, and some other articles quite strange to me, and a jar of milk. I brought some of the food to the low table by the bed and offered it to the boy. He motioned me back to the cupboard and I soon had knives and dishes. Some of the dishes were of metal, and some of light earthenware. The sick boy broke some bread and cut a large piece of meat, placing them where I was to eat. Then he poured out a bowl of milk for me and motioned me to partake. He began mincing a little himself, and I then fell to with a right good appetite. The bread was of rye and barley, and it tasted delicious — and the milk! It was nectar to my lips. I could see that the boy was worrying about his sheep. The sun was getting around again to the north, which in any other part of the earth meant that night and darkness would be coming on. I went out and with very little trouble drove the sheep in close to the hut, where they soon lay down and became quiet. When my companion learned this, he thanked me with a clasp of his hand. I sat there by his couch, he holding my hand and I looking into his face, trying to understand his strange language. I brushed back the hair from his forehead. My touch could not have been more reverential had it been the fair face of a girl. The boy was tired, and slept between the times of greatest pain;  and I also must have dozed a little. I realized that I must find assistance. I managed to make him understand this, and also that if he could give me some kind of a note to his friends, it would greatly help me. I did not know whether he could write or not, but he soon convinced me of that. By his direction I found his writing material which consisted of some small pieces of thin, prepared skin, an instrument resembling a steel pen, and a bottle of black ink. On one of these sheets, he soon had something written, which to me was just as foreign as his speech. He pointed out to me the direction which I should take, and with a cheery smile and wave of the hand I left him and proceeded rapidly on my way. (To be continued.) Oh Lad O' Mine Affectionately inscribed to the war mothers of Utah. Annie Wells Cannon. I. You answered the call, Oh. Lad o' Mine, The call to do or to die;  You followed the flag, Oh, Lad o' Mine, With never a question why. n. The flag you loved. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Meant more than life to you;  And you held it high. Oh, Lad o' Mine, With its stars in the field of blue. You followed it far, Oh, Lad o' Mine, And bravely you saw it through With never a stain, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The glorious red, white and blue. IV. On land or on sea, Oh, Lad o' Mine, A song in the heart of you And a prayer at home, Oh, Lad o' Mine, To keep you brave and true. V. Through strife and struggle. Oh, Lad o' Mine, You held your courage high. Nor faltered once, Oh, Lad o' Mine, E'en when death was nigh. 96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VI. The heart beats lighter, Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the valor you have shown;  The stars shine brighter. Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the victory you have won. VIL The victory gained. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies not on battle field, But in your soul, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies safe the victors' shield. VIIL For a conquered world, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Long and loud the sirens ring;  For a conquered self, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The spheres glad anthems sing. THE MORMON BATTALION MONUMENT. The Legislature of 1917, appropriated $100,000 for the erection of a monument, provided the people of the state would raise a similar amount. The commission is fortunate in its chairman, Hon. B. H. Roberts, whose kindling power for any cause is well known in this region. Under his able leadership, assisted by the indefatigable efforts of May Belle T. Davis, an appeal is just now before the people to contribute the money needed to secure the contribution and build a monument. No one who is familiar with the courage, hardihood and suffering, of the Battalion boys, could withhold desire to support this movement which would perpetuate their memory and memorialize the record of their achievements. No matter what opinion some may hold concerning the choice of such a monument, all will unite in answering the call made upon them by their leaders and by the state. We commend the project to all who are now enjoying the benefits derived from the labors of the Pioneers and the Battalion boys. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon NEW GENERAL BOARD MEMBER Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon was appointed by the First Presidency, December 19, to fill the vacancy on our General feoard left by the death of Miss Edna May Davis. Mrs. Cannon has been an active Church worker, since the age of 14. She was associated with her mother in the editing and publishing of the "Woman's Exponent," which was the organ of the Society for forty years. She was made president of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society sixteen years ago next March, and has proved her sterling ability and loyal devotion, not only in her position as president of that stake Relief Society, but also when she worked for years as a member of the General Board. She is a fluent speaker, a gifted writer, and a wise counselor. Mrs. Cannon has had a rich and varied experience. She is the mother of seven stalwart sons and seven lovely daughters. Although actively engaged in public work since her youth, she has not neglected the finer and better part of a woman's wife. life, for she is an ideal mother and a diligent, loyal Mrs. Cannon has been active in political matters for a number of years. Following the steps of her own famous mother, she has done much for the success of Republican politics in this state, and she served a full term in the state legislature. She was the first president of the state War Mother's Association, and is the mother of three soldier boys. Mrs. Cannon will be a decided asset to the General Board of the Relief Society, experienced as she is in all branches of Relief Society activities, and inspired as she is and will be with the wider vision and broader scope of the position she has now been called to occupy. Her wisdom and poise will be felt and appreciated in the counsels of this Society. Oh TheWatchJowerC James H. Anderson. Eastern Europe is yet without peace, and the rest of the world cannot boast of an excess of the -desirable article, industrial oi otherwise. • Capt. Ross Smith, an Australian aviator, reached Australia on December 10, on an 11,500-mile airplane trip on which he left England November 12. Food statisticians in Great Britain, analyzing world conditions, announce that a great scarcity of food is due for 1920 and 1921. They have good basis for \heir conclusions. Indians in the United States have increased more than 50,000 in numbers during the past four years. Is the significance ofthis trend on the part of the "remnant of Jacob" apparent to our Society? Over 68,000 girls ran away from home in the United States during 1919. Is the fault with the home, or with the school, or society outside of home life? Emma Goldmann, a Russian by birth but naturalized in America, who has been preaching anarchism in this country for more than thirty years, was deported to Russia on December 21. Emmeline Pankhurst, noted English suffragette, was in Salt Lake City on December 6, and recorded a protest against industrial strikes. She says women have as many rights as men, and inquires what would happen if housewives went on strike for an eight-hour day. Many others than women are in sympathy with Mrs. Pankhurst's views on that question. WATCH TOWER 99 The "right to strike" in this country has grown into an alleged right to prevent other people from working, as exemplified by labor strikes in Utah and elsewhere during the closing months' of 1919. Fashion journals in the United States announce that society women are having butterflies or mice painted on their arms, backs, breasts, knees and thighs. Comment is offensive. Earthquakes occurred during the month of December in Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico and California. During the same period the weather was exceptionally severe all along the Pacific coast of North America. United States courts made an order on November 8 for the great coal strike to cease, but the order was not obeyed. The strike ended on December 15, after President Wilson assented to naming a commission to fix wages. Georges Carpentier, the champion French pugilist, who is a single man, was being urged, in December, by certain eugenists, to get married, for obvious reasons. Some people forget that brute power is not the prime requisite for parenthood. Jews still are being killed off in large numbers in Russia. With these massacres going on, Palestine soon may be large enough to accommodate all of the house of Judah that remain in Europe. Ireland is yet seething with rebellion. On December 18, an effort was made to assassinate the lord lieutenant. Lord French, who commanded the British armies in France and Belgium during the early years of the war. Cardinal Amette, Catholic archbishop of Paris, forbids women who are immodestly dressed entering the churches under his control. Possibly he figures that under the "rule of contrary" the women will dress decently to get into the forbidden precincts, and thus improve church attendance. Indians of different tribes and classes were the first settlers of New York State, is the announcement of State Archeologist Arthur Parker of New York, based on the A. H. Dewey archeological collection in the State museum there. His classification of time accords with the Book of Mormon distinctions in their order — Jaredites, Nephites, and the later Lamanites, but he does not use the same names. 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Italy gets Fiume after all, and even more than she asked at first, notwithstanding the opposition of the American delegates at the Paris peace conference which has caused so much trouble. Paris, France, is described by reputable authorities as being "the loveliest, wickedest, crudest place in the world for young girls visiting there." And this is "bleeding France," for which country much sympathy has been expended. Gen. Felipe Angeles, a fullblood Indian of learning and ability, was executed in Mexico on November 26, for opposing the Carranza government. A few days later, Francisco Villa executed nearly 600 Carranza soldiers as an act of vengeance. Miss Anne Scott, aged 35, of New York, has been elected president of the Bantam Ball Bearing company, a million dollar corporation. She says that she is now "too busy for matrimony"— and too rich for other than a money-lover. Miss Florence King, president of the American National Women's Association of Commerce, and a lawyer, says that in the present age "women must lead men." Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish, New York society matron, cynically inquires, "Where to?" ' Decency in dancing is being urged upon the young people by the Church social advisory board. Where is the responsibility for deficiency in training that requires this admittedly needed advice? Can the fathers and mothers say? Victor Berger, socialist, convicted of syndicalism, and expelled from Congress therefor, was re-elected to Congress from Wisconsin on December 19. Such straws of public sentiment indicate coming trouble in the United States Central West. "The end of the world" named in Scripture often is interpreted as meaning the destruction of the earth — hence many fake predictions;  may not the true application of the term be the destruction of the wicked as a necessary prelude to a reign of righteousness? A German savant who is familiar with conditions in Europe figures that within a few years Russia, under Bolshevist doctrines, will be the most powerful force in Europe and will even menace America. His forecast is not without good foundation, in the present trend of society. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN President Emmeline B. Wells* Birthday. President Wells is the most remarkable woman on the earth today, not only because of her advanced age — she is 92 years old on the last or Leap Year Day of this month of February; she is remarkable, not only because of her long and eminently useful life;  not only because she has done many things and has travelled in many lands;  not only because she has known and taken part in all the great and glorious movements in the Church which promoted the advancement of w-omen — all these things she has done and many more, but chief of all wonderful things which today mark her career is the fact that she represents in her position the greatest and earliest organization of women in modern times. And, moreover, she herself in large and generous measure truly represents the very spirit and genius of that great work. This is her first actual birthday in four years, and few there were who thought four years ago that she would live to see this day. She has lived to see it. Her will is still as strong, her spirit is as indomitable, and her testimony is still as unflinching as it was eight and eighty years ago. This Society, each and every member thereof, officers, both of wards, stakes, and of the General Board, join in loving congratulations and in continued loyal prayers for her peace, her health and her happiness here and hereafter. Mexican Feminist Council. Recent efforts by so-called U. S. philanthropists to establish charitable propaganda by the expenditure of millions was thwarted by the Mexican Woman's Council who protests that the scheme was designed to bring about ultimate inter- 102. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vention in Mexican affairs. These Mexican women declare that Mexico is amply able to settle its own problems and invite other people to attend to their own affairs, and let Mexicans have the same inalienable privilege. Vanity Boxes in Egypt. It is now proven by scientists and explorers that ancient Egypt invented vanity boxes for women of that fashionable and corrupt country, over five thousand years ago, while the Africans in those dim ages as well as ever since have carried lip sticks and color aids to their ebony complexions that modern girls do. Empress Eugenie Visits Paris. One of the most pathetic sights of the past month was the figure of the aged ex-Queen Eugenie who travelled from her asylum in England to Paris peering with her dim eyes at the scenes of her former glory and power. It looks today as if all the other crowned heads will soon be in the same rather pitiful class. And the irony of it! English Women Magistrates. A tremendous step in advance has been made in England for suffrage by the admission of women magistrates through the sex-disqualification act. December 23, the Lord Chancellor appointed the following women to act in that capacity, when required: The Marchioness of Crewe, the Marchioness of Londonderry, Mrs. David Lloyd George, Mrs. Humphrey Ward, Mrs. Sidney Webb, Miss Elizabeth Haldane and Miss committee Tuckwell. Gertrude They Lord to advise the are Chancellor to constitute as fitness woman's of women for the office of magistrate when vacancies occur. He adds that women are especially qualified for work in children's courts, several of which have been established in large English cities. They do things well over there in England when they start. Check Your Baby. New York has set a new pace. She has risen to the sex situation in department stores and especially in the movies. Mothers of half-grown children can go a-shopping and to movies without too much trouble, for children can be left at home or on the street while mother is so engaged. But baby — only the most callous mother in the world would leave baby alone or with only irresponsible children to look after the helpless little thing. And New York has myriads of mothers of young babies — in the tenement districts, however — and these ROUND TABLE 103 mothers constitute a very large proportion of patrons at department stores and movies up in Harlem and on the west side. So enterprising storekeepers and movie directors have established rooms where qualified caretakers, nurses, and doctors also in attendance — care for the baby for fifteen cents an afternoon. Can you imagine it? Columbia University. Has just offered a special short course to train directors of recreation, in co-operation with the National League of Women Workers. One wonders if we will need trainers by and-by to teach us how to wink the eyes. Woman Stage Manager. The first woman stage manager, who is Mrs. Lillian Trimble Bradley, has made good in New York. Women Census Takers. Portland will have 237 women and 42 men census takers this winter. Miss Mary Garret Hay. A long time suffrage worker has been chosen by the Republicans of New York state as a delegate for the National Convention of 1920, the other two delegates being United States Senators. Women in Los Angeles. Were denied a place on a jury in December. We still have some battles to fight. But just why some women should want to serve on juries is a mystery to other women. We do claim, however, the right to do that or anything else, or not to do that or anything else. When women get the full right of choosing what they will do and what they will leave undone, then they will quietly swing back into their rightful place and the world will move on in its usual circles. Kamas Relief Society Women. A recent tribute in the "Deseret News" to the fine work done by the Kamas Relief Society women refers to the cleanup campaign instituted there by these women who began by painting up their own fine hall, cleaning the lot on which it stood, repairing the fence and grading and gravelling the sidewalk. We suggest that here is a wide field for our sisters to enter in the stimulation of clean-up campaigns in the districts where they live. What has been one can be done again. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Eastern States Mission. Miss Marie J. Haselman has just returned from the Eastern States where she has performed a splendid mission for the L. D. S. Church, and where she, in addition, presided over the Relief Societies of the mission. She reports the various branches in good condition, and greatly interested in all phases of the Relief Society work. Miss Haselman had the pleasure of visiting all of the thirteen branches where she gave detailed information and instruction. Miss Haselman's work was greatly appreciated by President George F. McCune, of the Eastern States mission, and by the General Board of Relief Societies. Hawaiian Mission. A Relief Society was recently organized at Kokoike, Kohala, by Elder Joseph D. Daynes, and the members of this branch have presented a beautiful mat to the Honolulu Mission Home. Mrs. Naomi C. Bliss, an L. D. S. graduate nurse, who is laboring in Honolulu with her husband, is assisting very greatly in the Relief Society work. California Mission. A Relief Society has been organized at Sacramento, and much enthusiasm is shown by the members of this branch, who greatly enjoy the opportunity of meeting together in a common cause. During the summer vacation members of the Long Beach Relief Society, under the direction of the president, Christina Larsen and counselors, assisted by Mrs. Louisa W. Jones, president of the Relief Societies of the California mission, were busily engaged in sewing articles for a bazaar, the proceeds of which were to be donated toward the building fund of the new L. D. S. chapel in Long Beach. Weekly sewing meetings were held and were the means of bringing out many of the younger women who had heretofore not been affiliated with the Relief Society, and who became very enthusiastic in the plan. A program was given in connection with the bazaar which was very greatly enjoyed. $200 was realized from the sale of quilts, aprons, rugs and various articles and from the sale of refreshments. In addition to the splendid results financially the occasion was greatly enjoyed from a social point of view. , ROUND TABLE 105 European Mission. Mrs. Lucy W. Smith writes very interestingly of conditions in the Relief Society of the European mission. Following convention are some in quotations London on from her letter November 9. :Seven "We held a splendid branches were represented as follows: Croyden, Hammersmith, Holloway, North London, South London, Watford and Portsmouth. There were present between seventy-five and eighty people, and it was found that all but four of these keep the Word of Wisdom, and all but three pay tithing. The amount of sewing these people do is remarkable. Nearly every organization in the mission owns a maternity chest which is lent to mothers who need it, and which is returned later to the society — all things laundered, and missing articles supplied fOr the next occasion. Some societies pledge themselves to clothe each year from one to one-half dozen children, providing them with clothes from their skin out. Nearly every article of clothing being made in the society. Some take orders for sewing to supply the organizations with funds. One in particular makes pillow cases, saying they could not supply the demand in the past year. My daughter, Edith, has been with me at two Relief Society gatherings, one in Halifax, and the Convention in London. At Halifax they held a bazaar with an evening social and a meeting the next day, Sunday afternoon. She has been working faithfully and very earnestly in the society here." The organizations are very much interested in Child Welfare work. A member will be appointed from each branch to specialize on this subject, and to give this valuable information to the members of the society. Genealogical work is a special feature for the Relief Society. Assistance in the homes of the poor, sick, distressed and mourning is freely given, and those who are feeling spiritually poor are also visited and given words of encouragement. The "Relief Society Magazine" is very much appreciated. It is a constant source of inspiration. Other items of interest come from James Gunn McKay, president of the London conference: "The seven branches of the London conference have thirty-three officers and twelve teachers. Five of them hold their meetings on Monday evenings, one on Wednesday and one on Thursday. With the exception of three, all of these branches have been organized since 1915. It is the plan to organize a society at St. Albans and one at Luton in the near future. "These branches have accomplished a great deal of work during the war. They have provided for the needy, cared for the sick, and comforted those, in sorrow and trouble. • They 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have cheered the lonely and provided entertainment for the Old Folks. With bazaars, entertainments and the making of clothing they have been able to keep their treasuries supplied with funds. Each organization has on hand a substantial amount of money and garments ready for calls of need. "Not only have the temporal wants been provided for, but also the mental and spiritual needs of the members have been looked after. Classes in First Aid have been conducted, talks on gospel themes and the reading of the stories written by our own authors, have been quite extensively carried out. A course in genealogy has been given in each society. This has awakened a deep interest in this fascinating subject until many have had their hearts turned to their fathers. In consequence of this one activity, hundreds of names have been searched out of the old family Bibles and parish records, and a great many names have been sent to the St. George Temple. One person alone has secured twenty-two hundred names of his departed relatives. "The work throughout has been conducive of a sweet spirituality and a strong testimony of the restored gospel of Christ. In the very nature of their struggles to attend and sustain their own organizations, they have found latent powers and obtained a peep of future possibilities within themselves." Blaine and Boise Stakes. Two of the most successful conferences, or conventions, held during the past year, were those of the Blaine and Boise stakes, presided over by Mrs. Laura J. Adamson and Mrs. Bessie B. Hale respectively. Adequate preparation had been made by both stakes before the conferences were held, and all of the details were worked out. In both instances practically all of the stake officers were in attendance at the stake board meetings, and there was a large representation of ward officers at the stake and local meetings and at the general sessions. While several of the other auxiliary organizations were holding meetings at the same time, there was not the slightest confusion or interference, and no waste of time. In addition to reports from ward presidents, reports were given by the chairmen of the various Stake Board committees. These chairmen all seem to be experts in their various lines and were enthusiastic in their plans for renewed interest in their various fields. Since the organization of the Boise stake, August 2, 1919, the stake officers have visited every ward organization in the stake, once each month, on the regular Relief Society day, and,in addition to this, ward conferences have been held ROUND TABLE 107 with each organization, the conferences taking place on Sunday. The nearest ward to the stake Relief Society headquarters is20 miles away, and some of the farthest ones are 80 miles distant. Following the lead set by the presidency of the stake in inaugurating a campaign against the cigarette evil, the Relief Society stake board members have pledged themselves, collectively and individually to work unceasingly toward the suppression and eradication of this evil. This program has been carried into the wards, where the ward organizations and members are pledged to the same cause. The Boise stake presidency has appointed two members of the High Council to assist with the work in each of the auxiliary organizations. The high counselors for the Relief Society meet regularly with the stake board each week in the regular board meeting. These members have also accompanied the Relief Society stake officers to the ward conferences which have been held, giving valuable assistance to the work. St. George Stake. Mrs. Elida C. Snow, first counselor in the St. George Stake Relief Society, passed to the great beyond, on September 20, 1919. Mrs. Snow was born in Salt Lake City, in 1854, and when only a child of seven moved with her parents to Dixie, her entire life from that time being spent in the south. She married Erastus B. Snow, of St. George, and nine children were born to them. Many years of her life were spent in Relief Society work. She acted as secretary in the ward Relief Society for several years and later served as stake secretary for five years. From this position she was called to the office of first counselor to Mrs. Emily C. Brooks, in which capacity she served for thirteen years, and up to the time of her death. Mrs. Snow was a woman of faith and courage. She was intelligent and progressive, was well read, and wise in all her dealings. She was sympathetic, and loved everything of an uplifting nature. She was greatly beloved by her co-workers who are united in the opinion that their lives are richer and better for having known her. Cache Stake. At the Cache stake conference, held in November, a complete report of the general conference, held in Salt Lake City in October, was given by the secretary, Mrs. Mary E. Smith. The work of the Social Advisory committee was explained by Mrs. Sophia Cardon, and Mrs. Durham of the Y. L. M. I. A, stake board presented resolutions on the cigarette evil, which were unanimously adopted. Mrs. Kinnie B. Caine made a strong appeal to the mothers to teach their small boys the 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE importance of the Word of Wisdom, with special emphasis on the tobacco evil. Mrs. Amy Lyman Merrill gave a talk on proper housing, and home training, and President S. F. Ballif gave counsel and encouragement to those in attendance. There were 250 present at the morning session and 400 present at the afternoon session. During the year, the following wards have been reorganized: The Logan 1st, 7th, 8th and 10th wards. Before retiring the first ward presidency donated $100 toward the erection of a new meeting house. The new officers have succeeded in building up a good charity fund and have pieced and quilted six quilts. The 7th ward gave a banquet to the retiring officers presenting each with a Relief Society pin. An entertainment was also given in honor of the teachers to which every woman in the ward was invited, a program was given and refreshments served. During the summer this ward quilted seven quilts for the Primary bazaar, and pieced and quilted nine quilts for the Relief Society. The members of this branch have done charity work in the temple for one hundred and fifty names. They have secured a list of names and are making the officer to any member to work for two names and receive in payment a year's subscription to the "Relief Society Magazine." The 8th ward is in the outlying district and it has been difficult to hold more than one meeting a month. However, the members have decided to hold two meetings a month, in order to take up the lesson work more fully. They hope eventually to have weekly meetings. Members of the 10th ward organization have pieced and quilted seven quilts, have worked twelve days in the temple for charity, and have greatly increased their subscription to the "Magazine." Bear Lake Stake, During the month of September, three successful district conferences were held in the Bear Lake stake. The regular lesson work was considered and discussions given on the various activities. A very pleasant social was given recently in honor of Mrs. Louisa Tueller, who served for many years as stake secretary. A program was rendered, refreshments served, and a dainty wrist-watch presented to her by the Relief Society of the stake. In point of service, Mrs. Tueller is the oldest member on the stake board, having held this office during the terms of three presidents. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto — Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL. BOARD MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President MRS. CLARISSA S. WilLLIAMS ----- First Counselor MRS. JULINA L. SMITH Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary MRS. SUSA YOUNG GATES - - - - Recording Secretary MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY - Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth SL Wilcox Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily St. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia P. M. Parnsworth Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C Crimson Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. VII JANUARY. 1920 No. 1 THE DISCIPLINE OF OPPOSITION IN THIS NEWEST YEAR OF 1920. Life is checkered with discipline, strewn with raging battles of human will with human will, of human will with circumstances and with the forces of nature. It is the vital part of the divine plan, the pith, the marrow of human existence. Nay, it is to be supposed that no conscious existence can obtain without the operation of opposition and of the consequent discipline. Some human wills may indeed refuse to accept the discipline or acknowledge the presence of law and of a divine ordering in their various experiences. No matter how opposition comes to us — and come it will, whether we are determined to grow upward, to work wisely, to serve nobly, or if we are simply weak and foolish — all the opposition and the disciple born of that opposition will strengthen us, develop us, and enrich life here and hereafter, if we accept it for what it is, and intelligently turn it to best account. Everywhere we look we find discipline: the discipline of fear, of disappointment and loss, of failure, of criticism, of sickness and death, of work and severest of all, the tonic discipline of lack of appreciation. In childhood and youth every opposing force to our appetites and desires is bitterly resented and violently received. Little savages as they are, children know no law but desire, no rights but their own. That their desires may infringe on other's rights, that the gratification of their EDITORIAL 49 wants and appetites may bring pain and sickness to themselves or to others means nothing whatever to their undescended minds. Some grown people, either inordinately selfish, or spoiled by coddling and over-indulgence in youth, maintain this senseless and densely ignorant attitude toward life all their days. We have opposition from every source, in every activity and through all life's manifestations;  there must be, and is, opposition in politics;  even in monarchies and under autocrats there is the constant play and inter-play of crossing wills and opposing purposes and plans. Republics can exist only on the basis of the constant friction between opposing factions. Were it not so, a republic would soon or late become an autocracy, and express the will and plans of but one man or one set of men. There must be opposition in love. Novels are founded on the human triangle of one man and two women or two men and one woman. In the infancy of novel writing, as in the infancy of man and of men, the battles of life are fought with sticks and staves, knives and guns. In maturity the battle is between will and will, or between will and circumstances or the forces of nature. There are but three plots in the universe and these are founded on the battle of the human will with the opposing forces of love, of greed, or of ambition. The office of friendship is the discipline of wise encouragement and wise rebuke;  as the Preacher puts it, "As iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend." (Pr. 27:17.) There is constant opposition in business life. Men must needs oppose one another. As the old phrase has it, "Competition is the life of trade." Today it is the battle of the business giants, pigmies are crushed to powder in the struggle. And when you shift the battle to the opposing forces of organized capital and organized labor you have a death grapple which threatens to destroy civilization in its throes. In our homes this ceaseless struggle of wills goes on and on. Children oppose one another, parents oppose the children and, at times, oppose each other. The stronger will — too often the selfish and self-centered will — wins in this daily domestic struggle, and too often goodness and unselfishness submits for the sake of peace. That is always life's bitterest tragedy. When we set up our wills against the divine will, as we do so often — and so often half-consciously — we must inevitably pay the price in health, in love, in business, in politics, in our homes and in our religion. Only, how may we always know that we are opposing law and the purpose of the Lord. Ah, 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE my friends, there are sign posts for us, if we will but study them, all along life's way. All wills must bend here and give way there, for, after all, life is just one huge compromise;  and we must always remember that the good of the whole is far more necessary than that of any one of its parts. That is the foundation of a republic. How much to bend, when to give way, that's our daily problem. If we can but face this vital fact of discipline, of the need of opposition, fairly and squarely, the half of our problem is solved. But we are like children, we want our way at once and without opposition. We are not willing to wait and to keep on struggling. We fly from discipline. Discouraged we throw up our hands and let go of the iron rod. "Cowards," said Pres. Joseph F. Smith, to a group of troubled women who wished to resign from their positions because of bitter opposition: “Is that what you would do in general Church affairs, if things didn't go right? Apostatize because mistakes occur and men oppose a good measure? Stay right where you are and work to bring to pass what measures seem right and wise!" Hence, we must count upon opposition. It is the oxygen of human vitality. A man who had a great mission to perform the following day paced the floor all night sleepless and alert. When asked by his friend why he did not retire he replied, "I am afraid of the unseen wills working in the dark." Then, opposition must come, and we must make the discipline thereof fruitful through our wisdom, our faith, and through an unselfish desire to serve God and our fellow men. Thus it will become a blessing, leaving in its wake peace and prosperity. Will we, then, not welcome our opposing forces in this pregnant, opening year of 1920, making them our servants and not our masters? This wonderful opening year, the centennial of that marvelous vision in the grove at Palmyra, when our beloved Prophet, Joseph Smith, received his glorious manifestation, the opening of the heavens and the revelation anew to the children of men that God is in his heavens and that Jesus is his Only Begotten Son. Will we not remember the long and terrible discipline of opposition which flooded the path of that prophet, and which was only surpassed by the cruel opposition known to the Savior of the world? From them we will draw our New Year's lesson, and will measure our opposition by the rod of iron, and by the Golden Rule. Thus we may face the rising of our New Year's day unafraid, prepared. Guide Lessons LESSON I. Genealogy and Testimony (Required) First Week in February. TEXT: "History of the Church," Vol. II, page 380;  Vol. . page 13-16; 472; page 231;  Doc. and Cov. sec. 110: 124:26-48. AIM: All descendants of Adam living and dead, shall hear the Gospel Message. Salvation on the Other Side. Modern scripture, found in our Church works and in the sermons of our leaders, abound with explicit counsel and commandments concerning the doctrine of salvation for the dead. Like all truth, this principle in its application to our everyday needs and requirements has undergone a natural process of evolutionary growth. The principle itself, after being revealed to the prophet, was gradually built up until the entire structure was presented by him, in his later ministry to the people in its beauty and glory. The thought of hope beyond the grave, of regeneration and entrance into the kingdom of God by spirits who had once lived upon this earth and failed to reach that mark, was so stupendous that the prophet himself was carried away with the marvelous doctrine. Out of the forty-three billion people who, it is estimated, have lived upon this earth, barely three billion of them have ever heard the name of Jesus Christ, and of that three billion, only a handful, just subsequent to the crucifixion and since the restoration of the gospel in 1830 — these few alone have known and accepted the gospel in its fulness. What then should become of the nearly three billion so called unconverted Christians as well as the other forty billion who never heard His name. First came the vision of the prophet's brother at a meeting held in Kirtland Temple, January 21, 1836, just prior to its dedication. This vision will be found in volume II of the "History of the Church," page 380, and contains the following revelation: "All who have died without a knowledge of this 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gospel who could have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God;  also all that shall die henceforth vithout a knowledge of it, who would have received it with their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom, for I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts." Next and even more significant was the vision given to the prophet and Oliver Cowdery shortly after the dedication of the temple, found in section 110:13-16, in the Doctrine and Covenants. As there shown, Elijah, who has been expected by the Jews for three thousand years, and whose symbolic entrance is typified every Passover night, in all Jewish households, by opening the door to admit his coming as the forerunner of Messiah, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith at the Passover period, April 3, 1836, presenting to him the keys to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to their fathers, committing the keys of this dispensation into the hands of the great latter day prophet. The prophet's mind must have dwelt, at times, upon this glorious development, although mobbing’s and driving from Kirtland to Missouri and then to Nauvoo absorbed his every waking hour. In an epistle to the twelve, written October 19, 1840, shortly after arriving in Nauvoo, as found in volume IV of the "History of the Church," page 231, the prophet has this to say: "I presume the doctrine of 'baptism for the dead' has ere this reached your ears, and may have raised some inquiries in your minds respecting the same. "Without enlarging on the subject, you will undoubtedly see its consistency and reasonableness;  and it presents the gospel of Christ in probably a more enlarged scale than some have imagined it. But as that performance of this rite is more particularly confined to this place, it will be not necessary to enter into particulars, at the same time I always feel glad to give all the information in my power, but my space will not allow me to do it." Meanwhile his mind dwelt upon the erection of a temple in which could be given not only the ordinance of washing of feet, such as was attended to in the Kirtland temple, but the higher blessings which can only be given in a temple built for that purpose. On January 19, 1841, the prophet received a revelation concerning the building of a temple in Nauvoo (section 124 in the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 26 to 48), wherein the Lord says: "For a baptismal font there is not upon the earth that they, my Saints, may be baptized for those who are dead. For this ordinance belongeth to my house, and cannot GUIDE LESSONS 53 be acceptable to me, only in the days of your poverty, wherein ye are not able to build a house unto me." Following this announcement the Saints went eagerly forward to do the baptizing for the dead. Not yet complete in form, however, men were baptized for women and women for male relations. Nor was there any record kept of those earliest baptisms. Pres. Emmeline B. Wells was thus baptized. Later developments proved the incompleteness of this labor, as we shall see in subsequent lessons. In an epistle, written December 13, 1841, in volume IV, page 472 of the "History of the Church," occurs the following: "The building of the Temple of the Lord in the city of Nauvoo, is occupying the first place in the exertions and prayers of many of the Saints at the present time, knowing as they do, that if this building is not completed speedily, we shall be rejected as a Church with our dead;  for the Lord our God hath spoken it." QUESTIONS. 1. What do you understand by the scriptures? 2. Who wrote scriptures in ancient times? 3. Who wrote them in modern times? 4. Describe the vision of the Prophet in which he saw his brother Alvin Smith. (Vol. II, page 380, "History of the Church.") 5. Who is Elijah? What is the custom of the Jews concerning Elijah? article on Jews.) (See April, 1919, No. of "R. S. Magazine," 6. What prophet promised that he should come to turn the. hearts of the children to the fathers? 7. Describe the vision of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as given in the Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 110. 8. What are the keys of this dispensation? 9. In what way will the hearts of the children be turned to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children? 10. What is the necessity of building a temple? 11. What is a temple? 12. Why should this people be rejected if they fail to look after their dead? 13. What does the Prophet say about the ancient Jews' acquaintance with the principle? 14. How, and under what circumstances were the first baptisms for the dead performed? See Jensen's "Church Chronology" and Vol. IV of "History of the Church," page 545. Read description of baptismal font on Nauvoo, found on page 454. 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II. Work and Business (Required) Second Week in February. LESSON . Book of Mormon (Optional) THE LAND OF JOSEPH. Third Week in February. TEXT: Genesis 49:22-27;  12:7-8;  15:7-18;  26:3-4;  28:4;  Deut. 33:13-18;  Gensis 48:15-20;  48-4. Both the Book of Mormon and the Bible, King James' translation (as far as the latter book is translated correctly), are accepted by us as a people to be the word of God. Further, it is common teaching among us that the two records each testify to the divinity of the other. We take the Bible to mean just what it says and not what we would have it say or how we would have it say, and as the standard by which we may safely draw our conclusions when examining the testimony contained therein. There were definite and explicit Bible predictions uttered in the days of the Patriarchs, and of Moses and the Prophets, to the effect that this continent should be occupied, at some subsequent time by a people from the Orient;  designating who they should be and the object and reason for their coming. This people, the Bible clearly sets forth, are a line or remnant of Joseph of Egypt who should at some time change their inheritance from the land of Palestine to a country far removed from Canaan. The Bible is insistent and positive in its declaration that such a people did actually leave Palestine about 590 years before the birth of the Savior and during the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, and that they would be under divine guidance. They should journey to a land which would exceed their present home in everything that should make a country desirable above all others. Decisive and to the point concerning the foregoing is that part of the text recorded in Genesis 49:22-27. Jacob (Israel), head of the twelve tribes, in his last blessing upon the twelve sons whose children were destined to play such an GUIDE LESSONS 55 important part in the history of mankind, made clear the following facts in his blessing upon the head of Joseph: 1. That the posterity of Joseph, at some future period of time, would change their habitation. 2. That the country which would be their inheritance would be far greater in extent, and exceed in desirableness any country then known to them. 3. That the history of the branches (posterity) that "should run over the wall," should be greater by virtue of the promises, being greater than the history of Jacob's progenitors, Abraham and Isaac;  for, says Jacob, "the blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors, unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills." (It is a curious fact that when George Washington opened the Bible to take his first oath of office, his hand rested exactly on this blessing of Joseph.) 4. The blessings of Jacob's progenitors, entitled Abraham and Isaac to the country east and south of the great sea (Mediterranean) from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river of Euphrates, including the entire land of Canaan. This fact is clearly established by the following references: Genesis 12:7-8;  26:3-4;  28:4;  and 48:4. 5. The possession of Joseph's posterity as forecasted by the prophetic blessing, were designated as a land far removed from the land occupied by Jacob's progenitors, even "unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills." In connection with the foregoing, listen to the words of Moses, the children Israel’s of great Israel lawgiver before and his man death, of recorded God as been blessed Deut. 33:13-18: "And of Joseph he said, Blessed of the Lord be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep. that coucheth beneath, and for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon, and for the chief things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the everlasting hills, and for the precious things of the earth and fulness thereof, and for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush;  let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, upon the head of him that was separated from his brethren. His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his horns are like the horns of unicorns;  with them he shall push the people together to the ends of the earth;  and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh." Associating the foregoing with Genesis 48:15-20, wherein promises made in a blessing upon Ephraim and Manasseh who were the sons of Joseph (but adopted by Jacob and given their places as leaders among the twelve tribes), the character and 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE location of Joseph's land is made more definite. The land is to be situated "in the midst of the earth." Bearing in mind that the patriarch who pronounced the blessing, stood in the land bordering on the Mediterranean sea, we can safely conclude that "in the midst of the earth" could not reasonably locate the promised country on the eastern continent. Another significant fact in the blessing is that wherever the land should prove to be, a "multitude of nations" will be found, and will be the descendants of Joseph of Egypt. There is no disagreement among the foremost students of prehistoric America that the American continent, with its many tribes of Indians, is also properly called a land inhabited by a "multitude of nations." ASSIGNMENT LESSON II. Text: Same as contained in the lesson. Subject: The Land of Joseph. Aim or Central Truth: Through his prophets God gives us glimpses of his unfolding purposes, and our faith is enriched to the extent that we seek to know them adequately. L Analyzing the text as contained in Deut. 33:13-18, what characteristics must attach to Joseph's land? 2. If the land, as Moses sees it, must be a land of great diversities of soil, climate and temperature, what would your inference be as to its size and location? 3. Aside from the American continent, has there ever been a land from the time the prophetic blessing was uttered until the present time, which has been particularly blessed "for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush?" Be able to support your conclusions by clear and distinct statements. 4. Somewhere in the text you will find evidence that Ephraim and Manasseh were practically adopted by Jacob and given equal place among the tribes. Be able to give this evidence. Literature (Optional) Alfred Tennyson and the Abolition of War. Perhaps more than any other English poet Alfred Tennyson has looked forward to a time when war shall be no more. In the presentation of this lesson we shall first ask that you note the beautiful poem, "Morte d'Arthur," a poem having a French name, which translated means, "The Death of Arthur." The legend in relation to King Arthur is that he left the GUIDE LESSONS 57 earth in a mysterious or mythical way, and in the same way he will in due time return. Near the close of the poem we have one who, in dream, supposes that Arthur has come back, and he hears the people shout "Arthur has come again, * * * with all good things, and war shall be no more." In an earlier passage in the poem we find these lines, "The old order changeth, yielding place to new, and God fulfills himself in many ways. Lest one good custom should corrupt the world." The first Locksley Hall goes further than to look to a time when war shall be no more, it looks forward to a time when the disputes of nations shall be settled in a World Parliament. Few lines of Tennyson are as the lines beginning: "For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see, Saw the Vision of the World, and all the wonder that would be: Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails. Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales;  Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rain'd a ghastly dew From the nations' airy navies grapping in the central blue;  For along the world-wide whisper of the South-wind rushing warm, With the standards of the people plunging through the thunder-storm. Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer, and the battle-flags In the were furl'd of man, the Federation of the world. Parliaments There the common sense of most shall hold a fretful realm in awe. And the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law." When the war broke out and the aeroplane was employed for war purposes, the memory of the British people naturally reverted to 1911 when an article appeared in a British magazine, from the pen of the well known English novelist, H. G. Wells, stating that in the event of another war the aeroplane would undoubtedly play a very important part. As early as 1842, the poet Tennyson had such a conception which he has embodied in immortal verse. In perhaps the most exquisite New Year's poem that ever English author breathed, we have these lines looking forward to the time when war shall be no more. And we, who know that the gospel of Christ will bring peace to the nations are uplifted by the poetic vision therein contained. 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In as much as this lesson will come as the New Year lesson, and in as much as section 106 of "In Memoriam" is so prophetic of much that is occurring at this very hour, we shall include the entire section: "Ring out wild bells, to the wild sky, The flying cloud, the frosty light: The year is dying in the night;  Ring out wild bells and let him die. Ring out the old, ring in the new. Ring, happy bells, across the snow: The year is going, let him go;  Ring out the false, ring in the true. Ring out the grief that saps the mind For those that here we see no more;  Ring out the feud of rich and poor. Ring in redress to all mankind. Ring out the slowly dying cause. And ancient forms of party strife;  Ring in the nobler modes of life With sweeter manners, purer laws. Ring out the want, the care, the sin, The faithless coldness of the times;  Ring out, ring out, my mournful rhymes. But ring the fuller minstrel in. Ring out false pride in place and blood. The civic slander and the spite;  Ring in the love of truth and right. Ring in the common love of good. Ring out old shapes of foul disease;  Ring out the narrowing lust of gold;  Ring out the thousand wars of old. Ring in the thousand years of peace. Ring in the valiant man and free. The larger heart, the kindlier hand;  Ring out the darkness of the land. Ring in the Christ that is to be." QUESTIONS. All students should read "Morte d'Arthur." 1. Have some one in the class tell the story of the "Morte d'Arthur." 2. What does it mean when we translate it from the French? 3. What do we mean by a legendary king? 4. Have someone read the passage on prayer, found in "Morte d'Arthur," to the class. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 69 5. Do you believe that more things are wrought by prayer than the world dreams of, if so, why? 6. Give an example from recent events in the world's history, "that the old order changeth giving place to new." 7. Find three stanzas in the first "Locksley Hall," indicating that the aeroplane would some day play its part in air battle. 8. How many years earlier than the H. G. Wells mag zine article on aeroplanes in war did the first Locksley Hall appear? 9. Have a few stanzas read from "Locksley Hall," and a few from "In Memoriam," to the class. Note the difference in the rhythm. The music. 10. Do you think it requires literary talent to write poems with such wonderful musical effect? 11. Find a stanza in "In Memoriam" that you think touches the labor problem. LESSON IV. Social Service Fourth Week in February. HEALTH. (Malnutrition.) Meaning of the Term. The term, malnutrition, means simply bad, or wrong nutrition;  and is usually applied to a condition of health, resulting from a diet consisting either of wrong kinds of foods, or of insufficient quantities of right kinds of foods. It exists, of course, in various degrees, and is often detectable only by nutritional experts. How the Condition is Detected. In very young children, or infants, one of the first signs of malnutrition is fretfulness, earning for the child the epithet, "cross baby." Physicians agree that babies have naturally good dispositions, and the fretful baby is not a well baby. In a surprisingly large number of cases the trouble is merely lack of nourishing food in a quantity sufficient to keep the child feeling comfortable. Another early symptom is a "standing still," or an arrested development in weight, followed by actual loss in weight. The skin becomes pale or "pasty" looking, the eyes lusterless, the hair dry and harsh to the touch. The child has low vitality, and falls an easy prey to diseases, especially those diseases common among children: measles, whooping cough, etc. If the condition is 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE not corrected it results in a "stunted" body and slow brain development often in deformity and actual disease. In old children the symptoms are similar to those already outlined. Underweight for any particular age is the surest indicator and is considered by many physicians to be sufficient indication of malnutrition. Paleness, or an otherwise bad complexion;  flabby, under-developed muscles;  physical and mental sluggishness;  uncertain temper; — all point to a faulty nutrition. How the Condition is Brought About. In the case of the breast-fed child the condition of undernourishment is caused by the mother's milk being either insufficient in quantity, or lacking in one or more of the elements necessary to normal growth. In many instances inquiring mothers have been astonished to find, even with the superficial examination they themselves could make, that their babies' food was wholly inadequate to sustain life long, to say nothing of producing growth. With the artificially fed child the trouble is often caused by giving the baby foods entirely beyond its power to handle. The child's digestive tract develops slowly as does the rest of its body, and it is just as absurd to give it food suitable only for older children and adults as it would be to try to fit their clothing to its little body, and far more dangerous to health. .Often, too, the trouble results from an exclusive diet of some one prepared food. Analysis as well as experience in use of such foods prove them inadequate to the average child's needs. In older children malnutrition is brought about by practically the same causes;  to repeat for the purpose of emphasis, insufficient quantities of the right kinds of foods, such as eggs, cereals, and milk;  or the wrong kinds of food, such as too much sweet, highly seasoned foods, and too much meat. Under the latter head we may include foods, which in themselves are difficult of digestion, such as green corn for small children, uncooked bananas, nuts, unless well masticated;  a diet of foods lacking in necessary food elements, such as an entire diet of starchy foods, or a diet not including vegetables and fruit;  or one consisting of one or two kinds of food only, such as sweets and desserts, and leaving out wholesome foods;  and those which have been made indigestible by poor cooking, particularly greasy foods and over-cooked meat and eggs. Bad eating habits such as irregularity of meals, omitting breakfast, eating between meals, incomplete mastication — in short, anything interfering with normal digestion and assimilation of food will contribute to conditions of bad nourishment. It is quite proper to include here the keeping of late hours, with GUIDE LESSONS 61 resulting loss of sleep and rest;  since it is a well known fact that digestion is seriously affected by low body tone. Forms of Malnutrition. It will be understood, of course, that the term malnutrition, is not of absolutely fixed meaning as various degrees of wrong nourishment are recognized, ranging from small abnormalities to actual disease such as marasmus, rachitis, scorbutus, etc. In making physical examination of school children in New York City there has been adopted a system of grading on the basis of condition of nourishment. By this system children are divided roughly into four grades;  the first including those considered very well nourished;  the second, those considered fair or normal;  the third, those requiring nutritional supervision;  the fourth, those requiring medical attention. The first and second grades require no special attention, but every effort is being made to bring grade three up to normal, and grade four as near to normal as may be possible. In Utah communities the commonest form of malnutrition falls in grade three — the form which may be remedied by careful supervision;  however, anemia, one of the nutritional diseases, is by no means unknown. In the cities of the east, particularly in the foreign quarters such diseases as marasmus, rachitis and scorbutus are very common. Distribution. Naturally, one associates the idea of malnutrition with the child whose parents are unable to procure for it enough wholesome food, but ignorance and indifference are as great enemies to right nutrition as is poverty, and perhaps harder to vanquish, so we find various degrees of malnutrition existing among all classes of children. Any child whose diet is not intelligently supervised is in grave danger of becoming a victim of bad nourishment. A short time ago a professor in one of our large universities found his fourteen-year-old son falling behind in his school work;  listless, indolent, and irritable around home. An expert was called in;  the diagnosis, malnutrition, was a distinct shock to the parents whose table was always set with plenty of wholesome food. Doubtless the mother was one of those foohshly fond parents who says, "I won't make my children eat what they don't like," disregarding the fact that one's likes and dislikes are often the result of wrong training from the beginning or of entire lack of the right kind of supervision, and may have no relation whatever to what the body actually needs. It is variously estimated by reputable physicians that from 10 per cent to 25 per cent of the children of the United States suffer from some form of malnutrition. 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cure. Unfortunately not all cases are completely curable;  as, for example, those resulting in bone deformities which are more or less permanent;  but most of those coming in grade three in New York's system of grading can be successfully treated. Naturally the first step is a careful survey of the child's method of living — diet, habits of eating, sleeping, resting, etc., in order to find the underlying causes of the condition. Medical help, and perhaps the assistance of an expert dietician may be necessary for this part of the work, but the intelligent, ambitious mother can do most if not all of the work of regeneration. If she is without knowledge of the right methods in the beginning there is no reason for her long remaining so. To those removed from the larger centers there is available a great store of printed information, not the least important of which is contained in government bulletins, which are referred to in this magazine. QUESTIONS. 1. What does the term "malnutrition" mean to you? 2. By what signs would you recognize a poorly nourished baby? A school boy or girl suffering from malnutrition? 3. Mention some common causes of under-nourishment among babies. 4. Who, in your opinion, is most to blame for malnutrition among children? Justify your opinion. 5. A mother boasts that her wide-awake baby never goes to bed until the family does even if it is midnight. What do you think of the situation? What will be the probable effect on the child? 6. basis on the Discuss New York condition. of nutritional City's system of grading children 7. What forms of malnutrition have you come in contact with? 8. In what types of homes would you expect to find under-nourished children? 9. What proportion of children in the United States are estimated to be suffering from faculty nutrition? 10. How does this estimate agree with your observation in your own community? 11. Discuss the preliminary steps in the treatment of ordinary malnutrition. 12. What agencies in your community can train mothers to cope with problems of nutrition? 13. How can you obtain government publications on food subjects? Put to Use the Dead Winter Monttis  ATTEND THE  BIG WINTER COLLEGE  AT THE I UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE  (The Home of the Efficient Education) REGISTRATION DEC. 4-6 QUARTER OPENS DEC 8 When outdoor work is slack, perfect yourself in your vocation by the  weeks at Utah's great school. You can prepare for your degree or take vocational work In the schools of Agriculture, Home Economics, Agricultural Engineering, Mechanio  Arts, Commerce and Business Administration and General Science.  Send for special Winter circular. Address the President's Office, Utah  Agricultural College, Logan, Utah.  159 COURSES IN 46 DEPARTMENTS OPEN TO YOU  'DELIVERED EVERYWHERE' Ice Cream I Special attention given to parcel post candy orders  I P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City The UTAH STATE Gospel Doctrine  NATIONAL Selectorial from Sermon and  meeting of President Joseph F.  BANK Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood The officers are dorms have adopted GOSPEL  always clad  DOCTRINE: a text for class  meet customary for the next two years. It contains 700 pages, with a  business plans photogravure Frontispiece and  with them. autograph of President Smith.  Handsome bound in cloth, 91.S0 OFFICERS postpaid.  Heber J. Grant, President Get the "Guide" to go with it.  Charles W. Nibley, Vice President Price 15c.  William R. Wallace, Vice President Deseret NEWS BOOK STORES  Henry T. McEwan, V. Pres. and Cash. 6 MAIN STREET  Alvin C. Stroner. Assistant Cashier  Samuel H. Keddinrton. Assistant The "Oman's — Easy to Operate  to wants An Automatic Electric Washer will eliminate washday drudgeries and permit the busy housewife to devote more time to do cermons, self-impro recreation and the other things she The Automatic is the ideal woman's washer — simple, compact, easy to operate, economically priced. It washes anything — heavy blankets or delicate laces — without the least injury. Just seven minutes are required to clean a whole tubful— and there's no hand rubbing afterward. Has strong reversible swinging wringer with instant safety release. The Automatic washes and wrings separately or both at the same time. Two hand levers control everything. Durably made;  fully guaranteed. Will last a life time. See it demonstrated. Sold at the Salt Lake Store and All Branches of Utah Power & Light Company Salt Lake, Utah Franklin, Idaho Logan, Utah Preston, Idaho Eureka, Utah Garland, Utah Bingham, Utah Provo, Utah Aloutpelier, Idaho Park City, Utah American Fork, Utah Rexburg, Idaho Coelute, Utah Lehl, Utah Rigby, Idaho Ogden, Utah Pleasant Grove, Utah St. Anthony-. Idaho Layton, Utah Richmond, Utah Ashton, And at Leading Electrical Dealers Inter-Mountdin --5 Company Electric SALT LAKE Distributors POCATELLO, IDA.customers A REAL self filling Pen,  i and 'phone your orders to Hy-  I guaranteed to satisfy.  i land 00. or If convenient, call and inspect our BIG stock of Choice  i Meats and Fancy Groceries— Ask about it.  I call will convince you that you  i should buy at Write about it. 15 "Dickinson’s" The Store Clean  We deliver at S> a. m., 11 a. m., 3  i p. m., 5 p. m., and I will have our prompt and careful  attention. You may  tion of a charge account. have your the accommoda- orders 1 Three  "The Jeweler"  I 'Phones: Hy. 60, Hy. 61, Hy. 62.  Location: 676-680 E. 2nd So. St.  I 64 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah  "QUALITY SUPREME"  READ BURIAL CLOTHES  "LoveBy and O. F. the Whitney Light"  Relief Society furnishes General complete Board    BURIAL SUITS $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION Address — BOOK STORE JULINA L. SMITH The Book Store of Salt Lake City  28 Bishop's Building   44 East on South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah  S THE RELIEF SOCIETY NECESSARY?  Where the family is protected by Life Insurance you will find there is no  call for financial aid from the Relief Society. Have you ever considered  what a great blessing it would be if all families carried insurance on the  life of the provider?  I ARE YOU AND YOUR FAMILY PROPERLY PROTECTED? j I The Best There is in Life Insurance Issued By  BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., I The Big Home Company  I Heber J. Grant, President Lorenzo N. Stohl, Vice Pres. and Manager  Optical Company SALT LAKE'S LEADING OPTICIANS Established 25 Years Louis A. James Manager 11 EAST 2nd SOUTH (Walker Bank Bldg.) SALT LAKE CITY  Society Magazine Owned and Published bi the General Board of the Relief Society or the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day) Saints. CONTENTS FEBRUARY, 1920 Emmeline B. Wells 63 Jedediah M. Grant 64 What Do We Know of the Other Side? 65 Dedication of the Hawaiian Temple 79 Promoted L. Lula Green Richards 89 The Will and the Way Ida Smoot Dusenberry 90 Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson 93 Oh Lad O'Mine Annie Wells Cannon 95 Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon 97 On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson 98 The Official Round Table 101 Editorial: The Discipline of P'ear 109 Guide Lessons Ill ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who patronize us. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan. AIVIUNDSEN STUDIO, 240 IVIain Street, Salt Lake City. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Salt Lake City. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. BURIAL CLOTHES, 67 E. South Temple Street. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East Second South, Salt Lake City. INTER-MOUNTAIN ELECTRIC CO., Salt Lake City. KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City. LAMBOURNE, ERNEST, Florist, 67 S. Main St., Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, "The Jeweler," 64 Main Street. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 E. S. Temple St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS 29 Feb., 1S28 — 29 Feb., 1920 PRESIDENT JEDEDIAH M. GRANT Born, 21 February, 1816;  died, 1 December, 1856. First Counsellor to President Brigham Young. 


