[Vol1 | June 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Home Gardening for Women]

HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN.
Lesson VI. "Ask ye of the Lord rain in the time of the latter rain; so the Lord shall make bright clouds, and give them showers of  rain, to every one, grass in the field." (Zech. 10:1.) Weeding.
By digging the whole garden just as soon as the soil is in condition, the early germination of weed seeds will be aided, and as soon as they appear above the ground can be killed by proper cultivation.
Some gardeners think that so long as the weeds are exterminated and the soil watered, nothing more is required.  Watering.
Great care should be exercised in the use of water, especially in the early stages of plant life.
A heavy watering of the soil, whether applied with hose or by nature, or sometimes by the ever generous sprinkling cart, will pack most soils down so hard that they become almost impervious to air.
Air should be present in the soil to assist in the decompositions and chemical changes that must continually go on in the conversion of plant-food into forms that the plants can use.
Proper cultivation, constant stirring about, pulverizing and aeration of the soil, are essential, especially in the beginning.
The amount of water to apply can only be determined by experience with the type of soil being used.
A general rule to follow is to water thoroughly, but not often, as soon as dry enough.
After the application of water, cultivate to prevent the formation of a surface crust.
Second Planting of Corn, Peas, etc.We wish to encourage the planting of a second crop of peas, corn, etc., that we may have an extension of the production of green vegetables so complimentary to securing good health.
When planting seeds in mid-summer, prepare the surface of the soil before you are ready to sow.
Aim to get the seeds earth is covered while the soil is still damp, be sure that the
10 . pressed firmly around the seeds on all sides.
This is an important point to remember, also planting should be much deeper than in early spring, since we are more sure that the earth is cool and moist deeper down than near the surface.
Gardening is one of the privileges and pleasures that should be enjoyed by a large majority of families.
May the time soon come when more interest will be taken in the production of the home supply of fresh vegetables.
Asparagus Bed Left to Seed.
Do not cut asparagus after the middle of June.
It should be left to seed and dry down for the fall mulching and fertilizing, thus giving it a better start for the next year.  Drying Apples, Peaches, Corn, etc.
Last fall, while visiting through some of of the country towns, we saw bushels of plums, peaches, and apples still hanging on the trees, while the ground was fairly carpeted with these delicious fruits.
It seems so strange, and we who have to purchase these fruits must pay the price for those that are wasted on the ground or left for the frost to spoil.
Would it be possible to have fruit dried on shares?
Or hire boys and girls to assist in preparing it for drying?
It is strange that in our country stores, as well as in the city, we find imported evaporated fruits.
If there is a demand for dried fruits, why not supply the demand with our own home-grown products, which are much better in flavor and taste, and requires less time in which to cook?
Then, too, there is the fact that we are using instead of wasting the bounteous gifts of our Creator, and are also giving employment to hundreds of boys and girls who are out of school.
We are placing on the market better and more suitable fruits for which people are willing to pay a good price, and at the same time the purchaser is made to feel that he has received something for his money.
After the process of drying has been accomplished, each kind of fruit should be placed by itself, marked according to name, and sold for its value.
There is a great deal of difference in the cooking qualities of apples  for instance, one would pay more for Astrakhan or Golden Duchess than for the eating, or ordinary table apples dried.
In preparing them, be as careful as if you were going to bottle the fruit, taking all the skin off.
See to it that the whole core is taken out.
Fruit should not be too ripe before drying, as then it loses much of its flavor and juice.
Choose good, sound fruit, peal, core, and place on tables or boards covered with a clean, white cloth, in the sun cover with white mosquito; netting to keep out the flies and other insects, turn often, and  . 11 leave out in the open until all moisture has evaporated sack in clean bags, tie, and mark.
Good dried apples can be sold at any time of the year at from 8c to 10c per pound.
They are very successfully dried in the house or on the summer porch, strung on white thread and hung up where the heat of the sun can reach them.
They are white and have a fine flavor when cured in this way.  Dried Corn.
Sweet corn should be plucked while tender and young, boiled in the inner shuck until the milk has set, then husked off, cut from the cob, placed in the sun, and covered with white mosquito netting.
Do not allow it to become damp, or it will turn dark.
Stir it often, and dry until all moisture has evaporated.
Then place in sacks marked and well tied and keep in a cool place.
There is a great demand for home-cured corn, and it finds a ready sale at 12c to 15c per pound.
Have yours of the very best, and it will keep you busy supplying the demands.
Peaches, Apricots, Plums, and Pears are all Pealed, Stoned, and Cored.
They are dried in the same manner as description herein given for apples.
A much higher price is usually paid for these fruits than for apples, because they are more difficult to handle.
Some of our young people do not know what dried fruit looks like.
Let us teach them by having them assist us in drying this season's crop.  Food Values of Fruits.
In all our experiences we are convinced that with a sufficient fruit diet the average man or child has thrived better than on a diet which does not contain a sufficient amount of fruit food value.
The body requires the acids contained in the various fruits such as malic and citric acid, and we are not at our best unless the body is supplied with these as well as with mineral matter, such as potatoes, salts, phosphorous, iron, lime, and others which are also found in fruits.
The sugars in fruits are distinctly valuable, they are the one kind which stands ready for our direct assimilation, requiring less work for the body than the ordinary cane sugar; these sugars do not require so much making over in the intestinal tract, and are of greater value in relieving muscular fatigue; for the relief of such fatigue we recommend grapes, sweet cherries, apples, gooseberries, raspberries.
We also call attention to the dried fruits which contain a great quantity of sugar.
Prunes contain 32 per cent, English currents, 54 per cent, raisins, 61 per cent, figs, 48 per cent, dates. 66 per cent.
Aside from the sugar value of fruit, it has another which should not be overlooked, and that is as
12 . a laxative.
Of course, green vegetables aid in a similar way, but should not be relied on wholly.
For this purpose use a judicious mixture of both vegetables and fruit for the best results.
Of dried fruits, figs, prunes, peaches, apricots, pears, and apples in the order named, as these appear to be the most useful.
They should always be washed thoroughly in lukewarm water, soaked in cold water over night, then cooked in the water in which they have been soaked, using a double boiler or casserole, and placing on the back of the stove to simmer, for two or three hours or more.
For best results, if not for taste, sugar should never be added.
June