 		A NOBLE WOMAN.

	Louisa Ward Higginbotham, better known
as Grandma Higginbotham, died at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. David H. Perry,
in Ogden, Utah, on the 8th day of January,
1887; and the funeral services were held on

[Column 2]
the 10th day of January, 1887. Hundreds of
friends and relatives attended and listened to
tributes of love and of praise to the memory
of this departed sister.
	In her long life, she met such strange events,
and through all the peril of her career she
showed such supreme devotion, that her name
is worthy of being enrolled among the heroines
in the cause of Christ.
	Louisa, daughter of William and Nancy
Thompson Ward, was born at Ward’s Cove, in
the famous Tazewell County of Virginia,
March 12th, 1808. She was wed September
8th, 1831, by William Higginbotham, scion of
another famous Tazewell family. For ten
years following they dwelt at Burkes Garden,
enjoying wealth and public esteem. Elder
Jedediah M. Grant carried the Gospel into
this region in 1841. Louisa Ward Higgin-
botham was his second convert to the Gospel.
Her humble obedience in accepting baptism
was a type of her entire life. She had been
surrounded by worldly influences—pride of
blood and arrogance of wealth; and yet she
was able to cast aside the prejudices of birth,
to brave the reproaches and even the disdain of
kindred and friends, and to accept the Gospel
in gladness and humility. Once convinced of
the truth, nothing could compel her to relin-
quish it. Her husband was impressed by her
steadfastness, and soon demanded baptism from
Elder Grant.
	In 1842 William and Louisa Higginbotham
sacrificed their property and all their prospects
of rich inheritance, by leaving Virginia and
removing to Illinois. In addition to the moiety
which they realized from their considerable
possessions, they carried with them the angry
pity of all their old associates In 1843 they
and their two little ones, Nancy and Simon,
were at Nauvoo. There they offered their all
to God, and partook with other of the Saints
of the persecutions now historic. In the
month of the sublime martyrdom, a daughter
was born to them, but died after a brief and
troubled existence, while Louisa herself was
helpless with anxiety and bodily suffering. On
the 13th day of January, 1846, another
daughter, Elizabeth Letitia, was given to
them; and before Sister Higginbotham had re-
covered her strength, they took part in the
exodus of God’s people from Nauvoo. They
journeyed with the Saints to Council Bluffs,
and were preparing to proceed into the un-
known wilderness, when a message came to
them that Louisa’s father had died, leaving
her a considerable estate in Virginia. They
desired wealth for no selfish purpose; but, be-
lieving that it could be made to bless their
children, to aid the needy and advance the
work of God, they decided to return to Taze-
well before adding to the further difficulties of
the journey by further progress westward.
Their return to their old home was a pilgrim-
age. The natural difficulties of travel were in-
tensified for them, because they had no heart
to turn their backs upon their suffering friends,
even for so good a purpose as they had in view.
In Missouri they were delayed by Louisa’s
serious illness, and by the subsequent birth of 
a son—Francis.
	The settlement of the estate was a tedious
matter. While the affair was pending, Nancy
Cambell, (the eldest daughter of William and
Louisa) was won in marriage by David H.
Perry, a young, but noted merchant of Burkes
Garden. Nancy was devoted to the Gospel,

[Column 3]
but her husband was then a bitter opponent
of the Church.  He knew little about his
wife’s faith; and he knew much about the loss
of prestige, the loss of money, and the gain of
contempt which followed an avowal of belief
in Mormonism, among the aristocratic people
of Virginia. Nancy was Sister Higginbotham's
almost idolized child: she was the eldest living,
and she had been baptized at Nauvoo; besides,
she was in delicate health. When the property
was secured William and Louisa could not de-
part from Tazewell. The prospect of leaving
their best beloved behind them was too grim;
even though she might be in the care of a
wealthy husband, indulgent to her in all things
except in the matter of her religion. Sister
Higginbotham then joined with Nancy in an
effort to convert Mr. Peery to an understand-
ing of the truth. They were engaged in this
effort, and had won him to a consideration of
the Gospel requirements, when the fire of war
broke out, enveloping Virginia in its flames.
Sister Higginbotham and her family met a long
series of appalling disasters:
	Nancy’s eldest child died May 1st, 1861. 
Then David H. Peery and Simon (Sister Hig-
ginbotham’s eldest son) enlisted in the Confeder-
ate army. In the spring of 1862 Simon was
 struck down by army fever. He was brought
to the house of David’s father, which was
nearer the scene of conflict than was Burkes
Garden, and there William and Louisa has-
tened. They found him almost dead; but he
soon recovered, and re-entered the army; The
fever spread. David H. Peery’s father and
mother were attacked, and died in the summer.
William, Sister Higginbotham’s husband, was
seized, and died in July, 1862. The destroyer
also took Nancy in a fatal embrace. She suf-
fered for three months, and then gave birth to
a son. Nine days later, on September 30th,
1862, Nancy died; and on the 12th of October,
her little baby was buried by her side.
	Thus, by a series of calamities, unforeseen
as they were terrible, Sister Higginbotham
found herself robbed of her dearest treasures.
Without a defendant, she was far from the peo-
ple of God; in a country war-cursed; her wealth
was fast vanishing, and she and her little ones
were in daily peril of their lives; while every
hour she feared to learn that Simon had met
his death in battle. Her son-in-law had en-
countered a fate no less sad. Parents, wife
and all his children but one had been taken by
death; and of his vast possessions, but little re-
mained. However, there was one treasure
which was left of the beloved Nancy; this was
a daughter two years old—Louisa Letitia.
Through this little child, the one link now ex-
isting between Louisa Ward Higginbotham
and David H. Peery, much good was accom-
plished. Through all the woes of war and de-
vastation, Sister Higginbothan had kept her-
self and her remaining children firm in the
faith. She now made a fervent appeal to Mr.
Peery, begging him to accept the Gospel, and
to migrate to Utah with her She could not
leave the little Louisa but she made her also
a petitioner. Mr. Peery had not forgotten the
gentle sermons of his wife; his bitterness left
him, and soon conviction was wrought in his
soul. He accepted the Gospel and was bap-
tized in the spring of 1863. Having accom-
plished this work, so dear to her heart, Sister
Higginbotham would have been glad to find a
refuge with the people of God; but she was
hemmed in by the raging strife. In 1863


[Column 1]
David H. Peery returned to the army, and in
his absence the Union troops descended upon
the place and fired his palatial residence and
stores of merchandise. After this succession
of disasters, he found himself still further re-
duced.  His goods were gone; his landed pos-
sessions were rendered comparatively valueless;
and his tens of thousands of dollars in book
accounts and notes were either destroyed, or
rendered temporarily worthless by the death or
financial ruin of his debtors. So situated, the
spring of 1864 found them.
     By this time Mrs. Higginbotham had been
able to impress upon the mind of her son-in-
law her own anxiety to emigrate to Zion.
After much anxious pleading on her part, he
consented to go with her, and she determined
to take the first opportunity, because her pre-
vious delay had been attended by such a series
of awful disasters, that she would no longer
provoke fate. David H. Peery's faith in the
Gospel had now grown active and enthralling.
He and young Simon withdrew from the army
and sent substitutes; but the conscription in
this last epoch of the struggle had become so
universal and so strict in the South, that if
they departed it must be by stealth. Mrs.
Higginbotham gathered the few remnants of
her own property and aided her son-in-law in
accumulating his available means; and then
under her advice David and Simon left Burkes
Garden in the night on horseback, to travel to
Catlettsburg, Kentucky, where they were to
await her coming. She secured two wagons,
into which she packed all the valuables belong-
ing to Mr. Peery and herself which she could
safely carry; obtained a considerable number 
of good horses, and secured a nephew of Mr.
Peery, a young boy below the draft age, to
drive one team, while her son Francis was to
drive the other.  She packed away under the
false bottom of a trunk $1400.00 in coin, be-
longing to Mr. Peery; and $300.00 in gold, be-
longing to herself, she secreted on her own
person.  One night, just before she was going
to depart, envious neighbors broke into the
stables, loosed her horses and drove them away.
Undaunted by this disaster, she soon replaced
the stock, and this time, in order to make her
departure a certainty, she went to one Col.
Swan, a Confederate officer of her acquaint-
ance, and frankly told him of her troubles.
She said that she was a Mormon, and that she
desired to leave for Utah with such little
property as the calamitous war had left to her.
The Colonel gave her a military escort of fif-
teen men to accompany her through the Con-
federate lines; and she journeyed in safety to
the banks of the Big Sandy, where the soldiers
were obliged to leave her.  This was one of 
the most dangerous spots imaginable, for it
was directly on the line between the two oppos-
ing forces; and this was an hour, too, of pecu-
liar peril, because all the original bitterness of
the strife had been intensified by three long
and bloody years.  Besides, the region between
the two armies was infested by guerillas, who
spared neither friends nor enemies, and who
had no regard for age or sex.  Sister Higgin-
botham was a heroine as great as any sung of
in classic story.  Without shedding a tear, she
saw her escort depart and leave her with one
dear daughter, just blossoming into girlhood,
one precious little grandchild, and two young
boys, to face all the dangers of that guerilla-
infested region.  The first night after her es-
cort left her, her party camped on the banks of
the Big Sandy.  In some mysterious way she
received an intimation that robbers had
hovered about her path, and that they were
intending to descend upon her camp, murder
the boys, steal the horses, and escape with all 
the portables of value.  Without a moment's 
hesitation she instructed her son and his com-
panion to take the horses up the river, and
there secure a trustworthy guide who could

[Column 2]
lead them through the mountains over to Cat-
lettsburg, a distance of seventy-five miles, where 
they were to unite themselves with David and
Simon  When Francis remonstrated against
leaving her, she told him that she and her two
girls would stay with the wagons and the
property, and without any earthly protector
they would still be kept in safety, and that
they would join him at Catlettsburg. Some
hours after the boys had departed the guerillas
assailed the little camp.  They ransacked the
two wagons, but failed to find any of the
money.  They took such things as they wanted,
and Sister Higginbotham offered no resistance
and solicited no favor, since she believed that
either would be fruitless.  But finally in over-
turning a trunk the robbers discovered the
clothing and jewelry of her dead daughter
Nancy, and these things appearing valuable,
they exultingly seized and apportioned them
among the members of their gang.  This out-
rage was more than she could bear, and she
screamed with pain and anger.  Fortunately,
she was heard by a Mrs. Blackburn, who lived
in that vicinity, and who hastened from her
residence to answer the call of distress.  The 
robbers, fearing to be identified by one who
could expose them to the vengeance of the
military authorities, fled.  Sister Higginbotham
found entertainment at the Blackburn residence
for a day or two, until a flat-boat came down 
the river; and upon this she took passage with
her two girls and such of her property as was
remaining after the assault of the mercenaries;
and then she journeyed in comparative safety
and comfort to Catlettsburg, where she found
David, Simon and Francis in good health, but 
very anxious concerning her.
     The party went to Omaha by boat, having
previously disposed of their horses. They ex-
pected at Omaha to join a company of Latter-
day Saints and proceed with their friends
across the plains; but they were disappointed
in their hope.  They purchased oxen for their
wagons and united with a company of Missouri
people, who were strangers to them and not of
their faith.  They traveled in peace for some
days, but their companions (some of whom
were from the mobocratic regions of Missouri),
discovered that sister Higginbotham and her
family were Mormons, and the cruel people,
having horse teams, deserted the little party
upon the plains and left them to fight their 
way across unprotected and alone.  Our friends
proceeded pluckily, though slowly; and but a
short time after they were deserted they found
the remains of the horse train.  Most of the
men had been slain, the wagons plundered,
and the stock stolen by Indians.  Only a few
people survived, and they were very glad to
rejoin the party of Mr. Peery and travel with
his ox-teams to the mountains.
     After reaching Utah, Sister Higginbotham
resided at Provo for a brief period, and then
came to Ogden.  In the meantime the strong
ties which had long existed between her family
and David H. Peery were doubled by his mar-
riage with her only surviving daughter--
Elizabeth Letitia.
     The struggles, privations and dangers of
her life were then ended, and she passed twenty
years of serenity.  She enjoyed the blessings
of the Temple, and performed labor there for
her departed kindred.  She was made happy
by seeing her three children, surviving out of a
family of seven, and also the dear daughter
of her departed Nancy, comfortably established
in life, and all filled with love for the Gospel.
Her two sons, Simon and Francis, are mer-
chants, and her daughter is the wife of Ogden's
Mayor and wealthiest citizen; while Nancy's
girl is married to Charles C. Richards, a
young and well-known lawyer of Ogden.
     Sister Higginbotham's descendents number
three children, eighteen grandchildren and
three great-grandchildren, all of whom are in

[Column Three]
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints.
     Louisa Ward Higginbotham has left to her
kindred an unstained memory.  Her goodness
was known wherever her name was spoken,
and will be remembered by hundreds whose
only relationship to her was through the Gos-
pel.  She was strikingly unostentatious in
dress, demeanor and speech; and yet she was so
calm and refined in appearance, in manner
and in language, that one could not fail to
recognize her as a lady of good birth and cul-
ture.  In the home circle her hospitality and
tenderness were unbounded.  Outside that
circle; her gentle deeds and ministrations to
worthy ones in need were constant, and were so
quietly bestowed that they were twice a blessing.
She was conscientious in every word and deed;
and in any matter of right she was as firm as
granite.  It is not often that we meet any per-
son, especially a woman, who possesses un-
demonstrative strength, but Sister Higgin-
botham had this rare quality in a marked de-
gree.  Her persistence in pursuit of a purpose
is illustrated by the great labor of her love
and life. In the days of her affluence and
popularity, she and one sister of all her family
accepted the truth. To it she sacrificed all the
favor and blessing of this world; and she perse-
vered until she brought those nearest and
dearest to her into the Church. Her integrity,
her patience, her tender goodness, her courage,
were sublime.  She has gone to receive an ex-
ceeding great reward.  May those who were 
loved and blessed in her life learn the lesson
taught by her peaceful death.	R.


