APOSTLE LORENZO SNOW AT LIBERTY.

	Washington, D. C., 3:30 p.m., February 7th,
1887.—The Supreme Court to-day reversed the
decision of the Utah court in the Snow case. The
syllabus set forth that where a district court in the
Territory of Utah refuses to issue a writ of habeas
corpus involving a question of personal freedom,
an appeal lies to this court from its order and
judgment of refusal. The offense of cohabiting
with more than one woman, created by the act of
March 22nd, 1882. is a continuous offense and not
one consiting of an isolated act. After giving
the history of the case, the court says: “On ap-
peal to this court it is held—first, there was but
one entire offense for the continuous time; second,
the trial court had no jurisdiction to inflict a pun-
ishment in respect of more than one of the con-
victions; third, as want of jurisdiction appeared
on the face of the proceedings, the defendant
could be released from imprisonment on habeas 
corpus; fourth, the order and judgment of the
court below must be reversed and the case re-
manded to that court with direction to grant the
writ of habeas corpus prayed for.”


[Column 1]
		﻿COMMENTS. 
	The decision of the Supreme Court of the
United States in the case of Lorenzo Snow was
something of a victory gained, and a cause for
gratitude to God among this people, who have
borne so much injustice from the misinterpreta-
tion of the Edmunds law. Those who have suf-
fered unjust imprisonment, and submitted to it
"willingly, because they were obliged to," being
sentenced by a judge who seemed to think himself
an autocrat, ought certainly to have redress for
such a grievance, but whether this can or cannot
be done is very uncertain. However, "It is better
to suffer wrong than to do wrong," add one need
not envy that Judge his conscience who has sent
men to prison in two or three or more counts, and
made them pay unlawful fines, it must sting
painfully, one would think, when he remembers
the wives and little children that have had to suffer
privation and wrongs for his cruelty, even if he
does not consider the father, and his separation
from those, he loves, as well as his humiliating
position behind the bolts and bars. O when will
men discern the beam in their own eyes, instead of
hunting and probing for the mote in their
brother’s?
	The segregation business is at an end, though
the officers still insist upon full fines, as in the
case of Royal B. Young. Where, the justice of
the thing stands is not apparent, except to those
who are after the dollars and cents of the Mor-
mons, "whom they affect to despise."
	Bro. Lorenzo Snow does not appear to cherish
any ill feeling towards those who have unjustly ac-
cused and falsely imprisoned him, and stands up
in defense of the principles of freedom and liberty
as nobly and as grandly as though the prison

[Column 2]
walls had never environed his freedom, or the
ponderous iron gates had never shut him in from
his family, his brethren and his people. Imprison-
ment cannot crush men’s souls, nor hinder their
communication with God and the Holy Spirit, if
they are suffering for principle, and one would
think that in the example of Apostle Lorenzo
Snow and others, who have been sent to prison
for conscience' sake, this fact would be sufficiently
illustrated for all the world to comprehend it.
Yet Bro. Snow, under the test oath in the Ed-
munds-Tucker bill cannot be accorded the privil-
ege of an American citizen any more than as
though he were actually guilty of a heinous crime
and his lineage, his descent from the Revolution-
ary fathers, avails him nothing. The liberty they
fought and bled for, that their children might en-
joy "the freedom, to worship God according to
the dictates of their consciences” has been denied,
and to their direct descendants, and there is no
alternative, under the present regime, but to sub-
mit to this violation of that sacred principle, as
Bro. Snow has, in such a manner as to dignify
and ennoble the cause he represents, and bring
the greater shame and disgrace upon those who
so ruthlessly trifle with the finest feelings of the
human heart, and scatter misery and sorrow
broadcast over this fair land.

	The Edmands-Tucker Bill is at this date, Feb.
15, still, pending. Hammond of Georgia, ap-
pointed to act for Tucker of Virginia, in his ab-
sence, submitted to-day the Conference report on
this anti-Mormon bill in,the House, and it was
ordered printed and laid over until Thursday.
	There are some very material changes, which
have been made by the Conferees, that will disap-
point the "Liberals” here in Utah, as well as
elsewhere; in fact the Committee have, some of
them at least, shown a little consideration, and
have made some changes that will be in our favor,
or that will not make the Governor of Utah an
absolute monarch in the exercise of political
power. The bill is bad enough as it is, and it is
"devoutly to be wished” that the President will
exercise the privilege of his position, and refuse
his signature and the great seal of the United
States to such an infamous bill, even if the Senate
and the House should both approve the bill as
amended.
	A singular coincidence that has transpired with
the authors of these two outrageous bills is that
during the discussion of the first Edmunds bill,
Mr. Edmunds buried a daughter, and that recently,
while Mr. Tucker was at work upon the Edmunds-
Tucker Bill, he has been compelled to leave his
post to go down to Mississippi and attend the
funeral of his daughter. Mr. Tucker, notwith-
standing his present attitude on the "Mormon"
question, is a man possessing an abundance of
affection for his family. This death will be a
severe blow to him, but it is not at all likely
that it will make him any more tender or sym-
pathetic towards "Mormon” wives or daughters.
We sincerely wish it might soften his feelings
and cause him to change his resolve to crush out
the system of plural marriage, of which he knows
so little, yet entertains such bitter prejudices.
	When the new bill, now under consideration,
becomes a law, if it ever should (which we most
sincerely trust never may happen) then it will be
given in full in the Exponent. By and bye, with-
out studying for it specially, the Mormon people
will become pretty well versed in law, practically.
	The taking away of the suffrage from women,
after they have voted for seventeen years, is an
inexcusable wrong; and more especially so in
men, who profess to be the friends of women, and
to protect their rights and "guard their best inter-
ests in the family and the home,” and all that
kind of sentimentalism, that means nothing at all,
but is a lot of political rubbish and bombast, that

[Column 3]
all sensible, women perfectly understand. If such
were indeed the case, they would give women the
right to protect themselves in their own states and
in the District of Columbia, the same as the "Mor-
mon” Legislature did in Utah, and not leave them
unprotected, with drunken husbands to beat them
and squander their hard earned means, and woman
would be considered in the election of officers, be-
cause her vote would count as much as the best
man’s in the country.

	The brave suffrage women, who made a forcible
protest to President Cleveland through their mem-
orial against the suffrage being taken away from
the legal women voters of this Territory, deserve
the gratitude and commendation of all the sup-
porters of the cause of woman’s rights throughout
this broad land. They have shown more interest
for our rights than any man or set of men. We
have not yet learned who all the ladies were,
but we do know that the names we have seen pub-
lished are a sufficient guarantee of the strength of
the Committee. The Chairman of the Committee
was Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, of New York, a
woman whose keen Sarcasm and clear cut witti-
cisms are proverbial with all who know her. She
has spoken up in favor of the women of Utah be-
fore, and in her amusing little "Book of Fables"
she has two or three specially significant of the
dealings of the ’United States’ Government with
the Mormons.
	In the Resolutions adopted by the N. W. S. A.
at Washington, during the recent Convention is
the following:
	Whereas, The anti-polygamy bill passed by
both Houses of Congress provide for the disfran-
chisement of the non-polygamous women of Utah,
and,
	Whereas, The women thus sought to be disfran-
chised have been for years in the peaceable exer-
cise of the ballot, and no charge is made against
them of any crime by reason of which they should
lose their vested rights, therefore
	Resolved, That the association recognizes in
these measures, a disregard of individual rights,
which is dangerous to the liberties of all,and while
rejoicing in the majority vote by which the women
of Washington Territory were protected, we
would urge upon Congress that the rights of the
women of Utah should be equally sacred; since
to establish the precedent that the ballot-may be
taken away, is to threaten the permanency of our
republican form of government.	
	The President may disregard the .advice given
to him by these strong minded women—we use
this term in its best and most significant sense—
but he will not be likely to forget their earnest and
emphatic effort in behilf of women, even though
they be far away. All these things make a de-
cided impression, and will have their weight, even,
though the object, sought is not obtained. We
hope to receive full particulars of the memorial,
with the names of the Committee who presented
it, before publishing again. It is only just and
right to recognize and record the event, that all
interested may know there aro some women not
afraid or ashamed to speak in defense of the
rights even of "Mormon” women.


