PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

	CINCINNATTI, Ohio, Jan. 18, 1887.
MRS. HELEN MAR WHITNEY:
	DEAR FRIEND:—I was away from home
when the pamphlet you sent came to hand, and
it was put aside with miscellaneous papers, and
I only came across and read it last Sunday.
Please accept my sincere, though tardy, thanks.
I enjoyed reading the speeches made by so
many of the Mormon ladies.
	This Mormon question has great interest for
me, and I should like to come out and study it
fully, impartially. I do not pretend to say I
believe in Mormonism, but I do not disbelieve
in it. I know, or at least feel sure, that plurali-
ty of wives would benefit many—most of the
homes of my acquaintances—and as it was the
practice of the olden times, when Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob and the other "men of God"
lived,and when men held direct communication
with God, I do not see how Christians can say
it is so dreadfully wicked in the sight of God.
It seems to me it would be more sensible to
confine. the argument to the expediency, the
moral right of the matter. Intemperance is
wicked, wrong, because it injures the person
who drinks, brings poverty, sorrow and often
death to those dependent on him. But such
results need not necessarily follow polygamy.
*	*	*	My rule of life is, right is
right, wrong is wrong. God cannot look upon
sin with the least degree of allowance, but who
can decide for another what sin is.
	Now, I do not wish to deceive you, and have
you think that I profess to believe in Mormon-
ism. I am, as we Methodists say, only "open
to conviction." Were I to come out there and
be fully convinced against you, I should not
be slow in saying so. But I can honestly, truth-
fully say, that so far as I have read of the sub-
ject, for and against, I believe you are more
than half (to say the least) right, and that
Mormonism will not be obliterated.
	For yourself, Mrs. Wells, Eliza Roxie Snow,
Mrs. Crocheron, the Pratt women, and many
others, whose names do not just now come to
my mind, we, my  husband and I, feel the
greatest respect, I might almost say affection,
and you will always have our best wishes.
	Yours truly,
