BEAR LAKE STAKE R. S.

	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake was held in the
St. Charles meeting house, Jan. 22nd and 23rd,
1887, commencing Saturday at 10 a.m., Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing. Prayer
by Bishop Calder. Singing. Roll called.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial report read
by the Secretary.
	Prest. Lindsay addressed the conference:
Felt very thankful for the privilege of again
meeting with her sisters. Did not feel dis-
couraged by any means, "although there are
often obstacles in our pathway to cause us to
feel discouraged, if we would allow them to do
so. We would not occupy this position and
perform our labors and duties with the assiduity
that we do, did we not know it to be in ac-
cordance with the will of God." Desired to
hear the verbal reports of the Relief Society.
They were as follows:
	Coun. Mary A. Virgin reported the St.

[Column 2]

Charles Relief Society; Prest. F. Howell, Fish
Haven; Prest. Ann Cook, Garden City; the
Secretary read a report of the Paris 1st Ward;
Paris 2nd Ward reported by Prest. M. A.
Shepherd.
	Prest. Lindsay continued her remarks. Said
she had not been able to visit the Relief Society
as she desired, as her health would not permit.
Her Counselor, Sister E. Collings "is not able
to attend this morning, as the riding last even-
ing affected her so as to make her quite sick."
Explained her situation to the sisters, but ex-
pressed her desire to perform her duties as far
as she was able. "We are few in number com-
pared to those who are fighting against us, but
we have only to look unto God; the same who
preserved Daniel when, cast into the lion's den,
is our God to-day: We should have charity
for those who are fighting against us. The
Lord says, 'Vengeance is mine, and I will re-
pay.'"
	Prest. Annie Laker, of the Primary Associa-
tion, bore her  testimony. "These organiza-
tions tend to draw us closer to each other, and
closer to the Lord." Thought the time had
really come when there was a famine for the
word of God. "We are living for something
that will be a comfort unto us in the hereafter.
God has never required anything of us that
we cannot do." Spoke of the important mis-
sion of a mother in Israel.
	Prest. Lindsay Stated that Sister Julia
Budge had sent in her resignation as Corres-
ponding Secretary. It was received, and a
vote of thanks given for her past services. Sis-
ter Lottie Price, of Paris, 2nd Ward, was
appointed to occupy the position. Singing.
Benediction by Elder J. Windlys.
	Sunday, 2 p.m. Singing. Prayer by Coun.
James H. Hart. Singing. Sacrament adminis-
tered, and the hymn, "How great the wisdom
and the love," etc., was sung.
	Prest. Lindsay felt very much gratified with
having the privilege of meeting again this
afternoon. "It is much crowded, but I hope
the people will endeavor to make each other as
comfortable as possible. There are some of the
presidents here to-day who were not here yester-
day; we shall hear them give their reports.
	Prest. Carlson reported the Relief Society of
Ovid; Prest. Dalrymple,Preston; Sister Turner,
Liberty; Prest. M. Vanorman, Bennington.
	Coun. Elizabeth Collings expressed the
gratitude she felt towards her Heavenly Father
for once more permitting her to meet with the
Saints. "God only knows how many more
times we may have this privilege. Let us
love one another, and keep this great command
of God; it is one of the greatest He has given.
Let us put aside our selfishness. If we would
all observe the "golden rule" how blest we
would be."
	Coun. L. M. Hart said, "It is with a degree
of pleasure that I again behold the faces of
those before me. We have had our duties
plainly laid before us to-day, and it is left with
us whether we perform them or not." Urged
the sisters to be energetic in attending to all
their duties, such as donations, fast meetings,
etc. Hoped we would come forward and
faithfully discharge our duties. Invoked the
blessing of God upon all.
	Prest. Lindsay gave more valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters, exhorting them, in her
usual kind and motherly way, to diligence in
attending their meetings, and performing every
duty enjoined upon them. "If we have not
the Spirit of God with us to-day it is our own
fault. Children should respect their parents.
It is the duty of every child to look after his 
parents. Children and grandchildren should
look after and provide for the wants of their 
parents and kindred. Do not acts of charity
for a name, but because it is pleasing to God."
Gave instructions to the secretaries with regard


to making out reports.  Invoked the blessing
and peace of heaven upon all.
	Coun. James H. Hart said, "Such admoni-
tion and instruction as we have heard to-day
must certainly make impressions upon our
minds." Spoke of the blessings we as a peo-
ple enjoy; also to some extent on intemperance.
"A drunkard cannot enter the kingdom of
heaven.  Let us do the work which we have to
do with singleness of heart. 'He who waits to
be commanded in all things is a slothful ser-
vant.' 'He who knoweth the Father's will
and  doeth  it not shall be beaten with many
stripes.' " Said he always enjoyed the ladies'
conference, as a kind and good spirit prevails.
	Conference adjourned for six months.  Sing-
ing, "Nearer Home." Closing prayer offered
by Prest. Wm. Budge.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, Prest.,
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Sec.,
			N.  E.  HUNT, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


