SEVENTH BIRTHDAY.

	Dear Aunt Zina! what fond emotions swell
	At sound of that dear name, we love so well;
	Our hearts expand with love whene'er it's heard—
	In homes both far and near, a household word—
	From lisping infant on its mother's knee—
	To sage and bard, from every land and sea,
	All honor her; Ay, more than that, WE LOVE!
	Who has not felt her inspiration move
	The truest, deepest tendrils of the heart,
	And thrilled, with words whose holiness impart
	So much of comfort, hope and heavenly peace;
	And through her aid good works will e'er increase.

	Her hairs have silvered in the cause of truth,
	Since yielding it obedience in her youth.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith, in early years,
	Was her true friend, who shared her joys and tears; 
	And when the wicked sought to shed his blood,
	Firm and unwavering to the truth she stood;
	Companion faithful, too, of Brigham Young—
	With him for years she labored, and has sung
	The holy truths revealed by God to man,
	And aided by her faith and works the Gospel plan.

	In Israel a mother good and just.
	Faithful and true to every sacred trust;
	With sympathetic words and counsels wise,
	She ever helps the sorrowing souls to rise;	
	The burden of her own and other's cares
	She's borne in meek submission, faith and prayers;
	Her name will stand to all a beacon light,	
	For in our hearts 'tis written fair and bright.

	In feeble words we would a tribute pay
	Of love to her on this, her natal day;
	And breathe a fervent prayer to heaven,
	That health and strength and peace to her be given;
	Her joys increase, her days prolonged
	To see God's chosen people crowned;
	And she, among that choice and honored band,
	Be crowned a queen in the celestial land.
									E. R. SHIPP.
	Salt Lake City, Jan. 31st, 1887.

	Remarks were made by Dr. R. B. Pratt, S. M.
Kimball;Lucy B. Young and others including Sis-
ters Mary A. Freeze and Zina Y. Williams, whose 
presence among us once more,after their sojourn in
other parts,seemed quite inspiring. The party was
a very pleasant one, and Sister Zina, whose name 
is a household word throughout Zion, must have

[Column 2]
realized that her friends were genuine in their ap-
preciation and acknowlegdement of her labors
of love among the people. She is a woman of in-
tense sympathy, and specially gifted in ministering
to the sick, and comforting the sorrowful. We
feel assured there are many to whom she has
given consolation and advice, as well as minis-
trations of love in sickness, that will join with
those assembled on that day in wishing her every
blessing which the Lord bestows upon His faithful
daughters.
	ON Monday, February 7th, a little party of sis-
ters were gathered at the residence of Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp. Cordial greetings and general conver-
sation was indulged in, and the guests partook of
refreshments, including delicious ice cream, after
which Sister Zina D. H. Young was appointed to
preside over the meeting. A hymn was sung,
and prayer was offered by Sister E. B. Wells, and
after singing again, Sister Zina made a few re-
marks, and then called upon the sisters in their
order as they were seated around the room. With 
one or two exceptions every one present spoke a 
few words at least, expressing their feelings and
appreciation of the little interview, blessing Sister
Shipp, and rejoicing in the faith of the Gospel,
and in the victory gained in the Snow case, of
which news had just reached us by telegram from 
Washington.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze made a very eloquent
speech, alluding to her association with the Sisters
Shipp, and the beneficial influence to herself
through their friendship, encouragement and inter-
est in her welfare. Her remarks were fresh, original 
and inspirational, and must have been particularly 
so to those from whom she claimed to have re-
ceived such an impetus for good.
	Sister Maria Y. Dougall seemed much affected
when she rose to speak, and the spirit of prophecy,
which has more than once rested upon her of late,
inspired her words, and she broke forth in that
gift to the edification of all present.
	Sister Maggie Y. Taylor, Edna Smith, Louie
Taylor and Phebe Y. Beattie, who have not been
so much in the habit of speaking in public as
some others who were present, bore good testi-
monies, and manifested a desire to improve oppor-
tunities for spiritual development. Sister M. J.
Shipp of Beaver, though seemingly very diffident,
bore a good testimony.
	There was a good spirit and feeling, and all felt
blest in coming together and speaking to each
other words of encouragement and blessing. The
meeting was dismissed with prayer by Sister Mary
A Freeze, and each one must have felt benefitted
and strengthened by the little season of rejoicing.
	ON Tuesday, February 8th, Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson, of the 14th Ward, celebrated her
birthday. She invited a few of her intimate
friends to dine at her hospitable home, and spend
the afternoon and evening. There was no pro-
gramme, but many were the congratulations and
good wishes for her future happiness and ultimate
success in her noble endeavors to do good. She
is an admirable hostess, and the dinner, which 
was excellent in every particular, was handsomely
served, and partaken of with a relish that could
not be mistaken.
	From the dining room the guests were shown
back into the parlor, and after some desultory
conversation, Sister M. Isabella Horne was nomi-
nated to preside over the meeting. After singing
a hymn, prayer was offered by Sister Maggie
Y. Taylor, and short speeches were made by Sis-
ters Horne, Z. D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, M.
W. Snow, S. M. Kimball, E. B. Wells and others,
including Aunt Ann Richards (a very aged sister)
Sisters Maggie Y. Taylor, Julia Howe and Jane
Richardson. Many blessings were pronounced
upon Sister Stevenson by the sisters present, and
a grateful recognition of her labors of love was
awarded her by all who spoke. Sister Stevenson

[Column 3]
responded gracefully to every good wish and feel-
ing expressed in her behalf, and invited all present
to come again iu one year to celebrate her jubilee,
the 50th anniversary of her birth, and bring with
them their husbands. This was specially signifi-
cant, as among those present were several whose
husbands were in exile, and some of them in
foreign lands. The enjoyment, we do not hesitate
to say, was mutual with hostess and guests, and
all felt it had been a season of refreshing to the
soul.
	A MEETING of the Relief Society of the 15th
Ward, in honor of Sister Elizabeth Duncason's
birthday anniversary, was held in the Society
Hall, on Saturday afternoon, Feb. 12th, commenc-
ing at 2 p.m., Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball presiding.
After singing, prayer was offered by Coun. W. L.
Binder, and after singing another hymn Prest.
Sarah M. Kimball made the opening address, in
which she stated that Sister Duncason was the
first woman appointed to preside over a quorum of
teachers in the Relief Society, and that she had
ever been a faithful laborer.
	Sister M. I. Horne, in her remarke, expressed
her pleasure in meeting with the sisters to cele-
brate Sister Duncason's birthday; thought it was
right to honor those who fulfilled the duties en-
trusted to them, and asked the blessing of the
Lord to rest upon Sister Duncason in her basket
and in her store, in her incomings and outgoings,
that she might live long to do good to the poor
and needy.
	Prest. S. M. Kimball, in behalf of the commit-
tee, presented Sister Duncason with a handsome
and comfortable easy chair. Sister Ann Brown,
aged eighty-seven, spoke a few words and blessed
the sisters. Sister M. W. Snow occupied a few
moments; thought Sister Duncason was one of
the honored women of these days, and asked the
Lord to bless her in the future with health and
comfort; referred to the kindness of Sister Kim-
ball, and asked the Lord to bless her, and hoped
all present would have oil in their lamps, and be
prepared to meet the bridegroom.
	Sister B. W. Smith felt happy to meet with the
sisters to honor Sister Duncason. Spoke of the
organization of the Relief Society in the Prophet
Joseph's day; thought women were as willing to
live the principles of the Gospel as men were;
they had duties to perform as well as the brethren.
Felt to bless each one present with all her power.
	Sister M. Lois Morris made some good re-
marks, and blest Sister Kimball for her endeav-
ors to make Sister Duncason happy on her 68th
birthday anniversary.
	Coun. W. L. Binder, in behalf of the Bishopric
of the ward, spoke of the benefit the Relief So-
ciety had been to the ward, not only in looking
after the poor, but in their donations towards
building the meeting house, and other public ex-
penses; felt that the labors of the sisters were ap-
preciated by the brethren. Made other very ex-
cellent remarks, and blessed Sister Duncason
with health and strength of body, that she might
live to do good.
	Sister Ann McAllister spoke of the humble and
good spirit which had always accompanied Sister
Duncason; hoped we would all prove worthy of
eternal life.
	Sister Ann Duncason said, "We have been co-
workers for a long time." Thanked the Lord for
the privilege of doing good to the poor; hoped we
would all stand firm and faithful in this life, and
that we might soon see those that are in exile now,
liberated, and asked the Lord to bless and com-
fort the Saints. Dismissed with singing, and a 
benediction was pronounced by Sister Horne.
	Delicious cocoa, chocolate, sandwiches and
cakes, of which we had the pleasure of partaking,
were served to all present in the most gracefu
manner by some of the young sisters—Mrs. Julia
Taylor, Miss Lizzie Kimball and Miss Minnie
Grey—who seemed to take great pleasure in wait-


ing upon the older sisters, and the most genial
feeling and influence prevailed. Social conversa-
tion and enjoyment for a short time, and the party
dispersed with reluctance, having fully enjoyed
both the meeting and the visit.


