ABSENT, BUT NOT  FORGOTTEN.

	There is one face absent from our gathering
to-day, one that we have never missed before;
an honored and respected person, who has al-
ways honored us with her presence on occa-
sions like these.
	Sister Hannah T. King! how familiar the
name sounds to every ear; how the stately and
dignified form rises to our view; we can almost
see the noble and serene face as plainly as we
did a year ago, but it is only remembrance
that is left to us, the reality has passed away.
	Sister Hannah T. King has gone to rest; how
sweet must that rest be to her. She has left
traces of her useful life for our benefit.
	What a noble woman she was; and yet, what
a pure and humble spirit she possessed. To
know Hannah T. King was to honor and re-
spect her. Happy and favored are the persons
whom she called friends. Her heart reached
out in yearning to the young people in the
Church, and she was always ready to commend
all that she found praiseworthy in their
characters; but how often was her sensitive and
refined nature shocked by the rude and boister-
ous manner of some of the young people.
	Talent she could appreciate to its fullest
extent; beauty she admired, if it reached as
deep as the heart; worth she prized far above
wealth.
	The young ladies of the Seventeenth Ward are
indebted to this noble woman for many words
of instruction and advice. She always took a
great interest in their welfare, and only re-
gretted that they would not take a greater in-
terest in themselves.
	Sister King always took a great interest in
intellectual gatherings, and was always prepared
to give for what she received. To reflect upon
the life and character of this great woman
would be of benefit to all. She made sacrifices


of a character that few ever make for religion's
sake, yet how firm and uncomplaining she
stood through it all unto the last. How con-
sistent were her actions with her professions!
She taught by example as well as by precept.
	Reverence formed a large part of her charac-
ter.  Her sensitive spirit was often touched
through the light manner in which the sacra-
ment is partaken of by members of the Church.
She looked upon this ordinance as being as
sacred as the presence of the Savior Himself.
She was often annoyed by the gossip that
is carried on in places of worship among the 
Latter-day Saints. She always thought that
these places ought to be revered as sacred to
the worship of God, so that nothing would in-
terfere with the free flowing of His Spirit.
	Pages might be written concerning Sister
Hannah T. King, but her life, and the way she
lived it, speaks enough; she needs no person's
praise or eulogies. Did we wish to recompense
her for the noble example which she has laid
before us, we will follow that example, and
always hold her name in loving and respected
remembrance.
		ELLA DALLAS
	Written for the Young Ladies' Quarterly Re-
view, and read at the annual meeting of the
17th Ward Y. L. M. I. A., Jan. 21, 1887.


[Column 1]

