SEVENTEENTH WARD.

	(The annual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
the 17th Ward was held at the residence of
Coun. Mrs. F. S. Richards, on Jan. 21st, 1887.
Nearly all the members of the Association
were present; also a large number of visitors,
among whom were seen the beloved faces of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H.
Young. President J. C. Howe presided over
the meeting with her usual dignified and lady-
like manner.)
	After the usual opening exercises, an histori-
cal and financial report of the Association for
the past year was read by the Secretary, and
accepted by the Association. These reports


showed the Association to be in good condi-
tion.
	The main, feature of the programme was the
reading of the paper, which was read in three
sections, and was very interesting; indeed it
was a credit to the Association.  The articles
contained therein were entirely original, and
treated upon various subjects—biographical,
physiological, political, moral and religious—
each subject being treated in an intelligent
manner, and were read intelligently by the
editor, Miss Emma Ellerbeck.  Songs were
rendered between the sections of the paper, by
Miss May Preston and Miss Lizzie Smith,
which made a pleasant change from the
reading.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Eliza
R  Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, S. M.
Kimball, B. W. Smith, Lula G. Richards, M.
Y. Dougall and others.  Much good instruc-
tion was given, and words of commendation
were spoken to the members of the Association.
Each speaker asked God’s blessing upon the
officers and members of the Association.
	During the meeting Sister Eliza spoke in
tongues, and Sister Zina interpreted.  In the
tongues Sister Eliza said, that there were those
present who would receive the gift of tongues,
interpretation, prophecy and healing, and that
they would be sought after for the comfort and
consolation which they would be enabled to
impart through exercising these gifts.  One
thing was remarkable, the interpretation was
given in exactly the same manner as the
tongues were spoken.  This should be a strong
testimony of the truth and power of these
gifts.  A sweet spirit seemed to prevail through-
out the meeting, and all seemed to partake of
its influence.
	A strange coincidence pertaining to this
meeting was that it happened upon Sister
Eliza’s birthday, without any previous thought
or pre arrangement to that effect, the day
being her eighty-fourth birthday.  She received
many sincere congratulations and good wishes
from both old and young that were present.
She remarked that this had been one of the
happiest anniversaries of her life.
	Sister Richards was a true hostess, welcom-
ing each one with words of kindly greeting,
looking carefully to the comfort of all.  The
Association was blessed in having, the privilege
of meeting at her house, where all things were
so comfortable and convenient; on the other
hand, Sister Richards was blest by being
privileged to have the meeting there.
   After the adjournment and closing exercises
of the meeting, all were invited to the dining
room, where a delicious supper had been pre-
pared by the young ladies, of which all partook
with a relish.  The young ladies waited upon
the. table in a graceful manner.
	The evening was afterwards spent in pleasant
and instructive conversation, interspersed with
music.  All went away feeling that they had
indeed had a feast,spiritually and temporally.
			      ELLA DALLAS Secretary.


