		  M. J. TANNER.

		Continued.
	Saturday, April 18th.  We met some mis
sionaries at Chicago who had come by the U
P. R. R., among whom is a Mrs. Nelson.  She
and I took a bed in the sleeper, but we prefer
our seats in the other car among our friende;
we felt so isolated.  We knew that everything
was so completed, organized and protected,
that we must be perfectly safe, yet we could not
help feeling nervous.
	We are in Ohio this morning.	It still rains,
and everything looks so dreary—water stand-
ing  over  the ground for  miles.  We pass
through a great deal of timbered country, such
tall, straight trees and very little underbrush.
We pass some  pretty farms, but see no one
stirring, and no sign of spring.  The land is so 
hilly that irrigation would be quite out of the
question.  There are forty-nine of us in the
company, and we need a whole car, which we
have most of the time; then we attend our de-
votion night  and  morning.  Bishop Price
offered prayer this morning.
	Akron, 8:35.  A fine city, with pretty resi-
dences in the suburbs.  We can judge but very
little of the main city, as we go in between two
rows of cars, aud we can only catch a glimpse
down some of the streets.  The majority of the
houses that we see are frame, but we pass some
large, substantial looking brick houses.  We
pass immense yards of tile for draining the
land, and the country looks as though it was
needed.  Now we pass miles of rail fence; we
never see such in Utah.
	At Kent we were requested to go in another
car, as they wish to leave the one we are in.
We  gather up our things and rush into the
other car, which we find rather dirty and un-
comfortable, but what troubles us most is that
we are mixed with other people.  Our travel-
ing outfits of blankets, lunch and satchels
marks us as travelers, and all eyes are turned
upon us; we feel indignant, for we are ticketed
first class to New York, with promise of special
cars, which we have had most of the time so
far.  Brothers Smith and Price try to make us
as comfortable as possible.
	Shenango, 11:35.  We have been so con-
fused and broken up that we have not yet
breakfasted.  Poor Sister Harrison wants her
tea, but we see no chance of making any, and 
none of us feel like opening our lunch baskets.
The clouds are breaking, and the country im-
proves.  Ever since leaving Chicago I have
felt as if we were traveling west.  We see a 
little pine timber; so many stumps indicate that
people have to clear the land for their farms.
We see long lines of fence made by turning
stumps on one side, leaving their sprangling
roots to form a barrack; they have been washed

[Column 2]
and bleached by the elements until they look
quite picturesque.  We stop for dinner, and
Bro. Price gets us some tea.  The men of our
party drink water, but we old ladies feel as
though we must have a little tea to refresh us
after being broken of our rest so much, and
the continued racket and jar of the train is
very wearisome to our nerves.  It is not rain-
ing now, but is still cloudy.  We see ice and
snow by the bank of a creek.  The country is
wild and mountainous.  2:40, we pass Chatau-
que, the lake of which is frozen over.  The
sun is shining.
	Jamestown, 3:5.  We expected to change
cars here for Niagra, but they tell us if we
stop to see the Falls we will have to stay all
night there, so we go on to New York.  The
country is still mountainous, and the hills are
nearly covered with snow.  We see but little
stock, and very few children.  5 p.m.  They
have given us a special car, and we pick up
our things and move again.  We feel more at
home and less open to criticism.  We are pass-
ing through the oil regions of Pennsylvania.
	Sunday, April 19.  We have got through
another night; I think it is the most uncomfort-
able one we have spent.  We stop at Jersey
City.  Our journey is done, and we are well
satisfied to leave the cars.  Bro. Hart meets
us in the waiting room; he is the emigration
agent, and has come to show us the way to our
stopping places.  Mrs. Nelson and I walk
around a little, and try to look out of the win-
dow to see what things look like in our new 
quarters.  When we come back the company
have gone, vanished like a dream, and we are
left alone.  Shut in by iron gates, we cannot
see out, nor look after our friends to see which
way they have gone.  It makes us feel rather
queer, but the man at the ticket office tells us
there will be a boat there in fifteen minutes.
We meet a young man of our company who
has waited for us, which is somewhat soothing
to our nerves.  The boat comes presently, and
the gates are opened.  We go on board and
cross the river.  Mr. Hart is waiting for us; he
takes us  on  a  street  car and we go to the
Grand Central Hotel.  Mrs. N—and I take
a room together, and  a  meal  card.  We are
taken   on  an  elevator up  three  stories; our
room is 454.  We are alone now, and have no
idea where anyone else is, but it seems very
comfortable to be in  a quiet room once more,
away from the noise and jar of the train; still
it seems continually rumbling in our ears.  We
have a pleasant room, nicely furnished.  In
one corner is a marble bowl, furnished with
hot and cold water; in another a closet to hang
our dresses in.  We want to clean up and go
down to breakfast, but our trunks have not
come.  We wash and brush and do the best
we can, and find, by the notice on the door,
that breakfast is not yet over.  We get on the
elevator, which is furnished with mirrors on
three sides and cushioned seats.  We tell the
waiter we wish to go to the dining room, and
he lets us off and tells us which way to go.  A
very black specimen of humanity meets us at
the door; we show him ou[-] meal card, and he
hands us over to another negro waiter, who
seats us at a round table, and hands us a bill
of  fare.  We tell him what we will have,
and while he is gone for it we have leisure to
eat oranges and make observations.  We see a
large room hung with mirrors, and lace curtains
at the windows, round tables, large enough for
four persons, which are multiplied indefinitely
as we glance at the mirrors.
	Waiters are gliding about attending the
different tables; some are of pure negro blood,
but most of the younger ones are mixed, and
represent all shades or degrees of consanguinity;
all draped in black, with white bosoms, aprons,
neckties and cuffs.  Their hair is closely shaved,
and I certainly never saw so many good look-
ing colored men.  Some of them are whiter
than many dark complexioned people of the

[Column 3]
white race, but they all show the negro blood.
A couple, whom we judge to be newly married,
have seated themselves at our table; the gentle-
man is fine looking, and the lady is perfectly
lovely, with her paints and frizzes, and her
melting black eyes, and elegant morning toilet
of delicate pink.  She seems very much in
love with her escort, who is very kind and po-
lite to her.  They saved their comments for
their neighbors for an after breakfast relish.
Our breakfast is served, and we get through it
some way to our satisfaction.  We are offered
toothpicks at the door, as we pass out and go
to our room.


