EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Monday, January 31st, a party of ladies as-
sembled, by invitation, at the residence of Mrs.
Maria Y. Dougall, to celebrate the birthday anni-
versary of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young. There were
present on the occasion some of the veteran
women of the Church, among the number, Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith, Catherine Horrocks, Sarah
M. Kimball, M. Isabella Horne, Susan S.
Young, and others not so far advanced in years,
nnmberng about twenty-five or thirty guests.
Delicious chocolate and refreshments were ele-


[Column 1]
gantly served early in the afternoon, and later
an informal meeting was held. After singing, and
a prayer by Sister Mary A. Freeze, Sister Horne,
who had been appointed to conduct the meeting,
made a few opening remarks, congratulating Sis-
ter Zina on her having reached the age of sixty-
six years, and having had such a fruitful experi-
ence in the Church, and said many good and
pleasant things, and concluded by wishing her
many happy returns of the day, and joy to over-
flowing.
	Sister Eliza followed, alluding to the intimate
association of Sister Zina and herself, these many
years, their labors together in the Church, and,
laying her hands upon Sister Zina's head pro-
nounced upon her an impressive blessing, in
which she earnestly implored her to take care of
her own tabernacle, that she might have health
and vigor of body, and strength of mind to per-
form the mission which had been given her to fill
before she left the eternal worlds.
	Sister Julia Howe made some excellent remarks,
and related a few incidents that had transpired
during her recent visit to her native country
(England) where she had the opportunity of meet-
ing several clergymen and people of note, with
whom she conversed upon our doctrines.
	Sister E. B. Wells made brief remarks, and
read a few verses she had composed for Sister
Zina in 1872. Dr. E. S. Barney read a poem com-
posed by Dr. E. R. Shipp for the occasion, which
we give in full:
		LOVINGLY INSCRIBED
TO SISTER ZINA D. H. YOUNG, ON HER SIXTY-
