	VARIOUS QUALIFICATIONS 

	My forte was needlework, to which I was
fairly drilled, my first lessons beginning when
I was so small (four years of age) that ma
used to seat me on the table edge so that my
work might be nearer her own eyes.  My very
fond and indulgent father provided me with a
gold thimble, made by a Spanish jeweler, from
a nugget he had himself taken from the mines,
for he was very proud of my desire to learn to
sew.  Afterward came long lessons from a lady
teacher or governess, who also taught me my
books, singing and dancing.  I remember that
it used to seem a long way across one end of a
napkin or a handkerchief, and I would often
quit when half way across the first end, and
proceed to the other end, foolishly fancying
that thus I was getting along faster by so doing.
The carefully and promptly finished work
brought kindly criticism and increase of work,
so that by the time I was eight years old I do
believe that all the long "over and over” seams
of sheets and pillow cases, all the hemming of
ruffles, towels, handkerchiefs aprons and table
linen were considered my work.
	I am sure my mother never realized the
silent weariness I toiled through during my
regular hours of sewing before I won at last
her “very well, now you can read or play.”
Next came the lessons in “backstitching,”
threads being drawn out of the cloth so the
line should be straight, and the stitches taken
up two threads back each time to insure uni-
formity of appearance.  Then came “sampler
work,” after which everything had to be
“marked” by needle and thread, and I used to
feel very proud over the initials worked by my
own hand, but now I can see it was needless
labor.		
	When I was about twelve, my mother had
in her employ an English sister, who was the
very pattern of neatness and good order.  I
remember that Sarah combed her hair with
exactly the same precision every morning, but
on wash-days it seemed to me she took special
pride in a fresh collar and white apron.  Cer-
tain evenings of hers were devoted to patching,
with such skill that checked or figured patterns

[Column 2]
were matched so that the place could hardly
be found.
	Certain other evenings were employed ex-
clusively in stocking darning, and so important
was the expression she wore, that I regarded
the art as of the highest dignity, and soon ven-
tured to ask for instructions.  Sarah deferred the
condescension until she found a worthless piece
of leg for my lessons, but which opportunity I
most humbly accepted, and in due time was
promoted to practice upon heel and toe.
	Dear good Sarah! what a shaking and scold-
ing she gave me once, when, catching the fever
of her “scouring” example, I, too, began upon
a pie plate.  Snatching it from me she showed
me how to scour it, round and round from the
outer edge in lessening circles to the very
centre of the plate, where she gave it a most
professional twist.  This, I was assured, was
the correct and only way that tinware should
be scoured.  Knives were to be scoured length-
wise.	
	Next came crochet work and plain embroi-
dery, and from then till I was twenty, I never
bought a yard of trimming, but made enough
for us all, even hemstitching and embroidering
our handkerchiefs, a dozen at a time, our
mother occasionally presenting us with a very
fine one.  So inbued was I with the spirit of
industry, that I besought ma to teach me knit-
ting.  She laughed at first, for the climate was
so warm that no one thought of wearing
knitted stockings; but as we looked forward to
coming to Utah some day, I thought knitting
and straw braiding might as well be learned.
My dear mother at last yielded, and “set  up”
for me a stocking of fine cotton yarn on fine
needles, for I wanted the work to look nice.
But oh, how tedious it was!
	By the time I got down to the heel, ma could
not be bothered, and I set out among some old-
fashioned friends and learned the heel and toe.
I endured many facetious allusions, and had
many relapses of zeal, but pushed on to the
glorious end, and had my triumph among other
scenes.
	Before we left California, an old French
shepherd came to ma and said he understood
the people in Utah practiced knitting, spinning
and weaving, and he desired to present to her
three fine fleeces from his best merino lambs,
which he hoped she would have converted into
yarn for her own hosiery.  These delightful
feminine occupatious he had not witnessed
since leaving his own country, and he was re-
joiced to hear of their practice among the Mor-
mon people, and felt that their primitive habits
and industry must insure their happiness and
wealth.  Ma accepted the fleeces with much
appreciation of the Frenchman’s sentiments
towards our people, and on arriving at St.
George (reminded perhaps by the intense cold)
soon had them converted into yarn.  I watched
the carding and spinning with deep interest,
and intefered with the hiring of the knitting
by doing it myself—six splendid pairs of hose.
“Now, aren’t you glad I learned to knit?”  Ma 
was so influenced by my zeal that she bought
me a spinning wheel, but somehow I could not
get the knack of doing any finer work than
doubling and twisting carpet yarn.  This
failure I very much regretted after kind neig[--]
bors had spent much time in vain.  Economy
of material prevented my learning to weave at
this time, but a kind sister promised me that
when she had some material she didn’t mind
wasting, she would let me know, and try to
teach me.  I waited long for a notification,
which never came, but I would even yet like
to learn; I should be proud of cloth or carpet
of my own weaving.	
	I look around upon my almost idle young
friends, their cardboard work, chenille and rib-
bon embroidery, or painting on satin, (no
patchwork in sight), and think of their lack
of knowledge in cutting out and making cloth-

[Column 3]
ing, and contemplate how prominent a figure
the hired seamstress will be in the future family
circles of these dear girls.  I fear their late
lessons in plain needle work will be trials.
Don’t I know a lovely young wife, whose dear
John was out of employment, and whose best
pantaloons of diagonal, colored striped material
had to be partially reseated?  And when those
diagonal patches were put in, sadly at variance
with the main design, and puckered all round
the edges, and he tried to smooth out the
puckers, and couldn’t, and tried to draw those
diagonal stripes to match each other and they
wouldn’t,and he looked at her and she looked at
him,and his coat was a short one,and there could
be no disguise of her needlework, how do you
think they felt?  Well, when John went out
of the gate he kicked the dog, and when she
went into the kitchen to wipe away the gather-
ing tears, the toe of her pretty slipper caught
in the braid that was coming unsewed from
the hem of her wrapper, and the saucepan 
handle caught in the unmended hole in her
apron, and the green peas rolled all over the
floor, besides scalding her pet kitten.   I looked
in her pretty workbasket, and wondered when
the ribbon work chair tidy, for John’s chair,
would get finished, and couldn’t help thinking
now much better it would be if she would turn
her attention  to  plain  work, and say, with a
good will, “If I must do homely work, I want 
it to be a credit to me.”
	Shall  I  tell  how  a  certain young man de-
cided which girl to take?  He did not know 
exactly, and hinted a little for advice from his
grandmother.  “Well, Dan,” said she, “you
just fish up some errand and go around both
places early in the morning, before breakfast,
once or twice, and see what you think after-
ward.”  Early next morning Dan called at
Jenny’s father’s back door, inquiring for him.
A cloud of smoke, issuing from an open oven
door, revealed a badly burnt batch of biscuit.
Without seeing him, Jenny, in unbuttoned
shoes, using her apron for an holder, with
flushed face, frowsy hair and cross ejaculations,
hurried out and threw the whole into the swill
pail. 
	Dan hurried away, surprised, and pursued
his way to the home of Annie Brown.  Answer-
ing to his knock, the door was opened, and
Annie, with pleasant smile, smooth hair and
clean apron, was carefully cleaning the inside
of the bread bowl clear to the bottom. This 
done, she carefully put away the bowl, mould-
ing board, flour scoop aud rolling pin.  On
the hearth a pan of golden biscuit looked very
tempting, the ham and eggs were done just
right, and as Annie wiped her hands, her 
father’s voice was heard in the hall calling the
family to prayers and breakfast   Dan excused
himself, promising to call later in the day.
He hurried home and told his grandmother.
"I don’t think you need any advice now," she 
said, laughing, “you know now just what kind
of a home you’d have with either.”	
	Then she told him of a young cotchman,
who, by dint of industry and economy, had
amassed a comfortable little fortune, and con-
templated marriage.  During an evening's ’
visit, his sweetheart arose and filled the stove 
crowding full of coal.  Allan looked at her in
thoughtful silence a little while, then rose to go.
She looked up at him in wonder, and he an-
swered her seriously and kindly:  “Bessie, I
have seen enough to take warning in time.
You would waste my earnings as fast as I
could bring them in.  It would be rash in me
to shut my eyes to this now, I would have to
see it all my life after.”  “You think more of
your money, than of me," bitterly retorted
Bessie.  “No, lass, I could lavi[-]h it upon you
in comforts but in waste, never! Goodbye.” 
	“Another time, Dan, I’ll tell you other stories,
and true ones, too.”	
