[Column 1]

men's wives, mothers, daughters, and sisters'
having any voice at all in matters they are
just as interested in and pertain to them just
as much as any.
	If governments derive their just powers from
the consent of those governed, what justice can
there be in withholding from a portion of the
intelligent citizens the right to give consent
when many of them are property owners and
earners and are required to pay the same per-
cent tax, which is taxation without representa-
tion, one of the main causes of the revolu-
tionary war. They also have to be amenable
to the laws, if they commit crime they have to
pay penalty but have no voice in making the
laws.
	There are great men and women at present,
who are making every effort possible to remedy
this evil in our government for it is surely
getting the nation in a dangerous condition. It
has caused the decay of other great nations
and it is time to guard against such a result,
and what we want is an amendment to the
Constitution of the U. S. putting women on
an equal with their husbands for it will elevate
them and thereby elevate the race.
	And now, we the women of Utah let us
lend them all the aid we can by informing
ourselves, understanding our position, and pro-
claiming the advantages of "Liberty to all,"
loud and long, wherever the opportunity is
afforded us, for liberty is dear, just as dear to
a mother as a father.
	I think the women of our Territory should
take hold of the suffrage question with zeal
and prepare ourselves to use our rights if they
are granted us, intelligently. There are a
class of men in our Territory who heartily
endorse the move taken in our favor, while
there are others who are narrow and say,
"they want their wives at home," simply
selfish. We know that home is a woman's
sphere and if she has a family her pride and
ambition is, and should be, to contribute every
thing that will tend to elevate the standard of
her home and the society in which she moves.
A home presided over by a virtuous, cleanly
and cheerful woman may be the scene of many
ennobling relations in life endeared to man by
many delightful associations; furnishing a
sweet resting place after labor, a comfort in
misfortune and a joy in prosperity.
	Lucy Stone, one of the foremost women of
the age once said, "Woman's nature is stamped
and sealed by the Almighty, and there is no
danger of her unsexing herself while His eye
watches her." This as a rule, I think, is true
and the argument used against it that "politics
are too dirty for women to dabble in," is weak,
for if politics are too dirty for women they are
too dirty for men and a reform is surely needed
and woman's influence is good.
	It is said that the first French revolution
presented one of the most striking illustrations
of the social mischiefs resulting from the
neglect of the purifying influence of woman.
The first Napoleon said, "The great want of
France is mothers." The character of the wo-
men had become depraved which is equal to
saying the race was depraved, and to correct
the evil the cause would have to be removed,
that means to educate and elevate the mothers.
	It is true we do not hear so much about
great women as great men. The greater part
of the influence exercised by woman in the
formation of character necessarily remains
unknown, they accomplish their best work in
the quiet seclusion of home, their greatest
triumphs, because private and domestic, are
rarely recorded, but she is not without her re-
ward, her influence lives and goes on propagat-
ing itself forever.
	However, let us wake up and labor with
interest for the great end in view, viz; perfect
education and elevation of woman to make her
a better companion for her husband, a better

[Column 2]

mother for his sons and daughters, and a better
laborer in society.
	May the difficulties be surmounted and
every effort be fruitful in good, to the enfran-
chisement of woman. There is no good argu-
ment against it. Statistics show, in places
where the right of suffrage has been granted to
women, fewer divorce cases, fewer insane, fewer
nmates of prisons and a better social condi-
tion entirely, proving that it does not break up
the peace of home nor degrade woman, and I
think that one great reason why some men do
not favor it is that,what causes the so called in-
fidel to not believe in the bible, because he
hasn't read it and does not know what is in it.
think if it is properly understood it will
meet a response in every heart.
