FAST DAY MAY FIRST.
	The Fast meetings in the several wards in
this City on Sunday, the first of May, seem to
have been general seasons of rejoicing from the
reports and the spirit and feeling that has mani-
fested itself, and the liberality in giving for the
purpose designed. In most places there was
great freedom in speaking and the Spirit of God
was apparent. Large sums of money were do-
nated and there is no doubt but the Lord will pour
out a blessing upon his people proportionate to
the sacrifices made freely for the House of the
Lord, here in the center Stake of Zion. The poor
as well as the rich have part in this matter, and as
has been stated repeatedly by the Elders and
Bishops of the Church, the small amounts given
by them are as acceptable in the sight of the Lord
as the greater gifts from the abundance of the rich
and in this we have the beautiful illustration
of our Savior, in the New Testament where it is
written:
	“And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and
beheld how the people cast money into the
treasury; and many that were rich cast in much.
	“And there came a certain poor widow, and she
threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
	“And he called unto him his disciples, and
saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this
poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which
have cast into the treasury.
	“For all they did cast in of their abundance;
but she of her want did cast in all that she had,
even all her living,"
	We were strangely reminded of this in the re-
marks of President Cannon at the Priesthood
meeting when he said even the poorest among
our people who received support from the Church
should pay tithing of that which they received.
Those who give to the poor the Savior said
“lendeth to the Lord,” but there must surely be a
greater blessing when the poor give of their
scanty means.
	The circumstances under which this people
have built Temples are almost marvelous. In
Nauvoo many lived on potatoes and salt with
sometimes a little corn meal; and when they
could no longer subsist would leave for a respite
to go and work a few days for some one outside
who could afford to pay them, that they might
have support for their families while they were
laboring upon the Temple. One brother who
died recently labored there without remuneration
and so zealous was he to perform that work
“stone cutting,” that he fasted until he fainted at
his work. In Kirtland the sisters who had cows
that gave milk would never use butter upon their
own tables, but gave it all as a free donation to
the men who worked on the Temple; and many
other sacrifices the saints made in those early
days, that those of this generation know not of.
	If some of our young sisters now thought it

[Column 2]
needful, they might contribute of their abundance,
and surely the Lord would pour out blessings
more than recompense. Some young girls we
are aware have already given liberally; and their
names are recorded, and they will never regret
giving for such a noble purpose. Zion is to be
built up by the Saints, not altogether the rich but
the poor, the working people, those who earn
their bread by the sweat of their brow, and not
only men but women; they have their part to do
in the great Latter-day dispensation, and an active
part, though they do not preach the Gospel to the
nations; their testimony to the truth, their fidelity
and faithfulness are as necessary as that of the
Elders in Israel, and when the Temples are dedi-
cated and the work of redemption for the dead is
to be performed their help is just as essential.
	Already Zion is beginning to be the wonder of
the world, and the eyes of all nations are upon
her. There is much to be done and there need
be no idlers in the vineyard. The young people
have much cause for gratitude that their lines are
cast in pleasant places compared to those of the
early pioneers in the work; and if their oppor-
tunities are greater, more will be required at their
hands. The greatness and magnitude of the work
increases, and the need of superior talent is be-
coming more and more apparent. The arts and
sciences open up avenues whereby many things
can be ingeniously and skillfully, done that
formerly took years to accomplish in the old way.
In various ways the Lord is hastening his work-


