WOMAN'S WORK IN MEXICO.

	Colonia Juarez, Mexico,
		March 29, 1892.
DEAR SISTER WELLS:
	Since writing you I have had the privilege
of visiting all the wards in the Mexican Mis-
sion, and of meeting with the Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primary Associations and
found them all in excellent condition. There
are four of each of the above named societies
in the Mission.
	The scenery from Diaz to Juarez, some
seventy-five miles, is similar to that from Dem-
ing to Diaz, an open level country of vast ex-
tent with mountains and hills in the distance.
We can trace the windings of the Casas Grande
river by the lofty cottonwood trees growing on
its banks. We passed through the towns of
La Ascencion and Coralitos. The latter be-
longs to a mining and stock Co., who own a
large tract of land. Here was also the interior
guard of the Custom House. In the prin-
cipal street of Coralitos is a very fine avenue
of lofty cottonwood trees that make a cool
shade for summer. Here is also a store and a
carpet and cloth factory belonging to the com-
pany. There is a Concentrator used for the
separating of the metal from the rock. After
leaving Coralitos we passed through the ruins
of an old town called Boranka. There once
stood a church, grist mill, and quite a number
of houses. We now reach Colonia Dublan, a
settlement of our people, located on the banks
of the river. The houses are of lumber and
adobie. The farms slope from the road to the
river. A good sized adobe school house, nearly
completed, is being built which is a credit to
the settlement. Five or six miles from Dublan
is the town of Casas Grande (large houses)
named after some Montezuma ruins of large
houses, which still exist in the town.
	Colonia Juarez is situated in a canon on the
Piedras Verdie river, which is lined with trees
runs lengthwise through the town. It is a
thrifty, pretty little place, like an oasis in the
desert; a number of handsome brick and con-
crete houses adorn the town.
	They have a splendid school house consist-
ing of three large rooms, a handsome building.
There is also a good store and a grist mill.
Picket and lumber fences enclose orchards and
gardens. Trees are in full bloom, lucern and
grass are green. Every body is busy putting
in gardens, some have peas up two or three
inches high; the soil is sandy and all vegi-
tables grow in abundance. Some very good

[Column 2]

fruit was raised here last summer. It is
expected much more will be raised this
summer as the season is later than usual.
	Pacheco is thirty two miles southwest of
Juarez. The road through a canon is rich in
magnificent scenery. Would I could describe
it that my friends might enjoy it. Large
rugged rocks thrown together in every con-
ceivable shape towered above us in grand
majesty. Trees that appeared to grow out of
solid rock peeped out of the crevices. When
a child I wanted to see the timber that was
made into lumber, growing in the mountains
but never had the privilege until that day go-
ing to Pacheco, when we traveled for miles
through a very fine growth of timber. Pacheco
is surrounded by the pines that are always
green. The houses are made of lumber, it be-
ing plentiful in this country. They have a
comfortable school house, a saw mill and a
store. On Washington's birthday we had a
holiday. Quite a company of the good people
of Pacheco, and Cave Valley accompanied us
to the Caves, some seven miles from Pacheco
which we visited. We enjoyed our picnic
under the trees, by the river, in a lovely spot,
and spent an hour or so in songs, recitations,
music and speeches, and spent a day never to
be forgotten.
	The Caves are the works of nature but they
have been utilized by a race of people who
made rooms by putting partitions of a kind of
cement. The openings leading from one room
to another are very small indicating that small
people inhabited them. It was a curiosity to
us to see water drop, a drop at a time from the
top of the solid rock above us, at the mouth
of the cave, where it is presumed they retained
it for drinking, and household purposes. I
had many thoughts while exploring them and
gathering relics, wondering who the inhabi-
tants were, how long ago they lived there etc.
There are many dried corn cobs and pieces of
brown pottery to be found in them. I rejoiced
in having the privilege of visiting those
wonderful relics of the past.
	We returned to Juarez in time for the
Quarterly Conference of the Mexican Mission
which was held Feb. 27 and 28. We enjoyed
a most interesting time; the spirit of God was
felt in power to the encouragement and comfort
of the saints.
	A great many discouraging things are said
about the Mexican Mission but there are a
good, happy, contented people who are satisfied
to live here in spite of the disagreeable winds,
dust, and other features complained of. Come
and see us in this wonderful historic country,
you will receive a warm welcome and meet
many friends.
		M.


