ECONOMY OF TIME.

	A very important lesson to be learned in life
is to economize our time. Some people value
their time as their estate, while others scarcely
learn its value, till it is too late. If habits of
carelessness and idleness are formed in youth,
they cannot be so easily thrown off as they are
formed. How necessary it is then in youth to
form habits that will be of benefit throughout
our lives. Lost knowledge may be regained
by study; lost health by temperance; but lost
time cannot be replaced. How often we hear
people say they would do this, or that, if they
"had time." Many who might be called selfish
excuse themselves from doing much, that
might be accomplished. Seek out those in any
community, who have done the most for them-
selves and helped no one in special, or tried to
soothe those in affliction, or seek to bless any
one, and you will find that they will be thought
an almost useless element in society. But on
the other hand a person who does all that he
or she can, for the general good of the people
you will find they are those who are always
active, and are always highly respected. This
class of people, no matter how pressed with
business, always seem capable of doing a little
	This class of people may ever be relied on
with more assurance than the idle class. It is
easier for one who is always doing something,
to do a little more, than for an idle person to
arouse himself to action. If you give a busy
person something extra to do they will soon
have it done; while an idle person will want
to put it off till tomorrow, or another time.
Too much leisure time proves a curse if we do
not make a proper use of it. A very good
motto is to try to build up what we can from
the fragments of time. It is said that the gold
dust is swept up from the floor and coined.
We should learn from this, the nobler economy
of time. Use all our spare moments in study,
something that will ennoble the mind. We
read of the greatest men of learning, how they
strove to improve their spare moments. Some
of them were so poor, that they had not oil to


make a light, and after their day's work was
done, they took their books and stood by a
lamp post, to see to read.
	The small stones used to fill up crevices in
the wall, are as essential as the larger rocks.
And so are the spare moments wisely used,
they contribute to the advancement of the mind
and all intellectual faculties.
