BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Thursday evening, May 5th, the home of
Brother and Sister Jos. H. Felt was invaded by a
host of their friends who had arranged to surprise
Sister Louie Felt on the anniversary of her birth-
day. A genuine surprise it proved to be, but
nevertheless the lady proved herself equal to the
occasion, and opened her parlors to the unbidden
guests. A very merry crowd they were, and the
evening passed pleasantly with songs and recita-
tions, good-humored jokes, and some graver
speeches and withal an excellent spirit.
	The first speech was by President Jos. E.
Taylor, who referred to the many good deeds of
the hostess, and testified of the power made
manifest in her behalf when she lay ill and given
up to die, by the physician and many of her
friends; said much calculated to comfort and en-
courage her, and warmly congratulated her on her
birthday etc. Brother Charles Livingston sang a
real old-fashioned Scotch song; Louie Felt, the
daughter, sang with piano accompaniment “Sing
me the sweet old songs,” and one or two others,
she has a fresh clesr voice; Miss May Anderson
and Miss Felt played a duet on the piano which
the lovers of instrumental music very much en-
joyed. Brother Charles Denney gave the “Rose
of Allandale,” acquitting himself well; and
Brother Elihu Barrell, also sang one of the
favorite ballads;  Mrs. Nellie Taylor recited in
her usual dramatic style “Her Letter,” President
C.W. Penrose, L. T. Freeze, B. H. Roberts and
E.B. Wells each made a few remarks; Brother C.
B. Felt recited very pathetically the poem “Too
Late.” Excellent refreshments were served dur-
ing the evening by the young girls present, and a
general good feeling animated all. Sister Louie
Felt responded to the call of Brother Penrose for
an expression of her feelings, in a few well chosen
words, testifying to her love for and appreciation
of her many kind friends, and Elder J. H. Felt
made the closing speech, thanking one and all for
this expression of affection and regard. It was
certainly an enjoyable evening calculated to cheer
the hearts of all who participated therein. Mrs.
L. L. Felt, Dr. Maggie C. Shipp, and Della
Eardley were the originaters we were informed of
the demonstration. About sixty persons were
present.


