IN MEMORIAM.
	Union Square Hall was filled with friends
and members of the W. P. A., on Saturday,
April 30, the occasion being the memorial
exercises held in honor of our dearly beloved
friend and co-worker, Mrs. E. T. Y. Parkhurst.
All that love and affection could do, was shown
in the perfect arrangement of floral gifts and 
tributes to the honored dead. The Hall pre-
sented the appearance of a lovely bower.
One table laden with delicate roses formed a
pretty frame for the photograph of Mrs. Park-
hurst, which seemed to throw light and peace
about it. Her empty chair heavily draped in
black stood near. After an organ prelude,
Mrs. N. B. Eyester, President of the Associa-
tion spoke in a few well chosen remarks
closing with a prayer. Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper
then rose and paid a feeling tribute to her who
had passed before. Touching were the 
thoughts she gave as she dwelt upon the many
noble qualities of Mrs. Parkhurst whom she 
had known and loved for twenty years, "Dead
she is not" said Mrs. Cooper, "only a thin veil
separates Emilie now from us; God has pro-
moted her to a higher work, but she still re-
mains among us guiding us in our various
duties." A number of pathetic poems written
in her memory were read. Among them the
best being those of Mrs. Emily Brown Powell
and Mrs. Hannah Neall. The latter lady has
been appointed to fill the chair left vacant by 
Mrs. Parkhurst. Letters of sympathy had
been received from all over the State. Tributes
of affection from those who knew and loved
her well. The music rendered was pathetic
and appropriate. The resolutions as adopted
were read and a copy was ordered to be sent 
to the bereaved family. Badges of mourning
were distributed to members, who were re-
quested to wear them thirty days. After the
audience singing "Nearer my God to Thee,"
the memorial exercises were at an end. None 
can express the deep sorrow that has befallen
not only the Association but hosts of admirers
and friend in this irreparable loss.
						ALMA ALDEN.
   San Francisco, May 4, 1892.


