BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

	Tuesday, May third,was the seventieth anniver-
sary of the birthday of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, one of the most noted, and one of the best
known women in all Israel. She is the widow of
the late President George A. Smith, a cousin of
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and for many years
First Counselor to President Brigham Young.
Sister Smith holds the honored position of Coun-
selor to Sister Zina D. H. Young, General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society. The party given in
honor of Sister Smith’s birthday was held at the
residence of her grand-daughter, Mrs. George
Horne, in the 19th Ward.
	The First Presidency of the Church were
present, Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon,
and Joseph F. Smith, and the Presiding Bishop,
Wm. B. Preston, also the Bishop of the Ward,
John Tingey, and Hon. C. W. Penrose of the
Presidency of this Stake, Patriarch Joseph Horne
and some other brethren among whom we noticed
Fred Taylor, M. D., son of President John
Taylor, who has recently returned from abroad.


There were, as a natural consequence in a party
of this kind many more sisters than brethren;
Mesdames Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne,
Sarah M. Kimball, Emma Woodruff, Harriet A.
Preston, Eliza T. Cannon, Priscilla Jennings,
Julina Smith, Bathsheba Merrill, E. B. Wells,
Sarah J. Smith, Maria W. Wilcox, Julia Pack,
Helen Smith, Romania B. Pratt, M. D., Elizabeth
Stevenson and others too, many to mention all
the names.
	It was a very pleasant affair, the company all
seemed to vie with each other in bestowing
merited praise and good words upon Sister Smith
the heroine of the occasion, and in truth a real
heroine, when one considers what she has en-
dured for the Gospel's sake. Many floral gifts
were presented and other pretty and appropriate
remembrances for friendship's sake.
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Preston and short
speeches were made by President Woodruff and
President Cannon, Sister Kimball and Sister
Young and by President Smith; each of the
speakers referred to their long acquaintance with
Sister Smith and the pleasant remembrances of
the days gone by, as well as the trying scenes
through which they had passed together.
	Sister Smith made some very appropriate re-
marks appreciative of the good wishes and kind
feelings of her friends who had honored her, and
expressed her joy in the Gospel, her countenance
beaming with delight and satisfaction she looked
indeed beautiful with the crown of seventy years
upon her head, and the spiritual development to
which she has attained through a life of devotion
and sacrifice for the good of others. The bless-
ings pronounced upon her by the servants of God
during the evening, bore evidence of the high
estimation in which she is held and her purity of
life and character. Her example is worthy of
imitation by the daughters of Zion.
	Refreshments consisting of many delicacies,
were served to the guests in a dainty fashion by
the young ladies of the family, on small tables at
which a few could be seated and chat socially;
and time flew quickly as ever when old friends
meet, and finally the party dispersed, with many
congratulations and good wishes for the pros-
perity, health and happiness of the revered lady
in whose honor they had assembled.
	The EXPONENT adds sincere congratulations,
and may Sister Smith continue her labors of love
among the Saints as long as life is desirable, the
spirit of peace and love abide in her heart and in
her habitation forever.


