U. W. P. CLUB.

	The U. W. P. Club met at the EXPONENT
parlor, March 31, 1892. Prayer by L. T. Freeze,
minutes read and approved. First on the pro-
gramme, an original article entitled "Benefits of
the Club," by M. A. Freeze, brought out many
new points for consideration and improvement.
	Notes on the life and work of the author of
"The Course of Time" Robert Pollock, Lula G.
Richards.
	"Jean Vou Jean" by Victor Hugo, of whom it
has been said, "had he written nothing else would
have made his name immortal," feelingly recited
by C. L. Boyden. Miss G. L. Brown favored the
club with very sweet piano music.
	"Newspaper Women" an interesting article by
Di Vernon, a well known writer, was read by
Gladys Woodmansee, and the subject freely dis-
cussed by the members, thought it not necessary
that one should understand all the workings of
the printing press to be a newspaper woman.
Literary ability both natural and acquired the
predominant features. The manner in which
some reporters write up society women con-
sidered absurd, and to be frowned down by all
truly sensible women, especially when such
articles refer solely to personal charms, style of
dress, and the manner in which they serve their
dinners. Considered that intellectual attainments
and noble traits of character should predomi-
nate.
	By special request C. L. Boyden recited the
"Prisoner of Hungary," the enthusiasm of the
audience evincing both their taste for this refining
art and the superior ability of the artist.
	The Pres. suggested that we have a list of the
members and call the roll at each meeting, and
that certain members be appointed to prepare
articles for the next club meeting, and also thought
it advisable that each should have some article
in readiness in case of delinquency of those on
the programme, that our time might be well em-
ployed and that we might realize mutual benefit.
	The following programme was arranged for
April 30, 1892.
	Miss N. V. Davis to prepare an article on Wo-
man's Work.

[Column 2]

	S. Y. Gates and Josephine Spencer, Pen
Names. Song, Gladys Woodmansee. Humorous
Recitation, C. L. Boyden. Bellamy's "Looking
Backward" to be reviewed by the club.
	G. L. Brown, C. C. R. Wells and L. G. Richards
to discuss the subject of the book.
	Benediction by M. A. Freeze.
	Refreshments served and social chat indulged
in till a late hour.
