LADY SOMERSET'S GOOD-BYE.

	Lady Henry Somerset says, in a pleasant
farewell letter to the Union Signal:
	It has been said that I am writing a book
concerning my impressions of America. Noth-
ing could be further from the truth. I found
it enough to breathe your air, to live your life,
to make myself a part of all I saw, without
aiming to enact the role of the typical Briton
on his travels. I came not to teach, but to
be taught.
	But, concerning my impressions, I may tell
you quite confidentially that the intelligence
and education of your wage-workers, the re-
markable acumen and versatile acquirements
of your women, the universality of the cold-
water dinner table, the freedom and courtesy
of the press, the progressive quality of men's
minds, so that they seem to take as a matter of
course that women are equals, the way in which
American men share with their wives the cares
of home and children, the independence of
young women in the general conduct of life,
and especially the pursuit of a vocation rather
than a husband—though not at all to the pre-
judice of their finding that husband—the good
comradeship between young men and women,
boys and girls; the almost universal sobriety
of women—these, with the boundless distances,
rapid transit, and the varied scenery, have im-
pressed me beyond any other characteristics of
this happy country of the Larger Hope.
	In some respects my own dear land excels
you, even in the particular that is your most
striking quality—progressive thought. I make
no plea for the superiority of our own govern-
ment, but I merely state that it has given us
far more rapid and accurate postal service, and
railways much less destructive to human life,
although they do not provide the comfort
and the luxury that I find in this country.
	The smoking car on your trains seems to be
a degradation. I have been obliged to pass
through it several times, and grieve to see that
card-playing is permitted—a thing strictly pro-
hibited on English railways. It is sad to see
how this demoralizing atmosphere has blinded
the occupants, so that the uncleanly floor and
the sickening air are not distasteful to them.
A stunted manhood must result from the na-
tional custom that this "black hole of Calcutta"
car illustrates.
	The fact that our telegraphic system is under
government control is of inestimable value to
our people. We can send twelve words for
twelve cents to any part of the United King-
dom. Our civil service, being wholly divorced
from politics, is in every way more satisfactory.
It is inconceivable to me that any people so
intelligent as the Americans should patiently
put up with changing every local postmaster
with every change of President. You are
ahead of us, however, in that your civil service
examinations are more widely open to women.
One of the differences between our countries

[Column 2]

which seems to me most in our favor, is the
far greater interest taken by English women
in politics, local and general. They under-
stand the questions of the day, and are by that
much better fitted to be the companions of their
husbands and sons. As a result of this do-
mestic aspect of political questions, men of
better class go into political life with us than
is, I judge, the case with you. In this there is
immense advantage to the well-being of the
country; and if I might make one suggestion
to those whose mode of life has been so el-
oquently suggestive to me, I would beseech
good women everywhere to give conscientious
study to these public questions in the mu-
nicipality, the State and the nation. For I
believe that, with the participation of women
in government, the good of the people (which
means the coming of Christ into the laws of
the nation) is inextricably blended. The
white-ribboners have served their country
beyond telling, by bringing these sacred ques- 
tions of human weal to the hearts and hearth-
stones of the people. It is my solemn con-
viction that with all this better understanding
as to the real mission of politics shall come
the greater and more Christian America for
which we hope and pray. Perhaps the Moth-
er Country may do you its greatest service by
proving that the participation of women in
government will be a surer solution of our so-
cial problems; for we are practically certain to
precede you in putting to a test on a large
scale the theories you have propounded. It is
well-nigh positive that within five years wo-
men will be as thoroughly enfranchised as men
throughout Great Britain.—Ex.


