[Column 1]

ocean of life of the past 72 years gone, yes, gone,
never, no, never, to be recalled again.
	I also importuned God's mercy and blessing
for His continued prosperity not only until the
proximity of the 73rd but onward unto the 80th
anniversary, unto which yourself and that
numerous, yes happy company, were all invited to
celebrate in Salt Lake City. Indeed as a dream
it is so and surely one-fifth of the time has al-
ready elapsed.
	The 1st day of May falls on Sunday, and Labor
day, both holidays in this place, and I avail my-
self of the celebration by chance of the gala day as
the elite of the city will be out on the Pallisades,
and the best carriages and horses will traverse
the Alamada in the evening.
	Chihuahua has a population of 28,000, and an
altitude of 4,713 feet, and is situated about 250
miles Southwest of El Paso, Texas, on the Mexi-
can Central Railroad, to the City of Mexico, and
about 1,000 miles Northeast of Mexico City.
	Some mountains and dry peaks surround this
City, without a particle of vegetation, not even a
solitary tree is visible, everything is very dry
and a great scarcity of water, an aqueduct brings
drinking water about eight miles to the city, the
aqueduct is in some places 25 feet high, in one
place we counted forty arches, it looks very mas-
sive of stone; a few fountains of free water are
patronized by the poorer classes, one particularly
in a Pallisade near the Catholic Cathedral, here
two men carry a twenty gallon barrel suspended to
a pole, each man with the end of the pole on his
shoulder, and finds it a welcome over one-fourth of
a mile away for domestic purposes; another with
two five gallon oil cans attached to a shorter pole
and one man with the pole on his shoulder trots
away after filling them with a gourd; now comes
the many Rebecca's with their pitchers, a sort of
jug, on their shoulders or heads, I said to my
dear little brother, J. C. Bentley of St. George,
(and the only Utah companion in this place,) I
will go to that black haired, and dark eyed
Rebecca for a drink, she lifted her pitcher and I
drank, "lifted up my eyes" and thanked God that
our Rebecca's at home could get their water from
city creek by turning the tap at home in their
kitchens.
	After our walk on this lovely morning we stepped
into the Cathedral, where hundreds of poor
mostly devoted women are dipping and crossing
with holy water, bowing, kneeling, praying, count-
ing beads as	*	hugging a cross in some
corner, many for a whole hour are on their knees
while the Priest is offering incense and prayer,
consecrating sacraments etc.—Just at 8 o'clock
the bells and gong call the people together in a
rush, part of the day is spent in church but the
rest of the day is a holiday, where the Pallisades
are patronized and also the Allemanda; today is
of course extra, processions, bands of music,
speeches with cheers and enthusiasm, closing
with music in the Pallisades which are adorned
with walks and flowers. We saw more bonnets
and hats this evening than usually, nine-tenths of
the ladies wear no bonnets or hats, but their
glossy black hair, of which those women are so
proud, adorn their heads, some women and it is
quite common to, wear a light black shawl which
occasionally serves as a head covering falling
back over the shoulders. On the wide prome-
nade the ladies several abreast walk one way,
while the gents promenade in the opposite direc-
tion and on the outside generally.
	The houses are of adobies plastered, with flat
roofs; streets narrow, and the walls of the houses
or courts look much like the style of our old time
forts. But on the inside of these are flowers,
and shrubs, adorned so that the inside has more
attraction than the outside. In our Robinson
Hotel entrance from the street are heavy doors
about ten feet high with a small door where a
servant lies on a couch, so that at night the

[Column 2]

closed gates can be opened to let in the guests at
late hours, but during the day the gates are
opened; from the court is a stairway to the upper
rooms, for this Hotel is two stories high, from our
room we look into the court where are the apple
tree, pear and pomegranate trees,and also an
orange tree but it has been bitten by frost so that
it looks some like our peach and fruit trees of
1848 in Utah.
	The few windows are barricaded with bars and
a sort of open grate projecting a little into the
narrow side walk where often children and the
older ones sit on the window sill viewing and
sometimes conversing with those on the outside,
some of these courts are large and thousands of
of a variety of roses are very pretty with the
walks; bouquets of roses from those inside courts
were presented to me as a token of remembrance
of my 72nd birthday in Old Mexico; the day closes
with my 72nd behind, while my 73rd opens up
very pleasantly although in a strange land.
	With kind wishes and regards,
			EDWARD STEVENSON.
	P. S.—With this I send you a card speciman of
a Lamanite lady, there are in Mexico a variety of
them.


