MANNERS OF WORKING WOMEN.

	The question, whether woman should be
allowed to be independent and earn her own
living is no longer open to debate. How she
shall earn it, has also been answered, by throw-
ing open to her almost every line of business to
which she seeks admittance. A new element
has been introduced into society, and that it
is a fixed element no one will deny. What
the effect will be is not so easily foreseen.
	Every day you may see on our streets a
large number of women, who go quietly and
briskly to their different vocations. The ma-
jority are stenographers and clerks, though
there is a slight sprinkling of dress makers,
telephone exchange girls, compositors, and girls
who work in book-binderies, and printing offices.
They are not brusque, masculine creatures as
you might expect; on the contrary they wear
bangs and ruffles and laces just as other wo-
men do. Some are pretty and some are plain;
some plump, some thin, and so far as appear-
ances go, they are like the rest of womenkind
who are not wage-earners.
	Are their manners coarse and their language
uncultivated? In order that you may better
judge of that, let me tell you how they lived
in a boarding home, in another city, which
I visited not long since. One girl introduced
me, another took me to the tea-table, a third
invited me to family worship; and when I walk-
ed by mistake into a stranger's room, she did
not swear, nor cast a boot jack at me, but quiet-
ly, donned wrapper and slippers and guided me
to my own room.
	So far as conversation is concerned you will
not hear any more slang and silly expressions
there, than in a young lady's boarding school
or co-educational institution. At the table,
one day, I heard the following quotation in
regard to the potatoes, which a stenographer
pronounced bonus, melior optimus, and there
were discussions in regard to theological tenets,
mission schools, parties, the news of the day,
entertainments, etc. Just before tea time, a
slight little girl came into the library and sat
down by the register to warm herself.
	"Are you cold, Miss H.?" asked another girl,
who sat near, reading. "Yes, I am chilled
through and through. Had to work all day
(this was in January.) without a fire. They
are taking out the furnaces to put in steam,
and I've had to work with a shawl around me."
	"Oh! Miss H——, play something for us
won't you?" interrupted a third.
	"What shall I play?"
	"A waltz."

[Column 2]

	And in a minute the chilled fingers were
getting warm upon the keys of the piano, and
the little girl forgot as she played so eagerly
that for ten hours, those same fingers had put
paper into a printing machine for ten cents an
hour. In a short time a dozen young ladies
were waltzing as merrily as a lot of school girls,
far merrier than many school girls of the pres-
ent day, who have to spend so much strength,
nerve and energy upon their lessons, that
dancing is a discipline and not a pleasure.
	In the reception room after breakfast a half
dozen girls meet to gossip and look over the
daily papers. One pale, thin girl drew her
shawl over her shoulders, arranged herself
comfortably on the sofa, and said, "My cold is
so bad, the Doctor says I can't go to the tele-
phone exchange today. Won't Miss M. the
manager be put out? You see its harder to
get a girl to supply in the day time, as the
night workers are too tired, and you cannot
find any else. I've had a new girl the past
week, trying to teach her the work, and I was
completely tired out. Women are so stupid
about telephones anyway. I'd rather have ten
men ring up exchange than one women. A
woman will ring and ring, and before she has
listened for your answer, she will ring again,
and you'd better drop the 'phone quick or she'll
give you a ring in the ear, and that is no
laughing matter. After she has rung half-a-
dozen times and has finally listened for your
answer, then she says Excha-a-nge, can you tell
me whether Mrs. So-and-So has a telephone?
After you've told her politely, to look in her
book and see, she'll probably say, "But Ex-
change, I've lost my book." So you must
find out and tell her. A man won't lose his
book. He won't ask about a telephone num-
ber unless it isn't in his book."
	"Do you like it in the exchange?" Asked
a visitor.
	"Oh! yes," she said, "The work is light after
all. You have to keep your wits about you.
The only thing is so much electricity is hard
on the system, makes you nervous." And she
gave a dry hacking cough and listlessly folded
her hands.
	Two pretty stenographers were chatting
by the window.
	"Do you know we're both invited by Rev.
R——and wife to come out to their mission?
Then we are invited to stay to tea. There's a
young minister helping him. We must look
up some theological points, so as to have an
interesting discussion." And thus they chat-
ted on.
	This is a sketch of women as they appear in
a working woman's home, but there is the same
type in other places.
	In manners and morals working women
do not compare unfavorably with their more
fortunate sisters? Contact with the world gives
shrewdness; self-dependence, produces dignity
in many cases, and politeness is necessary to
their positions. Working for bread has made
and will make a difference, in the lives of wo-
men.
	We honor the working girl because she has
done so well; and we ask that something be
done for her. Young men have their clubs,
lodges and associations, where they can go and
find suitable and profitable companionship;
but what is there for young women? In how
many cities are there clubs, industrial unions
or "Homes" for young women? There are art
clubs, literary clubs, musical clubs, for women


who have homes, friends, money, and the com-
forts of life. What is there for the woman who
has none of these? Work: that must be all of
life to her, and that is not enough. She can
only earn enough to clothe and house herself.
Clearly, then, some one who has money must
do for the working woman what she can not do
for herself. If in every city there were work-
ing women's "Homes" and clubs life would be
much brighter and sweeter for hundreds of
women.		N. V. D.


