EDITORIAL NOTES.

	This is the time of paying memberships for the
coming year for the Hospital, and all those who
feel like paying up dues, already left over will
confer a favor by coming forward with the means;
also those who pay regularly will please remem-
ber their membership expires with May 1892.—As
the Hospital is at present very much in need of
funds, favors small or large will be gladly well
comed.
	A benevolent sister interested in the welfare of
the sick and afflicted has recently made a very
acceptable and useful donation to the Deseret
Hospital, which the Board of Directors gratefully
acknowledge with thanks. The gift consists of a
complete bedroom set with bed and bed furnish-
ings bed linen etc., new and of good quality; the
lady also intends to replenish the bedding, towels
and other things when needful, from time to time;
that is to keep up this one bed etc. The ladies of 
the Board have for ten years now labored faith-
fully for this charitable institution, and any gift of
this sort is perhaps more fully appreciated be-
cause of the small resources available to keep up
the current expenses of the institution. Many
others of our sisters could well afford to do this
and would be conferring a blessing indeed upon
suffering humanity.
	We had the pleasure in company with Pres.
Zina D. H. Young of this City, of visiting on
Wednesday and Thursday of last week, Spring-
ville and Payson in the interest of the Relief
Society. Pres. Mary John and her Counselor
Marilla Daniels of Utah Stake had invited us to
go with them on this trip as changes were to be
made in the organizations. At Springville four
new branches were made out of the former one,
and at Payson two branches from the one; as
these large wards had been divided and new
Bishops set apart to preside, it became necessary
also to make these changes in the Relief Society.
We were everywhere cordially welcomed and the
meetings were well attended by both brethren
and sisters; the Bishops at each place mani-
festing special interest in the work of the sisters.
Sisters John and Daniels went on to Goshen to
hold meetings there on Friday, and Sister Young


remained over a day at Springville to visit her
brother, Oliver B. Huntington, while we returned
home Friday morning, well pleased with the visit,
fuller particulars of which will be given in our
next issue.


