IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIII.
	The interview between the doctor and Lady
Walton was not decisive, and rather unsatis-
factory than otherwise, yet Doctor Bland felt
hopeful of good results. He had given Lady
Walton some telling points and had succeeded
in making her feel she had a positive duty in
the matter, the responsibility of which she
could not evade.
	The doctor made a report of his visit to
Miss Conway and, at the same time, urged his
own cause so demonstratively that Jane felt
she could not much longer delay her betrothal.
She was free to accept an offer now that her
uncle was dead, who was really the only per-
son likely to have interfered, and she knew
he would approve of the doctor for he had
the utmost confidence in him. That he was
so much older, did not seem so objectionable
to Miss Conway as it would to most young
women, and she was in mind and character
companionable to both old and young.
	While she was revolving in her mind, what
she ought to do, and internally resolved not
to equivocate in the least, but give assurance
to her lover, or make a refusal of all which he
would be compelled to take as final, another
event occured that caused delay.
	The long expected stranger arrived; his com-
ing had been postponed until the gossip con-
cerning him had almost ceased; but when he
came it was renewed with all sorts of extrava-
gant exaggerations, and was more than a "nine
days wonder" in all the country side. He
came at night fall on horseback like a very
troubadour, only that he was accompanied by
good Mr. Burke who came with due ceremony
to install him at the "old ruin" as it was now
almost invariably styled. The family were
prepared, that is his apartments had been
made ready weeks before, and as for the larder
it was well supplied. "There will be queer
goings on when this young interloper comes,"
the old housekeeper had been saying to one
and another, "he'll have a lot of those foreign-
ers comin, to hunt no doubt, no better'n gyp-
sies—that's the race he comes of I warrant,
I've seen some dark-eyed dark-haired, heavy-
browed women, now and agin at night time
when there's been huntin going on, and rolick-
ing at nights, and we all kept up late with
midnight suppers and carousals."
	The doctor and lawyer were both his escorts
at the mansion, and Miss Conway acted as
hostess, and did her part grandly, as she al-
ways did everything. Lady Anna absented
herself as usual; she could not be persuaded to
come down—was, indisposed, her cousin had
said in apologizing for her. Burke insisted
on seeing her as he must leave early, but it
was of no avail; she had really been very
ill, and even the doctor himself dare not urge
her too far. Dinner was served as it had been
in Sir Edward's time, and though there was
some restraint in the manner of welcome, it
passed off without unpleasantness, and, after
some explanation concerning his journey, Mr.
Clairville retired to the apartments assigned
him. His benefactor's valet attended him, and
Miss Conway was left with the two gentlemen
alone, hoping that the mystery which envelop-

[Column 2]

ed this young man might be more satisfactor-
ily explained, yet dreading to inquire into any-
thing so enveloped in mystery. Finding her-
self de trop, she bade her visitors good night
and hurried to her cousin's room, who eagerly
asked concerning the new arrival.
	"What is he like, Jane, and how does he
carry himself?" "Is he—" and she paused a
moment, "is he anything like your uncle?" and
a great sob seemed to well up in her throat;
but she choked it down bravely. No, not at
all,  there is not the least resemblance; he
is very handsome, and a thorough gentleman—
pale and distingue; looks like a scholar, might
be a painter or musician."
	"Cousin Jane, will he assert himself as mas-
ter here, do you think, or make his presence a
dread to us?" "My dear, I cannot tell; he
spoke little, and seemed somewhat embarrassed;
his accent is peculiar, a sort of cross between
French and Italian."
	"Jane, why don't you ask about him; we
ought to know, now he has really come. I
never believed he would; I thought it would
turn out a farce of some sort, but alas! it is
serious enough; and, Jane, you look so sad too,
and I am not equal to all these changes."
Here the poor girl broke down utterly and the
maid was summoned to assist in putting her to
bed, while a sedative was administered to keep
her quiet. It was hours before she slept, and
then Jane stole away to her own room where
she lay dozing and half unconcious, not know-
ing what the morning would reveal, but deter-
mined, let what would come, she would pro-
tect and stand by her fragile, romantic cousin,
left orphaned and alone in the world.
	Early on the following morning she was
called down stairs to meet Mr. Burke, ere he
set out for London. He looked cross and wor-
ried as she entered the room, and his "Good
morning, Miss Conway," was decidedly im-
patient in tone.
	"I am compelled to return to town today;
Doctor Bland will make the needful expla-
nations. I only want to say, Monsieur Clair-
ville will remain here permanently now; I
shall be down again in a week's time and will
look after the settlements. You understand, I
presume, he is Sir Edward's son by an ill-as-
sorted marriage—a foreign actress, singer or
something of the sort. I'm not clear myself as
to his pedigree, but he's here to stay." This was
spoken with some irritability of manner as he
looked up and saw that Miss Conway had turned
very red in the face, and he brought down
his fist on the table at which he was seated and
nearly shivered the china, for his breakfast
had been brought in there that he might be off
hurriedly. It was scarcely light.
	Miss Conway made no reply, which angered
him exceedingly. "Zounds!" he exclaimed
"has'nt a man a right to his own inheritance,
let his mother be what she may? She's dead,
and can't trouble you any way!"
	By this time Jane recovered her composure
sufficiently to say, "When Doctor Bland con-
descends to tell us how matters stand, we shall
know what is best to be done."
	This enraged the lawyer beyond self-control,
and he declared women were always interfering,
where they had no business, and stalked out of
the room slamming the great, heavy door be-
hind him, and Jane sat stupefied, though she
distinctly heard him say to himself as he bang-
ed the door "these pestiferous women folks."
	Monsieur Clairville was a gentleman in all
his tastes and inclinations; even the servants
soon recognized his superiority, though they
were slow to acknowledge, or even to be civil
to the new comer, whom they looked upon as
no better than he should be, not having been
informed of his actual position. One need not
think it strange that Sir Edward had not
shown any affection for him, when he had not
even acknowledged his marriage to the boy's 

[Column 3]

mother. In fact, he had never seen him. The
young man was as much mystified as the young
ladies of the household, and really he was only
a boy, though tall and older looking than his
years. His mother had been dead many years
and he had never known aught of his father
save from his grandmother, who knew very lit-
tle herself, but insisted he was, "a wicked
English nobleman." She petted and indulged
the boy, and when he was sent away from her
to school she mourned for him as though he
were dead, for she realized he could never be
the same to her again any more than Marie his
mother had been after she went away among
great people. Money had been furnished reg-
ulary for the child's maintenance, through
other parties, and the name he bore was that
of the mother, assumed when she left the shel-
ter of home to go out as a singer into the great
world.
	The morning after Clair's arrival at the old
castle, he too arose early and went forth to
look at the place of which, during the last few
weeks, he had heard so much. He roved about
aimlessly, not knowing where to find the most
beauty (for he was an ardent admirer of the
beautiful,) and the morning was a glorious one;
the green fields and magnificent old trees were
charmingly luxuriant in flowers and foliage.
He could scarcely believe he had any part or
portion in this fine estate, so entirely different
from anything he had ever seen before. He
missed something though, for the country there
was somewhat level; though, the fine old woods
not far away made the landscape less tiresome
to one accustomed to the mountainous districts
where his life had been passed. How lonely
he felt withal, and he sighed as he thought
of the new scenes into which he must enter,
and tried to imagine how he ought to meet the
young lady (his sister) Mr. Burke had said,
he could scarcely believe it was true, though
he had been duly informed of the details; yet
Burke had represented her as such an aristo-
cratic creature, and, "mind you, young man,
she may not speak to you for months." These
were the exact words, so he did not anticipate
a very warm welcome from the ladies of the
household. It was late when he found his way
back to the house, for he had enjoyed the fresh
morning breeze and the songs of the birds, and
the freedom, of the out door scenes, and he
dreaded the drawing room and table etiquette,
and most of all the ladies of whom he knew so
little, especially ladies of rank. Again and
again he tried to decide what he should say
and how comport himself, but on this score his
mind was a blank. "If only Burke had re-
mained a day or two, or if the doctor would
come to my aid," but it was a hopeless case,
he must face it alone. He had already been
presented to Miss Conway, and he was inward-
ly thankful for that. He was so bewildered
he could scarcely find the way to his own room
where his valet was waiting, and vexed too
and he had to submit to such brushing and
polishing all of which seemed superfluous, and
at last he was told the family had been wait-
ing breakfast for hours. When he entered the
morning room where his cousin was he was
informed that Lady Anna was indisposed and
that she seldom came down stairs in the morn-
ing.  He ventured at last to ask "when shall
I see my sister, Lady Anna I mean; will you
have the kindness to introduce me, cousin Jane,
Miss Conway I should say?"
	"Certainly Monsieur Clairville, Hilliard,
pardon me Sir, we are such strangers and
scarce accustomed to each other's names as
yet."
	After the first few words exchanged between
them, these two conversed easily of this and
that; the young man was enthusiastic in regard
to the grounds he had seen, and Miss Conway
found him very entertaining. The day was not
so tedious to Clair as he had expected, and to-


wards evening he was formally presented to
his newly-found sister, who received him with a
cold indifference, yet when she learned that he
could sing with the guitar warmed towards
him considerably and begged him to give them
some music. The songs were magical as it
were, and the ice was broken.
	Dr. Bland, coming in later, found quite a
happy party, and the evening hours flew swift-
ly by; and when the time for retirement came
the good nights were reluctantly spoken. Mon-
sieur Clairville felt as though it must be all a
dream or a bewitching fairy tale.


thing; for it is written, "The proud and they
who do wickedly shall be as stubble and shall
be burned up." Pride being a delusive spirit
we may do wickedly before we are aware of it;
rather let us seek to be fit temples for the in-
dwelling of the Good Spirit which is a spirit
of love and confidence in good, also gives us
that peace of mind the world can neither give
or take from us.
	This being the important lesson of life, may
we learn it well, is the fervent desire of,
