THE GOOD SPIRIT.

	Since we are told there is an opposite in all
things; how many of us are there who do not
feel the need of the Good Spirit to teach, and
give us light and intelligence on a subject of
so much importance.
	Our Saviour had the opposing spirit to meet,
all the days of His life; and do we expect any
thing less? No not if we learn the most im-
portant lessons of life.
	You will remember when He was baptized
and come up out of the water, that He saw
the Spirit of God descending like a dove and
lighting upon Him. And lo,a voice from heaven
saying, “This is my beloved Son in whom I
am well pleased.”
	Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the
wilderness to be tempted of the Devil. And
when He had fasted forty days and forty
nights He afterwards hungered.
	The tempter said, ‘‘If thou be the Son of
God command that these stones be made
bread.”—But He answered and said, “It is
written, man shall not live by bread alone, but
by every word that proceedeth out of the
mouth of God.
	Accordingly those who wish to become ac-
quainted with the Deity will search the
spriptures; and the good spirit will aid them
in their pursuit, and give them the joy and in-
telligence they desire if they do it in humility
not for controversy and dispute, but an earnest
desire to become acquainted with the spirit
that Jesus said He would send to comfort and
bless all who believe in Him.
	But wait a moment did He say all? Well
it is supposed that those who do believe will
keep His commands; for it is written in John
14th chp. and 15th verse, “If ye love me, keep
my commandments. And I will pray the
Father, and He will give you another Com-
forter, that He may abide with you forever;
even the Spirit of truth; whom the world can
not receive, because it seeth Him not, neither
knoweth Him but ye shall know Him for He
dwelleth in you, and shall be in you. 18th
verse, “I will not leave you comfortless; I will
come unto you.” 19th, “Yet a little while, and
the world seeth me no more, but ye see me, be-
cause I live ye shall live also.” 15th chap.
and 14th verse he said, “Abide in me and I
in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself except it abide in the vine; no more can
ye, except ye abide in me—I am the vine and
ye are the branches; he that abideth in me
and I in him, the same bringeth forth much
fruit, for without me ye can do nothing. If a
man abide not in me,he is cast forth as a branch
and is withered; and men gather them and cast
them into the fire and they are burned.”
	Does not this show that we may lose our
faith and become as a dead branch and of no
account.
	May we never boast of being proud of any


