[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 82 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I read The Relief Society Magazine every issue, and really enjoy it. I would think that any homemaker, whether a member of the Church or not, would appreciate receiving this little gem each month. Maybe you don't have many male readers, but perhaps you have more than you think. I know of a few besides myself who are readers and enjoy this excellent Magazine. George F. Lee Ogden, Utah It is wonderful to receive The Relief Society Magazine when I am so far away from home. It fills many hours with inspiring lessons, wonderful stories and poems. My issues circulate in many nonmember homes and are read from cover to cover. Mrs. Christa Jensen Puerto Ordaz Estado Bolivar Venezuela I enjoy everything about the Magazine, from the beautiful cover, on through the stories, poems, editorials, and lessons. It is uplifting and inspiring. I especially enjoyed President Belle S. Spafford's address ''The Blessings of Experience' in the November issue. Ann G. Ollar Irving, Texas I am lifted up by the stories and the messages found in The Relief Society Magazine, and I have a new zest for it. I am trying my best to put the Magazine into the homes, hearts, and hands of all the sisters in the branch, so that they can benefit from its beauty, truth, and love from the leaders who are all inspired from our Savior in heaven. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas I don't want to miss a single Magazine, as I save them all for future use. The recipes are wonderful, as is everything in the Magazine. It is truly wonderful. Mrs. Dot Underwood Billings, Montana ay eS SY, (Hop 2 lear aul HS 0Uf" First and foremost, let me give thanks to Mrs. C. E. Crocker, who introduced me to your periodical. I was employed by her, and I enjoy every copy of the Magazine to which she so kindly gave me aé_ subscription. The covers are really works of art, and I enjoy the lessons, although I am of another faith. Peace of mind and tranquility are the major factors which I get from all of the stories, articles, and the literature section. Mrs. Evelyn L. Niessen Oakland, California I surely do not want to miss one issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I enjoy it ever so much. As soon as it arrives, I hurry and read the continued story. Then, later, I always read it from cover to cover. My husband is serving in Viet Nam, and at times I become discouraged and lonely, and having the Magazine helps me to spend my ti usefully. It helps me to place values in their proper perspective. Mrs. Merle Craig Orem, Utah The Ward Magazine representative in one of the wards where we are trying to get the young mothers to subscribe for the Magazine and to attend the meetings, told me how much she enjoyed the Magazine. She is twenty-three and has two small children. She said one day she was quite upset, and the Magazine happened to come, so she picked it up. Suddenly she found the answer to her problem, and since then, the minute the Magazine comes she reads it. As for myself, I love the poetry. It fills my need. It is wonderful to have so many gifted sisters writing for the Magazine. South Carolina West S Charlotte, North Carolina
