[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 145 | Lesson | Social Science • Two Worlds As One | Alberta H. Christensen]
SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5 (Lesson 17 in Series) — Two Worlds As One For Third Meeting, May 1966 For the Southern Hemisphere, July 1966 Objective: To point out the need and the benefits of sharing one's world in the bettering of human relationships. LESSON 4 FOLLOW-UP previous month; namely, writing personal history or obtaining other material for making a Book Discuss, briefly, progress made on Home-Doing suggestions of 


 of Remembrance which will meet suggested requirements. INTRODUCTION Although most marriage partners in our culture normally begin their marriage loving each other, something happens to an increasing number of these marriages which causes the husbandwife relationship to deteriorate. Too often the results are separation or divorce. Far too often the early dream of togetherness results in a situation in which each member of the partnership seems to be iiving in a separate world. This lesson discusses how natural differences in the roles of man and of woman tend to create two distinct worlds, and offers some suggestions for making these mold into a composite world of. Mutual satisfaction. DIVERGENT INTERESTS At the time of marriage, personal aspirations and divergent interests, often, may be completely set aside in the prospect of a joyous life, lived together and for each other. The marriage partners, moreover, may be unaware of the cultural pattern in our society which tends to separate a couple—as the independent roles of wife and of husband become established, most of their waking hours are spent in spheres of widely divergent interest. The husband's activities focus upon making a living for the family. Only occasionally do his activities or employment take place within the home. Often the work may require hours of daily commuting, or it may take him 146 to distant areas prolonging the period of separation from his wife and family. The woman's activities center in the home. Within her domestic world, she is concerned with the details of homemaking and of child rearing. She is expected to make a good home, attending to all phases of housekeeping and homemaking. Thus, two independent worlds develop wherein each marriage partner often plays a role quite independent of the other. The foregoing division of responsibility has been general throughout the centuries. Today, however, women in many countries also may be employed outside their homes. Individual circumstances may motivate a woman to share the financial responsibility of the family. 1. A young married woman may need to work temporarily in order that her husband may complete his college education. 2. Physical disability of the husband may require a woman to work for an indefinite period. In such case, the husband often may assume some of the household duties. 3. A woman whose children are married, may assume financially remunerative civic or industrial positions in order to occupy her spare time. Mention other circumstances. CLASS ACTIVITY With this overlapping of the traditional roles of husband and wife — 1. What may bring the couple into closer relationship? 2. What may tend to separate them? 3. What is the importance of the ability of the individuals involved to adjust to the situation? Do you think the following steps that a couple may realistically take, in our society, will help their companionship grow closer rather than apart? 1. Both husband and wife should become aware of the forces that tend to separate them. 2. They should plan and_ take positive steps to offset these forces. FORCES THAT SEPARATE Problem Illustration No. 1 Grievances such as the following are not uncommon: Wife: My husband is so wrapped up in his business affairs that I feel alone, and completely left out of his world. He never tells me anything about his work. When I tell him how I feel about this, he says it's hard enough to work through the day and he doesn't want to relive it all at night. Were you the wife of this husband, what might you do to help him sense your desire to be a part of his "making a living world''? Suggestions: 1. You might show your interest in his work by asking questions at more appropriate times. 2. You might. Offer to entertain some of his associates. 3. You might tell him how proud you are that he is so competent in his field of activity, and that you would like to know more about how he accomplishes so much. 4. You might express your need for his help in household budgeting. Problem Illustration No. 2 Wife: When we were married, my husband and I both felt that we had Many interests in. Common. We took occasional hiking trips into the hills, LESSON DEPARTMENT danced, went to the movies (cinema) and to the symphony. We _ even printed our own kodak pictures. Life has become more complicated with several children, and we feel that we cannot now afford some of these enjoyments. In fact, all my husband wants to do when he comes home from work is to eat his dinner, read the paper, perhaps watch TV, and go to bed. We never have any fun together. I have been at home all day, settling children's petty quarrels, doing housework, and I need some diyersion—the lift that a change of scene would give. Obviously, the needs of this husband for relaxation and his wife's need for diversion are real, although completely opposite. 1.. Can these opposite needs be met satisfactorily? 2. How can this wife help her husband to see that both needs are reasonable and can be met with satisfaction to each? Suggestions: 1. Express more sympathetic understanding of his need for relaxation, and appreciation for his desire to be at home. 2. Suggest that perhaps they could plan for and spend one evening out together each week, which would meet her need for some diversion outside the home. FOR TWO ONLY All couples deserve and should reserve for themselves some little time for private discussions of their personal goals. This can be a most rewarding experience and should produce tangible benefits. Comment of a wife who motivates such private discussions follows: Wife: Now that I know Bob's secret dream and aspirations, I am more sympathetic with his varying moods. I try to ease tensions within the home when I sense. That he is 


 worried or deeply concerned about his work. Innumerable men have profited from sharing their objectives and short-range plans with their wives by receiving genuine cooperation. Give concrete examples. FRIEND TO FRIEND The willingness to share one's world has meaning in relationships other than that of husband and wife. One meaning of its present use is to possess or enjoy in common. This implies that all who are involved in_ the sharing shall receive some degree of satisfaction—that which is shared need not be limited to material possessions, but may include information, confidences, aspirations, etc. Note the following comments: Friend A: Agnes R— is a very dear but lonely person. She is not an intimate friend, but often I bring her a gift from my travels to assure her she has my interest and affection. Recently she came to visit me but, seeing that I was preparing to leave for a social appointment, she said she would come at another time. She seemed to be in a state of anxiety, although she did not say so. Shortly afterwards she moved to another town and I have recently learned that she is ill as a result of personal misfortune. Questions: 1. If my appointment easily could have been postponed, should I have offered to do so? 2. If it were necessary that I keep the appointment, should I have attempted to arrange for a definite return visit? 3. How much more valuable would have been the gift of myself—my understanding in sharing her world of anxiety—than purchased gifts I have given her. 148 The gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms feeds three,— Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me" (LOWELL, JAMES RUSSELL: The Vision of Sir Launfal). "The only gift is a portion of thyself" (EMERSON, RALPH WALDO). Friend B: I had always felt that Claire M--- was a person of undeveloped, even undiscovered ability. Once when I was engaged in an interesting handicraft project I decided to invite her to my home. She replied that she had plenty of time but no talent for doing such things. As she watched each detail of the creative process, I saw her eyes light with interest. She wanted to try doing it also. Her skill with a brush was promising and imaginative. Each of - us sensed that a field of new interest and accomplishment lay before her. Claire is now an _ expert painter, especially adept at restoring timedamaged designs on antique trays to their original beauty. How rewarding to have a casual friendship enriched by this shared interest. How grateful we both are that I made the effort to share my world of creativity with her! Give other examples from your own experience. THE MORE TIME YEARS While many women find their middle and later years as filled with interesting activity as were the earlier periods of their lives, there are millions of women for whom this is not so. Often they may find that when the children are married or away at college, and their own household duties greatly diminished, they have many hours for optional use. They may wonder, for the first time in their lives, what to do with their time. These hours can become invaluable to the woman who knows how to use them constructively. Self-appraisal by a Latterday Saint woman may reveal: 1. Inherent talents, neglected during the years of child rearing, schoolteaching, or other professional employment. 2. The —§ opportunity neglected) to engage genealogical work. 3. The need to enrich the relationships of friend to friend, neighbor to neighbor, or wife to husband. 4. The opportunity to give increased Church service. (previously actively in Case Studies of the "Empty Nest' Years Woman #1: When our last child "fluttered" from the nest, I began somehow to feel less needed, less useful. Looking around for activities to fill this particular void, I soon discovered that I stood upon the threshold of a wonderfully enriching world. I decided to do two things: 1. Bring more of the outside world into my home and my own thinking by reading what I had never before had time to read. (What would you choose to read?) 2. Enrich my world by sharing it with my neighbors and fartheraway friends. (How might this be done?) Woman #2: With no children to monopolize mealtime conversation, my husband and I suddenly realized how many of our responses revolved around our children's lHves and _ interests. We sat at the table for several Mornings in almost strained silence— like familiar strangers. "What will you be doing at work today?" I finally asked. "Same things as yesterday," he replied drably., This was hardly enlightening, since I did not know what he did yesterday. "How about you?" he asked. "Same thing as_ yesterday, grocery shopping," I replied. What an enthusiastic way to greet a new day! Surely an undernourished relationship needed to be _ strengthened and enriched. Plus LESSON DEPARTMENT I knew that many couples recognize the value of shared hobbies in keeping their relationship progressively satisfying. That evening I listed them thus: gardening, home _ decorating, golfing, wood refinishing, handicrafts, fishing, television viewing, music, and painting. Some of these were readily ruled out as unsuitable for us. Some were interests of earlier years and might be pleasantly reactivated. We are not artists, we are not musicians, we are not expert craftsmen, but we are molding a world of appreciation for these arts by seeing, listening, and working together. Woman #3: I know that love is the strongest of all motivating agents and that where a marriage is_ solidly based, the middle years may become a rich flowering of the marital relationship. I have begun to show my husband I am interested in his world, and I now compliment him for virtues which I have taken for granted for years. As a result, we now share more than the same salary, more than the same house—we are sharing two distinct, but interesting worlds. Woman #4: Tom is too practical for poetry, I have often said. Just too practical. He doesn't really dislike it, I suppose. He is just indifferent to it. One day, a few months ago, I came home from Relief Society brimming with enthusiasm for The Ancient Mariner, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, which we had discussed in meeting. I introduced Tom to the moral aspects of the poem, even read a few stanzas, the ones I like best. That was the beginning of a shared interest. Last night he brought me a gift. (No, it was not my birthday!) Just a surprise gift. I opened the parcel breathlessly. It was, of all surprises, a book of poems. Upon the flyleaf he had copied these famous lines from Robert Browning: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand Who saith, "A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" 


 Think what I would have missed, had I not invited him into my world! SUMMARY Since there are many forces in our society which may tend to separate, unless couples consciously or by special temperament or intuition, take steps to safeguard and preserve their interest in and affection for each other, their respective roles may tend to move them apart. This tendency to grow apart, however, can be overcome. Attention to small but important factors often is all that is necessary. Aside from the binding force of religion and of children, changing one's attitude and actions, even in small ways, may work the miracle. The teenage son who resents certain tasks because he doesn't get thanked for doing what his mother says he should naturally do, may become the husband who doesn't like to be taken for granted; who would appreciate being thanked for what he considers are special favors, however small they may be. He deserves such thanks. "Thank you," "Please," "I do appreciate," "I'm sorry," and "I love you," which are the magic words of childhood do not lose their potency by overuse or through the years. They remain the ever magic key to happy adult relationships. Latter-day Saints truly are blessed in their knowledge that the union of husband and wife may be eternal and they should make every effort to minimize the temporal forces that tend to separate. With this concept ever in mind, they will realize that the roles of husband and of wife really need not be separate, for they are interdependent, each complementing the other. They will know that gospel living is the great factor which can effectively mold and maintain their two worlds as one. FOR DISCUSSION The following questions, in addition to those which arise in the class discussion: 1. Excluding religion, what one factor do you consider most important in maintaining: a. A happy marriage relationship? B. A happy friend-to-friend relationship? FOR HOME DOING 1. Initiate one activity which may become a mutual interest for you and your husband; for you and a neighbor friend. 2. Invite, in some subtle way, husband or friend to share in some present interest of your world. Note results. 3. Enlarge your own world by reading or listening to facts about your husband's or a friend's special interest. PETITION Dear Lord, bless me that I may make this portion of eternity beautiful and happy to those I love and for those whose lives touch mine.