[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 84 | Special Feature | Relief Society Administration Leadership | Delbert L. Stapley]
Relief Society Administration Leadership Elder Delbert L. Stapley of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] w I am grateful, sisters of Relief Society, for this opportunity of speaking to you in this, your annual conference. Your Presidency has given me a rather difficult assignment, and I pray what I have prepared may fit into what they had in mind and now have in mind, and that you will not go away disappointed. Relief Society is a wonderfully choice organization, presided over by dedicated, faithful women, who willingly and cooperatively work under the direction of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when establishing Relief Society, expressed himself as being deeply interested in its activities. He referred to the organization as a select society of virtuous women and challenged them to purge out iniquity from among them and to observe the laws of the kingdom of God. He also counseled the women constantly to practice the principles of holiness. These instructions from the Prophet give broad vision to the work of Relief Society. The purpose of the Church and its leadership is to save and bless people. If you lose this understanding of purpose in Relief Society, you have lost the true spirit of your work. I should like to paraphrase two verses from the revelation on Priesthood which I feel are apropos to Relief Society leadership. Wherefore, now let every woman learn her duty, and to act in the office in which she is appointed, in all diligence. She that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and she that learns not her duty and shows herself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand (paraphrased from D&C 107:99, 100). This instruction and counsel significantly applies to all leadership in the Church. To learn one's duty is most important to the success of the work. How can one learn her duty if she fails to study the handbooks, manuals, Relief Society Magazines, and other excellent materials provided by Relief Society? How can Relief Society workers learn their duty by absenting themselves from preparation and_ training meetings? The effectiveness of your work equates to the presence or non-attendance of officers and teachers at all appointed meetings of the organization. Failure of board members to attend scheduled meetings causes them to lose the values and spirit which the instructions and discussions, with prayer, inspire. The purpose of officer and teacher meetings, Relief Society conventions, conferences, etc. Is to teach, train, and motivate workers to full and effective service. You cannot do your duty effectively unless you take advantage of every opportunity to improve and qualify yourselves for the stewardship of your callings to service. We have now arrived at the second step: To act in the office in which you are appointed, in all diligence. Here is the real «key to success in Relief Society work. The Lord has admonished, "Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known" (D&C 60:13). Someone has wisely said: "I admonish you to regard procrastination as poison to the soul. Be not guilty of it."

How many valuable opportunities are stolen RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP by that thief procrastination? Here is a sentiment that helps one to appreciate this truth: "Lost —somewhere between _ sunrise and sunset two golden hours, each set with sixty diamond minutes. No reward is offered for they are gone forever." Now it requires less time to do a thing than it does to worry about doing it. Sisters, always be diligent in your callings. You are dealing with God's children. Help return them safely to him. Remember again, she that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand; and she that learns not her duty and shows herself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand. The scope of a person's calling is as broad as his or her vision. One's vision can be enlarged by study and prayerful meditation; also by attendance at all appointed meetings, which provide leadership and teacher development. It is important to. Grasp the full significance and magnitude of one's calling. There must be imaginative and creative thinking and doing for success. Remember, also, the Lord has warned, and again I am paraphrasing: For behold it is not meet that I should command in all things; for she that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore she receiveth no reward. Verily I say, women should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as women do good they shall in nowise lose their reward (paraphrased from D&C 58:. 26-29). 


 Initiative, faithfulness, and obedience are emphasized in this revelation. God has said: "... Whatever ye do according to the will of the Lord is the Lord's business" (D&C 64:29). You sisters are engaged in the Lord's service, thus fulfilling your part in the Lord's business of saving souls. Like any business, the kingdom of God requires strength of leadership in its organizations to fulfill the purposes of God for his children. The organization of the Church in this last dispensation of God's providence is perfect and should function perfectly. This condition cannot be attained without the wise choice of leaders placed in positions where their talents and abilities can serve best. In business, people are employed and placed in positions according to their proven qualifications, or they possess the potential abilities and skills which by teaching and training, will qualify them to render effective and profitable service. In the Church we cannot assume because a person is faithful and true that he or she can give a good account of his or her stewardship in any Church position. I submit that faithfulness is a necessary ingredient in the character of the individual chosen; but, regardless of how good the person is, he or she can serve far more satisfactorily and happily in the field of their native talents and endowments than elsewhere. I have great respect and faith in what the Holy Ghost can do for an individual, but I firmly believe the Holy Ghost can do far more for an individual who is called to serve in a position where his or her talents and qualifications fit them more capably. I have seen successful teachers fail when called to leadership positions. Because the teacher was successful as a teacher, the presiding officer thought the teacher could give good leadership to an organization. It is not the fault of the individual who fails under such circumstances; it is the fault of the officer who has not analyzed what the position to be filled requires in abilities and qualifications; therefore, poor judgment was used in the selection of the worker. There is always a serious question to be considered when pulling an effective teacher away from a class without having a qualified replacement to take over. That question is: What will the effect be on the class? Will they be left to drift and thus becom spiritually lost or partially so to the kingdom? The Relief Society, to do effective and successful work, must be strong in all departments of activities and service. When staffing an organization, the president should be wisely and carefully chosen and on the basis of capabilities, spirituality, and faithfulness. With the approval of the presiding officer it is her privilege and right to select counselors who possess the talents, abilities, and capabilities to complement her, so working together, they are an all-around efficient and effective team. If possible, counselors should be selected who possess the potential qualities for top leadership. The presidency, acting together, should select and recommend to the proper Priesthood authority those whom they wish to serve with them, being su that those selected are worthy and true to the faith and have the spiritual and other qualifications which fit them well for the positions to be filled. It seems to me working with people in the Church is a neverending educational process. Every organization should constantly train its workers to assure a reservoir of capable leadership and teachers to fill the too-often occurring vacancies. I believe; as never before in the Church, leaders must be good teachers and have the ability to train others, and also have the spiritual enthusiasm to motivate workers to do their best. Every person should strive diligently to measure up to his or her potential. Anything short of one's' best isn't good enough in the Lord's work. Also, anything worth doing is worth doing well. The plans and program of Relief Society, as announced by the Relief Society General Board, should be fully supported. Relief Society covers a broad field of activities so helpful and important to mothers of the Church. These activities, if interestingly conducted, will receive wide support from the sisters. Relief Society promotes social functions, literature, social science, and theology lessons which can capture the interest and increase the attendance of Relief Society sisters and stimulate faith and faithfulness, also help them to obtain fervent testimonies of the gospel of our Lord. We need an informed leadership. We are inclined too much in the Church to let our lines of communication break down so that information doesn't filter down through proper channels RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP to the rank and file of our people. Leadership is prone not to share information with those who work with them. The better informed people are, the better work they do. That which people understand, they support. It is the things they do not understand, they fail to support. May I suggest and counsel Relief Society leadership, at all levels, to adhere to programs, instructions, and procedures of your Society. Please don't set aside the planned functions of Relief Society and go off on tangents by following the personal ideas _ you may have about bettering its program and activities. Relief Society leaders should be capable administrators, knowledgeable in planning and _ programming, and with a willingness to share responsibility with workers by delegation and assignment, having trust in the workers by not taking over from them, yet hold them to good performance and proper results. You stake leaders fully support the Relief Society General Board and the full program it offers. Its Presidency work directly under General Authority Advisors and the First Presidency. The Relief Society program is approved by them. Ward Relief Society leadership and boards please support stake Relief Society leaders who work under a high councilman representative and the stake presidency. The Relief Society ward leadership and board also work under direction of the bishopric. In all these relationships (General, stake, and ward boards) there must be delegation and instruction without dictation. 


 In the Church we are concerned with unity, which is achieved by working together in the spirit of love, and not by authoritative domination. Proper leadership attitudes, with friendliness and love of people, are so important and meaningful to secure the respect, confidence, and the interest of the women of the Church. President McKay, speaking to the brethren on the new missionary plan, made a most significant statement to them, which I envision as applying to all Church leadership. Said President McKay, "This plan (speaking of the missionary plan) as I see it, is a plan of education and not one of dictation."' By thinking this statement through, we can understand how leaders should deal with each other in the Lord's work. However, we get out of people about what we expect. If we expect good performance, we will receive good performance. If we are satisfied with mediocre performance, then we will obtain mediocre performance. With the growing Church, we must get set for more responsibility and be equal to greater challenges to service. You have a real job to do in Relief Society which requires constant selfevaluation of one's potential; and from that self-evaluation determine whether you workers are measuring up to the potentialities of your callings. When inviting a person to serve in Relief Society, leadership should not minimize the time or devotion one is required to give. If leaders will help workers under them to obtain a proper perspective of their callings and what the aims, objectives, and purposes are, greater accomplishments and improved results will follow. In the selection of people for Church service, leadership first must determine, by prayerful study, what the position to be filled requires to meet the purposes, aims, and objectives of the work. When that is determined, then leadership will look around for someone meeting the qualifications of the position and who is thoroughly orthodox in the doctrines and programs of the Church. When such an individual is found, after proper clearance, she should be approached and the work of the position explained clearly to her understanding, emphasizing what is expected of her, the time it will take, then if she responds with enthusiasm to the challenge, invite her to serve. If she is hesitant and lacks enthusiasm for the calling, then it is best to look for someone else. We must have people in the organizations of the Church who can be depended upon to give full, devoted, and dedicated service. Another important item in inviting people to service is an understanding about tenure of office. No organization can succeed with frequency of personnel turnover.. The most effective organizations are those where the personnel stay together. It seems we hardly train someone for an important Church position—and all positions are important— when for some reason or another, replacement is necessary. It takes several months to settle into a position and be effective in the work. Leadership, struggling constantly to train new personnel, finds it very difficult to promote the full program of the Church successfully for the blessing of its membership. Much care should be exercised in selecting qualified and efficient secretaries who are capable and meticulous with the records and reports of Relief Society. Good records will give understanding to presidencies of the statistical status of an organization in order that the officers can determine measurement of Relief Society progress and know where special attention and emphasis are required. Relief Society should constantly measure its progress' to determine what direction the organization is going. Your first comparison should be with your own organization's progress. If. You want to compare your organization with another, it should be with the best, and not with the average. The same thing is true in business. If a business man wants to compare his operation with another, he should find the best in his field. Then he will learn something that will be helpful to him in making his own business more successful and_ profitable. This principle holds true in Relief Society. No doubt you receive comparative reports, which permit you to know what other Relief Societies are doing. From the best and most efficient among them, you will want to emulate in the organization for which you are responsible. One thing in any organization which always concerns me is trends. Watch trends carefully; are they up or down? If the trend is down, even though slightly, then is the time to redouble the efforts of leadership and all board members working cooperatively together to reverse the trend. If RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP an organization drifts too far downward, it takes many months of real hard work to change the trend to an upward, progressive position. This means the board must always have a full staff of constantly functioning officers and teachers. If a new program is introduced, you should keep careful check to see if, statistically, your organization shows any improvement in results; if not, the cause should be determined and appropriate action taken to correct the condition or conditions. It seems to me that in keeping with the tempo of our times, we cannot wait for things to happen. We must make them happen, and in the right direction for the success of the Lord's work, and this applies to Relief Society. In Relief Society you leaders must evaluate, challenge, and commit your workers to faithful performance. It is the job of leadership to know the program. It is the job of every board member to become thoroughly acquainted with every angle and facet of her position; because if leadership fails, program fails. If a board member is not doing effective work in her field of activity, it adversely affects the whole program of the organization. It is important that every called person fulfill her duty one hundred per cent effectively. Take the problems you cannot solve or are uncertain about to the proper Priesthood authorities whose responsibility it is to be helpful and to give encouragement to the work of Relief Society. I realize my talk, sisters, is mostly slanted to stakes and 


 wards; however, it likewise applies to missions, with their districts and branch Relief Society boards. I recognize, also, in some stakes, wards, mission districts and branches, sufficient experienced, qualified, capable leadership is not always available. You then must take and use the best material the good Lord has provided and with teaching, training, and_ spiritual motivation reach for the ideal organizational strength by application of the suggestions I have outlined to you. Unless we constantly work toward the ideal, it will never be achieved. There must be a good beginning, a_ proper _followthrough with a productive training program to build strength into every department of Relief Society work. Leaders in Relief Society must be personal, living examples of all the gospel and the Church stand for. Now in making this presentation, sisters, I know that your organization is functioning well. You are rendering a tremendous service, not only to the women of the Church, but to all the membership of the Church. I think you are a light to the people of the Church and to the people of the world in the things you do. But if it is possible to do better, to improve the work, to reach the people who are not receiving the advantages of Relief Society work, then it is your responsibility to do so. This work is important; these are great days in which we live; much is co of us, as the people of the Lord. I know that Relief Society can be counted upon to do its p effectively and efficiently and to organize and function well to carry out the principles, ideals, and the programs and activiti of your organization in such a way that people will be blessed ard strengthened in faith an testimony. May God continue blessings upon you in all that you do in this great Relief Society undertaking, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.