[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 128 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Danish Mission, Copenhagen and Jylland Districts Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, stands in the front row, seventh from the left: Lillian Krammer, Copenhagen District chorister, is seventh from the left in the second row; DeAnna Yates is pianist; and Inger Larsen, second from the left in the front row, is president of the Copenhagen District Relief Society. Sister Sorenson reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Copenhagen and Jylland Districts are always eager to furnish music for the quarterly conferences. These sisters travel long distances, but are willing to give of their time and talents." Inger Fisher Rasmussen is president of the Danish Mission Relief Society, with Edith Christensen as first counselor and Tova -Birhskov as secretarytreasurer. St. Joseph Stake (Arizona), Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society Mothers and Daughters Day June 1, 1965 Ileen Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that the Mothers and Daughters Day is a splendid way to introduce Relief Society to our teenage daughters. The girls enjoyed the lessons and the instructions in handicraft, especially learning to quilt. A potluck luncheon was served at noon." Manuela T. Mickelson is president of the Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society; Erdine Layton, First Counselor; Jeanene Flake, Second Counselor: Virginia Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Olive P. Hoopes, work meeting leader. Hayward Stake (California) Leadership Meeting September 24, 1965 Front row, left to right: Rexine Glenn, organist; Erma Neilsen, Work Counselor; Vera Crockett, President; Rose Winkle, Education Counselor; Edna Jelison, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Turek, literature class leader. Back row: Gwenn Webb, visiting teacher message leader; Georgene Moffitt, social science class leader; Catherine Russell, chorister; Anna Hoem, who made the Relief Society emblem featured in the center of the picture; Rama Lee, work meeting leader; Esther Kenison, theology class leader. Sister Crocket reports: "Our opening leadership meeting was a most spiritual occasion. The theme of the year's program—charity—was beautifully brought into focus by a large Relief Society emblem in blue and gold glass, surrounded by twelve miniature lights. Each board member, in turn, lighted a light, after giving a fitting quotation on our theme, and on her special assignment. Elder Delbert Wright, President of the Oakland Temple, was the guest speaker." 128 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. FEBRUARY 1966 Albuquerque Stake (New Mexico) Visiting Teacher Convention September 11, 1965 Left to right: Lynda King, Los Lunas Branch, the youngest visiting teacher, age twenty; Betty Jean Steffensen, stake visiting teacher message leader; Maude Barb, the eldest active visiting teacher, age eighty-nine. Vera Mae K. Hamilton, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society, reports that an autumn motif and color scheme were used throughout the convention. The film "A Light Shining" was presented, and music was provided by the Albuquerque Third Ward Singing Mothers. Santa Monica Stake (California), La Cienega Ward Opening Social and Testimonial September 28, 1965 In the center of front row: Odette Coulam, honored President, with daughters Nancy Jex and Billie Morgan on either side; First Counselor Inis Turner, third from Sister Coulam's left; Second Counselor Melba Maynard, fourth from Sister Coulam's left; the new La Cienega Ward Relief Society President Evelyn Astle, first at the right on the front row; theology class leader Eloise Chalfont, second from the right, first row; Evelyn Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, fifth from the right on the second row. Sister Bluth reports: "The "This Is Your Life' program was written and directed by Eloise Chalfont. The new ward president Evelyn Astle contacted over forty people who had served with Sister Odette Coulam during her seventeen years as ward and stake president. Many of these people traveled hundreds of miles to be in attendance. The mission of Relief Society was beautifully demonstrated by the portrayal of the life of Sister Coulam—this much-loved woman—in prose, poetry, and music. The large group who attended were uplifted and inspired by the dedication and devotion of this exemplary woman to so order their lives that they might become more active in Relief Society and invite others to participate with them." Yellowstone Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Entertains Ward Relief Society Officers and Teachers at ''Preview of Lessons" September 8, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Leola Beddes, Magazine representative; Della Davis, literature class leader; Anna Romrell, visiting teacher class leader; Deon Davis, social science class leader; Ruth Reynolds, theology class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Lisle L. Andrus, former president, Yellowstone Stake Relief Society; Ortella Clark, First Counselor; Jeanne Siddoway, Second Counselor; Mary B. Williams, Secretary-Treasurer; Margaret Stanford, work meeting leader; Naomi Jergensen, chorister; Betty Tibbits, organist; Roma Williams, who had charge of the film and photography. Sister Andrus reports: "There were 120 in attendance from eleven wards and the West Yellowstone Branch. The 'Preview of Lessons' was initiated four years ago by this board. The invitations, lesson ideas for the year, decorations, music, programs, and #efreshments have been organized under a special theme for that particular evening. The special themes for the four years have been: The Beautiful Lady in Blue; The Good Ship Relief Society; Keys to Wisdom; and 'Let There Be Light.' The September 1965 meeting was the highlight of Relief Society in Yellowstone Stake, and an outstanding spiritual experience." Denice Parker is the new president of Yellowstone Stake, and Sister Andrus is president of Ricks College Stake Relief Society. 130 PEt en Nee SO Ra EO EO ae A tee HO Ce Ane FEBRUARY 1966 Idaho State University Stake (Pocatello, Idaho), First Ward Relief Society Opening Social October 21, 1965 Seated in front, left to right: Marie VanderBeek, First Counselor; Veloe Brasier, President; Carolyn Winn, Second Counselor. Second row: Gayle Sweat, organist; Gayla Olson, Magazine representative; Janet Dixon, social science class leader; Joyce Craig, work director; Jane Nielsen; Diane Perry, visiting teacher message leader. Carol D. Chase, President, Idaho State University Stake, reports that the invitations to the social were unique in the form of a ticket and carried a message of welcome to the Relief Society program: Come Aboard the Relief Society Train Tickets sold to: University First Ward sisters Boarding time: 7:15 p. M. October 21, 1965 Special feature of the trip: A special seat was reserved in the Relief Society lesson cars. Live entertainment in the lounge car, and a luncheon served in the dining car. Destination: A greater love and unity in our ward. Phoenix West Stake Relief Society Ward Presidencies at Leadership Meeting September 17, 1965 Seated, front row, left to right: Members of Phoenix West Stake Relief Society Board: Irma R. Harris, work meeting leader; M. Dianne Johns, Magazine representative; Hazel B. Gunderson, literature class leader; Phyllis G. Peters, visiting teacher message leader; Ethelyn M. Eagar, Second Counselor; Millicent K. Winsor, President; Julia W. Riggs, First Counselor; Ione J. Simonson, Secretary-Treasurer; Anne P. Riggs, theology class leader; Fayne N. Colyar, chorister; Barbara B. Brown, social science class leader. Standing are members of the presidencies of Glendale Second Ward, Phoenix Ninth Ward, Phoenix Tenth Ward, Phoenix Seventeenth Ward, Phoenix Nineteenth Ward, Phoenix Twenty-first Ward, and Phoenix Twentysixth Ward. Sister Winsor reports: "Of the seven ward presidents, six are new during this calendar year. In September the stake Relief Society presidency met with each ward presidency in a special meeting to discuss the individual responsibility of each member, the specific duties, and any questions pertaining to their calling. We feel a great deal was accomplished through these meetings, gaining a closer bond of sisterhood and love for each other, as well as greater unity and understanding between the ward and stake officers." Australian Mission, Canberra Branch Singing Mothers Present Music For the Opening of the New Chapel June 27, 1965 Front row, left to right: Nelly Earle, chorister; Valerie Jardie; Shauna Kelly; Wilma Hay; Nancy Francis; Dorothy Miles. Second row: Betty Dopson, President; Annie Stoker; Theda Anderson; Jean Vonthethoff, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Keenan, Second Counselor; Hilda Hay; Adelyne Smith. Back row, missionary sisters: Donna McAllister and Silvia Boelter. Seated at the piano: Lynne Grenville. Laurine A. Ensign, Supervisor, Australian Mission Relief Society, reports that the opening of the Canberra chapel occurred before she arrived in the mission, and during the time that Vivian H. Coombs was the Relief Society supervisor in the mission. Fifteen sisters comprised the choir, and they sang "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd" and "Each Cooing Dove." The singing was quite an achievement for these women, as they had been practicing together for only two months. The day will long be remembered by all those present. 


 St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference September 29, 1965 Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture shows our Singing Mothers in the Tabernacle. The chorus sang 'O Divine Redeemer,' conducted by Francelle Boman, and 'One World,' conducted by Rosie B. Hall. Betty Jo LeSueur is stake organist. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied our singing in the Tabernacle, and is seated at the organ in the picture. "Our Relief Society stake counselors are Edith H. Eagar and Goldie West. Wanda H. Hall is secretary-treasurer. All of the officers sang with the chorus. Stake President Bryant Whiting and one of his Counselors, Elmo Jarvis, are seated with the group. Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society is also seated with us. She came to our stake to work with us, and from her we received inspiration as well as instruction. "There are nine wards in our stake, and sisters from each ward participated, some of them driving 260 miles to rehearsals. Each ward was responsible for its finances for the trip. They made their money through bake sales, serving family reunion dinners, and conventions. Also, they operated refreshment booths at rodeos and fairs, and two wards joined forces and planted, hoed, and harvested a patch of green corn. We feel that our appearance in the Tabernacle was a wonderful inspirational experience. We are grateful for it, and feel that it united us as sisters in the stake. We chartered three buses, and most of the 120 sisters, as well as our stake president, traveled to Salt Lake City by bus.