[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: LiteratureTypes of]
Lesson  department 
731 
flavor  desired.  If  fat  is  salvaged  for 
Government  use,  all  kinds  may  be 
put  together.  The  ones  of  higher 
melting  point  mixed  with  those  of 
lower  melting  point  make  the  whole 
more  compact  and  easier  to  handle. 
Soap,  another  vital  article,  should 
be  conserved.  Small  bits  can  be 
made  into  a  jelly  by  dissolving  in 
boiling  water,  or  they  may  be  put 
into  a  soap  shaker  and  used  for  dish 
washing  or  hand  laundering.  ''I  will 
waste  nothing."  This  part  of  the 
Consumer's  Pledge,  if  seriously  fol- 
lowed by  every  household,  would 
save  many  hundreds  of  dollars,  much 
time  and  energy,  and  make  happier 
people. 
Questions  ioi  Discussion 
1 .  Have  class  members  come  prepared  to 
discuss  methods  they  have  used  to  save  and 
conserve  in  the  home. 
2.  Name  all  the  ways  you  can  in  v^^hich 
food  may  be  wasted. 
3.  What  agencies  in  your  community 
assist  in  the  salvage  of  commodities  no 
longer  of  use  in  the  home? 
4.  How  could  members  of  the  Relief 
Society  work  together  to  salvage  materials 
for  which  they  have  no  further  personal 
use? 
See  "Salvage  For  Victory  Program,"  Re- 
lief Society  Magazine,  August  1942,  p.  553. 
-^- 
JLiterature 
The  Bible  As  Literature 
Lesson  4 
Types  of  Literature  in  the  Bible— Prose 
(Tuesday,  January  19,  1943) 
Objective:     To  recognize  some  of  the  difficulties  accompanying  the 
literary  study  of  the  Bible  and  to  consider  literary  types  in  the  Bible. 
Lesson  Topics 
1.  Difficulties 
2.  Types 
3.  Bible  prose 
Difficulties  to  he  Met 
It  is  very  important  for  class  lead- 
ers and  members  to  keep  constantly 
in  mind  that  this  course  considers 
the  Bible  only  as  literature.  This 
can  obviate  one  natural  difficulty— 
that  of  recurring  questions  regarding 
theological  matters  which  would  be 
considered    in    a    religious    study. 
Studying  the  Bible  as  literature  will 
naturally  make  its  spiritual  values 
more  easily  understood  and  appre- 
ciated, but  that  is  not  the  chief  con- 
cern in  these  lessons.  As  literature 
alone,  the  Bible  has  no  peer.  Doctor 
Moulton  says,  'The  intrinsic  worth 
of  the  Old  Testament  is  second  to 
none  of  the  world's  great  literatures. 
Moreover  it  has,  in  common  with 
the  literature  of  Greece  and  Rome, 
been  the  main  factor  in  the  develop- 
ment of  our  modern  prose  and  poet- 
ry. For  the  English  speaking  people 
no  liberal  education  will  be  complete

732  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  mi 
in  which  classical  and  Biblical  litera-  It  is  made  up  of  a  great  variety  of 
tures  do  not  stand  side  by  side."  forms,  such  as  lyrics,   dramas,  es- 
Lyman  Abbott  discusses  two  chief  says,  and  stories.  The  discrimination 
difficulties  confronting  the  student  of  such  forms  is  essential,  not  only 
accustomed  to  considering  the  Bible  for  the  full  force,  but  even  for  the  in- 
from  the  theological  point  of  view,  terpretation  of  a  literary  work.     If 
The  first  is  that  it  seems  to  the  stu-  a  person  should  read  a  drama  under 
dent  irreverent  and  inconsistent  with  the  impression  that  he  was  reading 
any  theory  of  inspiration  to  think  an  essay,  he  would  fail  to  get  the 
of  the  Bible  as  mere  literature.    He,  significance  of  what  he  was  reading, 
of  necessity,  must  change  his  atti-  This  is  exactly  the  kind  of  thing  that 
tude  of  mind.     His  next  difficulty  happened  in   connection  with  the 
is  the  problem  of  knowing  "what  is  Bible. 
wholly  true,  what  only  partially  true.  We  are  aware  that  the  scriptures 
what  is  the  Word  of  God,  and  what  date  back  to  a  time  in  which  the  art 
the  human  husk  which  contains  it."  of  manuscript  writing  was  not  highly 
Mr.  Abbott  explains  that  the  first  developed.     At  that  time  "manu- 
difficulty  is  a  product  of  intellectual  scripts  scarcely  divided  words  and 
habits  which  have  come  down  to  us  sentences,  much  less  indicated  dis- 
from  the  Puritans  who  were  very  tinctions  between  prose  and  verse, 
prosaic  and  looked  with  suspicion  between  one  meter  and  another,  be- 
upon  poetry  and  fiction,  for  they  con-  tween  speeches  in  dialogue  or  even 
founded  fact  with  truth  and  thought  the  simplest  divisions  in  straightfor- 
nothing  could  be  true  which  was  not  ward  prose."    The  Biblical  materials 
fact.    The  Puritans  condemned  all  were,  in  short,  preserved  in  manu- 
novels,  tales,  and  dramas  as  danger-  scripts  in  which  all  literary  forms 
ous,  if  not  vicious,  and  could  not  looked  alike. 
imagine  that   the  Bible  contained  "It  appears,"  Doctor  Moulton  con- 
any  such  elements  of  peril.  tinues,  "that  the  form  of  our  mod- 
The  Bible,  if  we  regard  what  it  ern  Bibles  has  been  given  to  them, 
says  about  itself,  abolishes  the  other  not  by  the  sacred  writers  themselves, 
difficulty.  The  Great  Book  tells  us  but  by  those  who  had  charge  of  the 
that  it  is  a  hidden  treasure  and  that  scriptures  at  the  time  when  manu- 
the  reader  must  search  for  the  treas-  scripts  began  to  indicate  differences 
ure  and  separate  the  gold  from  the  of  form.     These  writers  happened 
alloy.    Mr.  Abbott  says,  "A  revela-  to  be  men  who  cared  nothing  about 
tion  of  truth  which  exempted  us  literary  form,  but  who  regarded  the 
from  toil  and  research  and  released  Bible  as  material  for  commentary, 
us  from  intellectual  and  moral  re-  The  form  such  commentaries  would 
sponsibility  would  be  no  revelation  give  to  the  Scriptures  would  natur- 
at  all."  ally  be  that  of  texts  for  comment. 
Doctor  Moulton  explains  difficul-  So  it  was  in  the  form  of  numbered 
ties  of  another  kind  which  have  be-  texts  or  verses  that  the  Bible  came 
set  the  literary  student.    He  says  lit-  down  to  our  translators.    Even  the 
erature  implies  something  more  than  most  elementary  distinction  of  form, 
correct  form  and  charm  of  diction,  that  between  prose  and  verse,  was

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
733 
not  discovered  in  relation  to  the 
Hebrew  Scriptures  until  more  than 
a  century  after  the  King  James'  Ver- 
sion had  been  completed." 
It  is  a  fact  that  most  of  the  Bibles 
used  today  are  still  in  this  medieval 
form.  Even  though  they  may  be 
translated  correctly,  they,  still  ''re- 
main a  double  misrepresentation  of 
the  sacred  original,  since  they  ignore, 
on  the  one  hand,  the  literary  vari- 
eties in  form  and,  on  the  other  hand, 
they  preserve  in  their  chapters  and 
verses  a  structure  which  is  alien  to 
the  Bible  itself  and  is  the  creation 
of  medieval  commentators." 
To  note  the  difference  between 
these  early  formless  manuscripts 
and  the  rearrangement  of  the  mate- 
rial by  the  commentators,  then  be- 
tween these  and  Doctor  Moulton's 
Modern  Readers'  Bihle  or  Mr.  Bates' 
later  literary  version  is  impressive. 
( Doctor  Moulton  illustrates  some  of 
these  differences  in  the  preface  to 
his  Bible  and  in  chapter  I  of  his 
World  Literature.)  It  was  this  ''ac- 
cident of  tradition"  which  has  made 
the  Bible  unnecessarily  obscure  and 
robbed  it  of  the  power  to  give  the 
pleasure  it  should  give  as  great  lit- 
erature. In  the  form  found  in  the 
ordinary  Bible  the  unit  is  the  sen- 
tence, whereas  in  literature  the  unit 
is  a  drama,  a  short  story,  an  essay, 
or  a  lyric. 
Doctor  Moulton  points  out  two 
things  that  are  necessary  to  the  reali- 
zation of  the  Bible  as  literature  in 
the  truest  sense.  First,  it  must  be 
printed  in  its  complete  literary  struc- 
ture. Dialogue  must  appear  as  dia- 
logue, with  distinctions  of  speeches 
and  names  of  speakers;  that  is,  the 
different  types  must  be  distinguished. 
The  student  must  analyze  the  work 
as  he  would  any  other  work  of  lit- 
erary art,  regarding  it  as  a  whole 
while  examining  the  mutual  rela- 
tions of  its  parts.  Second,  there 
must  be  a  feeling  always  "after  that 
unity  which  is  the  soul  of  a  work  of 
art." 
Only  when  all  this  is  done  can 
the  Bible  take  its  proper  place 
among  the  literatures  of  the  world. 
Types  of  Literature  in  the  Bihle 
The  Bible  contains,  as  mentioned 
before,  practically  all  the  types  of 
literature.     For  instance,  the  prose 
of  the  Bible  includes  history,  short 
stories,    idyls,    prophetic    discourse, 
philosophy,  essays,  orations,  letters, 
etc.      The    poetry    includes    lyrics, 
dramas,  and  narrative  poems,  some 
of  which  approach  the  epic.     The 
Bible,  as  described  in  an  earlier  les- 
son,   is    an    historic    framework— a 
connective  tissue  holding  together 
the  higher  literary  forms  just  men- 
tioned.   It  is  in  these  higher  forms 
that  we  get  the  life  and  spirit  of  the 
whole.    History  tells  us  what  men 
have  done.     Literature  goes  a  step 
farther  and  tells  us  how  they  have 
felt  about  it.     Literature  gives  an 
autobiography  of  the  inner  life  of 
men— of  his  ambitions,  ideals,  strug- 
gles, frustrations,  and  attainments. 
The  Bible  has  been  called  the  auto- 
biography of  a  chosen  people.    An 
autobiography   reveals   both   objec- 
tive and  subjective  phases  of  the 
writer's  life.     The  Old  Testament 
is  the  history  of  the  people  of  Is- 
rael presented  by  itself.    The  New 
Testament    is    the    history    of    the 
Primitive  Church  presented  by  itself. 
It  is  as  though  the  children  of  Israel 
rather  late  in   their  history   finally 
fully  realized  their  sacred  mission  and