[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Hortense Spencer]

A WOMAN'S AWAKENING Hortense Spencer Andersen AMBITION In high achievement, flaming genius wrought From shapeless stone, with chisel dipped in life, A sculptured child, born from illusive thought, Where beauty, power, and charming grace ran rife. With curved contours this glowing marble stood Revealing clear-cut features in sublime Faint shades of light, within a moon-washed wood; Surrounded by blue rosemary and thyme. I stood enwrapped in deep humility And admiration for this splendid find. I marvelled at the eminent degree To which trained hands carved out this form designed. To emulate this skill, I thought I'd found A worthy aim to weave my life around. UNDERSTANDING Into my unskilled hands God gave a son, His bodily form perfected by His will, With muscle, nerve, and sinew here begun, And a quickened mind life's project to fulfill. Yet this fine structure clothes the embryo Of a man's emerging self... To challenge me To use, with skill, my gifts, and learn to know The lofty power of deathless artistry. To guard his form there is a daily need;. And here is that more impressionable than clay, A spirit, mind, and character to lead, Emotions, actions, moods, and choice to sway. To guide his restless will shall be my goal, To help unfold a great immortal soul. PRAYER Page 742
Today I kneel in prayer. This precious core Of a man's eternal being, here exposed To my impulsive touch—untried before— Will prove its worth, and leave my marks disclosed. Great sculptors say, it takes long, patient years Of study, work, and practice to set free The deft, resourceful eraftsmanship which gears The genius to artistic mastery, I have no time for practice, nor to err, So give me strength, and wisdom, God, I pray; Oh whet my tools of faith and love and prayer; Show me the work I must perform today. Forms carved in stone are worthy of man's esteem, But to mold great. Character is art supreme. FOR ENRICHMENT OF RELIEF SOCIETY LESSONS Story of the Bible (Hurlbut) 200 illustrations....$2.50
Through the Bible (Theodora WilsonWilson) 62 new, different pictures $2.50
Story of the Bible (Bowie) 21 new, beautiful PICTUTES un. Eeeee ene$1.95
Story of the Bible (Egermeier) Adapted for children __--$2.00