[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers—Interest in Missionary work as an Expression of Faith]
interesting articles to be found in the Shop are the 711
Mormon Pioneer dolls, which are sent to doll collectors all over the United States. Since September 1938 over 3000 dolls have been sent to doll collectors. 'These handmade dolls are eight inches tall and are dressed in characteristic pioneer costumes of 1847. 'They are named good old pioneer names: "Aunt Susan" in her little print dress and sunbonnet; "Aunt Sara" with her little shoulder shawl and knitting a stocking; "Aunt Mary" holding a baby with its long white dress and little white bonnet; "Uncle Silas" in characteristic costume; then, "Aunt Susan" and "Uncle Silas" dressed in "Sunday best.": For the Relief Society centennial a special group of dolls was created to represent the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor, and the eighteen women present at the organization meeting of Relief Society.
Another item that is becoming quite famous is the attractive teatowel set that comes from Nampa, Idaho; and the infants' dresses from Heber City are exquisite.
Back of the exquisite handwork of the Shop are many fascinating human-interest stories; for example, an invalid with a serious heart ailment makes the little felt articles that sell as fast as she can produce them.
Another woman suffering so with arthritis that she must use a wheel chair makes the lovely crochet doilies with beads crocheted into the designs, and with the money received from her work she buys war bonds.
Ever so many women in their seventies receive a check each month for the articles they supply. 712 "THROUGH the Mormon Handicraft Shop many family incomes have been increased, and real missionary work is taking place. The hundreds of visitors coming to the Shop take away with them or send to their friends the beautiful articles made by Mormon women.
They are 'delighted with the fine workmanship and the reasonable prices—articles ranging from twenty-five cents up.
Lovely quilts and other handmade articles are being sent all over the United States. A woman of prominence recently purchased three lovely quilts for her country home in Alabama where she has all earlyAmerican furnishings. A famous singer who recently visited Salt Lake  bought three beautiful quilts, and each time a certain famous concert pianist comes to Salt Lake City he visits the Shop and makes a number of purchases. Men in the service of our country visit the Shop daily, finding there appropriate gifts for their loved ones at home. At the present time the Shop is preparing for Christmas, and unusual and beautiful articles are being added to the stock daily. Mormon. Handicraft Shop is fulfilling the purposes for which it was established and merits the interest and support of Relief Society women. FROM THIS TO DUSK Ruby Johnson It is half-past sunset.
Swift from the cares of day I come to drink of this— ° The prelude to a summer night. I lie in deep damp grass.
Along the sky line wispy pinks Sift through gray cloud-fluff, And soft dust flakes, Borne by the first sweet breeze of evening, Settle on my bed of grass.
Above me the gnarled old boxelders Lean low and bend from path to road, Their shadows tagging as they sway, Their red bugs scuttling up-limb to seek a dark safety. How magically you change to dusk, You twilight with your lingerings of light And clouds touched with mother-of-pear!! Yes, I can trace your beginning, But not your ending.
Just as Summer's warm breath Cools gradually to Fall, So you go quietly to meet the dawn. I hope that I, now young, May wear my aging years with grace And sweet dignity. May I walk nobly to meet death— Just as you, before my rested eyes, Meet, in beauty, the deep dusk—and night.