Page 709
The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop Lucile Wallace Wolf Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hand to the needy: She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.
Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. ANDICRAF'T to the Pioneer woman meant not only the creating of things beautiful, but also the creating of needed materials and articles for daily living. As she settled in the West and established a permanent home, she produced with her own hands unusual quilts, counterpanes, curtains, hand-hooked and braided rugs, carpets, even painted and embroidered pictures to adorn the plain walls, utilizing the means available to make for her family a home of beauty and culture.
These wonderful women wove the materials that clothed their families, often exchanging this for other needed goods made by fellow craftsmen.
Many of these women, converts to the Church, did beautiful weaving, which they had learned in the Old World. As the silk industry was developed in the Valley, lovely ribbons, and silk yardage were made. These Pioneer women, resting from the strain of a hard day's work, found comfort in creating a piece of beautiful lace for a baby's dress or for a dainty collar, for a frill to pin at the Page 710 _ (Proverbs chapter 31:10-38) neck, or for trimming for an otherwise plain sheet or pillowcase to be treasured and used in time of illness or for the special guest.
Most of us remember our grandmother's or great-grandmother's lovely bits of lace, crocheted, knitted, netted, or hand loomed.
Many wonderful samples of Pioneer handwork are left for us today, and we marvel at the skill and artistry involved. One of the loveliest quilts the Mormon Handicraft Shop has had, was made by a woman eightyfour years old, who pieced the beautiful flower-basket design and then added to each basket appliqued garden flowers in original design.
Beautiful handwork was the delight of the Mormon Pioneer woman.
Appreciation for beautiful handwork is the heritage that has made the Mormon Handicraft Shop possible. N the summer of 1937, at a time of stress when family incomes needed to be augmented, the Relief Society General Board opened this very unusual Shop. The purpose of the Shop was to encourage the making of fine handiwork, to preserve the THE MORMON HANDICRAFT GIFT SHOP skills practiced by our Pioneer women, and to afford opportunity for supplementing family incomes through the sale of the beautiful articles made. ~The Shop was first located on the second floor of the Bureau of Information on Temple Square, but was later moved to its present location at 21
West 'Temple Street—a splendid location for tourist trade. Articles accepted for sale in the Mormon Handicraft Shop must meet the highest standards of workmanship. Material must be good and colors correct. Persons wishing to send their work to the Shop pay a small annual membership fee. Ward and stake Relief Society organizations are encouraged to hold membership in the Shop, which entitles members of the organization to enter work without taking out an individual membership, provided their work meets the requirements of the Shop. Persons participating in the Shop range in age from twelve to eightysix years of age. An eighty-six-yearold woman provides beautiful knitted lace which trims a pillowcase and sheet set. Because the membership of the Church is made up of people from many lands, there is great variety and diversity of talent found in the articles in the Shop. The use of motifs that are characteristic of the State of Utah and of the Church is encouraged: the sego lily, the state flower; the beehive, the state symbol; the state protected seagull; the famous Mormon Tabernacle; the covered wagon, etc. Among the many interesting articles to be found in the Shop are the 711
Mormon Pioneer dolls, which are sent to doll collectors all over the United States. Since September 1938 over 3000 dolls have been sent to doll collectors. 'These handmade dolls are eight inches tall and are dressed in characteristic pioneer costumes of 1847. 'They are named good old pioneer names: "Aunt Susan" in her little print dress and sunbonnet; "Aunt Sara" with her little shoulder shawl and knitting a stocking; "Aunt Mary" holding a baby with its long white dress and little white bonnet; "Uncle Silas" in characteristic costume; then, "Aunt Susan" and "Uncle Silas" dressed in "Sunday best.": For the Relief Society centennial a special group of dolls was created to represent the Prophet Joseph Smith, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor, and the eighteen women present at the organization meeting of Relief Society.
Another item that is becoming quite famous is the attractive teatowel set that comes from Nampa, Idaho; and the infants' dresses from Heber City are exquisite.
Back of the exquisite handwork of the Shop are many fascinating human-interest stories; for example, an invalid with a serious heart ailment makes the little felt articles that sell as fast as she can produce them.
Another woman suffering so with arthritis that she must use a wheel chair makes the lovely crochet doilies with beads crocheted into the designs, and with the money received from her work she buys war bonds.
Ever so many women in their seventies receive a check each month for the articles they supply. 712 "THROUGH the Mormon Handicraft Shop many family incomes have been increased, and real missionary work is taking place. The hundreds of visitors coming to the Shop take away with them or send to their friends the beautiful articles made by Mormon women.
They are 'delighted with the fine workmanship and the reasonable prices—articles ranging from twenty-five cents up.
Lovely quilts and other handmade articles are being sent all over the United States. A woman of prominence recently purchased three lovely quilts for her country home in Alabama where she has all earlyAmerican furnishings. A famous singer who recently visited Salt Lake  bought three beautiful quilts, and each time a certain famous concert pianist comes to Salt Lake City he visits the Shop and makes a number of purchases. Men in the service of our country visit the Shop daily, finding there appropriate gifts for their loved ones at home. At the present time the Shop is preparing for Christmas, and unusual and beautiful articles are being added to the stock daily. Mormon. Handicraft Shop is fulfilling the purposes for which it was established and merits the interest and support of Relief Society women. FROM THIS TO DUSK Ruby Johnson It is half-past sunset.
Swift from the cares of day I come to drink of this— ° The prelude to a summer night. I lie in deep damp grass.
Along the sky line wispy pinks Sift through gray cloud-fluff, And soft dust flakes, Borne by the first sweet breeze of evening, Settle on my bed of grass.
Above me the gnarled old boxelders Lean low and bend from path to road, Their shadows tagging as they sway, Their red bugs scuttling up-limb to seek a dark safety. How magically you change to dusk, You twilight with your lingerings of light And clouds touched with mother-of-pear!! Yes, I can trace your beginning, But not your ending.
Just as Summer's warm breath Cools gradually to Fall, So you go quietly to meet the dawn. I hope that I, now young, May wear my aging years with grace And sweet dignity. May I walk nobly to meet death— Just as you, before my rested eyes, Meet, in beauty, the deep dusk—and night.