[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Theology and Gifts]
Give reasons for your choice. (1) Ability to speak in tongues and to interpret such languages (2) Power of healing (3) Faith to be healed (4) Receiving of visions and dreams (5) Spirit of prophecy and revelation (6) Power to perform miracles (7) Opportunity to see miracles performed 6.
What may one do, so far as faith and diligence are concerned, in order to murtit this gift? 7. Let each relate (in as interesting a manner as possible) an occurrence in which a spiritual gift was exercised. 8. Discuss: "For if there be no faith among the children of men God can do no miracles among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until after their faith." (Ether 12:12) 9. How might one distinguish between miracles performed through faith and diligence. And those performed otherwise? B. Exercises The exercises may be carried out by the teachers and class members during the month between the theology lessons.
This will help them to translate into active practice the appreciations for and the desires to 727 receive spiritual gifts, which have been acquired from this lesson. 'The exercises need not be discussed in class unless the class especially wants to discuss them. In assigning them, the class leader may dictate them to the class toward the end of the period, or she may have them on a blackboard for the class to copy.
Perhaps it is possible in some instances to have typed or mimeographed copies ready to give to the class. 1.
Read one of the Gospels (Matthew, Mark. Luke, or John) and make a list of all the miracles which were performed by Jesus or His disciples.
Tell how faith and industry weie concerned in each. 2.
Visit with one or several members of the class, and keep the conversations directed toward incidents concerned with the beliefs as expressed in the seventh Article of Faith. Try to decide in each case discussed how faith and diligence contributed to the bestowal upon the person of the particular gift in question. Reférences Talmage, James E., Jesus the Christ, pp. 147-151. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Talks, PP. 247-258. A Visiting Sleachers.
Messages to the Home Lesson 4
