[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Lucile Wallace Wolf]
The  Mormon  Handicraft  Gift  Shop 
Lucile  Wallace  Wolf 
Who  can  find  a  virtuous  woman?  for  her  price  is  far  above  rubies. 
She  seeketh  wool,  and  flax,  and  worketh  wilhngly  with  her  hands. 
She  is  hke  the  merchants'  ships;  she  bringeth  her  food  from  afar. 
She  layeth  her  hands  to  the  spindle,  and  her  hands  hold  the  distaff. 
She  stretch eth  out  her  hand  to  the  poor;  yea,  she  reacheth  forth  her  hand  to  the  needy: 
She  is  not  afraid  of  the  snow  for  her  household:  for  all  her  household  are  clothed  with 
scarlet. 
She  maketh  herself  coverings  of  tapestry;  her  clothing  is  silk  and  purple. 
She  maketh  fine  hnen,  and  selleth  it;  and  delivereth  girdles  unto  the  merchant. 
Strength  and  honour  are  her  clothing;  and  she  shall  rejoice  in  time  to  come. 
She  openeth  her  mouth  with  wisdom;  and  in  her  tongue  is  the  law  of  kindness. 
She  looketh  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household,  and  eateth  not  the  bread  of  idleness. 
Her  children  arise  up,  and  call  her  blessed;  her  husband  also,  and  he  praiseth  her. 
(Proverbs  chapter  31:10-38) 
HANDICRAFT  to  the  Pioneer  neck,  or  for  trimming  for  an  other- 
woman  meant  not  only  the  wise  plain  sheet  or  pillowcase  to  be 
creating  of  things  beautiful,  treasured  and  used  in  time  of  illness 
but  also  the  creating  of  needed  ma-  or  for  the  special  guest.    Most  of  us 
terials  and  articles  for  daily  living.  remember    our    grandmother's    or 
As  she  settled  in  the  West  and  es-  great-grandmother's  lovely  bits  of 
tablished  a  permanent  home,  she  lace,  crocheted,  knitted,  netted,  or 
produced  with  her  own  hands  unus-  hand  loomed, 
ual  quilts,  counterpanes,  curtains,  Many  wonderful  samples  of  Pio- 
hand-hooked  and  braided  rugs,  car-  neer  handwork  are  left  for  us  today, 
pets,  even  painted  and  embroidered  and  we  marvel  at  the  skill  and  artistry 
pictures  to  adorn  the  plain  walls,  involved.  One  of  the  loveliest  quilts 
utilizing  the  means  available  to  make  the  Mormon  Handicraft  Shop  has 
for  her  family  a  home  of  beauty  and  had,  was  made  by  a  woman  eighty- 
culture,  four  years  old,  who  pieced  the  beau- 
These  wonderful  women  wove  the  tiful  flower-basket  design  and  then 
materials  that  clothed  their  families,  added  to  each  basket  appliqued  gar- 
often    exchanging    this    for    other  den  flowers  in  original  design, 
needed  goods  made  by  fellow  crafts-         Beautiful  handwork  was  the  de- 
men,  light  of  the  Mormon  Pioneer  woman. 
Many  of  these  women,  converts  to  Appreciation  for  beautiful  handwork 
the  Church,  did  beautiful  weaving,  is  the  heritage  that  has  made  the 
which  they  had  learned  in  the  Old  Mormon  Handicraft  Shop  possible. 
World.  As  the  silk  industry  was  de- 
veloped in  the  Valley,  lovely  ribbons,  TN  the  summer  of  1937,  at  a  time 
and  silk  yardage  were  made.  These  of  stress  when  family  incomes 
Pioneer  women,  resting  from  the  needed  to  be  augmented,  the  Relief 
strain  of  a  hard  day's  work,  found  Society  General  Board  opened  this 
comfort  in  creating  a  piece  of  beauti-  very  unusual  Shop.  The  purpose  of 
ful  lace  for  a  baby's  dress  or  for  a  the  Shop  was  to  encourage  the  mak- 
dainty  collar,  for  a  frill  to  pin  at  the  ing  of  fine  handiwork,  to  preserve  the 
PaaeVlO