[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: PROVO CITY, Feb. 22, 1873. | Author: L. L. D]

				PROVO CITY, Feb. 22, 1873.
MY DEAR MISS GREENE:—
	I forward to you a letter which . I have
received from our beloved and highly
esteemed sister E. R. Snow, thinking it of
enough interset to grace the columns of
the EXPONENT. If you think proper, there-
fore, you are at liberty to publish all, or a
portion of it. as your judgement may direct.
I believe everything that appears in your
paper from that noble lady, gives satisfaction
to your patrons. With kind love to your-
self, and all the dear sisters in your city,
and best wishes for the EXPONENT, which
I sincerely hope may continue to increase in
worth and interest until it shall be second to
no publication in Woman’s Editorial depart-
ment—praying God to bless and endow you
with wisdom and light from on high, I am,
your sister in the bonds of truth and love,
					MARGARET T. SMOOT.
						ROME, ITALY,
						  January 18, 1872.
MY DEAR SISTER M. T. SMOOT:—
	You in Provo, and I in Rome! Who
would have anticipated this wide separa-
tion? Yesterday, Mr. Wood, Mr. Cook’s 
agent, with whom arrangements were pre-
viously made, to show us the most
important points here, conducted us to some
portions of the ancient ruins of this ancient
city. We were shown the remains of the
temple of Venus, Jupiter, etc., the ancient
Forum, the Rostrum so famous for speechi-
fying—portions of gigantic columns in a
reclining position, several standing in their
original places and in a good state of pre-
servation, considering their great age. We
were informed that the late Popes have
exercised their influence in preserving these
ruins which are now attracting the attention
of great numbers of people from other parts,
particularly from England and America.
	At the expense of the government, many
hands are now employed in excavating a
portion of the great Forum of the ancient
Emperors, the Caesars, etc., which by
gradual changes and usages, having been at
times occupied by shepherds, has been buried
to the depth of several feet by accumulations
of “debris.” There is a paling around the
ruins, and no one is allowed to enter with-
out permission. As we stood on a portion
that has been unburied, we saw the stalwart
guard-officer hurry a man off from the
premises, who, do doubt, had stealthily
intruded. We were all right, for our guide,
an Englishman, seems to be of considerable
consequence; he is agent and sub-Editor of
the “Swiss Times,” a lecturer, etc. When
he conducted us to the “Holy Stair Case,”
said to be the identical one that the Savior
ascended in the Court of Pilate; I asked him
if he would swear to it. He said emphatically,
“I will not swear to anything.” But directly
afterward, he said I will swear to the acque-
duct, and I will swear that the stairs
were brought from Jerusalem, and I will
swear to the “Arch of Titus,” which was
before us. We saw a man and woman
slowly ascending the stairs which no one is
allowed to ascend except on their knees;
our incredulity prompted us to accept the
suggestion of our guide and ascend by a side
flight which was considered less sacred; we
found a representation of Christ on the cross
in front of the “Sacred Stairs.” We visited
the celebrated Colliseum, which must have
been a most magnificent structure in earlier
days, being capable of seating eighty-seven
thousand, with standing room for twenty
thousand more.
	It was St. Anthony’s day, and we wit- 
nessed the ceremony of blessing animals,
which was the most amusing of all. On
that day the priest blesses horses, mules, 
donkeys and all kinds of animals. A fine
span of horses, richly caparisoned, were
driven in front of the church—the priest,
with several attendants, came out, dressed 
in black gowns with white tunics. Stand-
ing in front of the horses, with grave pom-
posity, he read a service in Latin, which,
probably the animals understood as well as
himself; after which he took a long handled 
swab from a kettle, in the hand of a boy
standing by his side, and flirted water
(probably “holy,”) In the direction of the
horses’ faces, but not far enough to reach
them; and then, after pocketing his fee, the
priest returned into the church. The coach-
man, a young man, could hardly hold his
countenance, looking as if he were witness-
ing a farce, and felt that the spectators all
sympathized with him.
						MONDAY, 20th.
	Yesterday afternoon Mr. Wood took us


through, around and under many of the
ruins of the palaces of the Emperors—
portions of the walls built by early Romans.
Many, of the specimens show vestiges of
beauty and magnificence. In several in-
stances, trees have grown in crevices ,of
ponderous edifices, which were constructed
of rock, brick and cement, their growth
having made large openings, forcing the
structures apart and thus producing dilapi-
dation. I will enclose you a leaf which I
plucked from a shrub growing on the remains
of the ruins of Caligula. In exhuming these
ruins, inscriptions are found which identify
many of them.	
	Last night brother Carrington joined us,
and brought what of our mail had arrived
in Liverpool. 	*	*	*	We are all
in good spirits; my health was never better,
although “sight-seeing” is not the easiest
work in the world. Clara and I get along
just as well as two persons could do, and I
feel no lack of companionship. *	*		
	I get but little time to write, have done
this by “piece-meal.” With much love, I
am as ever
						Eliza R. Snow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿	[Written for the EXPONENT.
	LETTER FROM BEAVER.
			—
	On the afternoon of the 20th ult., Presi-
dent Young’s party arrived in Beaver, and
notice was circulated that a meeting
would be held, and although it was
then after four o'clock, and very cold, the
house was filled to overflowing.
	Bro. Staines first addressed the assembly,
comparing the ease and comfort of the
present day, with the privations of former
times; demonstrating to the Saints that
labor, and not money, was the essential of
success in building up Zion—that labor, and
not capital, redeemed this fair land from a
howling wilderness. He urged the Saints
to improve their own homes and build up
their own cities, instead of selling their
handicraft to others for money. He also
spoke about the ways and manners of the
young; urging them to cultivate sober and
steady habits; saying that mothers confessed
hat although poverty and hardship had
stung them, and death had torn their child-
ren from their arms in infancy, they never
knew what sorrow was until their sons
approached manhood and disregarded good
advice, plunging into dissipation, wasting
time, health and self-respect in a certain
kind of enjoyment, which leaves a sting
behind.
	After him, Bp. Lorenzo D. Young occupied
a few minutes, but excused himself from much
speaking on the ground that his brother
was going to speak, and did not want to
hold the meeting late.
	President Young said he did not rise to
preach, he had done preaching enough
thirty years ago, to convert the world, had
the world listened; but he wished now to
converse a little with his friends.
	He spoke about the wilful blindness of the
world, its readiness to believe a falsehood,
and its outcry without investigation, against
this people. “But” he said, “we have no
cause for uneasiness, so long as we live our
religion and are not carried away by the
things of the world.” He also said that the
hatred and scorn of the world should be
nothing to the Saints; their delight should
be in the consciousness that God approved
of them, and that when the brief span of life
was over their reward was sure. The blows
aimed at him all fall short of their mark;
they were powerless to cause him a moments
uneasiness; the source of his joy and comfort
was as high above their influence as the sun
[new column]
was above the earth. He had merited the
hatred of the world by being instrumental
in the hands of God in forwarding His great
work; that blessing His people spiritually
and temporally, was to him a joy, a comfort,
a consolation, which the world could neither
give nor takeaway.
	Speaking of the desire to obtain wealth,
he said every one had a perfect right to get
all the wealth he could, honestly; provided
he made proper uses of it afterward. He
acknowledged himself only a steward over
the wealth which God had placed in his
hands, and accountable to Him for the use
of the least portion of it. That no one on
this earth owned anything; but those who
proved faithful and profitable stewards over
what was intrusted to their care, should be
real owners hereafter. He wished all to be
able, as he was, to say that in getting wealth
they had never wronged the widow and
orphan, never defrauded the poor nor the
rich, never over-reached their neighbor in a
bargain, nor in any way stained their souls
to get it. 	
	Referring to his reputed power and in-
fluence over the people, said he was often
tempted to wish he really had it, that he
might cause them to cease their folly, their
envy, backslidings, running after the things
of the world; and to fix their hearts and
eyes on God and the great future which is
surely theirs if they live for it. But he
added that it would not be right for him to
have such power—God himself did not
possess it, having delegated it to His
children in  the form of free-agency, to choose
between good and evil and receive the
appropriate reward for the choice made.
“Brethren and Sisters,” remarked the
speaker, “I am for God and righteousness!
and I would gladly know the sentiments of
your hearts to-night. Let all who are will-
ing and determined to serve the Lord to the
best of their ability, even though His enemies
hate, persecute and even kill them, now do
as I do!” and his right hand pointed heaven-
ward. Instantly hundreds of hands were
uplifted, and breathing was almost sus-
pended in reverential awe. His voice had
not been raised above conversational pitch,
his manner was calm, mild and kindly, as
that of a father conversing with his chil-
dren; but his words were like pure gold, and
seemed to sway the hearts of his hearers as
the summer wind sways the meadow grass.
He broke the silence with “Are you all
for God? Then I am glad; all is well.”
	He then referred to some parts of Brother
Staines’ remarks, advising the young to write
a history in daily deeds of honor, that if so
be, in the future they are called to occupy
high places, they need not blush to have
their early history sought out. Advised
parents to pray and teach their children to
pray; saying that children begotten, nur-
tured and taught in the fear and admonition
of the Lord, would never spurn their early
teaching and love corruption.
	I have seldom listened to so simple, plain,
unassuming, yet impressive a discourse.
And the effect was deepened on my mind
by a remark I overheard from a a stranger
who passed me on my way home, and whom
I took to be an outsider. He was saying to
his companion, “Well, it cannot be denied
that Brigham Young speaks with power,
and has a great influence over his listeners.
Why I felt it myself while he was talking.”
	I longed to answer, “Yes, the power of
good authority for what he says; the in-
fluence of a strong, noble, philanthropic
spirit over all corresponding good in the
minds of his hearers."
	I feel to say, as did that congregation,
God bless our President and spare his life
[new column]
long to bless his people with his loving
care, and to enjoy the golden harvest of the
priceless grain and fruits which he has
labored so faithfully to plant.”
								L. L. D.


