[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER- | Author: SUSA Y. GATES,]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFER-
			ENCE.
	The Semi-Annual Conference of the
General Relief Society was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall October 2 and 3, com- 
mencing Thursday, October 2, at 10 a. m.,
with President Emmeline B. Wells, presid-
ing.
	The session opened with singing, “How
Firm a Foundation,” by the Granite stake
choir and the congregation.
	Prayer by Sister Rebecca N. Nibley.
	Singing, “Come Thou Glorious Day of
Promise.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave the
address of welcome and greeting. She was
delighted to see so many assembled and
hoped the conference would be one of
power and influence. She felt that the Lord
has been merciful to the society in the past
year and has given us manifold blessings,
as a result of which great things have been
accomplished by the organization. Many

[Column 2]
improvements have been made at the cost
of great sacrifice, but the standard of the
work has been raised and our sisters have
been better educated in all that pertains to
Relief Society work. She admonished the
members to read the instructions of the
Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society which
were given on several occasions, and to
carry them out as nearly as possible.
	President Effie Ensign Merril, of Liberty
stake, responded to the address of welcome
in a few well chosen words. She felt highly
honored in so doing and expressed her ap-
preciation of the labors of the President and
the members of the General Board.
Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward sang a so-
prano solo, “More Love for Thee, O
Christ.”
	Reports of the Relief Societies of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows:
	Alpine stake, by Miss Amy Rosza, stake
secretary; South San Pete stake, by Mrs.
Jane Bench; Parowan stake, by Mrs. Julia
R. Lyman.
	Miss Joy Richards reported the work of
the newly established milk depot on the
West side. She was introduced by Mrs.
Alice M. Horne, who explained that the
Relief Society had seen fit to help the city
Board of Health in this good work by fur-
nishing a nurse in the person of Miss
Richards to assist at the depot.
	Miss Richards stated that the milk depot
or dispensary was established in July of this
year by the city Board of Health for the
purpose of furnishing pure milk at cost for
babes. There have been in attendance three
nurses; two hospital trained nurses fur-
nished by the city, and one Relief Society
nurse, trained in the Relief Society School
of nurses’ and furnished by the Woman’s
Relief Society. It has been the duty of
these nurses to visit homes and ascertain
when help was needed, also to give instruc-
tion on how to feed and care for babies.
	Pure milk was furnished at whatever
price people were able to pay and was given
free to those who were not able to pay
anything.
	In the two months of August and Sep-
tember 1,123 quarts of milk were received;
323 quarts were sold and 800 quarts were
given away. Forty babes were furnished
milk at the station and there was only one
death among them, this death occurring a
few hours after the first application for as-
sistance was made to the nurses. Three
hundred and twenty-eight calls at the depot
were made by mothers, and 1,382 home in-
quiry calls were made by the nurses. The
amount taken in for milk sold was $42.10, a
small amount compared to what was paid
out; but the knowledge of the great amount
of good done and the wonderful apprecia-
tion of those who were assisted, made the
recompense larger than could be counted in
dollars and cents.
	A beautiful organ solo was given by Miss
Edna Coray.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts addressed the
conference. She felt so overcome with joy
in contemplating the wonderful work being
done constantly by the Relief Society, that
it was hard to control her feelings on this
occasion. She was delighted to know that
the trained nurses and the Relief Society
nurse had worked so harmoniously in the
city health department; this is as it should
be. Dr. Roberts spoke of the Relief Society
Nurse school to open immediately after con-
ference and explained briefly the work.

[Column 3]
	Congregation sang, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.”
	Closing prayer, Mrs. Julina L. Smith. 
AFTERNOON SESSION. 
	Singnig, “Come Let Us Anew.”
	Prayer by Dr. Romania B. Penrose.
	Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me.”
	Mrs. Winnifred Brown addressed the as-
sembly, speaking on her experiences at the
Joseph Smith Memorial Cottage at South
Royalston, Vt. She felt it a great honor and
privilege to reign as queen over the home-
stead of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the
cottage, which was erected over the exact
spot of the prophet’s home, peace, beauty,
and love reign supreme. The old original
gray hearthstone where the babe was
washed and dressed has been retained and
placed in the modern cottage, and above it
hangs the portrait of his mother Lucy Mack
Smith, done in oil. This hearthstone is a
sacred and hallowed spot and the picture
above it, is a source of comfort and inspira-
tion to all who behold it. During the last
year 15,000 people have been received at
the Memorial Cottage.
	Tenor solo, “In God’s Acre,” was given
by Joseph Paul.
	Sister Jeanette A. Hyde gave an address
on “Genealogy.” She called attention to
the fact that the Prophet Joseph urged the
Saints to be energetic in saving souls and in
carrying out this instruction, we must not
forget our dead. We must collect and com-
plete our family records, and go into the
temples and have ordinances performed for
those who did not have the privilege to do
this for themselves. Genealogical records
have been considered of very great impor-
tance in all times. We will remember that
Lehi was sent back to Jerusalem to obtain
the records of his people, as well as the laws
and commandments of Moses. Every Latter-
day Saint should read and study sections
127 and 128 of the Doc. and Cov. Sister
Hyde announced that a series of lessons in
genealogy will be given during the April,
1914, conference, and that each stake will
be expected to send a delegate to take up
the work, details of which will be given at
the officers’ meeting on Tuesday.
	Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley reported that the
Relief Society Home for Women is com-
pleted and is open for women and girls who
are out of employment and are in need of
temporary quarters. A reasonable fee will
be charged for lodging, as it is the desire
of the Board to have the Home self-support-
ing.
	Mrs. Agness Olsen Thomas gave a vocal
solo, “O Rest in the Lord.”
	Counselor Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. She had been greatly impressed
with the remarks of Mrs. Brown and re-
ferred very feelingly to the Prophet’s
mother who she said lost five grown sons
and still retained her faith and courage and
cheerfulness. The motto of this mother was
“O Lord Thy will not mine be done.” The
speaker referred to the new building about
to be erected by the Church, and was pleased
to say that a portion of it would be set apart
for the use of the Genealogical Society,
where its books and records may be safely
kept. She urged the sisters to keep up their
interest in genealogy and to urge others to
do everything possible to study the great
and glorious work.
	Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings spoke of the


[Column 1]
unveiling of the Sea Gull Monument. She
was carried back to early days in Utah when
there were many wonderful demonstrations
of God’s goodness to His people.
	Counselor Clarissa S. Williams felt over-
joyed in listening to the report of the work
of Mr. and Mrs. Brown at the Memorial
Cottage. Their mission is one of impor-
tance and they are filling it with
credit to themselves and to the Church.
	The speaker regretted very much that the
Boston School of Oratory had refused ad-
mission to such a capable woman as Mrs.
Brown simply because she is a Latter-day
Saint, and hoped that such prejudice would
soon be a thing of the past.
	The Relief Society members were urged
to be hospitable, and to be neighborly, to call
at the homes of all people, and to teach
and preach the Gospel whenever oppor
tunity for so doing is presented.
	The session closed with singing, “Praise
to the Man.”
	Closing prayer was offered by Sister
Edna May Davis.
					AMY B. LYMAN,
							Secretary.

	Friday Oct. 3, Second day.
	The morning session opened with sing-
ing, “Come, come, ye Saints.” 
	Prayer was offered by Miss Sarah Mc-
Lelland.
	Singing, “Softly beams the sacred dawn-
ing.”
	Miss Gertrude McCheyne, of the Agricul-
tural College of Utah, began her talk on
“The School Luncheon Box.” She empha-
sized the need of system in the home man-
agement, with its associate virtue, cleanli-
ness. She touched upon the selection and
preparation of school luncheon, urging
mothers to teach daughters to prepare their 
own boxes both for the training it gave to
the girl and for the relief it would afford the
busy mother. President Joseph F. Smith,
accompanied by Senator Reed Smoot, now
entered the hall and Miss McCheyne courte-
ously sat down, that the audience might
hear the distinguished visitors. Her talk
was finished in the afternoon session.
	President Ballard of the Northwestern
States Mission sang, “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Joseph F. Smith expressed his
pleasure at meeting with the Relief Society,
and commented vigorously on the initial
purpose of its existence, and its divine
origin; he hoped that nothing would ever
occur to change its name or to interefere
with its original functions. It had been or-
ganized by revelation given to the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and the name sufficiently in-
dicates its purpose and scope. Its principal
object was to minister to the needs of the
Saints, and at the same time to have a care
for the needy stranger within our gates.
	President Smith said that he wanted the
members of the General Board of this So-
ciety to set such examples when they went
out into the homes of the Saints as an angel
would do, if such were to enter our homes.
If they did not do this and the failure was
reported to his office, the First Presidency
would see to it that others would come who
would set proper examples. He urged upon
the Board and officers generally the neces-
sity of studying the principles of the Gospel,
that they might be ready to teach the Truth

[Column 2] 
to others. We should seek to first live the
Gospel ourselves and then go out and teach
it to others. Those who go out to teach
should go in the spirit of their calling and
not spend the time in idle gossip or in talk
on the happenings of the day. You sisters
should minister such temporal and spiritual
assistance as may be needed in the homes
where you visit. He related an instance of
a visit to a distant stake where the sisters
of the Relief Society had cared for sick
families in the town. President Smith
wanted the sisters in office to be big and
broad-minded, so that personal differences
might not creep into their official acts. There
is no room for petty jealousies and envyings
among Saints; be unselfish and loyal to
truth and righteousness. He himself was
loyal to his friends, to President Lyman
who was present, as also to Elder Smoot,
whom he had known since he was born. He
would not consider any man his friend who
sought to injure either of these brethren.
He had watched the public career of Sen-
ator Smoot and knew him to be upright,
clean, just and true to every trust. And his
friends would be the friends of Senator
Smoot. He had no time nor disposition to
criticize either civil or religious authorities.
He was loyal to the city governing officers,
to the governor of the state, and to our
congressional delegation. Moreover, he was
loyal to our national administration, for
only so could good men have the best
chance to do their work unhindered. When
men were doing the best they could, Latter-
day Saints would serve themselves by hold-
ing up their hands. President Smith then
spoke solemnly on the Word of Wisdom,
and its strict observance. He urged the
sisters to look after the aged, to succor the
orphan, and to minister in the spirit of
Christ to all who stood in need of assist-
ance. He closed with a powerful testimony
to the character of President Emmeline B.
Wells, saying that he knew her worth and
that she had been placed in her present ex-
alted position because of her long experi-
ence and her unquestioned loyalty to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ. She had received
that testimony in her youth and it was that
inner testimony of the Spirit, which was the
only sure guide for the spirit of man upon
this earth. It takes of the things of the
Father and makes them known unto the
children of men.
	Mrs. Lizzie Thomas-Edward sang the
“Angel’s Serenade,” with a violin accom-
paniment by Prof. George E. Skelton.
	Senator Reed Smoot spoke feelingly of
his mother’s holy teachings and of his high
regard for women and their labors in life.
He spoke of his pride in the youth of this
Church, and of his own loyalty to its teach-
ings. He said he had never lost anything
by proclaiming his religion, nor had he
failed in any test set up by that standard.
He spoke of the great good accomplished
by women of this Church when they at-
tended the Eastern conventions, and of the
undying friendship such associations had
engendered between our women and the
prominent women of the world. His best
friends among the noted women of the
world had been such women as Belva A.
Lockwood, J. Ellen Foster, Clara Barton,
Susan B. Anthony and others who were not
only friends to this people but to all honest
people, and whose labors in behalf of their
sex had done far more good than had ever
been accomplished by the foolish suffra-

[Column 3] 
gettes of England. He referred in glowing
terms to President Emmeline B. Wells and
her influence amongst these women, and
said that she was a wonderful woman. He
had scarcely hoped that she could survive
her last illness while recently in Provo, but
here she was just as vigorous and capable as
ever. She owed her long life and the power
to rise above such sore afflictions to her in-
domitable self-will and her unbounded faith.
Such women as she are needed amongst
our own people, as amongst the women of
the world. Nearly all noted women knew
Mrs. Wells and always asked after her. He
hoped the association with the eastern
women in their mammoth conventions
would not be given up but continued with
unabated vigor, for the educational value
was incomparable.
	Miss Edna Dwyer sang, “There comes a
time,” followed by the Doxology, and the
benediction was pronounced by President
Francis M. Lyman.
	The afternoon session was opened by
singing, “Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Susa Young Gates.
Singing, “On the mountain tops appearing.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells introduced
Dr. Leslie Woodruff Snow as the son of
President Lorenzo Snow and the grandson
of President Wilford Woodruff. Dr. Snow
gave a very dear talk on the care of the
eyes, the need of proper light, of cleanli-
ness, and of proper glasses being worn in
cases of weak or myoptic eyes. He gave
some excellent directions for simple home
remedies for avoidance of common mistakes
and urged the parents to look well after the
precious eyesight of their children.
	A violin solo by Willard Weihe, accom-
panied on the organ by Prof. J. J. Mc-
Clellan, was beautifully rendered and
brought forth a rising vote of thanks. After
which Miss McCheyne completed her ex-
cellent talk on the “School Luncheon Box,”
bringing many little suggestions of value to
home keepers.
	A charming organ solo by our own or-
ganist, Miss Edna Coray, was much appre-
ciated, and then Prof. Maud May Babcock
told of the new “Home” for girl wage-
earners in the Ensign stake of Zion. She
reported that they were in need of thirty-
two quilts and invited the mothers to come
to their assistance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a spir-
ited closing talk, referring to the times in
Kirtland when Mother Whitney was
hostess to the Prophet Joseph Smith when
he was in that city. How she would hush
her cradle song to listen to the murmured
tones of that inspired voice as the Prophet
dictated his revelations to his scribe on the
floor above her. She said we had had a re-
markable conference and she hoped the sis-
ters would take the spirit of it home to their
stakes and wards. She urged them to be
kind to those who were blind or lacking in
any of their faculties, for the blessings of
God would rest upon them inasmuch as they
ministered to such unfortunates. She in-
voked the blessing of God upon all present
and all those engaged in Relief Society
work in all the world.
	Alexander Crawford sang “One sweetly
solemn thought,” and the congregation sang
“Redeemer of Israel.” Sister Ida Smoot
Dusenberry pronounced the final benedic-
tion of the-Conference.
					SUSA Y. GATES, 
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


