	BOOK NOTES.

	“PROSE AND POETRY”—a neat little book just
from the press is by Mrs. Emily B. Spencer of
St. George. It contains a variety of truths and
sentiments tenderly told in the simple unaffected
spirit of a true woman and a saint. Many of
them were written under trying cirdumstances,
which others similarly situated will fully appreci-
ate. Some are addressed to individuals and are
of a character peculiar to the circumstances and
time. Among the best of the poems are “The
True Christmas,” “Song of the Creator,”“Come”
“Who Comes,” “Evening.” There are a few
good prose articles interspersed. The book is
suitable for the young people’s library collections
and will no doubt carry comfort and hope to
many a lonely heart. It is for sale at this office
and contains 88 pages price, 50 cts.
	THE Primary Hymn Book is now in the hands
of the publishers at the Deseret News Office,and
is partly completed. The first 70 pages are already
sterotyped—and the work is progressing as fast
as possible. The Book will contain 128 pages and
will be neatly and strongly bound, in cloth with
a leather back; to make it suffiiently strong for
the children to handle without injury.
	This book has been edited and compiled by
Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of the Latter-
day Saint Women’s Organizations, with great
care and patience as well as an earnest love for
all and any work in the interest of the children
of Zion, whom she considers her special charge.
The first 70 pages are a choice selection of hymns,
from the pen of Sister Eliza herself and other
home writers. A part of them have been se-
lected by the lady editor from writers of distinc-
tion such as Watts, Heber. Dwight and others.
The book will probably be finished about the 10th,
of this month. Every child in the Territory
should have a copy. It will be suitable for the
use of Sunday Schools as well as Primary Asso-
ciations. It is expected it can be afforded as low
as eight copies for one dollar thus placing it
within the reach of every one.
	“Spring Blossoms.”—We are pleased to see
this new book added to the catalogue of home
literary productions. The authors of “Spring
Blossoms” Leo Haefeli, a German Professor,and
Mr. E. H. Anderson,are both connected with the
office of the Junction, Ogden. This interesting
little work contains 46 pages in prose and verse.
The prose articles entitled “The Good, the True
and the Beautiful,” or the three ideals of educa-
tion are really good, true and beautiful, just as
expressed in the title, and are interspersed
with choice selections from eminent authors.
The young people should read these and seek to
profit by the admirable lessons contained in
them. “Family Joys and Griefs,” by the same
author,speak to the heart.
	The poems which are by E. H. Anderson
“Eternity,” “Love” and “Home,” contain
good sentiment and bespeak poetical talent.
There are also Historical essays by the same
author very well-written. The book is suitable
for the libraries of the Young Peoples’ Associa-
tions, or the homes of the Saints.
	If we were permitted to suggest we would say it
was in bad taste to advertise in a book of poems.
	We have before us Two Poems pamphlet
form. They are from the pen of Bishop O. F.
Whitney. The first is entitled “The Women of
the Everlasting Covenant,” and is a delicate and

[Column 2]
affectionate tribute to woman, and more especi-
ally to the women of this Church who have en-
dured much for their religion.  The poem is rich
with pathos and glows with tender sympathy.
It is somewhat historical in character, and ex-
ceedingly pure in tone. The style of verse and
rhythm is pleasant and every line is expressive.
	It is dedicated to his mother and to all mothers
in Isreal whose lives show equal virtue and
integrity.
	The poem contains many exquisitely beautiful
passages, of which we will only quote one,

	"Of all the virtues that uniting frame,
	The lofty column ranted to Duty’s name—
	Whose summit pencils on the glowing sky
	The deeds of those whose names refuse to die— 
	O’er crowning all in triumph of device,
	Is woman's life of love—Self-Sacrifice.” 

	“The Land of Shinehah” is a descriptive and
hsitorical poem. It contrasts Kirtland of
the present time with what it was
more than forty years ago. It is perhaps richer
in word painting and delineation than the other
and contains more variety but does not speak as
forcibly to the heart. It will be very interesting
to all, who cherish a tender memory of the first
gathe.ing place of the Saints.
	We are well-assured of one fact in connection
with both these poems they are sure to live.
The writer has talent which should be encour-
aged; and we hope he may be inspired to write
much more of a historic character.


