ORPHANAGE-NAZARETH.

	Yakoob (the man) takes the garden and out
door work. Autusi (the woman) reigns in the
kitchen and superintends the cooking. All the
rest of the work (which in this country includes
such things as picking and sifting corn for the
mill as well as cooking, washing, scrubbing etc,)
is done by the girls. The elder ones keep the
wardrobes &c., In repair and look after the tinies
some of whom are dear little pets. I shall often
have to speak of the two native teachers so I
hope you will remember their names Nasara and
Saada. The present manager of all is Miss Tan-
ner for Mrs Gilbert can only be a show figure
from her ignorance of Arabic, and of the strange
customs of the country; and I of course am not
yet on the staff. Miss Tanner seems to have a
perfect knowledge and command of Arabic and
carries out most ably and energetically the ad-
mirable system initiated by Miss Dickson. All
the girls are devoted to her, but are also very
kind and attentive to us and are only too proud
to be allowed to render us any service.
	It is amusing to see the troop of brownies that
rush shouting out of the large gates to meet us,
when we return from a walk or a ride; the
latter especially,as then we often take some of the
tinies up before us to give them a ride up to the
gate. You will notice our flag in the little sketch
I have made: this is hoisted always on Sunday,
and there is a large one that is put up on special
occasions, as the feasts, and the Queen's birth-
day.
	This last is celebrated with great honor, for we
are a very loyal set here, and the girls always
speak of her Majesty as "my gracious Queen"
fondly believing that they thus become real
English." Nasara, the head teacher, a very
handsome but most simple-hearted girl, said to
me; "I cannot think that any of the English are
bad, when I see them in my mind, they are
always singing in their Cathedral and I think it
is heaven."
	I must not forget to mention our dogs, very
important members of the Institute. Lao and
Majon, they have a reputation for fierceness and
inspire the beggar and roughs from the town
with a wholesome terror,for which there is really
small occasion, Majon is getting old, so last week
a new puppy was brought which I appropriated
as my property, where upon he received the
name of the Rajah; but Yakoob will not let me
pet him as he is to be reputed fierce like the
others.

