	HOME AFFAIRS.

	A PARTY of young people are getting up a
Concert, for the evening of July 8, to be held in
the Social Hall, for the benefit of Miss Mattie
Paul Hughes. The entertainment will consist
of songs and a drama, in three parts, represent-
ed by Miss Keetie Heywood, O. F. Whitney and
Hebe M. Wells. With these young people it will
certaiuly be a success.
	ERRATA.—Dear Em: In reading my “Rem-
iniscences” in your last issue, I see that the quo-
tation marks being omitted makes it read as if
nearly all had been copied from my father’s his-
tory, which part ended with the description of the
cow being killed while a girl was milking her
etc. Please mention the above and oblige,
	Yours truly,	H. M. W.
	THE Home Dramatic Club will appear on the
evening of the 5th of July, in “Extremes, or
Men of the Day,” and in the afternoon in
“Ours.” This company of young people have
talent and ability, and it is to be hoped they will
receive sufficient encouragement, so that we
may have once more in the history of Utah, a

[Column 2]
good strong stock company. Go and see the
plays.
	THE excursion for the “Old Folks” to Black
Rock and return, for the 7th of July, is in the
hands of the same energetic and persevering
Committee who made it such a pleasant success
heretofore, and no doubt the arrangements for
this time will be as perfect and as desirable as in
former years. The “Old Folks’ Excursion” in-
volves more benevolent work for the Relief So-
cieties, who are expected to attend to the picnic
details.
	We tender our sincere congratulations to Miss
Mattie Paul Hughes who has recently passed
her examination and will graduate in the Med-
ical Class of ’80 at the 30th, Annual Commence-
ment of the Department of Medicine and Surg-
ery of the University of Michigan; to be held in
University Hall at 10 o’clock A. M. Thursday
July 1st. 1880. We acknowledge a complimen-
tary invitation and would gladly be present if
circumstances would permit.
	Miss Mattie was a favorite of ours and earned
her first money towards defraying the expense
of her medical education by setting type for the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. She is an interesting in-
telligent and brave young woman. Miss Paul
Hughes will graduate on the 23d, anniversary of
her birthday. She intends to further perfect her
study of medicine and surgery practically in
Hospital in Boston, Mass.
	There are many young women, yes even
young men who might follow her noble example,
with honor to themselves and credit to the com-
munity.	
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt delivered a lecture on
the physiology and anatomy of the human sys-
tem in the Theater on Tuesday afternoon June
22d, for the benefit of Miss Mattie Paul Hughes,
better known as Mattie H. Paul, who is now
studying medecine and surgery at the University
of Ann Arbor, Michigan. The object was a
laudable one, and the lecture in every respect,as
far as the subject, the manner and the facilities
for illustration were concerned, was a perfect
success. Financially it was not so much so—the
fault was perhaps in its not having been suffici-
ently advertised. The sisters should avail them-
selves of the opportunities so often afforded for
instrcution in these subjects and become better
acquainted with the human structure, its needs
and powers.
	WE have received of late two beautiful trib-
utes of affection.	
	One is from a lady we have never met. A cross
of sea-weed,delicate ferns and sea-shells bordered
with a vine of the same materials. We shall
have it framed for the office. It came all the
way from San Bernardino, and is really a very
lovely thing and displays artistic taste in arrang-
ing as well as refinement in the expression of
affection and as we are passionately fond of
things of this sort it could not have found a
more welcome nook to repose in, than in a corner
of this office, where we can admire its beauty
and shall think of the giver with feelings of
sincere admiration and tenderness. Some ver-
ses came with the cross from which we may-
select a few lines.	
	The other tribute alluded to was some lovely
wild-wood flowers “sweet wild-wood flowers,”
from a sheltered dell,where they grew in beauty
in East Caynon; there are more than forty
varieties. Of all the beautiful things in the
world there is nothing fairer or more equisitely
beautiful than the flowers, fresh from nature’s
hand. How they speak to the heart, how they,
refresh the soul, what restfulness they bring to
the weary, and what happy thoughts they in-
spire.


These wild-wood flowers were also accompan-
ed with  some lines which we publish on page
3d, they are as sweet and  as delicate as the ten-
der flowers of which they speak.  Words are 
poor, very poor to thank these kind friends and 
others who have brought their floral offerings to 
give us pleasure.


