			A. R. GARDNER. Sec'y.

	The members of the First and Second Ward
Primary Associations of Nephi held their first
anniversary in the meeting house at two o'clock
P. M., Saturday May 29th, 1880. Present on the
stand Patriarch, Jacob G. Bigler, Bishop John
Andrews,and Counselors. William Knight,Sister
Amelia Goldsbrough and Counselors of the R.
S. Stake organization, and also officers of the
Primary Associations of each ward. After the
usual opening exercises Sister Sarah Ann An-
drews President of the First Ward, addressed
the children a short time and gave them a verbal
report of her ward. The report was then read
by the Secretary; Sister Amelia C. Bigler of the
Second Ward made a few remarks and also gave
a verbal report, the Secretary then read the re-
port after which there were songs, recitations,
dialogues, select readings, by the children
of both wards. Members enrolled in the First
Ward 184 average attendance [10. Members en-
rolled in the Second Ward 120, average attend-
ance 55. Financial report of the First Ward
donations received, $7.80 cts. Donated to Manti
Temple $5.00; Expended for books and stationery
$1.25; Remaining in the Treasury $1.55.
	Financial report of the Second Ward. Dona-
tions received $3.90: paid out for books and sta-
tionery $1.90; Remaining in Treasury $2.00.
	Singing by the children "In our lovely Deser-
ret." Benediction by Patriarch Jacob. G.
Bigler, Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews President of
the First Ward; Mrs. Hannah Grover; Miss Ann
Midgley Counselors; Miss Alice Bigler, Secre-
tary; Miss Isabella M. Ord, Treasurer.
					Miss Lilzie Tolley, Sec'y.

	The Pangnitch Stake Relief Society held their
First Stake Conference on the 3d, of May, 1880,
in the Relief Society Hall; commencing at 10
o'clock, A. M. Present on the stand, Pres. Bar-
bara Myers and Counselors; Apostle Erastus
Snow, Pres. James Henrie and Counselors, Bish-
op J, C. Dame, A. S. Church, Wm. King, Seth
Johnson, and A. P. Schow and other brethren
and sisters, from all the wards of the Stake.
	After the usual opening exercises; Pres. Myers
made some good remarks, exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness in the porformance of all their du-
ties, and also desired that as many as could
would take the WOMEN'S EXPONENT. Coun-
selors Clark and S. P. Crosby, made some re-
marks.

[Column 3]
	Brother Erastus Snow said he wished the sis-
ters to feel free, and speak as if they were at
home, around their own firesides and be cal[--]
and let the Spirit of the Lord be with them to
dictate them in all they said.
	The various societies of the Stake were verbally
reported showing, the societies in good condition
yet room for great improvement.
	Statistical and Financial report up to date
May 31st., was read as far as reported.
			Very respectfully,
				Barbara Myers, President.
				Sarah P. Crosby Sec'y.

	The Paradise Relief Society held their annual
meeting on Tuesday, June 1, 1880, in the new
meeting house. Present on the stand: Bishop
Orson Smith; H. C. Jackson, H. A. Shaw, coun-
selors. After the usual opening exercises the
report of the year was read and accepted. H.
C. Jackson spoke for a short time. His remarks
were calculated to encourage us to be dilligent
and persevere in the good work in which we de-
light. H. A. Shaw made very interesting re-
marks, encouraged the sisters to be true and
faithful one to another, and urged the necessity
of educating our children and to be careful and
diligent in guiding our sons and daughters into
the best paths of life, for upon them must
eventually rest all the responsibilities of an im-
portant era. Bishop Smith said he was pleased
in hearing the reports read, and spoke of the
great amount of good the sisters could and did
accomplish in these Relief Societies; urged us to
live up to our privileges and to do our duty with
cheerfulness, and be punctual in attending our
meetings and alive to our duties, and realize
that we should be co-workers with the brethren
in all the noble enterprises entered into to sus-
tain and build up Zion. Sisters E. Shaw and
Mary Price bore testimony to the truth of the
work. The Spirit of the Lord was in our midst.
We had an excellent time; many more of the
sisters were desirous to speak, but time would
not permit. Traying God to bless all those who
labor for the welfare of Zion,
		I remain your sister in the Gospel,
							EMMA SHAW.
	THE Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies
of Weber County was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle, Thursday, June 17th, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. On the stand were Apostle
C. C. Rich, the presidency of the Weber Stake
of Zion; visitors,Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and President
Sarah S. Richards, of Summit Stake. After the
opening exercises and reading of minutes,
President D. H. Peery took occasion to express
his fullest satisfaction with the report, which he
declared to be the best ever presented in this
stake. He also spoke very highly of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, counselling all the sisters to support
this good family journal.
	Apostle C. C. Rich then took the stand. He
spoke upon the subject of doing good, and said
we never got all the good done that might be
done. We all should feel honored and blessed
by the opportunity afforded to us of helping to
build up the Kingdom of God. We could do a
great deal of good by governing with wisdom all
our acts and words. We should earnestly study
how to bring about the millennium. When no
one did wrong, no wrong would be done. He
himself was always improving, at least he hoped
and tried to do so. It was the same with the
sisters. Upon them was resting the responsibility
of raising up the children of Zion and teaching
them the principles of the gospel. He was much
pleased with the good work accomplished by the
sisters: The more opposition we had, the more
eager and vigilant we ought to be in withstand-
ing the outward pressure, both spiritually and
and temporally.
	Sister E. R. Snow next addressed the meet-
ing. She said that if the sisters would lift their
hearts in prayer to God she had no fear of say-
ing anything that would be hurtful. We were
too apt to get drowsy and should always be
awake to the fulness of our holy duties. She
then took up the parable of the woman and the
unjust judge, spoken of by Christ. After this
she pointed out the necessity of administering to
the sick in the way pointed out by revelation,
until they were restored to health and well-
being.	*	*	The mothers of Israel should
realize this important fact. Something greatly
needed was a hymn book for the young,and she
was occupied in getting up one for this purpose.
The books would be sold at 12½ cents per copy,
as she did [--] her own work free in the interest
of the kin[--]om. Thus the books could be sold
at cost. We should have prophets and prophet-
esses among the young. The fear of infidelity was


the greatest danger of contagion existing. Sister.
Snow had also seen the young sisters at Bear
Lake, and had been highly pleased by their in-
nocent and primitive dress, which was far supe-
rior to the expensive fashionable follies of the
Gentile world. We should be prepared for the
troubles coming, and get the fulness of the spirit
by attending the meetings where the inspired
servants of the Almighty poured out the words
of life.
	In the afternoon the meeting was very numer-
ously attended, and the first speaker was Mrs.
E. B. Wells, who spoke principally upon the
education and culture of the young, the necessi-
ty of spiritual training, etc. Prest. E. R. Snow
then spoke at some length upon the need of
sustaining home industries and primary associa-
tions, urged the parents to encourage these insti-
tutions by their presence and influence, etc.
Counselor Middleton, Elders D. M. Stuart,
Robt. McQuarrie, and S. Eggleston, Sisters Sarah
S. Richards and Jane S. Richards each made a
few brief but excellent remarks. At the close
of the meeting the congregation arose to their
feet and sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning," which produced an inspiring effect.
After benediction, conference adjourned until
the following day, when the Y. L. M. I. Associ-
ations and Primary Associations were repre-
sented.


