IN WHAT DOES BEAUTY CONSIST.

	There are many things in nature around us
which we look upon and recognize with enthusi-
astic ecstsay as being sublimly beautiful, filling
our souls with awe,reverence yea,love,raising our
thoughts, from mortal cares to loftier themes,
and inspiring us with adoration for the Creator
of so much beauty, harmony and melody.
	The grandeur of the mountains as ‘they tower
one above the other, higher and higher until
they appear to touch the very sky, and some-
times seem to reach far away into the realms of
space—whether they are crowned with eternal
snow, or burning with the lava-fire of nature’s
own kindling must inevitably strike the beholder
as one of the most truly beautiful features which
the earth affords.
	Who could ever have watched the glory;of an
exquisitely charming sunset without feeling
that it surpassed in real beauty all the
works of art; and that extravagant as the
language might be used to express its beauty, it
was still inadequate to the subject.
	The forests,the ocean, the lakes,and the rivers,
all these are indeed truly beautiful; the flowers
in all their vast varieties of hues and shades and
forms are among the most delightfully beautiful
of Earth’s wounderful productions. We cannot
enumerate the objects of beauty of which our
earth is filled—there is no stopping place, for
whatever is perfect, cannot fail to be beautiful.
To my mind, perfection seems to be the true de-
finition of beauty, but where there is a defect
beauty is marred. Nature’s works are perfect—
they are really beautiful.
	The sentiment of beauty is a true inspiration—
it elevates and refines the mind,in whatever form
of life it is presented. One must feel its influence,
and the inspiration of its presence in both ani-
mate and inaniamte nature.			M.
	Salt Lake City, June 1872.


FAITH AND CONFIDENCE.—The following is
clipped from the News, Maysville, Kansas: "In
calling the attention of our readers to 'Warner's
Safe Remedies,' we do so with a perfect faith in
the efficiency of their preparations, and an un-
bounded confidence in the truth of all that is
good and said of them."


