CONFERENCE.

	The Sisters' Conference of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall, Friday and Saturday, June 18 and 19.
The first day was devoted to Relief Society re-
ports, business, etc. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Sung, "O, Awake My Slumbering
Minstrels." Prayer by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
Singing, "Come, O, thou King of Kings."
Minutes of last Conference read by the Stake
Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard. Reports from the

[Column 2]
several branches in the county were read, which
were very favorable. Pres. Horne made a few
remarks relative to the necessity of having correct
reports, and said she wanted the sisters to become
business women.
	Pres. E. R. Snow Smith referred to the good
conference in Brigham City, where the young
ladies had spoken upon practical principles and
were putting them into practice. Said the city
council there had donated liberally of land for
the purpose of raising mulberry trees to promote
sericulture. Spoke of the calamities and
judgments that were coming upon the earth and
that Zion would be the place of safety.
	Meeting closed by singing, "O, Say what is
Truth." Benediction by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
2 p. m.: Meeting opened with singing and
prayer by Mrs. E. Howard. After which seve-
ral of the presidents of Relief Societies gave
verbal reports. Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few re-
marks preceding the reading of an original poem
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, "The Women of the
Everlasting Covenant." She then introduced Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson, who read this grand poem in
a smooth, eloquent and effective manner. Pres.
Horne then spoke of a committee of two or three
sisters being formed in each Relief Society to
look after new comers. Joseph Smith had said
the mission of the Relief Society was not only
to look after the temporal wants of the poor, but
to save souls.
	"Sister Eliza" explained this subject clearly
and definitely and stated that there was a posi-
tive necessity for such committee and gave good
instruction on the subject. She then asked the
sisters to take shares in the Silk Association and
to interest themselves in this simple and useful
industry, which was now established upon a firm
basis.
	Bishop Johnson, of Provo, heartily endorsed
what had been spoken and blessed the sisters in
their labors; said he had realized the great help
the Relief Society was to the Bishops in many
respects. Sang "Lord dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Prayer by Bishop Johnson.
	Saturday morning, June 19th. The middle
seats of the Tabernacle were filled with the
children of the Primary Associations of the city.
President E. R. Snow Smith presiding. Chil-
dren sang: "Sweet is the work, my God. my
King." Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer. Chil-
dren sang: "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet." The first business transacted was to ap-
point a central committee to preside over the
Primary Associations of the Salt Lake Stake of
Zion. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson was nominated
and sustained as President, Mrs. Camilla Cobb.
and Miss Annie Davis as her Counselors. "Sis-
ter Eliza,' then nominated Mrs. Louie Felt as
General Superintendent, to preside over all the
Primary Associations of all the Stakes of Zion,
which was unanimously carried. Mrs. Matilda
M. Barratt and Mrs. Clara M. Cannon were sus-
tained as her Counselors. "Sister Eliza" ad-
dressed the children for a few minutes and ask-
ed them some questions, which were promptly
answered. Mrs. Zina D. Young made a short
speech upon obedience, reverence, honesty, truth-
fulness, etc., adapting her language to the chil-
dren's comprehension. The children sang by
request, "O my Father." "Sister Eliza" an-
nounced that President Taylor and President
Angus M. Cannon were present, and asked the
children who they would like to speak to them;
they answered, President John Taylor.
	President Taylor said, "I am pleased to have an
opportunity of meeting with the children. The
ladies of the Relief Societies are doing a good
work in teaching the children correct principles,
and instructing them that they may grow up
to be honorable numbers in the Church of Jesus
Christ, and to be honors to the kingdom. I ap-
preciate the efforts of the ladies who are trying
to bring the children up in the fear of the Lord;
and the Presidents of these Primary Associa-
tions. Children you ought to be obedient to
your parents and pray morning and night for
them and for your presidents, that they may be
under the inspiration of the Lord, and God will
bless you and give you blessings upon blessings,
and he will build up Zion, and these sisters are
trying to instruct you in purity and in the laws
of God, that your names may be honored in and
through eternity; be careful to honor your fathers
and mothers. This is one of the ten command-
ments. We purpose having them written here
in this tabernacle, sometime—"Honor thy father
and thy mother, etc." Now I want to say a
word to the Relief Society. You had your meet-
ing yesterday, but as a number of you are here,
I will say a few words to you. I consider it a
duty for all to do all they possibly can to aid


in this work which has been begun in
this day. We are peculiarly associated;
teaching the juveniles. the young men,
and the young women, and the sisters to look
after the wants of the poor, the sick, and also
to look after the happiness of those they are as-
sociated with; it is a great thing to be able to
do good, and I have brought along a book here,
it is called "The Law of the Lord," and I will
have Bro. Nuttall read a little from this book.
Joseph Smith organized the Relief society in
Nauvoo.
	Brother L. John Nuttall then read from the
"Law of the Lord" concerning the orgnization
of the Relief Society, in the Lodge-Room, Nau-
voo, March 17, 1842, when Mrs. Emma Smith
was appointed President, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and Sarah M. Cleveland, her Counselors.
	After Brother N. had finished reading Pres.
Taylor made explanatory remarks concerning the
organization and the powers and duties it gave
to woman. He stated that Emma Smith had
been previously ordained to expound the Scrip-
tures, probably by the Prophet Joseph himself,
but he did not know, however he
(President Taylor) said he was present at that
time and was called upon by Joseph to ordain
Sisters Whitney and Cleveland, Emma's coun-
selors. Prest. Taylor gave much more instruc-
tion to the sisters, and closed his remarks by
saying, God bless the children and God bless the
sisters with Sister Snow at their head. Mrs. M.
I. Horne moved, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball second-
ed the motion that President Taylor publicly
appoint "Sister Eliza" as president of all the
Relief Societies. Prest. Taylor stated that Sister
Eliza had been secretary of the first organization
of Relief Society in Nauvoo. Prest. Taylor then
nominated her and she was sustained as presi-
dent. Sister Eliza then chose Sisters Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her coun-
selors, who were then nominated by President
Taylor and sustained by the conference; also
Sarah M. Kimball as secretary and M. Isabella
Horne as treasurer. These sisters form a cen-
tral organization for all the Relief Societies of all
the Stakes of Zion. The children's conference
was then adjourned for three months. Sung
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing." Benedic-
tion by Prest. Angus M. Cannon.
	Saturday afternoon, June 19. The conference
of the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the Salt Lake
Stake convened. Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding,
the remainder of the minutes of this interesting
conference will be given in the July 15 number,
as we have not space. However, we must no-
tice the appointment of a Territorial Central
Committee for the Y. L. M. I. A. On nomina-
tion of Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, Mrs. E. S.
Tayior was sustained as president of a central
committee, and Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor and Miss
Mattie J. Horne as her counselors; Miss Louie
Wells, secretary, and Mrs. Fannie Y. Thatcher,
treasurer. We regret exceedingly not being able
to publish full-particulars of this important con-
ference.							E. B. W.


