CORRESPONDENCE.

				Lone Pine, Arizona May 21th,
	Editor Exponent: Having just read the Ex-
PONENT of May 1st. while perusing its contents
I imagined myself attending one of those delight-
ful meetings reported in your very interesting
and valuable paper, which is a welcome visiter
here circulated from house to house: the one
subject, storing of grain, is proof sufficient of
the energy that characterizes the Women of the
Latter-day Saints; furnishing grain to feed the
poor, typical of Joseph's sojourn into Egypt.
Some of the brethren in this land are loaning
what grain they can spare to those who have
need and waiting until harvest for returns. I
do not know what some would have done if Bro-
ther Flake had sold his grain which he could
have done very readily; for there is no Joseph in
Egypt with corn for the Saints here, but I
suppose wheat and barley was called corn in
Egypt in those days as history informs us that
corn was found first in America.
	Notwithstanding the severity of the past
Winter and the cold, late Spring the Saints here
are filled with faith and good works, and very
few longing for the leeks and onions of Egypt.
The sisters express their desire to be organized,
and feel thankful that they have their little ones
away from that dreadful malady the diphtheria.
	The health of the people here is most excllent
they are glad to get plenty of corn and barley
for bread, as the wheat will not be harvested
until the latter part of July or first of August. I
have taken the interest to canvass among the
sisters in behalf of the EXPONENT, they have
invariably expressed a desire to send subscriptions
as soon as circumstances would permit.
	Some of the brethren here were a little sur-
prised at the bill before the Legilature last ses-
sion to remove the political disabilities of women;
to this we replied "if any are in bondage or have
not the rights that God designs they shall have,
He rules in the heavens above and the earth
beneath none can stay his hand. He is the
same God that heard the cries of the fair Daugh-
ters of Zion in the days of the Nephites upon
this continent. He has set his hand to bring
about the restitution of all things whatever He
does will be right." With the ballot in the
hands of the Women of this Territory (Arizona)
it would strengthen the hands of the brethren
by placing men in office that would greatly add
to the peace and safety of citizens as well as the
development of the resources of the Country.
	Eevr praying for the interest of Zion, I am
		Yours truly.					W. E.


SUNDAY morning June 20, several sisters were
invited to the 17th Ward, to assist the Bishop in
reorganizing the Primary Association. Bishop
Smith, Superintendent Dwyer and other breth-
ren and also sisters of the ward were present.
The Sunday School was admirably conducted
and the singing was very inspiring. Only a por-
tion of the exercises were given and "Sister
Eliza" proceeded with the organization. 140
members were enrolled. The ladies who had
been invited were presented with lovely bouquets
of choice flowers.


