RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Fish Haven gave one of
our faithful Sisters a surprise. Sister Hulda
Teeples who is one of the eldest members in this
Church, and she is one that has passed through
many troubles, trials, and tribulations.
	We assembled ourselves together at the house
of Brother John Stock and proceeded from there
to the house of her daughter Henrietta Stock
where she has been visiting for some months,but
intends returning home to Holden, Millard Co.,
where a number of her children are at present
residing.
	This was her 68th, birthday.
	After shaking hands and wishing her many
good wishes we were ushered into her daughter's
front room where we were all comfortably seated
the sisters all feeling so well there were many
things talked about. After we had been seated
for a time cake and currant wine were passed
around, it was wine of our own make from ber-
ries of our own raising and it was as delicious as
any that can be made in any place from the
grapes. After this there was a Memorial read
by President of Relief Society Sarah Pope and
presented to her by the Society, for a keepsake,
then there were many presents made by differ-
ent sisters, after which Sister Teeples said she
was very thankful for the kindness that the
sisters showed her and that she was always
pleased to meet with the sisters of Fish Haven
and she felt well when she was with them and
that this was a day that would long be remem-

[Column 2]
bered by her; she also spoke upon many things
concerning the travels of this Church and she
hoped the Saints would never have to pass
through what they had before. She asked God
to bless the sisters with his Spirit that they
might prove faithful to the end. President
Pope arose and said that she was pleased to see
nearly all of the married sisters present on this
occassion it showed due respect to our aged Sister
she said that Sister Teeples had passed through
many trials that we knew nothing about, and if
we lived faithful and true to our God, although
we might never meet with her again in this pro-
bation, yet we should be sure to meet her again
if we were faithful for she had proven herself
faithful &c.
	Sister Sarah MacCann said that her experi-
ence in this Church had been very much like
Sister Teeples,and she had passed through many
trials for the sake of the Gospel, she told Sister
Teeples that as her day was, so her strength
should be &c.
	Counselor Frances Stock said she felt sorry
that Sister Teeples was soon going to leave us
and as this was her birthday she had felt as
though she would like to have a little surprise
together that we might remember the days that
we spent together and hoped we might prove
ourselves faithful to the end.
	Counselor Frances Howell said she hoped Sis-
ter Teeples would see many more happy birth-
days. The sisters sang the hymn "How Firm a
Foundation ye Saints of the Lord" after which
some other sisters spoke, hoping that Sister Tee-
ples might be blessed in many ways.
	Sang the hymn entitled"Zion Land:

Come, Come ye Saints of God
No longer stay,
Far from these wretched lands,
Haste, Haste away.
Farewell my native land,
From thee I roam;
Zion land, Zion land
Thou art my home.

