JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

	A Jubilee Celebration is under contempla-
tion for the Twenty-fourth of this month. This
day is certainly a remarkable one in the history
of this Church. The day this people should be
anxious to celebrate, for it is the beginning of a
new era in their history. The day when the
weary feet of the brave and valiant pioneers
rested for a brief space in the heart of a great
desert; a land which Jehovah seemed to have
pointed out and specially designed for his coven-
ant people; a place which other white men had
shunned and looked upon as barren and unde-
sirable, and therefore it was not expected that a
people, who had been driven from the borders of
civilization, would be molested here, but find a
peaceful and safe retreat from the persecution
and oppression of their enemies. Many prophe-
cies have had their fulfillment in this peculiar
advent of the people. Isaiah said: "O, Zion,
that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the
high mountains!" "Thy watchmen shall lift
up their voice." Did not Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, and their
associates lift up their voices, and sing together,
when they arrived in the valley of the Rocky
Mountains? And were they not watchmen?
Had they not fully earned the title in a literal
sense, by watching, guiding and protecting the
people who had been driven, "scattered and peel-
ed?" Latter-day Zion, the prophets of old said,
was to be a place "sought out." These noble,
blessed pioneers sought it out, they did the first
practical work of the Latter-day Zion. They
traveled, foot-sore and weary, the great
unbroken deserts, the sand hills, the rocky
mountain passes, where the foot of the white
man for ages had not trod; the "Land of Pro-
mise," a refuge for the Saints in time of need.
President Young in his diary, July 24, 1847, says:

[Column 2]
"This is one of the most important days of my
life, and in the history of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. After traveling six
miles through a deep ravine ending with the
canon, we came in full view of the valley of the
Great Salt Lake; the land of promise held in
reserve by God, as a resting place for his Saints.
We gazed in wonder and admiration upon the
vast valley before us, with the waters of the
Great Salt Lake glistening in the sun, mountains
towering to the skies, and streams of pure water
running through the beautiful valley. It was the
grandest view that we had seen till this moment.
Pleasant thoughts ran through our minds at the
prospect that, not many years hence, the house
of God would be established in the mountains
and exalted above the hills, while the valleys
would be converted into orchards, vineyards and
fruitful fields, cities erected to the name of the
Lord, and the standard of Zion unfurled for the
gathering of the nations."
	How truly these things have been verified,
this country from north to south and from east
to west, speaks for itself in a language more
telling and forcible than mere empty words.
"The desert" does "blossom as the rose," and
"the solitary places are made glad," and the
Saints have rejoiced and loud hallelujahs have
oft arisen to the Father for his many mercies
and blessings; and it is meet to celebrate this
day; to the Saints it is "a day of days."
	Many, very many, of the men, and women,
too, who were the patient, energetic and earnest
workers in the early pioneer days of Utah, are
numbered with the cold and silent dead. Of the
one hundred and forty-three pioneers of '47, who
made the first roads and built the first bridges,
not nearly one-half remain. Of the three women
who came with them, only one is living—Mrs.
Clara Decker Young. Mrs. Harriet P. Young
and Mrs. Ellen Saunders Kimball have both
passed behind the vail. A few years more, and
all these veterans who converted the barren
wastes into a pleasant and fruitful garden, will
be no more known among the living. But their
works can never die; for Zion and her towers and
her strongholds will be imperishable. Their
names are so closely interwoven with the his-
tory of the Church that they will live in its
records, and be preserved in the archives of the
House of the Lord. The people should spare
no pains to make the Twenty-fourth of July,
a Jubilee in very deed, and one long to be re-
membered.


[Column 1]
