BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The mortal remains of England's greatest
poet, have been in the tomb fifty-five years,
with no other monument than the simple tab-
let placed in Hucknal Church, in the vaults of
which lie his mother and many of his ancestors,
and where his remains repose by the side of his
mother, by his own request. This tablet is Gre-
cian of pure, white marble, and bears the follow-
ing inscription in Roman capitals.
	In the vault beneath Carebury, where are
many of the ancestors of his mother, lie the
remains of George Gordon Noel Byron, Lord
Byron of Rochdale, in the County of Lancaster,
the author of "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage."
	This, with a circular medallion upon the
House in Holles Street, Cavendish Square, Lon-
don, where he was born, have hitherto been
the only public memorials of one, whose rest-
ing place was legally and honorably won in the
great Mausoleum of the country, Westminster
Abbey; but through the puritanical, canting,
small-mindedness of Doctor Blomfield, Bi-
shop of London; at that time, the doors were
shut against the illustrious dead! The subject
was brought before the House of Lords, and the
great Lord Brougham defended the case, and an
angry altercation between him and Bishop
Blomfield took place in that august assembly,
but the Bishop carried the day, and Huckmal
Church, like a fostering nurse, opened her doors
and received the precious remains. Could By-
ron have dipped his magical pen into the
ink that he ever made immortal, would
not the scene have been a second edition of
"English Bards and Scotch Reviewers?"
	Five years have elapsed since, at a meeting
of the enthusiastic promoters of a memorial to
Lord Byron, held at Willis's Rooms, under the
presidency of Lord Beaconsfield, a stanza from
the fourth canto of "Childe Harold" was quoted
with telling force by one noble speaker. Re-
minding his appreciative hearers that the
famous poet was not without consciousness of
his own assured immortality, Lord Rosslyn re-
peated the lines:

"But I have lived, and have not lived in vain;
My mind may lose its force, my blood its fire,
And my frame perish e'en in conquering pain;
But there is that within me which shall tire
Torture and Time, and breathe when I expire;
Something unearthly, which they deem not of,
Like the remembered tone of a mute lyre,
Shall on their soften'd spirits sink, and move
In hearts all rocky now the late remorse of love."

	Lord Byron penned these lines from the
"Eternallity," was there not a prophetic fore-
taste in his mind, that seven years after his
death the greatest of English reviewers would
speak of him in his old enemy the Edinburgh
Review, in the following terms: "At 24 Lord
Byron found himself on the highest pinnacle of
literary fame with Scott, Moore, Wordsworth,
Southey, and a crowd of other distinguished
writers beneath his feet! There is scarcely an
instance in history of so sudden a rise to so dizzy
an eminence." From 1831 to the present time
the fame of the noble poet has suffered neither
abatement or decline. Despite the insurrection
which has now and again burst forth against
some of his dark portrayals, the reaction of public
opinion, not only in England, but especially in
the United States, and wherever the English
tongue is spoken, have set "the most celebrated
Englishmen of the 19th century" upon a sum-
mit to which eyes and hearts of all countries are
offering their incense of love and gratitude!
	But to return to the doings of this committee
convened as before described. Once again was
an effort made to render something like the just
homage due from a great country to one of her
greatest sons, and at last to these promoters of
Byron's monument England is indebted for
the bronze statue, by Belt, now placed in Ham-
ilton Gardens. By the efforts of this committee,
three thousand five hundred guineas were col-
lected from the pockets of men and women scat-
tered far and wide over the earth, who, in Em-

[Column 2]
erson's words, "speak the commercial and con-
quering tongue of England." At last the poet
is before his country, the land of his birth; as he
looked and seemed when in 1813, he was the idol
of London society, the cynosure of every eye.
Mr. Belt is the favored artist, and his work will
render him an immortality in art. The statue
is in a sitting posture in deep repose, and the
manuscript of "Childe Harold" upon his knee;
contemplating from the rock that supports his
colossal figure, the ocean, which was ever his de-
light. At his feet crouches the Newfoundland
dog "Boatsawin," whose epitaph his noble mas-
ter wrote so feelingly for his love and constancy.
The yachting dress in which the figure is
clothed, suggests the element upon which the
poet's eyes are bent, and the entire absence of
affectation in his mien and attidude harmonizes
with his well-known antipathy to the theatrical
and pretentious ways. The generous Greek Gov-
ernment have contributed the pedestal, which
is of Hellenic marble, hewn from the quarries of
the Peloponnes, in honor of the hero, who, "hav-
ing dreamed that Greece might still be free,"
died in his efforts to restore her to liberty!
	In presence of this statue, let the voice of
blame, which may have some justice in it, and
of censure, which is wholly malignant, be for
ever silenced, as, in common with Sir Walter
Scott, writing upon the day following Lord By-
ron's death, "We feel as if a great luminary of
heaven had suddenly disappeared from the sky,
at the moment when every puny telescope was
levelled for an examination of the spots which
had dimmed its brightness." According to Lock-
hart, Scott's poem of "Rokeby" had failed alto-
gether to gain public approbation, because
simultaneously with its appearance "the deeper
and darker passions of 'Childe Harold' the auda-
city of its morbid voluptuousness, and the
melancholy majesty of the numbers in which it
defied the world, had taken the general imagi-
nation by storm." Such, however, was the
generous verdict of the author of "Rokeby"
which "Childe Harold" had smothered.
	Hucknal Church is about two miles from
Byron's paternal home, Newstead Abbey, and
about the same distance from Annesley, the
home of Mary Chaworth. In these regions the
poet boy had written his first effusions, and con-
ceived the most impassioned and perhaps the
purest love of his life for Mary Chaworth. I
would like to write more, but have no space but
for, Resquiescat in pace.


