MY FIRST MISSIONARY JOURNEY.

	Having mentioned in some of my letters what
led me to think it would be well for me to take
the opportuniny of accompanying Mr. Huber to
Shefamar, I need not go over that ground now.
Miss Tanner had also business to do in Haifa so
our plan was for us three with our man Yakoob
to start early on Monday, December 2d, to
spend about two hours in Shefamar, then go on
to Haifa, when the Austrian steamer with the
mails would be just due. For once we hoped to
get a chance of answering some of our letters by
[-]eturn of post, and then we purposed returning

[Column 2]
with everybody else's letters on Tuesday. As
usual in laying such plans I asked "if thy pres-
ence go not with us, carry us not hence." And
in spite of all that followed I must still believe
that his presence was with us. When I told
my Arabic master of the plan he immediately
said he should like to accompany us, adding,
"You know I cannot take a 'shemilhowar'
(smell the air) except when you do, as I cannot
have a holiday." This master of mine, Nasif
Bouteji,is—alas! now I must say was,the second
son of the native C.M.S. Clergyman, Seraphim
Boutaji and a particularly fine intelligent youth
of 18. He was so kind and loveable that not
only the natives, but all the Europeans in the
place were much attached to him. He had the
manners of an English gentleman and this is
saying a very great deal, you could not under-
stand how much unless you knew the ordinary
manners of Arabs to women and ladies. As
Miss Dickson and Miss Tanner are almost the
only English ladies whom the young men of
this place have seen, one must give them very
much of the credit of any culture and refine-
ment that is observed. Of course I said we
should be glad of his company and
when Mr. Huber found that Nasif
was going he said there was no need of Yakoob.
We had a most delightful journey to Shefamar
and then skirting the Mediterranean over the
sand hills and among the palm trees, and such a
description I had stored up in my mind for you
all of the loveliness I saw, but the tragic and
terrible event I have to relate seems to have
placed all the occurrences of those two sunny days
in the far off past. Poor Nasif was in the highest
spirits, and he had dressed himself particularly
well, as he intended to have his photo. taken in
Haifa; this I am sorry to say he did not accom-
plish, as the photagraphers had left. That
evening and next morning we had a great deal
to do and many people to see. Nasif was every-
where with us, carrying our parcels and making
himself most useful. We were rather late in
leaving the town at last, and Mr. Huber's man
Lalele, who was staying behind to await Mr.
Bellamy's arrival from Beyrout by the return
steamer on Wednesday, said, as he took leave of
us, "I am afraid now you will be late at Nazareth;
from Ab Horiyele mind you none of you speak
one word. This Ab Horiyele is a place of very evil
repute for raids and robberies; and it stands at
the head of a dreadful valley, several miles in
length, of equal evil repute. The reason of La-
lele's injunction was that our voices might not
betray that women were of the party. Nasif of
course was riding with an Arab saddle, a stupid
thing fastened with cords and strings, and sev-
eral times he had to dismount because it kept
slipping round with him; also the strap of his
gun had broken so that instead of having it
slung at his back as usual, he was carrying it
before him. Both Miss Tanner and I had been
very nervous all the way about this gun. I had
heard Miss Tanner ask him if it were load-
ed, and though I did n[-]t hear the reply I
concluded and hoped from the tone of it, that it
was in the negative. However, I took good care
not to ride near the muzzle of it. We had ac-
complished about one-third of the journey, and
were perhaps a mile from Haratiyeh (Harosheth
of the Gentiles), riding altogether, Mr. Huber
in front, Miss Tanner and Nasif side by side,
and I a little behind,when Nasif's saddle twisted
and turned with him again. This time he was
unable to recover himself; in falling his gun ex-
ploded, and we saw him on his face on the
ground. Mr. Huber dismounted in a second and
went to him, calling him by name, but there
was no answer—the poor fellow was dead, the
whole charge of shot having, as we afterwards
learned from the doctor, penetrated his left lung,
below the third rib. Miss Tanner immediately
galloped to Haratiyeh for help while I remained
with Mr. Huber, trying every means of restora-
tion, if possibly there might be still any life in
the poor fellow. When at last Miss Tanner
came back with some men, Christians, that is,
not Moslems, it seemed as if there was nothing
to be done but to leave the body in their charge
and for us to get to Nazareth as quickly as we
could. But now the sun was nearly down, and
we should have all that dangerous valley to go
through in the dark, with only Mr. Huber as
protector to the party. How we got through it
I hardly know. It seemed interminable. I
whispered to Miss Tanner, as we were coming to
Sofsafch, one of the worst spots, "I will trust,
and not be afraid," but I was horribly afraid
when every moment I thought I might see the
flash of a gun from behind each bush or project-
rock we came to, or hear the clatter of horses

[Column 3]
behind us. I thought afterwards that a more
appropriate quotation for me would have been,
"What time I am afraid, I will trust in Thee;"
and through it all, we had the weight upon our
hearts of what we had left behind us and what
was before us. We had one serious fright just
after sun down, but that was owing to my igno-
rance of the customs of the country. Traveling
here after dark, if you see a party coming to-
wards you on the road, you cry out "Shou is
sole?" (Who goes there?), and the others, if
friendly, answer "Sahib" (Friend). There was
a party of natives running towards us, who
shouted to us, but I was riding in front and did
not understand them, and the noise of my
horse's feet prevented Mr. Huber hearing them.
Suddenly one of the men rushed forward and
took up a large stone to throw at
Mr. Huber. Explanations followed, but
as I cound not understand the words
and only saw the gestures, I was kept in sus-
pense as to their intentions till I saw them pre-
paring to move on. We were brought safely
through. I ask all of you to join in special
praises to our Heavenly Father for this great
mercy. I do think he must have given special
strength and understanding to our horses, for I
never saw creatures go as they did up that val-
ley. It is full of those rough stones and boulders,
and even in daylight it is wonderful how the
horses pick their way, but that night they went
on, and on, at a sort of fast shambling walk, and
not one of them, I think, made a false step, and
this at the end of such a journey. We reached
Mr. Huber's at last. Mrs. Huber was in bed
with the low, ague-fever of this country, so Mr.
Huber did not tell her anything. We had just
a cup of tea that was on the table, sent off a man
with everybody's letters and then addressed
ourselves to the terrible ordeal of conveying the
awful news to the poor father and mother.
We asked to speak to Seraphim alone. Of course,
seeing us without his son, his fears were at on[-]e
aroused. When, in a few words, Mr. Huber
had told him the sad story, the poor man seem-
ed utterly crushed, but at least all through he
has received the blow as a Christian; not so his
poor wife, who, though his wife, nominally a
Christian, has all the Arab customs and super-
stitions. She came in with wild eyes and see-
ing something was the matter, rushed at Miss
T. "Wain Nasif?" (where is Nasif) and this
she kept shrieking out all the time, not heed-
ing her husband who tried to calm her while
Mr. Huber gave some details of the story. Then
she tore off her clothes, beat with all her force
on her bare breast and rushed from room to room
pouring out volleys of imprecations on us and on
all the world; all her words of course I did not
understand, but I heard all our names and that
of "All, ali," and could be in no doubt as to how
they were being used. Then she and her daugh-
ter Julia rushed out to the door, and as soon as
the sound of wailing was heard, troops of women
flocked in and joined in the screams. The
wretched mother continued to rush backwards
and forwards, tearing her hair, rubbing her
hands in some dirty water that had been spilt
on the floor, and then all over her face. How my
thoughts flashed back to that company, "weep-
ing and wailing greatly" who had all to be "put
forth" before the Master could speak the word
which gave life to the dead. The poor father
went to the men around the door to tell them
what had happened, and send off a company to
bring home the body of his son. Then he im-
plored the crowds of women congregated in the
rooms to leave them with their grief—but no,
indeed—it is one of the women's rights of this
country to gather wherever sorrow is, like flies
around a festering sore. They squatround the ale
rooms for days and nights together and talk over
all the horrible things they have ever seen or
heard, and fabricate the wildest and vilest lies.
When we found that we could do no possible
good by remaining longer, we left; but not be-
fore the mother in her frenzy had sprung upon
Miss T. (while I was in another room) and
thrown her to the ground.
	At Mr. Huber's we mounted our horses and
slowly and sadly climbed the hill to the orphan-
age, there to have again the whole sad tale to
repeat to Mrs. Gilbert, and yet once more that
night to Esaad Daoud, who had been Nasif's
greatest friend, and who came up to hear the
truth from us. I need not say that we got no
sleep that night, and the next morning we heard
that the funeral was to be at 11. It was an al-
most impossible effort, but we thought we would
pay this mark of respect, and went to it.
	It is the custom here to take the lid off the
coffin before it is lowered into the grave, and
had I known this beforehand, I am not sure


[Column 1]
that I could have gone. It was too dreadful to
see that lifeless form again. I think that, at
that time, the day before he had been full of
life and vigor, with no thought of death or dan-
ger, and I am not sure that we did any good by
going. Then and ever since the wildest tales
have been circulated. "We had left Nasif ever
so far behind, and he was alone when the acci-
dent happened. We had left him alive; we had
left  him in the care of Moslems. We had
changed saddles with him and this had caused
the accident." These are a few of the reports
that have spread like wildfire about the town,
and though we made up our minds at last that
we would not go over the dreadful details any
more, except to satisfy reasonable people, or
Christian people or friends of the family, there
have been too many of these for us to have any
rest from the hopeless task of setting people
right. The one thing everybody harps upon is
our having left the body, and, with the terrible
experience we have now gained of Arab su-
perstition, I think we should none of us do the
same again. Still, what we should have done is
a question. If we had been able to get men
from Haratiyeh to bring it with us, we could
not have been home here till midnight, and
there would have been three houses kept in the 
most terrible anxiety. Moreover, if we had been
ever so familiar with the Arab mode of regard-
ing such things, we should hardly have expect-
ed to have to take this into account when it was
the family of the C. M. S. clergyman that was
concerned. * * * * *
And now I must relate the last iniquity of this
iniquitous government. Some time ago Esaad
Dauod told us to get rid of all our bishliks, they
were to be called in. Last week our man, Ya-
koob, came home from the market and said the 
government had announced that the bishliks,
wuzzeries and rhamsies were no longer current
coin, and that all the shops were shut. If in
England all your copper and silver coins under
five shillings were taken from you, you would be
in about our plight. We had nothing left but gold
majeedies, about seven shillings, to go on with,
and of course no trade could be done. On Sat-
urday the crier announced on the part of the
government, that the Turkish pound or lira (is-
sued at 147 piastres) was now to be 100, the
bishlik  (issued at 6¼)  to be 2½, and the other
coins in the same proportion, i. e. less than half
their former value. The piastre you must know
is a purely imaginary coin. Miss Tanner saw
one once, but in the eight years she has been
here, she has never had one in her possession;
still the value of the coinage is always reckoned
in piastres. Now, do you see the dodge of the 
government? It is nothing to the Sultan and
his advisers that trade should be paralyzed
throughout the Empire; they will take care that
the taxes are paid, and making the poor fella-
heen pay all their taxes at the new rate, is the
same thing as doubling—almost trebling—all
their taxes. We do not know whether this
tyranny is to effect all the Turkish Em-
pire, or Syria and Palestine only. We shall
hear nothing till we get our English papers.
The stray bits of news from Beyrout and Jerusa-
lem are not reliable. If it is only a piece of local
oppression you will not have heard of it: but
surely if it is to affect the whole Empire there
will be something like a revolution, and the
papers will take notice of it. I believe a reform
of the currency was to be one of the reforms so
much talked about, but England never dreamt
of such a method of initiating it. I will show
you how it works on a small scale in the limited
area of our observation. Having a well stored mag-
azine here at the Orphanage,and a good stock of ve-
getables already in the garden, we had not much
fear of suffering from starvation of trade, and
though Yakoob came from the market day after
day, "no meat to be had," that was a very small
matter, for these children (who do not care for
meat or any European dishes) compared with
the distress and even starvation their relatives
and the poor generally were enduring. You see
if they had a little money and were willing in
their extremity to part with it at its lowered
value, the tradesmen would not accept it.  Every-
body suspected a trick and very possibly when a
good part of the taxes have been got in, the gov-
ernment may raise the rate again and re-issue
the bishliks which they took at two and a half,
at their former value, six and a quarter. In Hai-
fa, the people depend almost entirely upon the
steamers for their supplies; last week, from stress
of weather, the steamer could not land her cargo
(only the mails), so there was no flour or wheat
in all the place, except with Mr. Ducks,a German
tradesman, and he would only sell for gold,
French or English. The starving people were

[Column 2]
going in companies through the streets, crying
and wailing, and some we hear are actually dy-
ing. 
	March 18.—We hear now that the lira is to re-
main at its former value—that the bishlik is to
be 3 piastres instead of 6¼,the wuzzeries 5 instead
of 7½, so our loss will be comparatively trifling if
things only stay as they are. But the wicked-
ness of it is that the very poorest are most ef-
fected by it. The bishliks are such dirty dis-
gusting coins that no one who has enough to 
change into gold would keep them by him one
hour longer than he could help; but the poor
living from hand to mouth have never more
than a few bishliks in hand at a time.
	A poor widow, the mother of our teacher
Saada, has been trying for years to recover a
large sum that was owing to her husband when
he died. She thought herself so happy last week
in getting part of this paid, but the canny debtor
had paid her in bishliks, and in a few days the
poor woman saw her little treausre dwindle
down to less than half its value.
	As a minor evil, but quite a sufficient trial of
one's temper, imagine keeping accounts here,
where we are not only subject to such things as
this, but where the currency is different in ev-
ery town. For instance Souidan sent my ac-
count for postage for the quarter. It was nomi-
nally 55 piastres, but reckoned in the government
currency it came to 77, thus making us pay
nearly half as much again for every letter as the
nominal postage. Whether we go to Haifa or
Beyrout, or Jaffa or Jerusalem,etc., etc., there is
a new currency to learn and to lose by.


