	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The scenes which are familiar to the Latter-
day Saints of an earlier day, are but little known
to those who have since been gathered from the 
different nations, nor to those who have grown
up in the peaceful valleys of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Until within a few years, the world
knew nothing of our true history. Falsehoods
were manufactured and sent out to serve the
purposes of our enemies, and apostates have been
their willing tools. The bitter prejudices felt by
the outsido world makes it almost an impossi-
bility for them to believe or become acquainted
with our faith and principles; but the history
ot this people is always interesting to the Latter-
day Saints, and incidents of our travels and ex-
perience are calculated to benefit the young and
rising generation. The spirit of unbelief which
has crept into our midst is lamentable, and a
stupor seems to have come over a portion of this
people, who, I sometimes fear, will need the
judgments of God to awaken them from its influ-
ence, and we know that they are sure to come
upon the slothful and disobedient, if they do not
repent.
	I can truly say that I feel an interest in the
welfare of all, and if some of the incidents of my
life could impress the minds of others, as they
have my own, I would feel amply repaid for
writing them. There seems to be a great curi-
osity in the minds of strangers about the “Mor-
mon” women, and I am willing, nay, anxious,
that they should know the true history of the
faithful women of Mormondom. In the brief
sketches which have been given from time to
time, the trials and sufferings of the Latter-day
Saints have scarcely been touched upon. Since
writing my reminiscences I have thought of the
names of many who lived and died for the truth.
Among these was the widow of Brother David
W. Patten. She was a noble and self-sacrificing
woman, who left all for the Gospel’s sake, and
her husband being a missionary, she was
early thrown upon her own resources, and
though she had a slight and delicate frame she
had a persevering and energetic spirit, was
neat, and naturally of a refined nature and
could not be happy in idleness. She was a
seamstress by trade and worked for her living.
The hardships and privations incident to a
Western life, particularly to the Latter-day
Saints, soon broke her down and brought on
consumption. After her husband was killed,
she, being, like the rest destitute, felt that she
must do something for her support, and not
finding anything else that she could do, conclud-
ed to take a few boarders. Among them was a
young man who, though not a member of our
Church, bore a good character, and, to be brief,
he loved her, and seeing her lonely condition,
proposed to marry her. She accepted. This
step, at the time, caused many to think her
weak in the faith. When we afterwards met
her in Quincy,Illinois, she told my parents why
she married without asking counsel, said she
was no longer able to work and had no one to
take care of her, and she knew what the counsel
would be if she asked it, and not wishing to dis-
obey, she did iton her own responsibility. As
soon as he heard and-understood the Gospel he
received it. After father came, to us in Qniney,
they having a house with two rooms, gave us
one to live in while father went up to Com-
merce to prepare a place for us. His name was
Bentley, he was a carpenter by trade, industri-
ous and well able to provide everything she
needed, or desired, and though a number of
years younger than she, he was perfectly devot-
ed to her, and his study by day and by night
was to make her comfortable. No one could
show greater love and tenderness toward a wife
than he did, until her spirit took itsflightwhich,
if I remember rightly, was the second year after
the Saints settled at Nauvoo. He lived but a
few years after her death. She was an exem-
plary woman, and enjoyed the love and respect
of all who knew her. While we were living
with them in Quincy, when I was about ten
years of age, I had a severe attack of fever, and
a heavy storm coming on, the weather was
quite cold, and not having a fire-place in the
room, mother pieced a kettle of live coals in the
centre of the apartment. Just as she stepped
out into the other room, my little brother, aged
about four years, came in and accidentally fell
into the kettle, and burned him badly. I was so
frightened that I was upon the point of leaping
out of bed when mother heard him scream, but
he sprang out before she got into the room and
cried for her to anoint him with the, conse-

[Column 2]
crated oil. She immediately administered it,
and was silently praying, when he cried, “Pay
loud.” She obeyed him, and in a few minutes
he was sound asleep.  He never cried from the
burn after the oil was administered, and it was
healed from that moment. What a pity we
cannot always have faith like a little child, and
instead of calling upon doctors who have no
faith in the ordinances, call on the Great Physi-
cian, who giveth freely to all and upbraideth
not. When we can do this, there will be less
suffering and fewer graves to weep over.
	In the month of July, father moved us up to
Commerce; he pulled down an old log stable be-
longing to a Rro. Bozier, about one mile from
the river, and laid up the logs at the end of the
Bozier house (which had a number of rooms and
contained several families; he put on a few
shakes” to cover it, but it had no floor or chink-
ing; when it rained the water stood near ankle
deep on the ground; the chimney of the other
house, being built on the outside, served us as a
fireplace. My mother, not liking the dirt floor,
had a few little boards laid down to serve as a
substitute. I remember the evening of the 23d
of August, 1839,we were visited by a heavy rain
storm, and those boards floated on the water;
My mother had bread light and ready to bake in
a tin oven or reflector, and it had to be propped
up so as to bake the bread before the fire, which
was built upon andirons. Under these
peculiar circumstances I was allowed to go and
stop with one of our neighbors, and when
I returned in the morning I was informed that
a little stranger had arrived that night. This
was truly a wonderful event and created quite a
sensation in our midst. He was named after
David Patten, and although born in a stable, he
was a prince in our estimation.  This was their
sixth child, four of whom were then living.
Father purchased five acres of woodland from
Hyrum Kimball, and Brother Parley P. Pratt
purchased the same number of acres adjoining.
They went to work and cut logs and invited a
few of the old citizens; viz.: Brother Bozier Squire
Wells, Louis Robinson and others, to assist in
putting up their houses, as our people were
mostly prostrated by sickness. Brother Pratt
soon sold out his improvements and went with
his family on a mission to England. Father was
building his chimney and had just got to the ridge
of the house when he was taken down with
chills arid fever. The hardships and exposures
consequent on beidg driven from Missouri in the
winter, had made the Saints easy subjects for
the ague to prey upou in that swampy country;
nearly all were taken down, one after another,
and the ones who were not shaking or delirious
with fever, would do their best towards waiting
upon those that were. Many had to see their
dear ones die and not one of the family able to
follow them to their last resting place; hundreds
were lying sick in tents and wagons. The Pro-
phet visited and administered words of consola-
tion and often made tea and waited upon them
himself and sent members of his own family
who were able to go, to nurse and comfort the
sick and sorrowful. He was often heard to say
that the Saints who died in consequence of the
persecutions, were as much martyrs as the ones
who were killed in defence of the Saints or mur-
dered at Haun's Mill. There are many living
martyrs who remember those days and some
will yet wear a martyr’s crown. The powers of
darkness seemed to have combined to put a stop
to the work of the Almighty, but Satan’s plans
have always been frustrated, and they always
will be.
	One night while we were living in the Bozier
House, we were awakened by our mother, who
was struggling as though nearly choked to death.
Father asked her what was the matter, when
she could speak, she replied, that she dreamt
that a personage came and seized her by the
throat and was choking her. He lit a candle
and saw that her eyes were sunken and her nose
pinched in, as though she were in the last-stage
of cholera. He laid his hands upon her head
and rebuked the spirit in the name of Jesus, and
by the power of the holy Priesthood commanded
it to depart. In a moment afterwards, some
half a dozen children in other parts of the house
were heard crying, as if in great distress; the
cattle began to bellow and low, the horses to
neigh and whinnow, the dogs barked, hogs
squealed, and the fowls and everything around
were in great commotion, and in a few minutes
my father was called to lay hands on Sister
Bently,the widow of David Patten, who lived in
the next room. She was seized in a similar man-
ner to my mother. They continued quite feeble
for seyeral days from the shock.

[Column 2]
	One day after this circumstance had taken
place, my father was visiting the Prophet. In
his diary he says: “He took me a walk by the
river side and requested me to relate the occur-
rence at the Bozier house. I did so; and also told
him the vision of evil spirits in England on the
opening of the Gospel to that people. After I
had done this, I asked what all these things
meant and whether or no there was anything
wrong in me. “No, Brother Heber; at that
time when you were in England, you was then
nigh unto the Lord. There was only a vail be-
tween you and Him, but you could not see Him.
When I heard it, it gave me great joy, for I then
knew that the work of God had taken root in the
land; it was this that caused the Devil to make
a struggle to kill you.” Joseph then said, the
nearer a person approaches the Lord, a greater
power would be manifest by the Devil to pre-
vent the accomplishment of the purposes of God.
He then gave me a relation of many contests
that he had had with Satan, and his power had
been made manifest from time to time since the
commencement of bringing forth the Book of
Mormon.”
	In another place he says: “I crossed the river
to Commerce with several of the Twelve, and as
I was standing by the railing of the boat, look-
ing at thebeautiful site of Nauvoo,and I remark-
ed, ‘It is a very pretty place, but not a long
abiding place for the Saints.' These remarks
reached Elder Rigdon and family, and caused
them to feel somewhat sad, as they were well
situated in a nice stone house built by Dr. Isaac
Galland, and otherwise comfortably situated.
When we met in council in Joseph’s house, the
case of 	*		*		"was brought up for in-
vestigation and disposed of in a summary man-
ner. Elder Rigdon then arose and said he had
some feelings toward Elder Kimball, saying, I
should suppose that Elder Kimball had passed
through suffering and privations, mobbings and
drivings enough to learn to prophecy good of
Israel.’ I began to expect I was going to receive
quite a chastisement from Elder Rigdon, know-
ing his peculiar temperament, I arose upon my
feet and said, ‘President Rigdon, I’ll prophecy
good concerning you, all the time, if you can get
it?’ On hearing that, Joseph had a hearty laugh
with the brethren, when Elder Rigdon yielded
the point."


