SEEK A REWARD.

	'Tis early morning as I sit here at my window
watching the golden sun slowly rise above the
mountain tops, and listening to the sweet song-
sters of the forest just beginning their day's
work and warbling such sweet notes; and the
cocks just calling up the traveler and the toiler,
I seem to be filled with a spirit of love for all
mankind, but more especially for my Creator.
Oh, how merciful and how good is God. How
beautiful is this earth! how wicked are many of
the people. We have trials to endure but we
have a reward to gain; and how few of us care
for the reward if only we can escape the trials;
but how trifling are these trials compared with
the great reward, salvation. What a word is
that, oh, how great, how comforting. What
bcots it, if the path of life is rugged and its
steeps are hard to climb? The earth also is rug-
ged and its steeps are hard to climb, but as God
has given us power to mount these great
heights of nature so will He give us power to
mount the rugged steps of life; and grateful
ought we to be to Him that He has given us
trials, by which to gain a reward, for rewards
given, not earned, are little appreciated. I had
a dream one day, not in my sleep, but a waking
dream and if you like I will tell you of it. 'Twas
a lovely afternoon and the sky was as blue as
ever and the air was fragrant with the scent of
flowers, and the melodious song of the meadow-
lark, the thrush and the humming bird rang
sweetly in my ear; the earth was so beautiful
with its waving grass, its flowers, its lakes and
streams, its mountains and dells. All nature
seemed to join in praise to the Creator and my
soul joined harmoniously with nature.
	As I strolled along, I stopped near a cool and
silvery stream and there pillowed my head on
the turf and sank into a sweet reverie. There
in a lovely valley where all was happiness and
joy were collected from all parts beautiful little
children. Surely, thought I, this must be the
vale of my childhood's dream, this must be fairy-
land, for they are all so happy and so beautiful,
and so perfect and so good. As I watched I saw
a portal where the little ones had entered, and
I beheld a weary young traveler, standing as
though waiting for admission; presently a dear,
kind old man walked to the portal and opened
it. "May I come in," the child asked, "I am so
tired, for I have carried this lame back all my
life and my legs are so weak and weary, and I
want a little rest!" The old man opened wide the
gate and said, "Come in, my dear young friend,
you have earned the rest you seek and you
shall find it here." He entered and his weakness
seemed to leave him and his lame back grew
strong and then I lost sight of him in this beau-
tiful throng, for he grew like the rest and he
joined in the dance and sports and pastimes
and all seemed happiness again. Presently the
portal opened again and a little girl softly
felt her way along until she touched the dear
old man. Then she said, "Please, sir, may I
come in. I am very weary, and my way is so

[Column 2]
hard to go; for I am blind?" The old man kiss-
ed the little child and said, "Come my darling
and I will show you such lovely sights and you
shall join with my merry children in the dance."
But the little girl said, "O master, I cannot see
these lovely sights for I have been blind all my
life and I have so longed to see the dear blessed
earth and sky and the many pretty things of
nature;" and the old man answered, "Yes, my
child you have endured much and now we will
throw away the mist from your eyes and you
shall enter and join with the children." She
entered the gate and saw the pretty sights and
joined in the dance, and I lost sight of her for
she become like the rest. So again and again
the gate opened and others were ushered in yet
none entered with a burden, all these were left
behind. Some laid down bundles of sorrow
they had borne, but all burdens great and small
were left behind, and all who entered became
blithe and merry and joined in the dance and
true enjoyment of the beautiful place. Once I
looked when the old man was talking earnestly
with one whom, it seemed, could not enter, what
is this, thought I, the child is beautiful and yet
she cannot enter. In a moment I heard the old
man say, "My child, you have no burden, you
do not even sorrow for those you have left be-
hind, go back to the world and earn a reward.
Tarry longer on the earth and you will meet
with sorrows and many will be the rocks that
fall in your way, and when you come again you
shall have the reward that you have earned."
The child turned away little caring for she had
no sorrow or burden and of course she was light,
free and happy, but this had been the first re-
buff, this was the first rough place in her path,
but she stumbled many a time on her way for I
watched her as far as the eye could reach. I
seemed to lay in a trance and for a long, long
time I watched the happy throng. As I looked,
again the portal opened and the old man laid
his hand upon the little child that he had sent
back to earn her reward. I heard her softly
whisper, "Oh master, let me in, I am so very
weary now. I went back and found
my way so hard. Many taunted me
and called me proud and vain and wicked, and I
had become so, but no one ever told me and I
did not know that it was wrong till I came here,
but I bore the taunts and I tried to overcome
my pride and vanity and now may I come in?"
The old man gently took the burden from the
child and ushered her into the valley of happi-
ness, and she joined in the happy dance and
pastimes. A mist came before me now and the
joyous scene passed from before me. For a long time
I lay almost insensible, then I arose and thanked
God for what I had seen. Yes, arose feeling bet-
ter prepared now for my life's journey and the
burden laid upon all, of which I must bear my
share. O friends take warning from this little
picture, and do not frown and murmur because
you have burdens to bear, for if you have no bur-
den to lay at the portal of heaven, the gates of
that glorious place will not be open to you, and
the keeper will say "Go back to earth, and
bravely earn a reward, before you expect to enter
here and receive one."					W.


