HOME AFFAIRS.

	RELIEF Society blanks at the Deseret News
Office.
	"LIFE Incidents," by Helen Mar Whitney,
also "Jesse Burns" are crowded out of this issue,
but will appear in our next number.
	THE Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are requested to send in reports from
October last to March 6th, as the Stake Secretary
wishes to compile them for the April Confer-
ence.
	OFFICERS of Primary Associations in the Ter-
ritory and throughout the Stakes of Zion, are
expected to report the same as R. S. and Y. L.
M. I. A. and direct their communications to
Lillie Freeze, Secretary of Central Board P. A

[Column 2]
	THE second edition of Primary Hymn Books,
edited by Eliza R. Snow, are now ready for sale.
Orders from the country which have been lay-
ing over will now be attended to promptly. For
sale at this office, Deseret News and Juvenile
Instructor. The ready sale of the first edition is
the best recommendation the book could have.
	A PLEASING concert was given in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday evening,
Feb. 24, for the benefit of the Sunday School.
The programme conisted of songs, duets, quar-
tets, recitations, instrumental music, &c., all of
which were carefully selected and well rendered,
and the affair was altogether a successful one.

	THE Conference of Relief Societies, Y. L. M
I. A. and Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake, will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday and Saturday, March 18 and
19. It is earnestly requested by the presiding
sisters of these organizations that there be a full
attendance, and that all reports be sent in be-
forehand.

	AN entertainment will be given in the Social
Hall for the benefit of the 18th Ward Sunday
School, on Friday evening, March 11., consisting
of a laughable farce, entitled "My wife's Bon-
net," and the popular operetta "A Capital Joke."
Edith Clawson, Soprano; Louie Wells, Contral-
to; H. G. Whitney, Tenor; J. D. Spencer, Bass.
It will be a fine entertainment.

	THE Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. are
requested by order of the President Central Board,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, to forward full reports from
date of organization, where none have been giv-
en, to October last, and also reports from October
[-]past to March 6th of the present year. Will sec-
retaries please govern themselves accordingly,
and send in the reports in time for the coming
Conference, March 19, to Louie Wells, Secretary
Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.

	THE "Evening News," published in Phila-
delphia, makes a notice, under the heading of
"Youthful Orators," of an entertainment given
by the National School of Elocution and Ora-
tory, in the halls of the Institution, Monday
evening, Feb. 7, in which favorable mention is
made of Miss Martha Paul Hughes, of this city,
a recent graduate of Ann Arbor University with
the title M. D. She gave the selection "Beauti-
ful Snow," it is said, with scholarly ability.

	ON Friday evening, March 4, the day of the
inauguration, the tragedy of Macbeth will be
performed in the Theatre in this city, for the
benefit of David McKenzie, the popular and fa-
vorite star actor, who was quite the rage when
he followed the profession. Of course it will be
a success in the rendering of Macbeth by Mr.
McKenzie; and no doubt Miss Nellie Colebrook,
whose talent for the stage is well known will
enact Lady Macbeth in a natural and easy man-
ner. Everybody should patronize the Theatre
on the 4th of March. Go and see McKenzie as
Macbeth.

	SATURDAY evening, Feb. 19, the public were
treated to a fine entertainment of readings in
the Theatre, by Miss Alice Hamill, Miss Ada
Dwyer and Mr. Harry Hamill. Miss Alice
Hamill is a finished reader, so far as scholarly
ability is concerned, and she has also the genius
which is rendered meritorious by cultivation.
Miss Ada Dwyer has been reared in Utah, and
of course the people here naturally take a great
interest in her improvement. She quite exceed-
ed the expectations of her friends, who, knowing
how short a time she had been studying the
science of elocution, were surprised to see how
well she rendered her parts. She has a fresh
and vivacious manner, and a very pleasing, rich
voice. She did best (we think) in "A little Girl's
Views of Life in a Hotel" and in "Christmas at


the Quarters," though she certainly did very
well in all. We congratulate Miss Ada on her
success in her debut before a Salt Lake audience.
She has proven she has talent and ability for
the profession she has chosen; by patient appli-
cation and persistent study she may rise to the
supreme height of excellence in the art of read-
ing, which is a most happy attainment.


