CONTINUED.

	It seems to me I have anticipated a part of
my subject; I ought to have named that just
before affairs arrived at this climax with
Sarah her father died. This made quite a
change in the situation of the family; the
widow had to remove from the old homestead,

[Column 2]
as of course the eldest son became heir and
took possession. She was left in circumstances
raised above all want, but still with compara-
tively small means. She had a house built for
herself and two daughters, to which she retired,
These events somewhat aroused the dormant
faculties of Sarah, but as soon as they were
settled in their new home, all exertion ceased
on her part to arouse herself, and then com-
menced the lethargy I have forestalled in my
last section.
	Such a pitch of excitement did the affair
create, that the parochial authorities took it in
hand. Imposition and fraud, making money
by allowing her daughter to be visited, were
the stigmatizing accusations thrown upon the
poor mother. Watchers were placed day and
night to make observations, and to see that no
sustenance was given to her. The "Cambridge
Chronicle" issued a column headed "Sarah
Carter," in which the depositions of the watch-
ers were given, and remarks thereon. Nothing
was elicited that could in any way designate a
fraud. The medical men tried many experi-
ments as far as the poor mother would allow
them, one of which was croton oil; at one
time vomiting was produced, which ejected
food that had lain undigested in the stomach
for some weeks. It was also proposed to drop
flaming sealing wax upon her, but all such
torture her mother positively forbade; and
quite right too.
	A lady of title, of a very high and noble
family was a daily visitor to the house. She
was a woman of a sweet, angelic nature, and
was throughout an angel in disguise to that
afflicted family. She said to a friend: "I feel
there is no deception; I myself, when sitting
quietly by her bed, and watching her sleeping
form alone, have tried little strategems upon
her, such as suddenly striking her face or
hands with my pocket handkerchief, but I
never saw the least start, or even a thrill, pass
over her, no more than if I had struck a
corpse."
	At last the Faculty gave in and owned it
was "one of their opprobriums!" They con-
fessed that it appeared to them that "the finger
of God was upon her," and so they retired.
Doctor Ficklin would often call in, and the
poor mother seemed to like to see him, for he
was ever kind and ever a gentleman; he would
be permitted to walk into that silent room and
view the sleeping girl. Lady Godolphin never
forsook the mother. Every week, when not at
her town residence, might be seen her beautiful
equipage standing at Mrs. Carter's gate, while
she was talking to and comforting her, and al-
ways sitting some little time bythe somnambula I
who lay sleeping calm as a summer morning,
and really growing beautiful and etherealized
by her marvelous somnambulism. I first saw
her when she had lain in that state about three
or four years. How well I remember the visit
and the feeling of awe with which I stood at
the foot of the bed. I was very young then
and had never looked but on one corpse; this
appeared to me as the second. The house-
keeper of our family accompanied me; she was
one who knew nothing about nerves, or what
is commonly defined fine feelings, though by
no means deficient in humanity. She at once
made friends with Mrs. Carter, and I did what
I could to assure her of my sympathy by hold-
ing her hand with a warm pressure in mine for
some minutes; and I believe she understood
me, for from that time her door was ever open
to me, when she had closed it to all except
those she knew were her friends, and I respect-
ed her for it, and she seemed to know it. A
few questions were asked by my companion, in
a low voice, and they were answered in the
same. I saw her no more until she awoke
from her long slumber, which happened at the
end of seven years!!
	Lady Godolphin was sitting by the bedside,

[Column 3]
when she observed the eyelids of the girl
slightly tremble, and the body gently show
signs of returning animation. Lady G. called
gently and said: "Mrs. Carter, your daughter
is waking!" Judge the electric shock to the
two ladies, both fond, devoted mothers.
	From that time life and animation returned
slowly, but surely; her mind, weak as that of
an infant, her body helpless—but both seemed
to grow and expand, like the mind of a child,
until she was in the full possession of her men-
tal faculties. She still continued her reclining
position, the lower limbs retaining great weak-
ness and inertia; at last she was daily lifted
from her bed to a sofa placed beside it; her
mother being her sole nurse, and performing
all those offices, with assiduous and loving de-
votion; indeed, it appeared that she became to
her a "consecrated shrine," whereon she ex-
pended her maternal worship; and Sarah be-
came her preacher and her teacher, her Bishop
and her Cardinal! and though the clergyman
of the village visited her occasionally, I am
not sure that she allowed him to see her daugh-
ter; I feel sure she made him feel that she tol-
erated him merely as one to whom custom had
rendered courtesy, and not as being of any as-
sistance or edification to her or her household!
	That child that I portrayed in the little
quaint dress must surely have had the germs
of a lady in her little form, for she developed
from her sleep into a polished lady. She ap-
peared a queen holding her levee, calm, cour-
teous and polite to all! Yes, and all felt they
were in the presence of a being whose life was
something apart from common every day life.
The grand and the noble that visited her felt
she was their peer; and with the tact of genuine
nobility, at once yielded to her the palm, and
stooped their crest to her as one ennobled by
affliction that was so unique that all put the
finger on the lip, and waited for the few words
that issued from her mouth. What was there
in that simple girl, in her simple, homely room,
her simple white wrapper, all so entirely un-
ruffled that the beholder marveled how the
robing had ever been accomplished. Every-
thing about her was remarkable! at no moment
did it seem she could be taken unprepared; her
pillows like a heap of snow for whiteness, no
furbelows about them, or any pretentions to
them; her dress the same, the simple plaited
frill passing round the neck and down the
bosom of the wrapper, with the wrists match-
ing; this was all the ornamental trimming. A
cap—yes, that cap, let me not forget it; Titian
would not have forgotten it, he would have
made that whole form a Madonna, that would
have filled his studio with an admiring crowd
The cap, with a broad plaited frill, that sat
round that pure face like a little bonnet, and
the rich, dark hair banded over the pure broad
white forehead completed the costume. She
ever sat in her bed in a reclining position, her
hands lapping over each other, and generally
a little gem of a book, a gift of course; or a
letter just received, or a choice bouquet, sent by
some (elegant, loving heart, lay close by them.
The bed pure and white as "unsunned snow,"
not a spot or wrinkle ever upon it. Here, to
me, was ever the mystery; but so it was. A
chair always placed by the right side of the bed
for the choice visitor—seldom more than one
was admitted at one time. As the visitor ap-
proached, the right hand would be gently, ex-
tended, a smile of welcome, and you were in
the presence of Sarah Carter.

To be Continued.


MR. Cross, husband of George Eliot, de-
ceased, is preparing a biography of the life and
works of that eminent woman. There will no
doubt be a great demand for the book, as so
little is known of this acknowledged genius of
the nineteenth century.


