DEPUTATION TO MR. MASON M. P.

	On Thursday, January 20th, a deputation of
members representing the various branches of
the National Society for Woman's Suffrage
waited upon Mr. Hugh Mason, M. P. for Ash-
ton-under-Lyne, at his apartments in Fenton's
Hotel, to ask him to accept the leadership of
the movement in the House of Commons, in
the place of Mr. Leonard Courtney, who has
accepted office in the Government. Repres-
entatives were present from the various com-
mittees in all parts of the kingdom, and
amongst the ladies who met Mr. Hugh Mason
at Fenton's Hotel, St. Jame's-street, London,
were Miss Becker, Mrs. Dumcan M'Laren, Miss
Davenport Hill, Mrs. Hoggan, M. D., Miss C.
A. Biggs, Mrs. Lindsay from Belfast, Mrs.
Cameron from Glasgow, Mrs. Edward Parker
of Dundee, Mrs. Lucas, Miss Downing, the Vis-
countess Harberton, Miss Babb, Mrs. Ashton
Dilke, Mrs. Charle M'Laren, Miss Thornbury,
Mrs. M'Donald, &c. Amongst the gentlemen
present interested in the movement were Mr.
Thomasson, M. P. for Bolton, Dr. Cameron, M.
P. for Glasgow, Mr. S. Morley, M. P. for Bris-
tol, and Sir David Wedderburn, M. P.
	Mr. THOMASSON, M. P., who introduced the
deputation, said that no doubt many of those
present were already well known to Mr. Ma-
son. He did not think that under the circum-
stances he need say anything beyond that he
heartily concurred in the object which the de-
putation had in view. (Applause.)
	Miss BECKER said that on behalf of the
Manchester Committee she had been unani-
mously deputed to formally invite Mr. Mason
to accept the leadership of the woman's suff-
rage movement. She had had an opportunity of
explaining the views of the association to Mr.

[Column 2]Mason, and she would therefore, leave it with
the representatives of the other branches con-
nected with the society to lay their views be-
fore him. (Hear, hear.)	*	*	*
	Mr. HUGH MASON, M. P., in reply: Miss
Becker, ladies, and gentlemen,—Since my
name has been mentioned as a member of Par-
liament who is likely to take up this question
which Mr Leonard Courtney had in hand dur-
ing the last two or three years, I have received
from one or more of my intelligent constituents
at Ashton-under-Lyne what I may call a slap in
the face for having ventured to give any kind of
promise that I would take up this question. I
have been told that, judging from what has
hitherto taken place in Ashton-under-Lyne, I
would lose my seat if women were admitted to
the franchise. In that town, I am informed,
there have been hundreds of women on the
burgess list, and it has been found that they
mainly vote for the Tories; therefore. I am
further informed, they would not vote for me
if they were enfranchised parliamentarily.
My answer was very prompt and very decided
to a remonstrance of that kind, and I simply
said that women had a right to the franchise,
and however they might use their vote it was
nothing at all to do with me. I said they were
quite as capable as men of forming a judgment
upon political questions, and that I had just as
much confidence in the women as I had in the
men. I added—"whether the result should be
that the women will vote against me and turn
me out of Parliament or not, it is a matter of
perfect indifferance to me so long as they exer-
cised the franchise honestly, as I believed they
would." (Hear, hear.) If I have any misgiv-
ings about acceding to your request, and I say
it without any false modesty, it rises entirely
from a doubt as to my ability to do justice to
this important question, and justify the appli-
cation which you are so unanimously making
to me. (Hear, hear.) You know that I am a
new man in Parliament, and I have a great
deal to learn. Yet I am not new to political
matters of various kinds. I told my friend
Mr. Leonard Courtney a few days ago, when I
was talking to him on this question, that if I
was an intellectual giant like him I should feel
very much greater confidence in venturing to
become the leader of this important question
and doing my best with it; but although I am
so much inferior a man in intellectual and
mental capacity, I now say, and I told Mr.
Courtney, I yield neither to him nor any oiher
man in showing an earnestness in promoting
this question to the utmost of my ability.
(Applause.) I intend to prove my honesty of
purpose by showing a determination to further
the interests of this society. (Applause.) If
sincerity, honesty, and earnestness will accom-
plish what the ladies wish to accomplish, I can
only say that I most sincerely hope and believe
that the present Parliament will perform this
great act of justice and enfranchise woman.
(Applause.) You are aware, ladies, that there
is a great block in the House of Commons ow-
ing to Irish questions occupying so much time.
Now I am doing what I can, by standing
steadily by the Government, to enable them to
bring the Irish questions before the House.
Sir Wilfrid Lawson has an important amend-
ment to bring before the House, and though I
am entirely with him, as I am with one or two
of the amendments brought forward by the
Irish members, abstractedly—for I yield to no
one in the desire to do justice to Ireland—still,
seeing that the Irish questions are blocking the
way to the consideration of most important
English questions, I can only see one course for
myself to take, and that is to support the Gov-
ernment, and thus get rid of the present block
to public business. That is the course I have
decided to take. I may inform you that I am
not unacquainted with the question that you
wish me to take in hand. I have been con-

[Column 3]
nected with the association, and also a sub-
scriber to it almost since the day it was formed;
and I think Miss Becker will do me the justice
to say that not only have I subscribed to this
particular association, but that there are two
other associations in which I take an interest.
I am, of course, new to Parliamentry work and
I shall have to bespeak your indulgence, and
ask you to give me all the assistance you pos-
sibly can in the duty which now lies before me.
I accede to this public request with great pleas-
ure indeed. (Applause.) I esteem it a great
honor to have been asked to undertake the duty,
and to have been waited upon by a deputation
so large, so influential, and so representative;
and if anything could encourage me in the
work, it is the fact that so many ladies in this
inclement weather have travelled so long a
distance to ask me earnestly to undertake the
duty. I do not think I can say anything more
beyond reading the resolution which the ladies
desire I should put on the parliamentary paper
immediately, so that friends in the country
may know that the work is not resting. That
resolution is: "That in the opinion of this
House the parliamentary franchise should be
extended to women who possess the qualifica-
tions which entitle men to vote, and who in all
matters of local government have the right of
voting." I will do my best with this resolution,
and if I fail in persuading this new House of
Commons—I do not think the House is going
against us at all, I have great confidence in it
—to accept it, it will not be for want of earnest
devotion to the duty I have undertaken. I
feel the great responsibility of it and I will do
my best to bring the work to a successful issue.
)Applause.)	*	*	*	Woman's
Suffrage Journal, Eug.


