AN ADRESS.

	Bg Ruthinda E. Monch, in behalf of the Re-
lief Societies and Mutual Imprbvement Assocea-
tions of the Weber Stake of Zion, on the 77th
Annivvrsary of the Birth of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith.
To ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
	DEAR SISTER:—We have met this evening
to celebrate the 77th anniversary of your birth-
day. To us you are a bright shining star in
Zion, and we feel, in justice to the noble work
you have done among the sisters of Israel, and
in this Stake particularly, that it is but befitt-
ing for us to show you, in this feeble way, our
appreciation of your services. Your wise coun-
sels have been given without money and with-
out price; yet they are sacred and of far more
value than the riches the world can afford.
How often when overtaken with trials, and
bowed down with grief has your timely advice
and words of comfort brought peace and heav-
enly solace to the aching heart! It is your good
fortune to carry the balm that heals the wound
the anodyne that soothes the pain, the clear
and beautiful light to guide the obedient, virtu-
ous, faithful and true. The secret of all is this,
you have in rich abundance the spirit and in-
fluence of our just Father in Heaven, who never
fails to reward his obedient children, as he has
you, for it is well known to us all, that you
have been obedient to all the requirements
made of you and therefore you are now in your
old age beloved and cherished by your sisters,
honored and respected by your brethren,
esteemed and highly favored by God our Eter-
nal Father.
	Like your honored husband, you have done
a noble work among your sex and you are,
therefore, truly worthy to stand with him, side
by side, upon Mount Zion with the faithful of
God's chosen few.

Beloved sister, thou art dear
To all the Saints assembled here;
Honored, cherished, pure and bright,
To all mankind a shining light.
Thy counsel wise doth teach the heart,
And light and truth and peace impart.
We do delight to hear thy voice,
For well we know thou'rt Heaven's choice.
Thy praises sung in prose and rhyme
Have echoed forth in every clime
Sweet anthems to the Lord and King,
Till old and young its muses sing.
Let us then clasp that aged hand
That hath such blessings at command,
And fondly love our sister dear--
A mother true to all that's here;
And may her years yet numbered be
Till Zion's standard wafts as free
As mountain breeze that sweeps the plain,
Or boundless waves that surge the main,
And all mankind shall bow the knee
In humble prayer to Trinity.

From the Ogden Junction.


