NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Queen has ordered a painting of the
"Capture of Cetywayo."

	Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild has a new neck-
lace, which, although it is only a single row of
pearls, is valued at $100,000. One of her hus-
band's bridal gifts was a pleasant little sum of
$2,500 for distribution among the Jewish chari-
ties at Vienna.

	IN the United States Senate last week the
statue of the late Senator Collamer, of Ver-
mont, was presented to the United States, to
be placed in the national statuary hall set
apart for two statues of representative, men
from each State.

	A NEW painting by Titian has been discov-
ered in the Austrian Chateau d' Ambras, where
it hung unnoticed for many years. It is a life-
sized portrait of the wife of the emporer
Charles V. There are said to be full proofs of
the authenticity of the work, which has been
taken to Vienna.

	A NEW work by Ouida, entitled, "A Village
Commune," is now in active preparation. It
consists of a passionate protest against the ap-
plication to regenerated Italy of the Code Na-
poleon and a picture of the kind of oppression
to which, according to the author, the peasants
are now subjected. Messrs. Chatto and Windus
will be the printers.

	THE Joseph Hume scholarship in political
economy has been awarded by the council of
University College, London, to Miss Ada
Heatherbigg, LL. A., St. Andrews, and moral
science scholar 1877 (Cambridge higher local
examination). This is the first time that the
Hume scholarship in political economy has
been carried off by a lady.

	COLONEL Jerome Bonaparte and his wife
are now living in Washington and entertaining
a great deal. Mrs. Bonaparte—a grand-
daughter of Daniel Webster—is a clever and
charming woman. She dresses magnificently,
and often wears beautiful jewels, a large share
of which descended to her from the late Eliza-
beth Patterson Bonaparte.

	MRS. Erastus S. Gaylord is a Cleveland (O.)
lady of note, now in her eighty-first year. At
her grandson's wedding a few days ago General
Garfield was receiving with family friends.
When Mrs. Gaylord made her adieu to the
President elect she said: "My leave taking to
you is pax-tibi, but I suppose many would say
instead, 'Remember me when thou comest into
thy kingdom.' "


