F. A. C. JAN. 7th, 1881.

"Shew me the path of life."
She "asked of thee life and thou gavest it."

Was this thy prayer! beloved,
When standing 'neath the em'rald arch
Of thy sweet  springtime, thou didst gaze,
Adown the vista of the years to be, and through
The dim haze caught the dawning blush,
Of rosy summer suns, that heralded
The full orbed glory of thy royal womanhood.
And as thy white-winged thoughts,
Pure, spotless as the lily-bud, which amorous winds
Have scarcely dared  to kiss, sped through
The paths of knowledge, to the fane,
Where learning sits enthroned—and gathered thence,
Sweet inspirations rife with future good;
And youth passed like a joyous song;
Did the petition rise,  that he who in the aeons past,
Created Life, thy tender feet would guide,
Along the path untried, untrodden yet,
Through which thy happy spirit should,
At last attain the Evermore—
And when upon the radiant loveliness
Of thy meridian fell the mystic charm
Of love, that in the loved one lives; and stirred
The hidden depths of thy sweet nature
To a tremulous calm, thy spirit rose
From fiery baptism to newer life,
In which all selfish aims and purposes
Were lost.
	Thy busy hands
Took up the loom of life, and wove therein,
A web of fairest texture, violet-hued,
And flecked with many a thread,
Of gold and silver sheen, in kindly deeds
And words of loving helpfulness
To those who called thee friend,
The benison of this prayer,
In thy self consecration, brooded
Dove-like within  thy gentle breast,
And  in  thy dreams existence held
Nothing so bright, so beautiful  as love—
And love was life.
	Time passed—
And on thy fair white brow,
Was placed the royal crown of motherhood—
The keystone of the arch of earthly life—
And waxen finger-tips with their soft pressure
Thrilled thy woman heart with extasy unutterable.

	God called thee then,
And the full choral of thy life's sweet hymn,
Set to celestial music, was intoned
By choirs invisible, and thou didst join
That radiant throng whose harmonies,
Ne'er reached our dull and earth-stopped ears.
He heard thy prayer and answered it.
We 'neath the cloud of sorrow,  cried
With bitter woe, "Her life is done."

	With tear-blinded eyes,—
We could not see the azure bars, through which
The glory rifted as thou entered in,
Nor hear the pealing anthems that did hail,
Thy soul's Apotheosis.
Thou hast reached the fount of life divine!
The golden chalice of thy soul is filled
With its full tide, and pearly drops o'erflowing
Bring healing balm to stricken hearts below.
In thy bright home, forget us not,
But let the electric chain of love,
That binds thee to the Father's great white throne,
Drop golden links to weld our souls to thee.
And may the light of thy bright life,
Beam starlike o'er the path we too must tread.

	Kind angels guard,
Thy sleeping dust until the resurrection morn,
When clothed with immortality, and crowned
With endless lives, we too shall clasp thy hand,

[Column 2]
And walk with thee the golden streets
Of that fair city where the living never die.
	E. B. FERGUSON.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
	LIVING LINKS:
	OR
