SUBJECT.

	"Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know
them."—Matt., vii, 6.

	These words of our Savior, given to his disci-
ples when he was upon the earth, by which they
might know men, are just as good to-day, for
the Latter-day Saints to be guided by, as they
were for the former day Saints eighteen hundred
years ago. Judging by this rule the actions of
the "Liberal Party," their fruits are very appar-
ent as persecutors of the Saints. What other
motive could Gov. Murray have had, in giving
the certificate of election to Mr. Campbell, and
then fleeing the country? His guilty conscience
needed no accusing (if he has any conscience it
must be very small); if he had heaped such an
indignity upon any other people, he well knew
what the result would be. The words of the
proverb are very significant in this case, for
"The wicked fleeth when no man pursueth."
The Latter-day Saints are not the people to take
the law in their own hands to redress their
wrongs, but leave all things in the hands of a
just God, Who has said, "Vengeance is mine
and I will repay." The Latter-day Saints can
wait for that time to come, as it surely will
come, when "the sinners in Zion will tremble,
and fearfulness will surprise the hypocrite."
Then the Lord "will laugh at their calamity and
mock when their fear cometh."
	But to return to the subject. Who is A. G.
Campbell? How long has he been in the coun-
try? How much correct information has he ob-
tained about the people called "Mormons," whom
he is so anxious to represent in Congress? Not
much, I think, by the company he keeps. The
first I heard of him was his jumping a mining
claim, and losing the case in Court. The next I
hear, he is trying to usurp the place of Delegate
Cannon. And to dishonesty he adds falsehood
and misrepresentation, giving as an excuse for
his failure in securing the election numerically,
the "women elected Mr. Cannon." Now, this
is untrue. Mr. Cannon was not dependent on
the women for his election, although many wo-
men did give him their votes, and would have
been proud (if Mr. Campbell's assertion were
true) of the privilege of sending an honorable
gentleman to represent them in the Congress of
the nation.
	But how is it with poor Mr. Campbell? I am
sure he is to be pitied, if out of so large a num-
ber of votes as 1,357, to 18,578, that he should
be entirely forgotten by the ladies! It is not a
very good position to be out of favor with the
women. Surely some one will write him a let-
ter of condolence, to quiet his nerves, after such
a signal defeat, and that by women. He must
have felt very much relieved after giving ex-
pression to his feelings, accusing the women of
doing the evil! Always the same story given
by unprincipled men—if there is anything
wrong "the women did it." But there is no
wrong. The votes of women as good as those of
men, and they are as good and honorable citi-
zens as men are.
	The Mormon women are not the oppressed,
down-trodden women they are represented to be
by their enemies, but high-minded and intelli-
gent women who can think and act for them-
selves, and have as much liberty to give expres-
sion to their thoughts and feelings as women of
any other community. And I know, for one,
that the "Liberal Party" may contest Delegate
Cannon's seat in Congress for years to come, as
they have in the years that are passed, so long
as the Lord wishes him to remain in the halls
of the nation, they will fail in their attempts to
remove him. If the time comes that the nation
is not worthy of having an Apostle in their
midst, then the Lord will suffer him to be re-
moved,and not till then. And why should they
seek to remove him? What has he done? Why,
say his righteous opponents, "He has more
wives than one!" Well, if he has, his wives
have the most implicit confidence in his faith-
fulness to them; they can trust him in Wash-
ington, or in any other place, for years, if need
be, and feel perfectly satisfied, knowing he would

[Column 2]
return to them as true to his marriage covenants
as when he left them. If all the fathers, hus-
bands and sons of monogamic families commit-
ted no greates crime, nor did anything more to
disgrace themselves than Mr. Cannon has in
marrying, methinks the Millennium would soon
be ushered in, and "every man in every place
would meet a brother and a friend." But alas!
for fallen humanity, that time is not yet.
Now, I think it would be much more sensible
for Mr. Cannon's righteous opponents, if they
would petition Congress to pass a law for the
suppression of houses of prostitution and ill-
fame, which are so degrading to womankind and
an open disgrace to the nation. Yet they are
fostered and supported by men in high social
circles, who lift up their hands in holy horror
that the Mormons marry women and make
them honorable wives, and judging by the ac-
tions of men, they would say to Mr. Cannon,
have as many women as you please, but don't
marry them; then we can be hale fellows well
met, and you will be a fit representative to Con-
gress.
	The women are now making a great noise
about polygamy. It seems to me that the wo-
men of the nation would be engaged in a much
better cause if they would get up petitions to
Congress for the suppression of real evils in their
midst, and use all their influence to elevate their
sex from the degradation that men have placed
them in. "By their fruits ye shall know them."
								M. I. H.


[Column 1]
