	CONTINUED.
	If Mr. Apothecary Lindsay had exercised a 
sound discretion, he would have taken care to 
have a settlement made of the fortune of his
daughter, in her favor, before marriage. It so
happened that the city merchant was not so
wealthy as supposed; life in the city of Lon-
don was very expensive in those days; the 
baneful habit of wine-drinking was indluged 
in to a fearful extent. Men would boast of
their powers in hard drinking, calling them-
selves "bottle men;" some were four or five
bottle men, that is, they could drink that num-
ber of bottles of wine at a sitting, "without
being the worse for it," i.e., they were not in-
toxicated. There are some things men can do
in "society," that however evil in themselves,
they are winked at; drinking is one of them,
and will be so long as that practice is fashion-
able. But no man should give his daughter
in marriage to one who is guilty of such a de-
grading practice, which not only injures the 
health of the drinker and impoverishes the
purse, it afflicts his posterity possibly for many
generations—if not cut off earlier by disease
and death. So recently as within the last 
forty years the writer has witnessed some of
these scenes at table, "after dinner," as was 
said by way of excuse for inebriety. Men,
gentlemen of high social standing, would de-
mean themselves by excessive drinking—not 
in the gilded saloons and restaurants we are
familiar with, splendid dramshops, fitted up
specially to allure the youthful and thought-
less, but in the habitations of the wealthy. 
There, in the midst of everything indicative of 
refinement, men would get drunk! At the be-
ginning of this century, life in the city of Lon-
don was characterized by habits of intemper-
ance, that even afflicted the countenances of
the frequenters of the festive halls belonging
to the great city companies. A "mulberry 
nose" was a common name for a "respectable" 
toper—respectable because the associate of 
wealthy men. The ancient writer understood
the mischief wrought by drink. He says:
(Prov. 23.) "Who hath woe? Who hath sor-
row? Who hath contention? Who hath bab-
bling? Who hath  wounds without cause?
Who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry
long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed
wine. Look not thou upon the wine when it
is red, when it giveth its color in the cup, when
it moveth itself aright. At the last it biteth
like a serpent and stingeth like an adder." We 
see the effects of drink in the days of Solomon; 
they are similar to-day. If men could drink 
and drink until they are saturated with the 
spirit of wine, and no one should suffer but
themselves, the mischief would not be so se-
rious; but they cannot, and the first to feel its
evil effects are their children. 
	Early in the year 1830, a poor man, clad in
worn out garments, was on his knees before
that Being who "seeth in secret" and "who 
heareth and answereth prayer." The coun

[Column 2]
tenance of the poor man was not yet noble, his
expansive brow gave evidence of commanding
intellect, his form and appearance betokened
one who had "seen better days." He had mar-
ried  early in life, under most promising cir-
stances, to a lady who was a remote descendant
of the martyr Ridley; she had been a martyr
too, not by material fire at the stake, but by 
the unhallowed fires of strong drink that had
inflamed her husband's brain. She had been
the victim of neglect. Night after night her
maddened husband had left her and her babes
to perish in hopeless misery. The wife was 
now dead, their children scattered, no one to 
care for them, and they hated their father as
much as little children can hate. The wife
had been  a tender plant;  had zephyrs of sym-
pathy breathed over her, and the genial sun-
shine of a husband's love shone upon her she
might have lived. The man who had done
these wrongs now kneeled before the heavens
and implored forgiveness. He had been her 
husband, the father of her helpless babes, and 
he was the son of Mary Lindsay; he himself
the slave of inherited passions, the victim of 
the poison taint of the spirit of wine, trans-
mitted from his father! 
	At the time this poor man was stirred up to
reformation there was a remarkable movement
in Europe, thousands of persons declared the
advent of Christ was at hand; they said they
felt the influence of that spirit the prophet Joel
had declared should be poured out upon all
flesh. The spirit of prophecy, of dreams and
visions, became common among men of every
creed. Men tried to account for these feelings 
by saying: "The wind bloweth where it listeth, 
and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst 
not tell whence it cometh m'or whither it go-
eth." Amid all this excietment men were
taught to love one another, to forsake evil, es-
pecially to abstain from drink. Happily for 
the son of  Mary Lindsay, a good Samaritan
met him, and, to the praise of humanity be it
spoken, many like him aided the poor and
penitent inebriate to carry out his intentions,
to "cease to do evil and learn to do well."
	"There is a tide in the affairs of man which
taken at the flood leads on to fortune." If 
such a period had been experienced and neg-
lected before, it was not so now. The afflicted
one was permanently reclaimed; the outcase
from society became a useful and energetic
man in reclaiming others. And many were
there to whom words of mercy would flow 
from his lips in after years, as he would say, in 
grateful humility: "He who hath much for-
given loveth much." "Not unto us, not unto
us, O Lord, but unto thy name be the glory."
Such were the sentiments of Mr. Obadiah Uni-
pod, the reformed inebriate, who shunned the 
wine cup and its associations, and with what
zeal he entered into the "new movement for 
reformation" many years of successful labors
gave ample evidence to thousands.
	It is interesting for us who are familiar with
the history of our Church to trace the opera-
tions that were going on in England at the
time the Prophet Joseph was promulgating the
truth on this continent. At Preston, in 1833,
a Mr. Richard Turner began to call on people
to abstain from all intoxicating beverages.
He was met with fiery opposition by drunkards 
and those who helped to make them, the deal-
ers in strong drinks. The followers of Mr.
Turner were derided and frequently cruelly
treated; they were hissed at, and in derision


nicknamed. "Tee-totalers." But the true mis-
sionary spirit was in the man, he persevered,
thousands were reclaimed, and they in turn
became "lecturers" on temperance. In an in-
credibly short time the chief cities of England
had large organizations entirely engaged in
preaching and practicing the principles of en-
tire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.
The effect was marvelous; public houses were
emptied, gin palaces were less thronged; as a
consequence, coffee houses and reading rooms
were filled. Freed from drink, men began to
reflect; churches, and especially chapels, were
better attended. Public lecture rooms were
opened; some of the most eloquent orators
were developed from the speakers of the Tem-
perance platforms. By the middle of the
year 1835, at the very time the organization of
the Quornm of the Twelve Apostles was ef-
fected at Kirtland, great missionary efforts
were being made in England; in London the
singular spectacle was seen of men of every
evangelical creed uniting their efforts to preach
the Gospel! A system of domiciliary visita-
tion was devised, by which the poor should be
visited and invited to attend the "means of
grace." This was done without any desire to
increase the number of converts to any par-
ticular denomination of Christians. The poor
were visited in the most wretched localities,
their wants were ministered to; tens of thou-
sands of dollars were raised to establish mis-
sions. Great good was done. The feelings of
brotherly love were extended among all reli-
gious bodies. And as a culmination to the
universal desire to put away sectional fellings,
clergymen of the Church of England and non-
conformist ministers began to labor together as
missionaries. Such was the origin of the
"London City Mission" in 1835, founded by
men of the most exalted moral character, who
could not have labored more assiduously for
the preparation of the minds of the masses to
receive the truth had they known that the
Gospel, as restored through the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith, was about to be introduced into
England by the Apostles of our Lord Jesus
Christ! Never was there such a time of re-
joicing in the churches, never were there such
meetings as those held in public assemblies,
where ministers of every denomination who
"named the name of Jesus" were recognized as
brethren; where all agreed to put away sec-
tional feelings, and imitate the Savior of man-
kind! And never was there an organization
established upon so wide a basis of Christianity,
in which its members were more vigilant, more
upon the altar of sacrifice, more humble and
prayerful, more efficient, in its early history.
And, as a sequel to the labors of Mr. Obadiah
Unipod, he was appointed as the first of the
missionaries of this important organization—
The London City Mission. This is only one
among the many good results of the Spirit of
the Lord that had spread among the nations;
in the reclaimed inebriate, now placed upon a
higher plane of usefulness, the strong moral
nature of the mother triumphed, when the
weakness inherited from the father was van-
quished.

To be Continued.


