ITEMS.

	Two little boys were playing a short time
since, when one said to the other, "You aint
got a Nell," meaning a gentle nag he some-
times leads to water. "But we've got a Bess,"
said the other child. "You aint got a pa,
though." The little fellow waited a moment,
then said, in a low, hushed voice, "No, I aint
got a pa, but I've got three fathers." "Who
are they, then?" "Well, there's Frank, that's
one (meaning his eldest brother), and my
father who died and lives in heaven, that's
two, and my Heavenly Father, that makes
three."—Q.


CLASSES IN MIDWIFERY.—Of the medical
students taught by Dr. Romania B. Pratt during
last summer in her classes in midwifery, Mrs.
Elizabeth Nuttall, of Kanab, Mrs. Jeannette De
La Mere, of Tooele City, and Mrs. Sinah P.
Bishop, of Salt Lake City, were blessed and set
apart by Pres. W. Woodruff and Counselor D.
H. Wells, and all passed a satisfactory examina-
tion before Dr. Benedict and Dr. S. B.


Young, and received certificates, showing their
qualifications and ability to act, as midwives.
Another class, consisting of Mrs. M. A. Stod-
dard, of Qrantsville, Mrs. S. B. Goss, of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. A. Woolman, of Spanish Fork,
and Mrs. E. Papworth, of Hooperville, finished
their course of study last Wednesday, and were
blessed and set apart by President Jos. F. Smith
assisted by President A. O. Smoot, and in the
evening passed a very creditable examination
before Dr. S. B. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, each receiving her certificate of competency
to act in this special branch of medicine. Hav-
ing been duly qualified, as above stated, these
sisters are we believe fully worthy of the con-
fidence of the people among whom they are to
practice their vocation.


[Column 1]
WH. C. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals, Toilet Articles, Perfu-
mery, and a complete line of goods usually kept in a
first class Drug Establishment. All guaranteed to be pure
and fresh, and will be sold at the most reasonable prices.
Special attention given to Physician's Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

