THOMAS CARLYLE.

	In the death of Thomas Carlyle, the most
considerable literary man of this generation
has departed. Mr. Carlyle inherited the austere
culture of a Scotch Presbyterian household,
and was educated with a view to the ministry.
But he declined that calling after an intense
mental struggle, out of which he came with a
definite renunciation of the religion he had
been expected to preach. After a time spent 
in teaching, he settled upon literature as his
life's business. It is remarkable that he gained
an earlier and wider recognition in this country
than in Great Britain. The collection of his
essays published in Boston through the intro-
duction of Mr. Emerson was a revelation of
the author to many of his own countrymen.
He was one of the first to bring German litera-
ture to the notice of the English mind, and his
first publications were translations. It was in
his "Sartor Resartus" that he first came for-
ward distinctively as a thinker, while he
clothed his thoughts in a style so defiant of all
recognized proprieties of composition as to be
a stumbling-block in the path of the reader.
 
	As a historian he forever vindicated the
memory of Oliver Cromwell and English Puri-
tanism from the aspersions of two hundred
years. His "French Revolution" is rather a
poem than a history. It everywhere supposes
the reader to be familiar with the facts, refers
freely to many things with a bare reference in
footnotes to the sources of information, but be-
fore us unrolls a panorama, the successive
scenes in which are painted with something of
preternatural vividness and power. His "Fred-
erick the Great" was less successful. It is per-
meated with his later worship of force—titan-
olatry, as Julius Hare named it, the first ar-
ticulate expression of which was in his "Heroes
and Hero-Worship." His scorn of human
rights, and consignment of the mass of man-
kind to absolute rule of the strongest, set him
in opposition to the whole tendency of modern
life, and made him a prophet of evil to his
generation.
	His name and works will live, not teaching,
but stimulating thought. His essays include
some things that have a chance of longer life
than his more elaborate books. If the voice
of his countrymen could be heard, he should
rest among the great in Westminster Abbey.
But his own strong desire was that his body
should lie beside that of his wife, whose loss
has been so tenderly lamented for so many
years of domestic solitude.—Ex.


