GREAT GATHERING OF THE DESCENDANTS OF
TRISTRAM COFFIN, ON THE ISLAND OF NAN-
TUCKET, AUGUST 16th, 17th and 18th,
1881.

	The Executive Committee of the Tristram
Coffin Reunion Association having received
numerous responses from members of the family
in all parts of the country, and having made
important progress in the arrangements for
the bi-centennial, referred to in their previous
circular of invitation, are now enabled to an-
nounce that the Grand Reunion will be held
on the Island of Nantucket, the exercises to 
continue three days, commencing on Thursday,
the 16th day of August, 1881. The programme,
as now definitely arranged, will include the
following:
	FIRST DAY.—On August 16, a Grand Clam-
bake, to come of near the site of Tristram
Coffin's dwelling house of two centuries ago.
On this occasion an oration will be made by
Tristram Coffin, Esq., of Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,
followed by the usual feast of reason and flow
of soul incidents to such occasions, a mammoth
tent being erected for the purpose.
	SECOND DAY.—On August 17, the memorial 
exercises with procession and corner-stone
ceremonies. Charles Carleton Coffin, Esq., of
Boston, will pronounce the oration, and Robert
Barry Coffin, Esq., of New York, will probably
act as the poet of the occasion.
	THIRD DAY.—On August the 18, a breakfast 
will come off under the mammoth tent, with ap-
propriate incidentals. Prof. Selden J. Coffin,
of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, will deliver
the oration on this occasion, A Gaand Ball
at night will close the exercises. 
	On all the days of other literary and musical
exercises appropriate to the times and places
may be anticipated, and all the descendants of
the illustrious ancestor are invited to contribute
something in speech or song to make the cele-
bration emphatically a family reunion.


[Column 1]	
﻿	At a meeting of the  Executive  Committee
held in August last, it was voted  to  erect two
bronze statues representing  the patriarch Tris-
tram Coffin and  Dionis Coffin, his wife, upon a
broad pedestal, at an estimated  expense of from
eight  to ten thousand dollars.  In view of the
spirit already  displayed  in  the  matter, it is
hoped and believed that the many descendants
of those who are to  be thus  honored  will be
prompt in responding to the call; and will con-
tribute liberally to make up the desired amount
with the least  possible  delay.  It is  earnestly
desired  that,  in  response to  this circular, all
members of the  Coffin family who intend to be
present at the Reunion  shall  signify  such in-
tention in advance, and, if possible, at an early
date, as the plans  of the  Committee  will  be
much facilitated by their so doing.
	Those wishing to contribute to the Memorial
Fund for  the erection of the Statues are earn-
estly requested to signify in  writing the sums,
larger or smaller, which  they will be ready to
contribute.  It is also important that  all  per-
sons  responding  by letter to  this call  should
write their full  names, giving  both  Christian
and  sirname,  and also  middle name if  they
may have one.  If possible, they may also state
the names of parents and  grandparents, show-
ing to what line of the  Coffin  family  they  be-
long, as such  information  may  be  interesting
and valuable.
	A collection of articles used  by members of
the family in  olden  time  will  be gathered to-
gether for exhibition  during  the  week of fes-
tivities.
	The Committee  have in  contemplation  the
publication of a  Life of  Tristram  Coffin, the
founder of  the family  line in  America, and
from whom all persons by  the name of Coffin
in this  country  are  descended,  together with
reminiscences of some  of his most  illustrious
descendants.  An outline of the family history
from the earliest reliable data will also be given,
illustrated with the different  Coats  of  Arms,
and  other  interesting views.  The profits  to
go toward defraying the expenses  of the cele-
bration.
	Photograph copies of eight different oil paint-
ings of some of the  descendants  of  the  first
Richard Coffin, which now adorn the walls  of
Portledge, near Bideford, Devon County, Eng-
land, and who  flourished in the fifteenth  and
sixteenth centuries, it is hoped will  be  offered
for sale in aid of the celebration fund.
	It is also expected that medals will be struck
commemorative of the  two-hundredth anniver-
sary of the  death  of the  American  ancestor,
appropriately inscribed, that all who attend the
Reunion  may carry away with them  a fitting
memento  of the  celebration, the proceeds to be
applied  to the celebration fund.
	All correspondence  should be addressed  to
the  Secretary and  Treasurer,  Allen  Coffin,
Nantucket, Mass.

