	SELF-MADE  WOMEN.

	How little we hear of self-made women!  Self-
made  men  is  a  term in common use, very; but
the other is uncommon, a phrase seldom heard;
in fact, we do not remember having heard it all,
and flatter  ourself  it  is  rather an  original title.
Self-made women exist, nevertheless.  We know
of some  fully  entitled  to  the  appellation, and
have  heard  of  others,  elsewhere, whose  lives
were  worthy  of record  in  the  annals  of their 
country.  It is pretty generally understood that
woman is a dependent sort of creature, and does
comparatively little for herself in any positive
manner;  man leads and woman follows, he toils
and she partakes of the fruits of his labors.  We
have  heard  all  our  life  long  of  self-sacrificing
women—that  phrase  is  hackneyed, to  say  the
least, and self-made women  is pleasant, if only
as a  kind  of relief.  The  Scripture  says, "Obe-
dience is better than sacrifice," but most women
combine  in  their  character  both  obedience  and
sacrifice of self.  History tells us very little about
women; judging from its pages, one  would sup-
pose  their  lives  were  insignificant  and  their
opinions  worthless.  Now  and  then  one  more
favored than others  of her  sex, figures  in  con-
nection  with  a  lover,  or  husband,  but  rarely
alone,  and  evidently the attention of the writer
of history has been  to  leave women  out.  And
yet  women  are  patriotic  in  their natures, and
some  of  them have braved  all  resistance to ac-
complish good; instance, Joan of Arc.  Volumes
of unwritten history yet remain, the sequel to
the written lives of brave and heroic men.  But
although  the  historians  of the past have  been
neglectful of woman, and  it  is  the  exception if 
she be mentioned at all;  yet the future will deal
more  generously with womankind, and  the his-
torian  of the  present  age  will  find it very em-
barrassing to ignore woman in the records of the 
nineteenth  century.  We  may  say,  and  with
propriety, that there is a class of  women on the 
earth now, whose lives and labors are likely to be
recognized even  by the average historian.  Wo-
man has really undertaken  to do her own work,
to  make  her  own  record, in  one sense, and to
stand as an individual representative of herself
and a type  of her  class; and yet  not  in  opposi-
tion  to  man,  but in intelligent harmony.   "The
woman  is  not  without  the man, nor the man
without the woman in the Lord."  A great change
has  come  over woman in this age, and man be-
gins to acknowledge, in a sort of indefinite way,
her  individuality and power of active thought.
There is less  of  the blind idolatry and man wor-
ship and more vivid expression given to woman's 
ideal and real love, than in the days we speak of
as  man's  chivarlry  and  woman's  self-denial.
Some  aver  that  the subtle  charm  of woman's 
worship  is lost, and in its  place a tangible real-
ism has sprung up, less attractive and calculated

[Column 2]
to  rob  woman  of  that  indefinable  mysticism
which has for centuries floated round her like an
evanescent incense to man, and yet something
unreal,  for  she  proved  not  exactly  what  she
seemed.  Now, man  approaches  her as a being
of understanding, one who has pronounced opin-
ions of her  own, and who is free  to  choose, if 
need be, her own vocation, and can, when need-
ful, "eat her  own  bread  and wear  her  own  ap-
parel."
	Possibly man  has  driven woman  to  this ex-
tremity, by the want of consideration.  Albeit
they complain sometimes bitterly  of the women
who want some  of  the  situations  and  advan-
tages  once a clear field for  the lords of creation,
and  wonder why the sex are not content to oc-
cupy their former position as erst in  the days of
their grandmothers.  There is not quite so much
credit due women for the exertions made from 
necessity, but after all, there  is abundant  proof
that they are mentally and morally equal to the
occasion, when they defend  their position, as in
social and political  life some  of  them  are doing 
everywhere to-day.
	Self-made women is a powerful term.  It  tells
its own story, of struggles  against  fearful odds,
with  unpropitious  circumstances, and  a  lack of
the means  of education  and  cultivation.  But
on  the  other  hand, it  bespeaks  self-help, self-
denial, patient hopefulness and persistent deter-
mination.    How,  when  fortune  frowned  and
friends  were  lacking,  the  brave  heart  never
quailed nor shrank from hardship, but  pressed
onward in the path of achievement,  regardless
of ridicule  or  hindrances; and  faced  the  great
world that has set itself so hard and firm against
the  woman  who  makes  her  own  way, unless
she arrives at a pinnacle of fame, then the same
world is ready to worship at her shrine.  How
many besetments  lie  in  her  path, how thickly
is it strewn with  thorns and briers, and oh, how
many sharp and cruel rocks lie scattered in the
pathway she must tread alone!   Here and there
a  flower, a  rill, a  bird  note, or  a  soft  fanning
zephry, but all the wealth and sweetness blooms
in the gardens of cultivation, from which she is
barred  until  she  can  open  the  gates  herself.
But much has been done to make education at-
tainable for women, who hunger for knowledge,
and  to  lift  all  women  to a higher view of life.
A new era has been ushered in, mainly through
the  exertions  of self-made  women, acted  upon
by an influence many comprehend not, which is
working  for  their  redemption  from  under  the
curse, and yet a vast amount of narrow-minded-
ness  and  prejudice  still remains to be wrestled
with, and  it  requires almost superhuman cour-
age  and  endurance, and  workful  waiting, with
an earnest and implicit faith in God,  Who hears
and answers prayer.  Self-made women!  How
grandly significant is the title  of strength and
power in the true dignity of her character.


[Column 1]
