[CONTINUED.]

	In our last chapter we referred to the Log
Row where Sister Eliza spent her first few
years in the valley, after leaving the Fort when
Pres. Young returned in 1848. These were
the primitive times, as we often term them,
when every woman made her own soap and
candles, carded and spun the wool, dyed the
yarn, knit the stockings, and many even wove
and afterwards cut and made the material into
clothing. Carpets of homemade yarn, dyed
in the gayest colors, were quite the rage, and
in these things Sister Eliza also excelled. She
took an interest in all these affairs, and her
patterns in dress goods and carpets of home-
manufacture were much sought after by others.
	In 1854-5 the Lion House, one of President
Young's family residences, was completed, and
she has ever since resided there. It is rather a
peculiar style of building, quaint in architec-
ture, and reminds one more of an age now
past, than of modern times. It was some
years after the family moved into the new
home before the domestic spinning, dyeing and
weaving were dispensed with. Sister Eliza to-
day has a homemade yarn carpet in a very
good state of preservation, and other articles
manufactured by her own hands. Her history
is a complete contradiction of the illusion so
current in the world that literary women, or
blue-stockings, are never domestic, or industri-
ous and successful as housewives. True, this
is sometimes the case, but this remarkable wo-
man possesses the happy combination of do-
mestic and literary ability. At the present
time, when arrived at the age where most wo-
men lay aside all the cares and duties of do-
mestic labor, she does her own work, runs her
own errands, and waits upon company after
the "old school" style, in addition to all her
public and literary labors. At Conferences
she entertains her friends from the country,
never complaining of weariness, and strangers
are likely to make informal calls uppn her at
any time; and she is always ready, never non-
plussed.
	It would be difficult to find a woman any-
where like Sister Eliza, combining so many
qualifications which fit her for active life, and
yet in reality possessing such an abundance of
spiritual vigor.
	In 1869, Pres. Young having observed the
inclination among the people to follow after
the follies and fashions of the world, leading
women more especially into habits of frivolity
and extravagance, called upon Sister Eliza
and one or two other ladies to lead out in an
organization for the purpose of retrenchment
in dress and table expenditure. Accordingly,
meetings were called, the subject discussed,
and an association formed with a presiding
board of seven officers;meetings were appoint-
ed to be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, that being a central and suitable place.
These meetings havenever been discontinued,
but are still held regularly in the same place
and at the same hour, and the same ladies offi-
ciate as officers, with one exception, that of
Sister Margaret T. Smoot, who moved to Provo
after the first few years, when Sister Elizabeth
Howard was chosen to fill the vacancy. In
these assemblies from time to time much in-
struction of the best and highest quality has
been dispensed to the sisters.
	Shortly after this Retrenchment Association
was organized, Pres. Young called upon Sister
Eliza to aidhim in efforting an organization of
young ladies, commencing with his own daugh-
ters, which she was quite competent to do. She
framed a set of resolutions for the President's
approval, which set forth the object of the as-
esociation in appropriate words, and gave the

[Column 2]
members a good idea of the work and progress
that would be expected of them in an organ-
ized capacity. All this was very new, and ex-
cited ridicule, as all innovations do at first. It
was hard work for the young ladies to come
out from their companions and take an active
part in public meetings. Those who persevered
in doing so were set down as strongminded,
over-religious, &c.; but Sister Eliza stimulated
and encouraged them, and from time to time
organizations were formed in the various wards
and extended thence into the settlements; the
organizations were designated Retrenchment
Associations, the same as the one formed by
the older sisters, and to distinguish between
the two, one was called the Senior and the
other the Junior Retrenchment Association.
This work of organizing the young ladies in
all parts of the Territory was a most original
plan; never had such a thing been heard of
before. Sister Eliza from the first seemed to
perfectly comprehend the nature of the task
assigned her, and again her executive ability
became apparent. To accomplish a labor of
this kind requires method in its execution, and
to select the proper material for the work one
need be possessed of a knowledge of human
nature, keen and deep, and then the planning
and arranging of the order of discipline to be
pursued to effect the desired result, calls forth
all the tact and energy of character that can
be exercised upon the subject. It has been a
wonderful acquisition to all the other means of
improvement, this spiritual and moral training
of the young in these organized societies. To
be sure, by common consent the name Junior
Retrenchment has since been changed to Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, but the object
and spirit of the work remains the same. Sis-
ter Eliza may well rejoice in the great work of
improvement among the young sisters, although
there are many who have never as yet recog-
nized it, or joined in the labor.
	The reader will readily perceive that Sister
Eliza had much public speaking to do, which
called her out from home to go here and there,
in "fair or foul weather," but she had the mis-
sion to fill, and she was endowed with the spirit
and power essential to its performance. I
doubt if any other woman has accomplished so
much in organizing and in public speaking
among women. Subsequently Sister Eliza took
a journey to the Holy Land, leaving Salt Lake
City October 26, 1872, her brother, Apostle
Lorenzo Snow, meeting her in Ogden; in New
York they joined Pres. George A. Smith and
party, who had left Salt Lake City on the 16th.
Sister Eliza endured the fatigue of traveling
as well and even better than some younger
ones of the party. The company took the
Steamer Minnesota for Liverpool on the 6th of
November. Her letters written while at sea
are as full of vigor as at any other time, and
Pres. George A. Smith, writing on board ship,
says: "Miss E. R. Snow has stood the voyage
and sea-sickness so far as well as any of us,
and has given us a good deal of intellectual
enjoyment. She wrote a poem at sea, "Cross-
ingthe Atlantic," which our readers will find
in the "Correspondence of Palestine Tourists."
We give a verse or two descriptive of the storm
on the Atlantic.

Anon all Neptune's furies
	Are on the steamer's path,
We mount the deck to wintess
	The ocean in its wrath.

The scene! What pen can write it?
	What pencil's art could show
The wild, terrific grandeur
	Which reigns around us now.

The waving, surging waters
	Like battle armor clash;
Tumultuous waves upheaving,
	With foaming fury dash.

The steamer mounts the billows,
	Then dips the space below;
And bravely presses onward,
	Tho' reeling to and fro.

[To be Continued.]


