QUESTIONS.

	Pardon me if I ask why the Governor of Idaho
is so much alarmed for the safety of this govern-
ment, as we learn from his speech before the 
Legislature of that Territory? He seems to
think that our practices are so vile and so much
out of character, that we should be stricken
from civilized society, lest we contaminate the
people and cause the destruction of the whole
human race. The reason why he thinks so is
because he has only weighed the subject on one
side of the question. Now, let me ask, does he
fear that the systems built up according to the
best abilities of the men of the world will crum-
ble away? Because the God of heaven will set
up a kingdom that will never be thrown down
or given to another people. And why? For this
reason: our Heavenly Father is wiser than man.
His designs are broader and more perfect in
every sense of the word, and will achieve the
greatest good for his children. Is it not said in
holy writ, that he made of one blood all the na-
tions of the earth? Accordingly, there must be
a germ of the Deity in each and every bosom,
which, if cultivated and developed, will enable
us to see and understand his designs and pur-
poses concerning us. Notice how fast a child
learns from observation the first three years of
its life, and later if the germ is kept pure. But
after the tempter begins to sow seeds of envy,
hatred, malice and revenge, then begins the
warfare.
	But God sent His Son Jesus to teach us a dif-
ferent lesson—the lesson of love, which is an at-
tribute of the Deity, for God is love. But the
opposite spirit is from the tempter, and the seeds
he sows will produce bitter weeds, which will
choke and destroy the germ, If I may use so
rough a term. Let us remember our Father's
laws, given by Jesus, the Savior of the world.
Then ask who can love his neighbor as himself?
And why not? Is it not because the parents are
selfish before the children, or otherwise the force
of example, selfish until it seems impossible to
think of anything else? Who is there that can
love his neighbor as himself? Does this not
show that the germ has not been cultivated?
But bitter weeds have been permitted to grow
and produce evil fruits, to that degree that they
begin to wonder why they have been born in
such a world as this. It seems that love, and
the fruits of love, such as should bind the hu-
man family together have been choked out of
existence.
	Would we not rather welcome the kingdom of 
God, with its pure laws, to govern and produce
"peace on earth and good will to men," which
was the song of the angel at the birth of our
Savior—He who is to reign our king. This king-
dom, when established, will p[-]oduce a reign of
peace. Is it strange that the Governor at Idaho
should fear and tremble when such a kingdom
is to be established upon the earth? No, verily
no! People of sound minds and pure principles
will readily adhere to such laws, and the frail
governments made by mortal man will be weak-
ened and go down, for want of sound minds to
sustain them. This is all they need fear, for

[Column 2]
there is no warfare greater than to keep the gar-
den of the mind free from those weeds which
the tempter is always on hand and ready to sow,
and if permitted to grow will baffle the mind of
its possessor, and destroy his or her usefulness in
the world. But you will ask who knows all this?
I will tell you. They are those who have re-
pented of all their sins and been baptized for the 
remission of them, which is the teaching of our 
great Lawgiver, Jesus Christ. Then they re-
ceive the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, to take
lead of their minds and enlighten them upon all
things pertaining to this life. My earnest desire
for the Governor of Idaho is and shall be that he
may learn to love his neighbor as himself, and
deal justly with all, remembering that the mea-
sure he may mete out will in return be meted to
him again. Self-government will be requisite.
Is any one fit to govern who cannot govern him-
self? King Solomon's words are, "He who rul-
eth his own spirit is greater than he that taketh
a city." He of course is a general, especially if
he can love those who hate him and pray for
those who despitefully use and persecute him.
Such are the laws given to us to fit and qualify
us for the kingdom of God, and cannot be accom-
plished without the assistance of the Holy Spirit,
which we need daily, and that we may possess
it is the earnest prayer of
	Your friend,
	M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 18, 1881.


