[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | January | Issue: 9 | Title: UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB. | Author: Unknown]

UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The Young Woman’s Journal, a monthly 
magazine, was started in the interest of the
young women of the Territory, in October
1889, with Susa Young Gates as editor.
Lucy A. Clark, one of the charter mem-
bers of the Press Club, was for two or
three years editor of the Farmington Flash-
light. Others are doing a good work on
the same lines who are not named, their
labors not having been specially mentioned.
Among Utah’s best poets is Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp, who has written much that has the
true poetic fire and spirit. 
	Among those first mentioned is Lula
Greene Richards, first editor of the
EXPONENT. She was married the next
year after its publication to L. W. Rich-
ards. Soon after Miss Cornelia S. Horne
was made business manager of the paper.
Mrs. Richards’ home duties increased, and
several of the contributors of the paper
offered assistance, among them was Mrs. E.
B. Wells.
	In May, 1875, Mrs. Wells assumed
regular duty in the office. Later Miss
Horne resigned her position for a higher
one in a home of her own. In July, 1877,
Mrs. Richards vacated the editorial 
chair in favor of Mrs. Wells. One of our
best prose and poetical writers is Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, who has published three
books, one of them a book of poems. She
is very happy in her descriptions of every
day happenings. She is especially good in
essays, stories, either long or short, and has
written various articles as well as biogra-
phical sketches She also excels where
thought is required and elegant expression.
	Lu Dalton and Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh,
(the last named is an Englishwoman, and
an extensive traveler in foreign countries)
are forcible and interesting writers. Emily
H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted
and inspirational poets of Utah. Ruby
Lamont and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson (the
doctor was educated in Cambridge Eng.)
especially bright and gifted,
	Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene
Richards are poets, and both are classed
among the spiritual and inspiring writers,
their views in all their writings being
decidedly religious. Susa Young Gates is
spoken of as a most prolific writer.
	Among the younger writers, who give
promise of future excellence, are Annie
Wells Cannon (Camilla) who has traveled
in Germany and Switzerland. She has
written graphic and realistic descriptions of
her experiences while abroad.
	Miss Josephine Spencer is a poet and
certainly excels in description; is good at
stories, and has won several prizes. Lillie
T. Freeze and Julia P. M. Farnsworth
deserve mention as treating their subjects


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
extremely well. Mary A. Freeze and Lucy
A. Clark have both written poems of merit
and are good descriptive writers, also lofty
and religious. Julia I. McDonald is an
unusually genial writer, and much is ex
pected of her in the future. Flora L. Shipp
is gifted as an imaginative writer. Sarah
E. Russell has contributed largely to our
home magizines. Mary Ellen Kimball,
Wilmerth East and Mary A. House are
logical, religious and patriotic writers.
	There are many others, who cannot be
mentioned in this short article, but we
must mention Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who
writes not only scientific articles, but those
that require comprehensive thought.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, B. S., is a
gifted Utah writer, especially in lofty
themes, as well as happy in description.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman has worked at type-
setting, publishing and writing articles on
almost all subjects. She is a correspondent
for papers and magazines in Salt Lake as
well as Eastern and Western papers.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodman-
see, Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp,
Emma Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel
Sears, Sophy Valentine, Aretta Young,
Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow, Mary
A. Farnsworth and Zina S. Whitney rep-
resent a large number of young women of
whom much is expected in the future.
	The outlook for literary work among
women is encouraging, and it is thought
that the West will be equal with, if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment towards the higher education and
development of mankind.
	At the meeting held November 29, Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson were admitted to the club as
members. 
	At the meeting held March 16, 1894, Mrs.
H. A. Badger, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Miss
Maude Pratt, Miss Pearl Russell, Miss Olea
Shipp, of Salt Lake, and Mrs. Fannie
Stewart, of Pleasant Grove, were voted in
as members.
	At the April meeting the name of Mrs.
A. E. Bennion appears, she having given
a lecture on the “Will.”
	The June meeting was by vote, with the
exception of the musical selection, turned
into an informal reception to the Countess
Wachmeister and Mrs. Egbert Roberts, who
accompanied her, the ladies desiring an
address from the guest of the evening.
	The Countess preferred the members to
ask questions so that she might give the
information thus elicited. She was very
obliging and explained her views on
Theosophy very clearly.
	Several of the ladies availed themselves
of this opportunity to learn something of a
religion comparatively new in the West,
but old as heathen philosophy in the East.
	“Theosophy,” the countess said, “is a
grand brotherhood; all religions contain
some of its principles It has no organiza-
tion.”
	At the July meeting Mesdames J. B.
Lawler, Isabella Cameron Brown, Emma

[Column 2]
Holling and Laura Hyde were received as
members. A letter was read from Nevada
V. Davis, a member who is now in the
East, engaged on the New York Herald.
	At the Annual meeting this year the
ladies impersonated famous people of the
past, either writers or characters. On
motion of Miss Ada Patterson Mrs. E. B.
Wells was made Honorary President of
the club for life. Carried.
	At the December meeting Hon. Phoebe
Cousins, of St. Louis, gave a very interest-
ing lecture on Woman’s Rights, also spoke
on the late silver trouble in Colorado.
	At the January meeting, 1895, the Con-
stitution and by-laws were read by the
secretary. Then each by-law was read
separately. A few changes were made,
but practically they remained as before.
Hattie B. Harker and Rebecca H. Doolan
were received as members.
	At the March meeting, by previous
arrangement, both the U. W. P. C. and
the Reapers’ club met at the residence of
Dr. E. R. Shipp, to greet Mrs. Wells on
her return from the Council of Women,
also Dr. E. R. Shipp, who accompanied
her. The Council was held in Washing-
ton, D. C., Utah had been well rep-
presented. A paper on the Sixth Sense,
by Sarah M. Kimball had been read, also
one on “Heredity,” by Dr. Shipp, and
“Forty Years in the Valiev of the Salt
Lake,” by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the April meeting the two clubs
united in giving a reception to the officers
of the Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs.
There were present Mrs. Corinne Allen,
president; Mrs. McVicker, secretary; Mrs.
Georgie Webber, treasurer; Mrs Ferdinand
Fabian and Miss Mary Teasdale.
	Mrs. H. S. Young, who had proffered
the use of her home, was a very entertain-
ing hostess. The affair was in every way
a pleasant one and the evening was
agreeably spent.
	Mrs. Lizzie Stevenson Wilcox was
selected from the Press Club and gave
“Women in Journalism,” at the annual
meeting of the Federation of Clubs held in
Ogden, May 28.
	The question of a double money stand-
ard for America was taken up and dis-
cussed. In the debate the affirmative won.
	The November meeting, after a short
program had been rendered, was, by sus-
pension of the rules, turned into a reception
to the Misses Chase of Boston, who were
present on the occasion. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells made speeches
of welcome, and the guests of honor spoke
at some length upon their travels through
the old and new world, from the snowy
Alps to the orange groves of California
from the plains of California to the vol-
canoes of Honolulu, depicting many
interesting things and sights in eloquent
language, then paying a glowing tribute to
glories of Salt Lake valley, with its charm-
ing sunsets and snow-capped mountains,
equal, they said, to the grandeur of the
Alps.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary, at the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early
in February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902. Address,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest sayings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol- 
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
In the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden. . . . . .

Se that your tickets read via the
				“SHORT LINE”
						And Get the best 

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation
