[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | January | Issue: 9 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	There will be a National Peace Demon-
stration made by the women of all
countries in May, 1902. May Wright
Sewall is chairman in the United States.
	Monday, January 6, there was a Whitney
gathering at the residence of Horace G.
Whitney, Business Manager of the
Deseret News Company. The house was a
blaze of light, and the rooms beautifully
decorated for the occasion, which was the
birthday anniversary of the host. There
were Whitneys and Whitneys and Whit-
neys, large and small, old and young—
grandchildren and great grandchildren of
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, the founder of
the Whitney family in the valley of the
Great Salt Lake. There was feasting and
talking, instrumental music by Miss Hattie
Whitney, singing by Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney and his sister, Mrs. Marian Whitney
Dinwoodey, and George D. Pyper, whose
wife is a Whitney, and a poem by Bishop
Whitney, and the party was a great suc-
cess. The brothers and sisters of H. G.
Whitney presented him with an elegant
copy of Napoleon Bonaparte in three
volumes, very handsomely illustrated, and
as he is an ardent lover of books, it was a
most appropriate gift. May the Whitneys
increase and multiply in numbers and in
strength and each one remember to honor
the name made illustrious in the history of
the Church by their honored ancestor,
Bishop Newel K. Whitney.
	We are very proud to welcome among
the periodicals of Utah the Children’s
Friend, a most happy title it seems to be,
and may the venture be a successful one for
the Primary Association. The table of
contents gives good promise of its useful-
ness among the little people and those who
have charge of them. The “Greeting”
from the president of the General Board,
Louie B. Felt, is full of deep love and
humble appreciation of her high position
and its great responsibilities, and it breathes
the true spirit of devotion and helpfulness.
“Suggestions to Officers” contains many
lessons that if carefully studied, followed
and applied will be of great benefit in the
daily labors of those who desire to make
themselves competent teachers in this work
of love among the children. Lula’s poem
is very sweet and full of love, and alto-
gether the new magazine is in the spirit of
the Primary work and makes one think
of the Savior’s words, “Except ye become
as one of these, ye cannot enter the king-
dom of heaven.” These dear sisters whose
work is among the little children will have
the opportunity of growing into that per-
fect love the Savior laid down as the
golden rule of life. The lessons all seem
to have been carefully arranged and with
such a complete guide, surely the associa-
tions will work in perfect harmony. The
Children’s Friend should assuredly be taken
in every home of the Latter-day Saints.


[column 1]
“RHYMELETS IN MANY MOODS,"
BY H. W. NAISBITT.

	This, the first of the “Home Circle”
series, came as a sweet thought for the
Christmas time. “Rhymelets” you are wel-
come! Like the sweet flowers of May,
and the blushing rose of June, you add
beauty and fragrance to the world. You
tell stories of love, of devotion of trial and
exultation. You touch new chords of the
heart, that never thrilled before; fire some
thought of the measureless Unknown,
and sing songs that we have known from
childhood in a tender strain. You bear
the impress of eternal Truth that has
flowed from Inspiration’s pen.
	You bring up memories of the sea, the
bright, undulating, mighty sea, and
days, when as strangers in the world, we
gleaned in the vineyard, finding here and
there much choice, tender wheat that must
be garnered into the storehouse of the
husbandmen. How beautifully you sing
of Friendship, strong and lasting, with-
standing the storms of Time, and finding
its full fruition in worlds Celestial.
	Appreciation tells its tale, and the vision
of futurity is opened to view, revealing
what will be. Sweet cadences are sung of
the Past, that recall the path trodden in
sweetest expectation. Dreamland is opened
to our view, where people revel, whom we
have forgotten or have never had life.
Sweet fancies of Dreamland live on; in thy
world we taste of love unknown on earth,
and dwell in realms that are yet to be.
Prophecy unveils the future, and must
ever go hand in hand with Poetry.
	In “The Parting’’ sweet thoughts are
expressed.

	“They meet no more—can this be true ?
	   Is every dream and love lit thought
	To be transferred to objects new
	   As traffic by a merchant bought?

	Will not in after years there come
	   Thoughts of the quiet rambles, where
	Love’s fond expression both could seal
	   By methods which a world doth share?”

	How beautifully expressed are the
thoughts in “My Unexpected Friend.”

Distant, though near when music of thy greeting
    Falls on mine ear, inspiring as it rings,
Unsatisfied if chance prevent a meeting.
     Until dispelled by stress of other things.

Alike in taste, alike in aspiration,
    And yet distant enough for mental interchange;
Because of age, experience or association,
    As known alone through less or wider range.

*	*	*	*
 
‘When all our dreams come true,’ the Poet wrote,
    ‘Eternal fitness will be found to reign—
Shadows will be the substance, dreams the real;
    Thus kindred only separate to meet again.”

	Thoughts unraveling the skein of life
are given in “Love Unappeased.”

	“May be it was kinship, or friendship, or love
	Which had its beginning in mansions above;
	   If so ’tis immortal and death will explain
	The secret of loving—in loving again.”

	Thoughts of the missionary field are
stirred by reading, “In the Missionary
Field.”

“Not far from that boisterous, wild, mad crew
   The voice of singing fell on my ear.
I turned again, for ’twas fresh and new,
   And touched my soul as I lingered near.

The words were stirring, yet wondrous sweet,
   Both they and the tune were as if divine;
Then prayer was offered as silence sweet,
   On that throng fell at the hour of nine. 

[column 2]
An earnest man then rose and told
   Of Gospel light and a Father’s love;
The contrast fell as ’twixt dust and gold,
   In the two old streets as I both did prove.”

	The street meetings in the old market
places arise to view. And the queer wind-
ing streets seem with us. Who can ever
forget such meetings, where the songs of
Zion resound on summer air in the streets
and lanes of England !
	“Rhymelets” we wish you every suc-
cess. May you enter every home in Zion,
your sentiments be read by young and old,
and your songs re-echo till Eternity’s
dawn.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


