[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Mormonism In the Eyes of the Press: Dolly Madison and the Outcast Mormons Elder James R. Clark]
DRIFTING— OR  SAILING  TO  A  CHARTED  COURSE 
23 
rich  heritage  that  hfe  holds  in  store 
for  us,  we  may  be  sure  we  shall  have 
to  follow  a  charted  course  to  a  def- 
inite goal.  Obedience  to  accepted 
rules  of  conduct  saves  us  from  be- 
coming human  driftwood. 
A  long  time  ago  Confucius  de- 
clared that  ''Personal  character  can 
only  be  established  on  fixed  prin- 
ciples.'' And  Aristotle  asserted, 
''Freedom  is  obedience  to  self-formu- 
lated rules." 
I 
T  is  true  that  "we  can  write  our 
own  price-tags."  But  we  cannot 
give  ourselves  double  promotions  un- 
less we  are  able  to  pass  the  tests.  The 
germs  of  truth  and  beauty  that  lie 
dormant  within  us  will  come  to  a 
full  flowering  only  through  study, 
prayer,  work,  and  suffering.  Honesty 
and  integrity,  courage  and  reliability, 
do  not  come  by  chance.  Like  other 
worth-while  characteristics,  they  are 
developed  through  cultivation  and 
training.  We  have  to  live  the  law 
to  obtain  the  blessing.  Our  loved 
poet  Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox  wrote: 
Who   sows   in   weakness   cannot   reap   in 
strength, 
That   which   we   plant   we   gather   in   at 
length. 
You  can  be  your  own  worst  enemy 
or  your  own  best  friend.  Don't  be 
wheedled  into  wrecking  your  own 
life.  It  is  lack  of  ambition  that  lets 
today's  convenience  outweigh  to- 
morrow's development.  Why  per- 
mit yourself  to  drift  with  the  tide 
and  be  tossed  about  by  the  fitful 
winds  of  circumstances  like  a  scrap 
of  bleached  deadwood?  If  you  find 
that  your  impulses  are  carrying  you 
downstream,  let  judgment  grasp  the 
oars  and  reverse  the  course  of  your 
sailing.  "Make  yourself  responsible 
for  yourself,"  urges  a  modern  di- 
vine. We  can  spend  our  days  loiter- 
ing listlessly  along  in  the  lowlands 
of  life  or  we  can  lift  ourselves  to  the 
stars. 
In  charting  our  course  of  action, 
let  us  accept  the  guidance  that  the 
wisdom  of  the  years  provides. 
Whether  our  journey  be  short  or 
longer,  we  can  make  life  richer,  more 
radiant,  and  altogether  more  satisfy- 
ing, if  we  work  with  a  purpose  to- 
ward a  definite  achievement.

24  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1946 
And  be  assured  we  are  never  alone  small  voice  of  the  Spirit/'  which  the 
in  our  efforts;  for  now,  as  always,  Master  said  would  guide  us  unto  all 
''God  helps  those  who  help  them-  truth.    The  person  who  holds  daily 
selves."    No  matter  what  other  guid-  communion  with  the  Most  High  is 
ance  we  accept,  let  us  so  live  that  we  sustained  and  directed  by  the  great 
may  always  be  able  to  hear  "the  still,  est  power  in  the  universe. 
ELIJAH 
Alice  Money  Bailey 
— 1— 
TRANSLATION  OF  ELIJAH 
Elijah's  hour  was  near,  his  years  bent  low. 
Though  yet  he  walked  with  God  in  faith.   The  birds 
Had  fed  him  in  the  wilderness.    So  runs 
This  ancient  drama— told  in  ancient  words. 
Elisha  walked  beside  him  as  he  went, 
And  out  of  every  town  came  bold  men— young— 
And  asked  him:  "Knowest  thou  his  hour  is  come?" 
He  answered:  "Yea!  I  know  it.  Hold  thy  tongue!" 
And  when  Elijah  bade  him:  "Tarry  here, 
I  pray  thee,  for  the  Lord  hath  sent  me  on." 
He  answered:  "As  He  liveth,  and  as  lives  thy  soul, 
I  will  not  leave  thee!  But  ere  thou  hast  gone 
GiwG  me  of  thy  spirit— much— a  double  share." 
Through  all  these  hallowed  towns  they  walked: 
Gilgal,  Bethel,  Jericho— beyond 
The  Jordan's  flood.    As  they  went  on— and  talked 
Behold  there  came  a  chariot  of  fire, 
And  fiery  steeds— and  they  were  thrust  apart. 
Elijah,  spared  the  bitterness  of  death, 
Went  up  to  heaven  in  a  whirlwind's  heart. 
—2— 
THE  VISION 
Thus  is  he  a  link  of  death  and  life— 
Eternally  of  both— of  heaven,  earth. 
He  is  the  key,  long  chosen,  fitted,  forged

ELIJAH  25 
To  turn  our  hearts  to  them  who  gave  us  birth. 
The  centuries  roll  away,  and  time  is  full, 
Cumorah's  hill  yields  up  its  plates  of  gold. 
The  heavens  burst  upon  a  waiting  world 
And  angels  come  to  fill  a  promise  old. 
Once  again  men  build  a  house  to  God; 
A  prophet  and  his  aide  kneeling  in  prayer— 
Before  their  eyes  a  glorious  vision  shines 
And  Jesus  stands  before  this  righteous  pair. 
His  eyes  are  as  a  flame  of  fire— as  snow 
His  hair— his  face  shines  brighter  than  the  sun— 
His  feet  rest  on  an  amber  work  of  gold— 
The  voice  of  God  as  rushing  water  comes. 
"1  am  the  Hist  and  ]ast***and  he  who  lives, 
And  who  was  slain— your  brother.    J  espouse 
Your  cause  heioie  the  throne.    Your  sins  are  gone. 
My  name  is  here***and  I  accept  this  house." 
-3- 
THE  KEYS 
He  is  gone,  and  in  his  place  is  ( ne 
Who  gathered  Israel  out  of  Egypt's  hold; 
Now  this  same  Moses  comes  and  brings  the  keys 
To  gather  Israel  out  of  all  the  world. 
He  is  gone.    Elias  comes— who  stood 
Transfigured  with  the  Savior  up  on  high— 
And  brings  a  dispensation's  key,  that  men 
And  nations  will  be  blessed.    The  time  is  nigh; 
The  great  and  dreadful  day  is  at  the  door. 
Foretold  by  Malachi,  Elijah  comes. 
Lest  all  the  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse. 
To  touch  a  kinsman's  bond  in  fathers,  sons. 
*    *    jjc    *    >!t    * 
A  hundred  years  and  more  have  passed  since  then; 
His  spirit  moves  on  men  in  every  land, 
Regardless  of  their  birth  and  heart  and  creed; 
Their  books  and  records  mount  as  he  has  planned. 
Baal  and  Jezebel  and  Ahab— all  are  gone. 
Now,  lest  an  altar  drown  in  sloth  and  shirk, 
May  Elijah's  hand  stretch  forth  in  power 
And  kindle  into  flame  desire  to  work!

Unceasing  Crusade 
The  National  Foundation  For  Infantile  Paralysis 
THE  prayers  of  the  nation  for 
those  stricken  in  infantile  pa- 
ralyses epidemics  are  an- 
swered each  January  by  millions  of 
Americans  through  the  March  of 
Dimes.  America's  record  contribu- 
tions to  the  1945  appeal  of  the  Na- 
tional Foundation  for  Infantile  Pa- 
ralysis poured  new  strength  into  the 
crusade  against  the  Great  Crippler. 
Poliomyelitis,  merciless  enemy  of 
both  adults  and  children,  claimed 
more  than  13,000  victims  in  this 
country  last  year,  fourth  worst  polio 
year  on  record.  Epidemics  raged  in 
Tennessee,  Utah,  Illinois,  New  York, 
and  Montana,  while  outbreaks  of 
the  disease  occurred  so  generally 
that  26  states  reported  more  cases 
than  in  1944,  worst  year  since  1916. 
The  National  Foundation  for  In- 
fantile Paralysis,  with  its  local  chap- 
ters throughout  the  country,  joined 
forces  with  local  and  state  health 
authorities  to  combat  polio  wher- 
ever it  struck. 
Living  up  to  its  pledge  that  "no 
victim  of  polio  shall  go  untreated  for 
lack  of  funds,  regardless  of  age,  race, 
creed  or  color,"  the  National  Foun- 
dation sent  nearly  $1,000,000  in 
emergency  aid  to  epidemic  areas, 
supplementing  the  dwindling  funds 
of  local  chapters. 
Poliomyelitis  is  one  of  the  most 
expensive  diseases  known  to  medi- 
cine. Many  victims  of  past  epidemics 
must  receive  continuing  care,  some- 
times for  several  years.  Each  year's 
outbreaks  add  new  names  to  the 
steadily  growing  list.  Hospitalization 
for  a  single  patient  costs  more  than 
Page  26 
$2,500  per  year.    Very  few    family 
budgets  can  stand  such  a  strain. 
Eight  years  ago,  the  late  Franklin 
D.  Roosevelt  founded  the  National 
Foundation  for  Infantile  Paralysis  in 
fulfillment  of  the  growing  need  for 
an  organized  fight  against  polio  and 
a  'general  staff"  to  direct  that  fight. 
Basil  O'Connor,  personal  friend  and 
former  law  partner  of  Mr.  Roosevelt, 
has  been  the  Foundation's  president 
since  its  formation. 
Before  the  National  Foundation 
was  launched,  infantile  paralysis 
was  considered  a  "local  affair."  From 
the  most  isolated  farm  to  the  largest 
city,  men,  women,  and  children  of- 
ten had  to  fight  the  disease  with  in- 
adequate resources. 
Today,  a  national  network  of  local 
Foundation  chapters  stands  ready  to 
combat  polio  wherever  it  appears 
and  to  provide  continuing  care  for 
patients  from  former  outbreaks. 
Each  chapter,  wherever  it  may  be, 
has  the  total  backing  of  the  National 
organization.  Last  summer  a  Ten- 
nessee chapter  desperately  needed 
an  "iron  lung."  The  National  Foun- 
dation had  one  flown  from  New 
York  City^ 
North  Carolina  chapters  needed 
funds  to  provide  care  and  treatment 
for  scores  of  patients  stricken  during 
the  Hickory  epidemic  of  1944.  The 
National  Foundation  last  year  sent 
more  than  $200,000  to  North  Caro- 
lina for  that  purpose. 
Rockford,  Illinois,  was  the  center 
of  a  serious  epidemic  last  summer. 
Stephenson  County  in  the  same  state 
was  badly  hit.  The  Foundation  last