[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]
Dr.  Lowell  L.  Bennion 
For  Tuesday,  April  2,  1946 
Objective:     To  show  that  charity  meets  offense  with  patience,  understanding,  and  hope. 
Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour,  and  hate  thine 
enemy.  But  I  say  unto  you,  ...  do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which 
despitefully  use  you,  and  persecute  you;  That  ye  may  be  the  children  of  your  Father  which 
is  in  heaven  (Matt.  5:43-45). 
n^HIS  is  strong  doctrine.  Man 
seems  to  be  more  inclined  by 
nature  to  give  blow  for  blow  than 
love  for  hate  or  good  for  evil.  Critics 
and  skeptics  call  this  Christian  ideal 
good  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
but  not  for  this  worid.  Still,  we 
may  ask,  what  does  experience  teach 
us? 
Not  infrequently  when  a  person 
is  dealt  with  unfairly  his  first  im- 
pulse is  to  fight  for  his  rights,  to  ral- 
ly the  support  of  his  friends,  or  even 
to  return  evil  for  evil  in  order  to 
teach  the  offender  the  error  of  his 
ways.  Experience  reveals  the  folly 
of  such  a  course  of  action,  for  argu- 
ment only  stirs  more  argument  as 
the  wind  stirs  the  open  fire;  and  evil 
not  only  increases  evil,  but  justifies 
it  in  the  mind  of  the  first  offender. 
A  person  of  charity  knows  a  bet- 
ter way  to  deal  with  an  offense 
against  him.  Since  ''charity  seeketh 
not  her  own,"  his  first  reaction  to  in- 
jury or  criticism  is  not  to  engage  in 
self-defense,  but  to  look  within  him- 
self to  find  the  cause  for  the  real 
or  imagined  offense.  If,  after  mak- 
ing careful  study  and  receiving  wise 
counsel,  he  finds  no  cause  within 
himself  for  the  offense,  then  he  is 
happy  that  the  accusation  against 
him  is  not  justified.  And  since  "char- 
ity rejoiceth  in  the  truth"  he  is  will- 
ing to  wait,  to  hope,  and  even  to  en- 
dure until  truth  can  be  his  vindicator 
which  it  can  be  and  will  be  far  more 
effectively  than  he  himself  could  ev- 
er be. 
Hardship  and  suffering  make  up  a 
normal  part  of  a  person's  life.    The

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
61 
rains  descend,  the  floods  come,  and 
the  winds  blow,  and  beat  upon  every 
hfe  (See  Matt.  7:24-27).  Some- 
times these  things  come  upon  us  as 
natural  consequences  of  our  own 
ignorance  and  sins;  often  they  arq 
the  result  of  the  ignorance  and  sins 
of  others  or  of  the  natural  conditions 
of  earth-life.  Whatever  their  cause, 
they  do  not  leave  us  untouched.  One 
who  comes  face-to-face  with  real 
struggle  and  suflfering  will  never  be 
the  same  person  again.  Either  he 
will  increase  in  cynicism,  bitterness, 
melancholy  or  self-pity,  or  he  will 
grow  in  humility,  compassion,  un- 
derstanding, and  love.  It  isn't  what 
happens  to  us,  and  more  especially 
what  is  said  about  us,  that  matters, 
but  our  attitude  towards  these  things 
and  toward  those  who  offend  us. 
Charity  is  an  unfailing  source  of 
strength  which  enables  us  to  meet 
life  with  courage  and  faith,  with  pa- 
tience, understanding,  and  love.  It 
relieves  its  possessor  of  the  burden 
of  a  wounded  self  and  of  the  need 
to  waste  energy  in  self-excuse  and 
self-defense,  in  blame,  or  retaliation. 
It  frees  the  mind  and  heart  for  their 
larger  task  of  knowing  the  truth  and 
loving  the  right.  Charity  does  not 
mean  submission  to  wrong  and  to 
error;  it  means  more  strength  for  the 
right  and  for  the  truth. 
JLiterature 
The  Bible  in  Our  Literature 
Lesson  7— Bible  Influence  as  Revealed  in  Sermons, 
Essays,  and  Orations 
Di.  Howard  R.  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  April  16,  1946 
ADDED  to  the  treasured  songs, 
stories,  and  plays  that  have  been 
created  for  our  recreation,  we  have 
a  wealth  of  choice  sermons,  essays, 
and  orations.  As  distinguished 
from  the  lyric,  epic,  and  dramatic 
types  of  literature,  already  presented 
in  these  lessons,  the  sermon,  essay, 
and  oration  are  in  a  general  sense 
more  didactic  in  purpose  and  spirit. 
They  teach  or  portray  facts  and 
truths  of  life  with  more  directness. 
At  times,  this  didactic  type  of  lit- 
erature rises  to  classic  heights.    All 
down  the  stream  of  time  men  have 
voiced  their  thoughts  and  feelings- 
have  tried  to  do  what  they  felt  was 
right.  Often  what  was  said  rang 
with  such  force  that  it  echoed  and 
re-echoed  through  the  years.  For  il- 
lustration : 
We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evident 
— that  all  men  are  created  equal;  that  they 
are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain 
unalienable  rights;  that  among  these  are 
life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness. 
— ^Declaration  oi  Independence,  Thomas 
Jefferson.

$z 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1946 
It  is  rather  for  us  to  be  here  dedicated 
to  the  great  task  remaining  before  us;  that 
from  these  honored  dead  we  take  increased 
devotion  to  that  cause  for  which  they  gave 
the  last  full  measure  of  devotion.  That 
we  here  highly  resolve  that  these  dead  shall 
not  have  died  in  vain.  That  this  nation, 
under  God,  shall  have  a  new  birth  of  free- 
dom, and  that  government  of  the  people, 
by  the  people,  for  the  people,  shall  not 
perish  from  the  earth. 
— Gettysburg  Speech,  Abraham  Lincoln 
Only  great  occasions  bring  forth 
such  soul-stirring  expressions.  When 
a  nation  is  at  a  crisis,  some  leader 
usually  rises  to  voice  the  heart  of  the 
people.  When  truth  is  soundly, 
aptly  spoken,  the  words  are  caught 
up  and  passed  on  as  maxims  for 
guidance,  as  clarion  calls  to  duty. 
Usually  such  expressions,  as  the  ones 
above,  are  simple,  direct,  rhythmic, 
easy  to  remember.  In  v^ord  or  spir- 
it, they  reveal  Bible  inspiration. 
In  "times  that  try  men's  souls," 
those  who  bear  the  responsibility  of 
leadership,  almost  unfailingly  turn 
to  Holy  Writ  for  light  and  strength. 
During  Britain's  darkest  days  of 
World  War  II,  when  Winston 
Churchill  could  promise  his  people 
only  "blood,  sweat,  toil  and  tears," 
he  constantly  held  faith  and  courage 
before  them  in  words  such  as  these: 
The  task  which  has  been  set  us  is  not 
beyond  our  strength;  its  pangs  and  toils 
are  not  beyond  our  endurance.  As  long  as 
we  have  faith  in  our  cause,  and  uncon- 
querable will  power,  salvation  will  not  be 
denied  us.  In  the  words  of  the  Psalmist: 
"He  shall  not  be  afraid  of  evil  tidings,  his 
heart  is  fixed,  trusting  in  the  Lord." 
Later,  when  the  clouds  had  lifted, 
he  could  look  back  through  the  dark 
days  and  say: 
All  the  world,  even  our  best  friends, 
thought  that  our  end  had  come  ....  We 
were  united  in  that  solemn,  majestic  hour 
....  We  faced  our  duty,  and  by  the  mercy 
of  God  we  were  preserved. 
Such  bracing  of  men  and  women 
for  their  duties  is  by  no  means  lim- 
ited to  times  of  deepest  distress.  In 
less  degree  it  comes  with  everyday 
needs.  All  of  us,  great  or  small,  are 
constantly  saying  things  to  try  to 
help  the  world  along. 
One  thing  that  marks  our  daily 
talk  is  folk  sayings  that  have  come 
down  as  a  homely  heritage  of  wis- 
dom. Everyone  will  recall  some  of 
these  old,  time-tested  bits  of  advice 
that  fell  from  the  lips  of  grandmoth- 
er, grandfather  or  parents,  or  some 
helpful-spirited  neighbor.  Here  are 
just  a  few  samples: 
Don't  let  the  grass  grow  under  your  feet. 
Remember,  a  stitch  in  time  saves  nine. 
Honesty  is  the  best  policy. 
Handsome  is  as  handsome  does. 
Frequently  a  bit  of  wisdom  came 
in  verse,  as: 
The  Devil  was  sick — the  Devil  a  monk 
would  be; 
The  Devil  was  well — the  Devil  a  monk 
was  he. 
— Rabelais 
A  goodly  part  of  our  didactic  lit- 
erature, indeed,  is  cast  into  verse 
form— this  to  make  it  easier  to  learn 
by  heart.  Songs  sung  in  religious 
services  are  in  large  measure  m.ore 
didactic  than  lyric.  A  central  pur- 
pose in  their  creation  is  to  impress  a 
gospel  lesson.  For  illustration,  take 
these  typical  lines: 
Count  your  many  blessings 
Name  them  one  by  one; 
And  it  will  surprise  you 
What  the  Lord  hath  done. 
Let  us  oft  speak  kind  words  to  each  other. 
At  home  or  where'er  we  may  be.