[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: Contest Award Winners Eliza Contest]
[Prize-  Vi/inning  LPoems 
ibliza  LKoxey  (bnow    I liemonal  LPnze  [Poem   (contest 
EVA  WILLES  WANGSGAARD 
First  Prize  Poem 
Star  of  y^ola 
Eva  Waies  Wangsgaard 
I  —  My  neighbor's  window  frames  a  golden  star 
Where  last  year  hung  its  counterpart  in  blue, 
A  sharp  reminder  of  one  gone  too  far 
To  walk  again  the  friendly  street  he  knew. 
Long  weeks  ago  his  mother  hung  it  there 
And  still  the  dusk  of  grief  is  in  her  eyes 
And  loneliness  impossible  to  share 
Or  mitigate  by  kneeling  where  he  lies. 
She  neither  dwells  upon  him  nor  evades 
The  mention  of  his  name  when  others  ask; 
Though  memory  wounds  each  day  with  deeper  blades, 
She  goes  with  normal  mien  from  task  to  task. 
At  what  a  cost  her  courage  has  been  won! 
I've  seen  her  hang  her  pillow  in  the  sun. 
Page  7

RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1946 
II  —  This  star  is  many  sons  in  one  to  her: 
A  gurghng  baby  showing  his  first  tooth, 
A  tear-stained  youngster  pleading  for  a  cur, 
A  proud  boy  scout,  a  gangUng,  earnest  youth. 
She  knew  his  untried  strength,  his  zest  for  hfe, 
Ideals  he  thought  worth  fighting  to  uphold, 
The  girl  he  loved  and  hoped  to  make  his  wife— 
And  sharp  cessation  in  this  star  of  gold. 
To  me,  it  is  a  symbol  of  the  loss 
Of  myriads  of  men  who  went  beyond 
The  lonely  foxhole  to  the  small  white  cross 
In  Libyan  sands  or  brushed  by  tropic  frond. 
Oh,  modern  wise  men,  kneel  in  reverence 
Before  this  star  and  offer  recompense! 
Ill  —  The  roaring  wings  that  tore  the  world  apart 
And  made  a  mockery  of  miles  and  weather 
Can  fly  the  lanes  of  peace  and  make  a  start 
Toward  landing  fields  where  all  men  walk  together 
As  neighbors  should.    Then,  though  he  lies  in  sands 
Long  burned  by  suns,  or  under  shaggy  palm 
Or  chestnut  tree  or  where  the  linden  stands, 
His  timeless  sleeping  shall  be  sound  and  calm. 
There  was  another  star,  another  cross. 
Another  wound  that  grew  a  rose  as  red; 
They  hold  the  answer  to  my  neighbor's  loss. 
This  star  can  lead  us  as  the  other  led 
The  shepherd's  feet.    Though  high  the  goal  and  far, 
Can  we  deny  the  beckoning  of  a  star? 
Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  Ogden,  Utah,  is  the  author  of  three  books  of 
poetry:  Singing  Hearts,  Down  This  Road,  and  After  the  Blossoming.  Her 
poems  have  appeared  in  many  national  periodicals  including  the  American 
Mercury,  the  Saturday  Evening  Post,  the  New  York  Times,  and  the  Washing- 
ton D.  C.  Post,  and  in  such  poetry  magazines  as  Wings,  Spirit,  and  the  Florida 
Magazine  of  Verse.  She  placed  first  in  the  Huckelberry  Mountain  Colony's 
Poetry  Contest  in  1943,  the  only  time  in  the  history  of  the  contest  when  all 
five  of  the  judges  chose  the  same  poem.  There  were  1 500  entries.  Mrs.  Wangs- 
gaard has  won  awards  in  many  other  contests,  including:  The  Deseret  News 
Christmas  Poetry  Contest,  1938,  1939,  1940,  and  1942;  first  in  the  Eliza  R. 
Snow  Memorial  Prize  Poem  Contest  in  1941  and  second  in  1938;  first  in  the 
Utah  Federation  of  Women's  Clubs  Poetry  Contest,  1939;  first  in  the  League 
of  Utah  Writer's  Poetry  Contest  1940  and  1942,  and  second  in  1941.  Her 
poem  "To  Betsy  Ross"  first  published  in  the  New  York  Heiald-Tribune,  June 
14,  1945,  was  reprinted  in  various  newspapers  and  broadcast  on  the  "World 
Homemakers"  program  from  Chicago  on  "V-J"  Day.  Wife  of  David  Wangs-
