[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Nicholas G. Smith A Romney]

Some people, when in the country, may not be aware that birds are singing, may not feel the romantic influence of music, and yet may have music within them needing only an awakening ?Anonymous. Nicholas G. Smith?A Tribute Elder Marion G. Romney Assistant to the Council of the Twelve N all my memory pictures of Nicholas G. Smith, there stands at his side Florence Gay Smith, his life's companion.
They exemplified the Master's teaching, "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh.
Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh" (Matt. 19:5-6). From Salt Lake City to South Africa, from Southern California to the Northwest and Alaska, at home and abroad, their lives ran together in an undivided current.
Under their guidance, there developed in their home an unusually fine relationship between themselves as parents and their four sons.
Rarely do parents enjoy the unrestrained confidence of their children as did they.
Nicholas shared with his wife and family the fullness of his rich life, and judged in the light of eternity, his life was rich indeed. All but eight of his adult years he spent filling some major assignment in his Master's service.
Often he had more than one such assignment at a time.
Between thirteen and fourteen years he spent in the mission field; eighteen months as a high councilman; twelve and one-half years on the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association; twelve years as bishop of the Seventeenth Ward; three years as Acting Patriarch to the Church; three years in the presidency of the Salt Lake Temple; and four and one-half years Page
20 NICHOLAS G. SMITH as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles. As I think of this service, the 37th verse of the 13th chapter of First Nephi comes to my mind: And blessed are they who shall seek to bring forth my Zion at that day, (when the Book of Mormon should come forth) for they shall have the gift and the power of the Holy Ghost: and if they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the everlasting kingdom of the Lamb; and whoso shall publish peace, yea, tidings of great joy, how beautiful upon the mountains shall they be. NICHOLAS G. SMITH?A TRIBUTE The strength of his youth and the wisdom of his maturity he freely gave in publishing peace and declaring tidings of great joy. The whole purpose of his life was to assist in _ bringing forth Zion. And he endured to the end, which is the condition upon which the blessings of eternal life and exaltation are predicated. 21
Surely he was of the blessed who are described as being "beautiful upon the mountains." He and his family had before his passing, and his family now has, a sure hope that he shall be lifted up at the last day.