[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 38 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorials: Be Not Weary in Well Doing Marianne C. Sharp]
Wherefore,  be  not  weary  in  well-doing, 
for  ye  are  laying  the  foundations  of  a  great 
work.  And  out  of  small  things  proceedeth 
that  which  is  great. 
Behold,  the  Lord  requireth  the  heart 
and  a  willing  mind;  and  the  willing  and 
obedient  shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land  of 
Zion  in  these  last  days   (Doc.  and  Gov. 
64:33-34)- 
One  of  the  most  potent  forces 
which  a  mother  possesses  in  influ- 
encing the  lives  of  her  children  to 
righteousness  is  the  power  of  ex- 
ample which  she  sets  her  children 
by  her  daily  living.  She  may  not 
fully  realize  this  as  she  lives  out  her 
crowded  days,  but  when  a  beloved 
mother  passes  on  to  her  reward,  the 
memories  of  her  which  live  on  with 
her  children  and  are  treasured  by 
them  in  the  long  days  of  separation, 
are  the  memories  of  the  deeds  of  lov- 
ing service  she  showered  on  her  fam- 
ily at  all  times,  and  the  innumerable 
acts  of  kindness  and  service  she  ren- 
dered those  outside  her  own  home 
circle.  Her  children  recall  the  tedi- 
ous hours  she  was  wont  to  spend  in 
making  quilts,  in  cutting  out  and 
Page  38 
preparing  intricate  patterns  to  be 
appliqued  on  the  quilts  on  sewing 
day  in  Relief  Society,  and  the  hours 
of  service  she  gave  after  the  meeting, 
in  finishing  the  quilts.  They  remem- 
ber the  times  when  she  left  her  home 
to  minister  to  the  sick  or  visit  with 
the  homebound.  They  picture  the 
happy  afternoon  socials  she  gave  for 
a  group  of  lonely  sisters  far  from 
their  families  and  homelands,  and 
the  remembrance  of  their  smiling 
faces  floods  back  to  bring  enrich- 
ment to  the  souls  of  her  children. 
The  picture  also  comes  to  their 
minds  of  that  same  mother  dressed 
in  a  beautiful  evening  gown  as  she 
left  home  to  enjoy  an  evening  in  the 
home  of  friends.  This  picture,  also, 
provides  a  fond  memory,  but  does 
not  carry  the  power  to  move  her  chil- 
dren to  better  or  nobler  living,  as  do 
the  memories  of  the  deeds  of  per- 
sonal kindness  she  extended  to  oth- 
ers. The  pleasure  of  the  one  is 
transitory— as  was  the  occasion  to  the 
recipient— while  the  recollection  of 
the  blessings  she  bestowed  on  the 
less  fortunate  of  her  friends  lives  on 
in  the  memory,  and  is  nourished  by 
the  heartfelt  words  of  appreciation 
for  their  mother  which  are  spoken 
to  them  by  others  for  years  to  come. 
"Be  not  weary  in  well-doing,"  ad- 
monished the  Lord.  Do  not  labor 
unselfishly  for  others  for  a  few 
months  or  even  years  and  then  de- 
cide   that    one    has    served    long

EDITORIAL 
39 
enough,  turning  thereafter  to  the 
pursuit  of  one's  own  pleasure,  and 
leaving  to  those  who  do  not  weary 
in  well-doing  future  service  for  oth- 
ers. The  benefits  of  such  selfish  liv- 
ing "shall  melt  away  as  the  hoar 
frost  melteth  before  the  burning 
rays  of  the  sun." 
Blessed  is  the  child  who,  in  later 
years,  has  an  anchor  to  his  soul  and 
an  example  to  follow  in  the  remem- 
brance of  the  life  led  by  his  mother 
—of  a  mother  who  extended  her  love 
to  draw  into  the  warmth  of  her 
friendship  the  poor,  the  lonely,  and 
the  friendless,  who  freely,  through- 
out her  entire  life,  gave  of  her  own 
talents  for  the  upbuilding  of  the 
Church  she  loved  beyond  all  else. 
And  just  as  sure  as  one  renders 
service  to  others,  so  sure  will  be  the 
rewards  which  will  follow.  "Cast 
thy  bread  upon  the  waters;  for  thou 
shalt  find  it  after  many  days,"  said 
Ecclesiastes.  "The  Lord  requireth 
the  heart  and  a  willing  mind,"  we  of 
this  day  have  been  told  with  the 
promise,  "and  the  willing  and  obedi- 
ent shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land 
of  Zion  in  these  last  days."  Certain- 
ly, to  the  mothers  of  Zion,  one  of 
the  "good"  things  of  the  land  of  Zion 
for  the  willing  and  obedient  will  be 
the  joy  of  seeing  their  children  fol- 
lowing their  example,  working  in 
the  Church,  and  not  becoming 
weary  in  well-doing. 
M.  C.  S. 
dioward  o.    1 1  Lc^Jjonald  cJ^naugurated  [President 
of  iungham    ijoung    LLniversity 
"IXTednesday,  November  14,  1945,  nal  truth.    President  McDonald,  in