[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Page 36
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HUNDREDS of thousands of girls, the world over, are returning to their homes after giving magnificent service to their countries. With eyes more widely opened to the needs of daily living for the multitudes, and hearts more receptive to the hungers of the soul, they should prove as great an asset in peace as in war. BRITAIN'S only woman cabinet minister, "wee Ellen" Wilkinson, Minister of Education, grew up in a home where the father never earned more than $16.00 per week. She acquired her education through scholarships, which, by the way, are becoming more and more available to Britain's humbly born. As a fiery Member of Parliament for Jarrow during the depression, she worked for prevention of starvation among her constituents. In 1942, during the Nazi raids, she was responsible for her country's civil defense, having supervision of more than two million paid and volunteer workers. T? 4
German woman scientist, Dr. Liza Meitner, goes much of the credit for developing the method of splitting the atom and _ releasing atomic energy. Hitler was working desperately for the discovery of this knowledge and its use by the Nazis. But Hitler drove non-Ayran Dr. Meitner out of Germany and she carried her secret with her. INEZ ROBB, writer for International News Service, was the only woman with the journalists who circled the globe on the inaugural round-the-world run of the At Transport Command. In giant they covered the 23,147 miles in six and one-fourth days. PUBLISHED fifty years ago, Fannie Farmer's The Boston Cooking School Cook Book rates seventh among all-time best-selling books in America, printings to date being 2,461,000 copies. It ls still in demand all over the world. The blind use it in a nineteen-volume Braille edition. A victim of two paralytic strokes, one at seventeen, Miss Farmer was always handicapped. She gave her last lectures in cooking from a wheel-chair. She ls known as the mother of level measurements, instead of "rounding" and "heaping." Her cook book brought her from poverty to wealth. A.M. WAINWRIGHT wrote of the nurses who faced the fearful trials of Bataan and Corregidor so unflinchingly: They had no training in pioneer hardship... - But their hearts were the same as those of the women of early America. Their names must always be hallowed when we speak of American heroes.