[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Unceasing Crusade Paralysis]

Baal and Jezebel and Ahab?all are gone. Now, lest an altar drown in sloth and shirk, May Elijah's hand stretch forth in power And kindle into flame desire to work! Unceasing Crusade The National Foundation For Infantile Paralysis HE prayers of the nation for those stricken in infantile paralyses epidemics are answered each January by millions of Americans through the March of Dimes. America's record contributions to the 1945 appeal of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis poured new strength into the crusade against the Great Crippler. Poliomyelitis, merciless enemy of both adults and children, claimed more than 13,000 victims in this country last year, fourth worst polio year on record.
Epidemics raged in Tennessee, Utah, Illinois, New York, and Montana, while outbreaks of the disease occurred so generally that 26 states reported more cases than in 1944, worst year since 1916. The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, with its local chapters throughout the country, joined forces with local and state health authorities to combat polio wherever it struck.
Living up to its pledge that "no victim of polio shall go untreated for lack of funds, regardless of age, race, creed or color," the National Foundation sent nearly $1,000,000 in emergency aid to epidemic areas, supplementing the dwindling funds of local chapters.
Poliomyelitis is one of the most expensive diseases known to medicine.
Many victims of past epidemics must receive continuing care, sometimes for several years.
Each year's outbreaks add new names to the steadily growing list.
Hospitalization for a single patient costs more than Page 26 $2,500 per year.
Very few family budgets can stand such a strain.
Eight years ago, the late Franklin D.
Roosevelt founded the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in fulfillment of the growing need for an organized fight against polio and a '"'general staff" to direct that fight. Basil O'Connor, personal friend and former law partner of Mr. Roosevelt, has been the Foundation's president since its formation.
Before the National Foundation was launched, infantile paralysis was considered a "local affair."
From the most isolated farm to the largest city, men, women, and children often had to fight the disease with inadequate resources. Today, a national network of local Foundation chapters stands ready to combat polio wherever it appears and to provide continuing care for patients from former outbreaks.
Each chapter, wherever it may be, has the total backing of the National organization.
Last summer a Tennessee chapter desperately needed an "iron lung." ?The National Foundation had one flown from New York City. North Carolina chapters needed.
Funds to provide care and treatment for scores of patients stricken during the Hickory epidemic of 1944. The National Foundation last year sent more than $200,000 to North Carolina for that purpose. Rockford, Illinois, was the center of a serious epidemic last summer. Stephenson County in the same state was badly hit. The Foundation last UNCEASING CRUSADE year advanced more than a quarter million dollars in epidemic aid to local chapters in that state.
Action and aid in epidemics are the more obvious and dramatic aspects of the National Foundation's work.
Everyone who has seen a polio outbreak knows this part of the organization's work. But there is another, less spectacular and less familiar, aspect: science. The Foundation, in its eight-year history, has appropriated $7,673,113 for scientific work: for research toward the goal of a Preventive and a cure for infantile paralysis, for the training of physicians, nurses, physical therapists, medical social workers and others in modern methods of treating and helping polio victims, for a broad program of education? a never-ending campaign to give the facts about polio to the people of America. The fight is costly and grows more costly as the National Founda.
Tion expands all phases of its activities and meets the cost of polio epidemics. Of all contributions in any county to the annual March of Dimes conducted by the Foundation, half is retained by the local chapter for special equipment, hospitalization, transportation, treatment and care of polio patients. The other half goes to the national organization for research, education, and emergency aid in epidemics.
Standing ready to give battle on every Sector of the polio front, the National: Foundation for Infantile Paralysis is a vital weapon of the working people?a weapon against the common enemy, poliomyelitis. Margaret Cummock Pickering (Continued from Page 5) As I look back over the years, I remember Margaret as a charming, vivacious, and lovable young girl. She was wholesome and interesting. She was full of life and zest. She had then, as she has now, an unusually attractive personality. She was admired and loved by all her associates, She was beautiful in appearance then, as a girl, and she is beautiful now as a woman.