CONFERENCES AND CONVENTIONS.

	MANY important occurrences have taken
place since the last issue of the Exponent
worthy of special mention, and it is a
matter of regret that so little space can be
given to current matters of great moment.
It is only daily papers or large magazines
nowadays that can keep pace with even
generalities.
	On the 4th of April the General Con-
ference of the Relief Society was held in
the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young
presiding. There were representative
women from nearly every stake of Zion,
and the reports were favorable and en-
couraging. In the afternoon there was a
very large congregation, though the
weather was unpropitious. The evening
session was most enjoyable; President
Joseph F. Smith attended and gave a very
eloquent and interesting address.
	The General Conference of the Church
opened in the large Tabernacle on Friday
the 5th of April and lasted three days dur-
ing which time many excellent discourses
were delivered by the Apostles, the first
Presidency and other Elders and certainly
the instructions were calculated to reach all
the spiritual needs of the people and to
benefit them temporally also. The at-
tendance was large and from all quarters
and the spirit of the meetings was uplifting
to all who listened. There seemed to be a
word in season to all whatever their circum-
stances or conditions in life might be. Ex-
hortation, instruction, encouragement, ad-
monition, all blended in a way to bless and
to promote a stronger bond of union and
of love and a greater flow of the Holy
Spirit which leads into the light eternal.
	The Constitutional Convention is still in
session, and numbers are still struggling
with varied questions, that seem difficult
for them to decide or at least to agree upon.
The majority report of the committees on
Elections and Suffrage, though it has passed
its third reading and each time a large
majority of the members have voted for it
to be a part of the Constitution, yet the
dissatisfied minority are still determined to
get it reconsidered, and want it the matter
of suffrage for women submitted as a
separate proposition. This proves to any
well-balanced mind that it is not equal
suffrage, because to be equal in suffrage
with men it must be in the Constitution. If
women get suffrage as a separate proposition
they do not come into the new state on an
equal platform. The new state will need
all its citizens, and all equally responsible.

[Column 2]
Even the men who made the minority
report on Elections and Suffrage will ac-
knowledge without doubt that Victor Hugo
was right when he said the nineteenth cen-
tury was woman’s era. But whether they
do or not, it will make no difference with
facts. “The ridicule of facts does not change
their character.” John Stuart Mill said "the
majority of the male sex cannot yet tolerate
the idea of living with an equal.” Men of
the great West are generally spoken of as
being great-souled men with broad views
and liberal opinions on all questions con-
cerning human rights, let us hope it will be
so with the members of the Utah Constitu-
tional Convention, and that all women as
well as all men may be accorded the same
rights and privileges in the new state.
	The numerously signed petitions asking
that the clause relating  to equal suffrage
remain in the Constitution, are from all
parts of the Territory and were there time
many more signatures could be obtained,
but it was expected the men who were
elected upon equal suffrage platforms would
give the plank place in the Constitution,
without being besieged by Memorials and
Petitions.
	We must not neglect to mention the com-
ing of Susan B. Anthony, Rev. Anna Shaw
and other distinguished women who are to
hold a Conference in this city May 13, 14
and 15, and it is to be hoped the men and
women who are so strongly opposed to
equal suffrage for Utah, will go and hear
these celebrated advocates of justice and
equality who are known throughout the
wide, wide world. Salt Lake City should
give these famous speakers a hearty wel-
come.


