		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	IN memory of Lydia Laura Lewis. It is with
sincere regret, and heartfelt sorrow that we have


to record the death of our beloved sister an<d>
companion, Lydia Lauretta Lewis, who departe
this life February 22nd, A. D. 1895, at Oxfor
Idaho, after a short but painful illness
peritonitis, being sick only eight days, July 10th
1868. She was the beloved wife of William A.
Lewis, who is left with three small children
to mourn their sad loss. Sister Lewis was a pure,
and loving wife, a kind and indulgent mother, and
a faithful Latter-day Saint, she was an earnest
worker in the Relief Society of the Ox-
ford Ward, being the secretary of the same.
Now, we the officers and members of the
Relief Society of Oxford, Idaho, desire to ex-
press our deep and lasting sympathy for, and sin-
cerely condole with the bereaved family in the
loss of one, who, by her noble and exemplary
life, was endeared to us all. Therefore we bow in
humble submission to the Divine will of Him.
“Who tempers the wind to the shorn Lamb,”
and pray that the comforting influence of God’s
Holy Spirit may bring sweet con[-]olation to the
bereaved ones in this their great affliction.

	They’ve lain you dear one down to rest,
		Whom God has called from earth away.
	Gone to enjoy that Heavenly rest,
		She heard the “call” and could not stay. 
	The parting filled your hearts with grief
		So hard to lose the one you love,
	Her sojourn here on earth was brief,
		Her home is with the just, above.
	She fain would tarried here on earth
		With husband, parent, children dear,
	Our sorrowing hearts are filled with dearth
		Because we could not keep her here.
	And when the cruel shaft was hurled
		And death, your loving wife did take,
	And darling mother from the world,
		It seemed as though your hearts must break.
	May God above in mercy hear
		Our prayers, and consolation give
	To friends and kindred sorrowing near
		And teach us Father how to live.
	That when our earth’s work here is o’er
		We may be called to Heaven above
	And join the dear one gone before.
		And dwell with her in endless love, 
	There no more parting, pain, or tears,
		No sorrows to disturb our rest.
	For God will banish all our fears
		In realms above, home of the blessed.
‘Blow gently ye wild winds, our darling’s asleep,
	She’s resting at last in her narrow bed,
Disturb not her slumbers, but soft requiems keep.
	O’er the grave of our loved one, our beautiful
		dead.”


Salt Lake School Of Obstetries
and Nursing.
	A NUMBER of students from this school
passed examinations before the Utah
Medical Board of Examiners on the first of
January and received licenses to practice
Obstetrics. Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp will com-
mence a Summer Class on the sixth of May
in the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society
Hall. The terms for entire course is ten
dollars. Books six dollars. Those desir-
ing further information address 34 S. 7 East
St.

