[Column 1]
THE SPIRIT OF REFORM REDUCED
TO PRACTICE.
	IN the Book of Books it is written, “God
said ‘Let there be light’ and there was
light.’’ An abstract truth is herein set
forth, but the whole sum of the matter is
not expressed. Reason teaches that there
were agencies who understood and obeyed
the mandate of divine authority, and thus
the purpose of the Lord was fulfilled. Not
words alone, but works; brave, determined,
incessant effort, wields the power which
will eventually revolutionize the world.
	The world in its grand old age has grown
very wise, and contains many teachers.
Also many who aspire to be teachers with-
out the necessary preparation and qualifica-
tions.
	Of the latter class the unwary should be-
ware, lest “the blind lead the blind, and
both fall into the ditch.”
	It is good to desire, with great and strong
desire to be a teacher of truth. And it is
possible for almost every one to become a
true teacher; not an imaginary or mislead-

[Column 2]
ing one. It should be considered a cause
for individual congratulation, that the in-
fluence of one pure and noble character, of
life, is of more lasting and certain weight
in the scale of the world’s reformation, than
the preaching of a thousand sermons or the
publishing of thousands of volumes. Up-
on first thought, this statement may appear
questionable in the minds of some, but a
brief analysis offers proofs of its correctness. 
	In the first place, the one grand soul
which in spite of all obstacles, heroically
performs its daily duties, small or great, to
the end of mortal life, is saved. While of
all the millions of hearts which may be
thrilled by the sound of the thousand ser-
mons, or the perusal of the many volumes,
not one, by those means, independent of
self exertion, will ever secure salvation.
And again, the object lesson presented by a
worthy life, to those who are fortunate
enough to come within the circle of its
light, is of greater practical value than the
mere listening to the most eloquent ser-
mons, or reading of the most instructive
works, can be. For one is the positive
demonstration of exalted truths; the others
are simply oral and book lessons.
	The present era is one of general educa-
tion. The world is full of educated, or at
least partially educated speakers and wri-
ters. Has it a proportionate number of
charitable and sympathetic hearts and will-
ing, do its workers or a majority of them
actually work for the good of humanity,
for the reformation and salvation of the
masses; ready, patient hands? Or is there,
within the breasts of many, underlying
this high and holy object, a reaching after
vain glory, a yearning for adulation, a love
of praise? And in many instances, coupled
with these polluting tendencies, is there
not an undue and selfish longing for world-
ly wealth? No heart need fear to take
home, and kindly entertain these questions;
and prove them, whether they be friendly
messengers come to give warning of dangers
ahead, or mere safety inspectors, looking
after the general weal. Where there is
no dross to be consumed, the fire need not
be dreaded.
	If, however, the evils here mentioned are
really prevalent, to what cause may such 
lamentable effects be traced? Does it not
give rise to reasonable apprehensions that
something is at fault with the general
manner, or matter, by which the public 
mind is nourished? Let us look into this
subject.
	Children attend school and are over-fed
mentally, as a rule, in this generation. 
Often vanity and love of praise are engen-
dered, fostered and highly developed in the
innocent child, to sharpen the appetite and
increase the thirst for learning. Thus the
capacity of the brain is expanded at the
expense and to the neglect of the heart.
Thus knowledge is eagerly sought and
obtained through selfish motives, for world-
ly honor and gain; instead of in the spirit
of generosity, to do good and diffuse light
in the midst of the world.
	Parents as well as teachers, home as well
as school influences all lead in much the


