U. W. P. C.

	ACCORDING to previous arrangement the
Utah Woman’s Press and Reapers clubs
met at the office of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Saturday evening March 16th, 1895. The
object was a greeting to Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, who is Honorary-president of the
Press Club, and the founder of both the
clubs mentioned, and to Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
president of the Press Club.
	Vice-president Ruth M. Fox of the Press
club presided. After the usual opening
exercises, Dr. Shipp was called upon to ad-
dress the meeting.
	The Doctor said that at that “Council of
Women” they had met some of the bright-
est women of America. There are
thousands of noble women working for the
elevation of mankind. It is a great joy to
know that woman is so busily engaged in
elevating humanity, for if woman improves
the influence will extend to all mankind.
	The papers that were read were all so
good, that at the reading of every one the
speaker thought, “well this is the best paper
that has been read.” They met many
people of classical education, and op-
portunities for the highest culture in every
way. And she felt they could have met
them as they did, if they had not been par-
ticularly blest. Mentioned the Rev. Ida
Hultin as a woman beautiful in face and
spirit. After making a speech she was re-
called three or four times. And the presi-
dent of the council smilingly referred to
her as the Prima Donna.
	Susan B. Anthony was so kind and even
motherly. She was ordinary and yet
extra ordinary. She took an interest in all
the speeches and extended her sympathy.
	In the papers, almost every subject was
touched upon. Religion, morality, dress
reform, training of children, etc.
	Mentioned as prominent among other
people Countess of Aberdeen, Lady Henry
Somerset, Frances Willard, Charlton Ed-
holm etc. Related an anecdote of the
Florence Crittenden Mission.
	Told us how Mrs. E. B. Well’s paper was
so very well received.
	The President, May Wright Sewall was
pleasant and just. Would corrrect any-
one freely and pleasantly. Mrs. Sewall
made beautiful and eloquent extempo-
raneous speeches, thereby showing her
powers of mind as well as her presence of
mind. After the Council the speaker
visited Boston, Cambridge and Plymouth
and had been charmed by historical and
other scenes.
	Mrs Wells felt those who had the privi-
lege of attending the National Council had
enjoyed an intellectual feast and superior
educational advantages and must have made
some positive advancement along all lines
of thought. Referred to the banquet on


Miss Anthony’s seventy-fifth birthday and
cordiality shown the Utah Women. Told
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs.
Avery at Somerton, Philadelphia and how
thoroughly she had appreciated the op-
portunity of seeing her in her own home
with her family, also of her visit to Mrs.
May Wright Sewall of her splendid home,
in Indianapolis describing it, and the school
residence, as also the school building, and
the Propyaelum. Mrs. Wells mentioned
several women particularly, as among the
most celebrated Mesdames May Wright
Sewall, Susan B. Anthony, Rachel Foster
Avery, Rev. Anna Shaw, Mary Lowe
Dickinson, Isabella Charles Davis, Mrs.
Sarah Mink, Caroline E. Buell and many
others. Mrs. Wells also stated that the
Council in its entirety would make an epoch,
in the history of woman surpassing any
other assembly of women that had ever
been held, also referred to the time when
she had first gone down to Washington ac-
companied by Mrs. Zina Young Williams;
also spoke of her severe disappointment
when “Aunt Zina’’ failed to come down to
the Council, felt Mrs. Young would have
made a good impression.
	After the remarks of Mrs. Wells refresh-
ments were served and the time spent in
social chat until adjournment.
