OF SPIRITUAL UNDERSTANDING.

[Read at the Triennial Council of Women
in Washington February 21, 1895.]
“Come Holy Spirit, Heavenly Dove,
With all thy quickening powers,
Kindle a flame of sacred love,
In these cold hearts of ours.”
	It is proper on occasions like this, to con-
sider such topics as shall be of the highest
benefit to womankind; and to my mind, it
is fitting to discuss here, that capacity of
mind in which woman is pre-eminently
fitted to excel. The contemplation of the
sense of spiritual understanding first gives
me a sense of my littleness and inability,
then encourages me in the attempt to ex-
press a few thoughts on this absorbing
theme.
	This faculty, like our physical sense, is
susceptible of cultivation. Its possibilities
are limitless; it is the cause least understood;
it is the divine of our nature; it brings to
our understanding things not seen with the
natural eye, or discerned by mortal mind;
it extends our correspondences. With the
eyes and senses of our physical self, we are
in correspondence with our physical sur-
roundings, with our spiritual eyes and
senses awakened and cultivated, we come
into communion with infinitude.
	The sixth sense links mortal with im-
mortal existence; it testifies in unmistakable
language of the immortality of the soul.

[Column 2]
It educates, exalts, and refines those that
heed its whisperings, and follow its guiding
influence. This sense leads to blissful
heights of superior understanding; teaches
the secrets of ever-existent life; our relation-
ship to the past, present, and future, and
brings us into harmony with the infinite
fountain of life and intelligence. It illu-
mines the soul that cultivates it; purifies
thoughts and actions; enlarges the sphere
of comprehension, and exalts the aspira-
tions. Its continued exercise brings its
possessor nearer and nearer to the throne of
the Almighty.
	Those who answer the whisperings of
this sense, are sympathetically drawn to-
ward each other, as exemplified in the Re-
ligious Congress held in Chicago in 1893,
where religious pilgrims and would-be re-
formers from all lands, and of all creeds,
met and harmonized in a bond of love.
This was notably true of the Woman’s
Department of the Memorable Congress.
	The light of this sense has been fore-
shadowed in various ages of the world’s
history. In the nineteenth century, the
search-light of Religion, Philosophy, and
Science, have united in exploring an un-
troden pathway toward the haven of light
which is inextinguishable.
	The legitimate exercise of spiritual power
obtained through the operations of this
sense, puts the individual in possession of
keys of knowledge, and clothes him with
additional responsibility relating to the
enlightenment and elevation of the human
family.
	They that seek, by faith and earnest
prayer, find the light that leads to the
golden gate. They that knock with study
and faith’s assurance, have the narrow way
opened to them, and are received into com-
munion with the Infinite Father and
Mother, are permitted to enter hallowed
mansions’ to attend the school of the Pro-
phets, and, by advancing steps to reach the
school of the Gods, where they learn the
processes by which worlds are organized, by
the combining of eternal, intelligent,
obedient elements; the uses for which
worlds are called into existence; the manner
in which they are controlled, and the laws
of progression by which all beings and
animate things are perfected, and glorified
in their respective spheres.
	Students of this sense become, some
more, some less, familiar with the state of
that portion of the human family whose
varied conditions are typified by the stars.
They contemplate the intelligence, the
glory and the peace, typified by the moon,
and in progressive order this sense educates,
disciplines, enlightens, and-brings its pos-
sessor in harmony with the effulgence of
celestial light and glory as typified by the
sun. All that enter this higher glory are
heirs with Jesus Christ, our elder brother,
in the pre-existent state, to all the knowl-
edge, power, exaltation, and glory pos-
sessed by the Father.
	When through our spiritual nature we
are in communion with God, we are draw-
ing nearer and nearer to each other, and
our words and works will blend more and
more harmoniously, until earth’s dutiful
children, recognizing universal spiritual
kinship, hail the peaceful millenial dawn,
and participate in the triumphant reign of
our God and His Christ.
EXPECTATION.
	Of the advanced thinkers and diligent

[Column 3]
workers who compose the Woman's
Triennial Council much is expected. Your
labors of preparation have been arduous;
the whisperings of this sense have dis-
armed opposition, and brought you to a
large measure of victory. The thought
wave of many a prayer is wafted to you as
inspiration, and in reciprocal order the
highest expression of your combined wis-
dom must radiate and inspire receptive
souls in all the world, stimulating them to
higher hopes, and stronger activities in the
cause of more enlightened civilization, and
a more perfect understanding of divine
science, as revealed through our Sixth
Sense, or the sense of spiritual understand-
ing.
	In closing, the writer, in loving sympa-
thy, asks that increased spiritual light may
illume the pathway of the various lines of
good work represented in the Triennial
Council.
SARAH M. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Feb. 1895.


