SILK  ASSOCIATION MEETING.

	THE Utah Woman’s Silk Association met
Thursday, April 4th, in the Assembly Hall,
Mrs. Salisbury in the chair. A large num-
ber of members and interested listeners
were present. The secretary’s report was
read and accepted.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to Washington in the in-
terest of the silk industry. She found sena-
tors and congressmen pretty well informed
with regard to the industry. A bill had

[Column 2]
passed the Senate at the last session of Con-
gress which provided for the establishment
of five silk experiment stations, but had
been lost sight of in the House, Mr. Cannon,
our present delegate, had promised to pre-
pare a bill to establish a silk experiment
station. Members of Congress assured
Mrs. Wells that such a bill properly pushed
would pass both houses. The paper which
Mrs. Wells read before the National Coun-
cil of Women gave a brief account of the
silk industry in Utah and aroused much in-
terest. At Atlanta Mrs. Wells spoke be-
fore the Women’s Board of Managers of the
Utah silk industry.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words of encouragement to silk producers.
Let people who have little to do undertake
something of this kind, and they will be
happy and at the same time add to the re-
sources of the Territory. The quality of
our silk is so good that we would need but
few garments made of it. The children
could help in the care of the worms and
the young ladies can learn to reel.
	Mrs. Margaret Csine spoke of the suc-
cess of the women who raised cocoons last
year in St. George. They made about five
hundred dollars from cocoons. A fortune
cannot be made from the silk industry im-
mediately. No one would expect to take
up any trade or business and master all its
details at once. One must have experience
in any trade before it can become remunera-
tive. The cocoon to be of any value must
be of the best quality. No food must be
used for the worms except the mulberry
leaves. The worms, it was true, would
thrive on lettuce leaves or currant leaves,
but the object was not to raise worms but to
produce silk. The silk produced from any
kind of food but mulberry leaves is worth-
less. If the people of Utah do not take
up this industry others will do so. There
have already been inquiries from Italians,
Japanese and Hindoos as to the price of land
and the chances of success for a silk rais-
ing colony. The people of Utah should
keep this industry in their own hands.
The woolen mills of the Territory use every
year thousands of dollars worth of silk fill-
ing. We must learn to reel and keep this
money at home.
	Mrs F. S. Richards related some interest-
ing experiences in silk culture. She be-
lieved it a duty for women to take pride in
home made silk and home made clothes.
The women can in this practical way make
our Territory prosperous.
	Mrs. Ann Woodbury, of St. George, re-
ported that last year a good many pounds of
cocoons were raised in Washington county,
and this year still more will be raised.
The price realized for cocoons was about one
dollar a pound.
	Miss Harrison spoke of the art of reel-
ing, declaring it to be an easy one to learn.
She would gladly teach others what she had
learned. One can easily reel half a pound
of silk a day.
	Mrs. Gilmer advocated a systematic effort
to secure a market for home raised cocoons
and silk.
	The president promised that the matter
should receive immediate attention.
	Mrs. Salisbury read the articles which
might be exhibited at the Cotton exposition
at Atlanta. It would be most important to
make a good showing there. All articles
should be submitted to the committee ap-
pointed to take charge of the exhibit.
	Mrs. Wells moved that the association

[Column 3]
make an exhibit of Utah silk at Atlanta
The motion was unanimously carried.
	In response to a question with regard to a
supply of eggs, the president announced
that Miss Harrison has Japanese eggs for
sale at $2.50 a card, each card containing
thirty or forty thousand eggs.
	Adjourned to meet at the call of the
president.
