APPRECIATION AND THANKS.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Utah, April 5, ’95.
	HON. J. F. Chidester, Chairman; A. S.
Anderson, Joseph E. Robinson, Parley
Christensen, Peter Lowe, James D. Mur-
dock, Chester Call, Andreas Engberg, A.
H. Raleigh, William Howard, F. A. Ham-
mond and S. R. Thurman:
	Honorable gentlemen of the majority re-
port of the committee on electlons and
rights of suffrage:
	The equal suffrage memorial committee
in special session and by unanimous vote,
desire to express their profound apprecia-
tion and gratitude for the wise, statesmanly
and just measure which you have reported
to the constitutional convention; and for
the ability, steadfastness and sleepless vigi-
lance with which you have assisted on the
floor of the convention in expounding, de-
fending and conducting to a successful issue
your opportune and faithful provisions on
civil and political rights of men and women.
And with you we wish to commend as lov-
ers of justice all those praiseworthy men
whose voices and votes contributed to the
final result, with Richards, Whitney,
Evans, Cannon, Murdock, Ricks, Hart,
Ivins, Snow, Robinson, Allen, Miller, Farr,
Preston, Maeser, Wells, and all the other
noble delegates who have borne testimony
to their willingness to accord equal rights,
we feel in duty bound to extend these con-
gratulations on behalf of the thousands of
Utah women who are keenly alive to the
unspeakable importance of the legislation
thus achieved in relation to the status of
women, the welfare of the state and the
progress of civilization.
	We realize the enormous difficulties which
yon have been called upon to surmount;
and we honor you for your unflinching in-
tegrity and your unswerving devotion to
the principles of liberty in framing the fun-
damental law for the coming state of Utah.
on which our proudest hopes are sacredly
enshrined, now that the woman mind and
heart and soul are fully incorporated in its
sovereignty.
			SARAH M. KIMBALL.
	Chairman of Standing Committee on
Suffrage Memorial.
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	President of the Territorial Suffrage
Association.
			EMILY S. RICHARDS.
Chairman of Memorial Committee.
			CORA G. CARLETON.
				Secretary pro tem.


