WOMAN’S INFLUENCE.

	EVER since the days of mother Eve;
woman’s influence has been manifest for
the advancement or retrogression of the
people of the earth. Even Eve herself is
an example of this, as through her in-
fluence over Adam he partook of the for-
bidden fruit thereby bringing upon them-
selves the displeasure of the Almighty and,
causing what is called the fall of man.
And so it has been from that time until the
present; woman by her influence has been
more or less responsible, for the conditions
of society. Let us follow the different
spheres and positions of a woman’s life and

[Column 2]
note the influence they have over those
with whom they are associated.
	We will first view her as a sister. What
a beautiful thing is a true sister’s love and
devotion to her brothers and sisters. How
she watches with keen interest their ad-
vancement. And if misfortune overtake a
brother or sister or if they be weak and
wayward a sister may with love and kind-
ness accomplish that which parents may
have found almost impossible in reclaiming
the weak and wayward, or smoothing the
path of misfortune. Or if she be selfish
and indifferent to the interests of those
with whom she is associated; how much
sorrow and heartache she may cause; and
instead of being a help and encouragement,
her influence will tend to discourage and
lead the weak and wayward from the path
of duty into sin and shame. And what a
joy and consolation to parents is a dutiful,
loving, and devoted daughter. How she
watches with tender solicitude their every
interest and tries with her utmost power to
lighten mother’s burden or to smooth the
furrows of care from father’s brow. And,
if there should be younger brothers and
sisters, she will strive to win their love and
esteem and set an example that is worthy
of imitation. Such a daughter will exert
such an influence over all with whom she
comes in contact that will prove to be a
lasting good to herself and a constant joy
and consolation to her parents.
	And then there comes the sphere of wife-
hood; who but the husband can realize the
influence the wife exerts over his being.
And if she be a wife in the truest sense
she is ever willing to smooth the rough
places and share the many burdens of life.
And if poverty overtake him it is she who
endeavors to brighten the dull places and
make things which would seem almost
unbearable to appear as only small trials.
	But, should she be the opposite and al-
ways look on the dark side of life and be
forever complaining, and fault finding, how
soon would he partake of that spirit more
or less or finding such a spirit uncongenial
to his own he would soon leave the place
that should have the most attraction for him
to find pleasure wherever it could be found.
	And last but not least in the sphere of
womanhood is that holy one called mother.
What sacred and divine thoughts that name
inspires. In whatever condition in life that
sacred name indicates one who is the ideal
administering angel of our early infancy,
the comfort of our childhood, the guiding
star of our youth and the prop and stay of
our more mature years. Even in old age
men will look back to the time when
mother’s influence had saved them from
many mis-steps that would have been taken
had it not been for her gentle and wise in-
fluence. And so a mother may use her
influence whether it be for good or bad and
the result will be according to the seed she
has sown.
	So it is in every phase in life, be our
station high or low, rich or poor, bond or
free, woman by her influence may be
capable of doing much toward the perfect-
ing of the human family.
