SOCIAL PURITY.
	
	[An essay written for the W. H. P. R. 
class Conference at Logan, Oct. 20, 1894.]
	WHAT is social purity? Purity among 
the sexes. What a desirable condition. 

[Column 2]
Shall we ever live to witness it? Shall we
ever live to behold the day when people
will mingle together in society, and the one
not thrive at the expense of the others hap-
piness? Shall we ever live to see the day
when the deceiver shall be shunned? Shall
we ever see the day when defenseless wo-
men and children can pass our thorough
fares in safety?
	When will the day arrive when we will
be greeted by only pure and elevating
language? When can child-like confidence
be established? When! Oh when? Why
are the millions of teachers so lame in
bringing about that desirable condition?
Such are the questions of the thinking ob-
server. We hear voices crying from all
sides—Education! Education!
	Truly education will remedy these evils,
but what kind of education? The thous-
ands of colleges and universities under
steady operation—have yet failed to give to
us and to humanity at large, those desirable
conditions. In all their eagerness we only
see an increase in these evils instead of see-
ing them eradicated. Where then is the
remedy; in the family, in the home, where
the foundation of human existence takes
its existence beginning. Where husband
and wife only beget children as a result of
admiration for the regulation of a divine
Creator. When the strictest economy is
practiced between husband and wife, in re-
gard to purity in language, in appearance
and in action.
	Now to return to prenatal influence where
the instructing should begin. Some say
“how?” Simply by reading good books,
and associating with pure and refined people
thereby presenting to your child a picture
of grandeur and purity, and just as sure as
can be this will instil into babe a desire for
purity.
	On the other hand if you do not seek
company that elevates and ennobles you fall
into that kind of society which depresses
and destroys. And as it is good society
that blesses it is better to have none at all
than mingle with bad companions, pure
minds and morals will be dragged down or
lifted up according to quality and character
of society.
	So mothers do be the sole companion of
your child just as long as you can, be its
instructor in regard to laws that govern its
body, especially the organs of generation,
give a pure idea of them, teach that they
were not given for the mere gratification of
man, but for a grand purpose and point out
that purpose just as grandly as you can, and
every child will feel proud of its mission.
Some mothers think this subject too deli-
cate to speak to boys about, if you feel that
way procure books treating on this subject
and place in their hands. I know of one
woman who adopted this plan and presented
her son with a book with compliments and
an expressed wish from her as his mother,
that he read it carefully. She succeeded so
grandly that I never forgot it.
	One point I wish to make emphatic, that
is,—that a man void of virtue is just as vile
and no better than an unchaste woman.
But let such a man go among rich ladies
and put on a polished appearance, and he is
at once recognized as a “gentleman.” It
is a false criterion that puts a greater stigma
on woman than on man.
	Well my dear sisters this subject is so
broad and contains so many striking ideas,
were I able to portray them, but if we live
as purely as we know how, and rule our 
households under such conditions, we can


deliver to society suitable material to build
up the common structure called “Social
Purity.” A son coming from such a home
will not deceive his fellowman nor defile
his neighbors daughter, we will not pick
pockets nor rob houses at night, he will not
use vulgar and impure language,, he will
by his actions gain universal respect and
confidence. But how few of us realize the
responsibilities placed upon mothers, and
how many improve the opportunities we
have of molding the characters of our
children. Of course the child enherits as
much from the father as from the mother,
but to us mothers alone is intrusted the
modification of that inheritance. Keep
them as innocent children just as long as
possible, don’t make them think that they
must be men and women, but impress on
their minds that they are pure home children,
then you will find the manly men and wo-
manly women the world today stands in
need of.
