HASE
Anne Brent, Helpmate By Elsie C. Carroll III
ANNE spent a sleepless night after Suzanne's special delivery letter came, but in the morning her mind was made up. She must go to Boston at once. She must get there before the evening of September first when the Anaconda was to sail—with Suzanne and that professor who had made her believe that companionate marriage was the only kind in which one could keep the individual soul "free and inviolate."
The letter had said: "Mother this is the only time in my life it has ever been hard for me to write to you. You have always been so understanding I could feel sure you would know what I meant even if I didn't know how to say it. But I can't feel sure that I can make you understand what I must tell you now. But I want to make you understand, Mother, for I don't want to hurt you and Daddy.
"I have told you something about Hugo —Prof. Loring, the exchange professor who has been teaching here the last quarter. I wish you knew him, Mother. He is wonderful! He sees life in such a big, broad way—not in the petty, personal way most of us look at it. He realizes how important it is for the growth of the individual, for one to rise above the restraints of the little conventions and traditions that choke and smother most lives, and keep them from reaching the heights they might attain.
"If you could only hear him talk, you would thrill to the new outlook he gives to life, as I do. He has made me want to be true to my highest possibilities. He has made me determined to keep my soul and my life free and he has helped me find the strength to meet the consequences of my convictions.
"Mother, I am going to Europe with Hugo. We have been drawn to each other since the first time we met. We have discovered that we are soul mates; that we can stimulate and each help the other in the career that will bring our fullest development. He will bring me in contact with the great artists of the old world, and I will have opportunities I have never dreamed of.
"That is just what you want for me isn't it? You and father have worked and sacrificed to give me this year in Boston, and I do appreciate it. Without it I never would have known what my possibilities are. I would never have found Hugo nor the courage to be a free soul.
"This is the part that I am afraid will hurt you and Dad. We are not going to be married in the ordinary way. That would cheapen a love like ours. It would bind and hamper our freedom. Our love is our marriage bond. We don't need any other, and if we imposed one upon ourselves, it would destroy some of the beauty of our complete trust in each other. Ours will be the most sacred of all ties because it will be free.
"We will sail on the Anaconda, September the first at 10 o'clock in the evening. I am sending this airmail, special delivery, hoping to receive your blessing before I go. You will try to understand, won't you Mother, and help Dad to see that it is all right.
"I love you all and I don't want to make you unhappy, but I must be true to myself—and to Hugo.
"Give me your blessing mother, and tell me it is all right
"Suzanne."