[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson]

Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. IX. (Concluded.) (This man, Lon Merton, has, no doubt, neglected writing the account of his adventures from His last chapter to where he begins on this, as quite a time seems to have elapsed.   J. B.) The sun may now shining in every window of the house as it circles above in the summer sky. Rachel is here with me. She tiptoed into my room, thinking I was asleep. She carried two small baskets, one containing flowers and the other berries. The berries were covered with leaves so that I could not see them at first. She stopped in the doorway when she saw me. I was not asleep, so I spied her through my half-closed eyes. Rachel is no longer a child. She no longer allows me to place my arm about her and draw her close to my, book. In the budding maidenhood period she is expanding Hake a flower before the continuous northern sun   the most beautiful flower, it seems to me, in all this northern land. When Rachel discovered that I was not sleeping, she came into the room and placed the baskets before me on the table. What she would have done a year or two ago would have been to creep slyly up, cover my eyes with her hands and say, "Guess what I have got?" But now she sits demurely at the proper distance. She is a young lady and I am a man, not so young   but not so old either. 'Well, now, what have you here, Rachel?" I began, as I peeped under the leaves. ' She did not reply, as she could see I was fast on the way to find out for myself. "Berries!   E-m   aren't they fine!" I began to eat. said. "You were going to tell me about Queen Esther," she "Queen Esther   oh, yes." I remembered I had promised her the story. That was before I had read it in the Bible;  but after I had read it, I did not think so much of it, and I did not want to tell it to this young girl. "I'll tell you some nicer stories," I said, "about your namesake. Rachel, and about Ruth." "Oh, I know about them," she replied. BEYOND ARSARETH 395 "Then, let me see, I'll tell you about the big world from which I came." I could see she was somewhat disappointed, but she said, "all right," or something to that effect. I told her about the big ships on the big oceans;  of the railroads, of the electric lights;  of the newspapers and magazines; of the big cities full of people. I tried to tell her how the "fine" ladies were dressed   she was deeply interested in my crude descriptions. I told her of the changing styles and frivolous fashions, at which she laughed merrily. "Come, here, Rachel," I commanded. "Don't sit over there, as if you were afraid of me. Are you?" "Afraid of you? Oh, no." She arose, came sedated towards the table. How tall she was, and how graceful, how beautiful! She was another Rebecca at the well. Her shining hair was coiled about her shapely head. Her red lips curved into a smile as she stood with hesitancy, not knowing what I would ask of her next. I did not know either. What was it that so stirred my heart? The heart that I thought long since dead to any feeling of love for women! Was the former passion to be loosed again, with its sweet joy and its terrible pain. Had I not escaped from that behind the walls of ice?? It seemed not. "If I take the wings of the morning and fly to the uttermost parts of the earth, thou art there." David, her brother, happened in the doorway. What a strong, fine young fellow he had become. I love him and he loves me. We have become inseparable. In my endeavor to bring some of the inventions and conveniences of the modern world to these people, he has been my efficient assistant. "Well, David, how's it going?" I asked. "Fine," he said. "The gas light is still burning." We had been experimenting with illuminating gas, which now seemed to be a success. Before the long night came, we would have the whole house as light as day. And then. "But I'm busy just now, David. Come again within an hour so so, won't you?" He smiled good naturedly as he withdrew. Rachel turned to follow him. "Don't go, Rachel," I called. "But you are busy." She continued to walk, so that I had to get up and stop her by taking her hand. "Come and sit down here. I want to say something more to you." What it was I wanted to say I did not know, but she sat down by my side as she always did when a dutiful child. We 
 sat far a long time, as David did not come back;  but I cannot here write down what we talked about, or how we said it. My paper is about all gone, and so I suppose, it is just as well that I am getting out of the notion of writing. Anyway, I have written the main facts of my story. I would not go back to the big modern world for all there is in it  not now. A wonderful thing has happened, which I must crowd in on the last pages of my paper. A week ago a flying machine landed here. I had heard of them as being successful about the time I left America, but I had never seen one before. This one has created a most profound sensation. Two men were in it, but one of them was deathly sick when they alighted and he died soon after. The other is an American. He surely was surprised to find me here. He has told me about the great war going on in Europe. He had been flying for the allies, and was on a trip in northern Russia when he was driven out of his course to this land. He is putting some repair touches to his machine with the avowed purpose of returning across the ice barren. He claims he has oil and gasoline enough to take him back. He has been urged to remain and give what he can of news and of usefulness to this people, for some of them seem to think that this strange visitor through the air might portend their deliverance from their ice-bround home;  but I can see that no such idea is in the mind of this visitor, and the home-call is too strong for him to resist. The big machine, with its great canvas wings, alighted in a field not far from here. I was immediately notified, and I went hurriedly to the place. By the aid of horses and wagons we moved the flying machine to a more protected yard near our home. I must confess that when I heard the American language again, I had a touch of homesickness. The aviator says that when the wind is right he will start on his return trip. He has made some small repairs, and he is all ready. An hour ago we stood looking at the large bird-like shape. "There is a seat for you," he said to me. "You'd better come I looked along with at home." and then at the machine. For a moment I was tempted. "Think what a sensation you will make," he said. "You will be the most honored and most sought-after man in the world." Just then Rachel came out, as if she desired to speak with BEYOND ARSARETH 397 me, but seeing the stranger she went back indoors. The aviator looked at her, then at me. "Thank you   but I'll remain," I said, with a foolish blush. "I don't blame you," he replied, seeing there is not room for three in my machine." He told me he would be glad to deliver any message I might have to the people or to my own folks. He had implicit confidence that he would get back. He took my name and address. I wrote a note to the people whom I had left in charge of my farm, telling them that it was theirs and their children's after them, as long as I was away. Then I thought of this narrative which I have been writing. If this could come to the knowledge of the other world, it would be worth while. I told the aviator about it, and he said he would like to take it along. And so I have decided to send this story out into a world, where, I fear, I shall never again go. I hope it will arrive safely and do some good in the world. And so a last word of goodbye and greeting. As I have before stated, I have no relatives that I know of. There are none, especially, who care whether I ever return or not;  and I am sure there are those here who would be very sorry to have me leave them. My life in the big world seems to be getting dim. Wounds, which I there received, are healed. I am living very much in the present, being occupied, not only with those close to me in the household of Joseph, my father and friend, but also with the affairs of the whole people. I can do much good here   much more than in the world from whence I came. There I would be an interesting person only, and likely as not, they would discredit my story;  but here   well, anyone who reads this must see that my wisest plan is to remain. I have already formed a philosophy of life. We know but little of the why's and wherefore's of this earthly existence of ours;  but it seems to me that this is a fast and true rule: Happiness cannot be found by seeking directly after it;  it comes only when one, forgetful of self, is trying to bring it to others. I have tried in a small way to apply that rule here, and it has worked splendidly. Goodbye. Peace be with you all.