Lady Aberdeen Receives Honorary Degree ADY ABERDEEN, so long L president of the International Council of Women, has recently had conferred upon her the honorary degree of L. L. D. From Aberdeen University. She is the second woman to receive an honorary degree from that institution, and this is as it should -be. The first woman to receive such a degree was Queen Mary, in 1922, just eight years ago; or, to put it in another form, just eleven years after her coronation at Westminster Abbey. We could scarcely expect Lady Aberdeen to precede her sovereign in such an honor, but it is highly fitting that she should be the second woman in the realm to be so signally recognized. The Relief Society, an affiliated member of the National Council of Women of the United States, through the columns of the Magazine, extends hearty congratulations to Lady Aberdeen on an occasion so fraught with honor and distinction to her. _ After Forty Years ULL HOUSE is forty years H of age, and the great woman who conceived the idea and _ put it over is still living. The Literary Digest says that Hull House is probably the most famous social settlement in the world, as famous perhaps as Jane Addams who gave it birth. At the celebration held recently, on the fortieth anniversary, telegrams were received from many persons of high worth among social workers, recognizing the importance of a piece of work such as Hull House represents. Ot very recent date is an article appearing in the Literary Digest that is bold enough in tone to state that while business concerns are not supposed to support philanthropy, yet business recognizes that 'if people are physically fit and full of zest for life, they both earn and spend much more money than un-. Der other conditions. Consequently, it is part of good business to see that people are kept well, that they are provided with the food and clothing they need, for it all accelerates business. This sounds like new philosophy, but it is undoubtedly true. In the days when men spent from daylight to dark in the factories, they had neither time nor ambition to think of spending money for leisure, and sometimes hardly for the bare necessities. It looks as though we are learning by degrees that frequently the most desirable way to do things is also the best business practice. All hail to Jane Addams, who had the foresight, coupled with the courage, to go on with her laudable enterprise in settlement work in the heart of Chicago's slums. Hyrum Bull and his Associates gue when we were getting ready to express the last word of appreciation for Mr. Bull's interest and painstaking effort on behalf of the Relief Society Magazine, the news comes that he has passed be- EDITORIAL 473 yond the sound of earthly words. The preparation of a magazine, whether in the editor's department or the printing department, is a matter of attention to innumerable details. Nothing just happens.. Everything done or left undone is apparent. Hyrum Bull, Edwin F. Parry, and C. William Birkinshaw of the Deseret News have carried large responsibility in the publication of our Church magazines, of which the Relief Society ls one. For the mechanical makeup of the Magazine and its never failing to appear, the publication department is responsible. E sometimes wonder if it ever occurs to the reader that no matter what happens to machinery, or who falls ill or possibly passes away in the editor's department or the publication department, the Magazine always comes out. The worst inconvenience that is suffered is a belated magazine. Daily it is prepared amid the clash and bang of many machines and the untiring attention to 'small matters that brings about large effects. For the painstaking care of all who have assisted in this work, we express appreciation in this our final issue. Hyrum Bull has worked with a smile on his face though often in distress, for we learn since his death that he had not been in good health for sometime. So carefully did he cover all traces of pain that we did not suspect it. We shall 'carry through life the memory of his good cheer and devotion.