Before the Baby Comes By Ruth Partridge Richan, R. N. RENATAL care of the baby, or should I say the care of the mother before the arrival of the baby, is just as important as care after birth. A sensible attitude on the part of the prospective mother respecting prenatal care may save, in the long run, a great deal of money and suffering. The earlier this care begins, the better for the mother and the child. As soon as you are suspicious that there is a baby coming, go to your doctor; or if you are not suspicious but just don't feel yourself, consult your doctor; or if anything unusual occurs, seek your doctor. This is good advice under any circumstances. Your physician will then ascertain the condition of your kidneys, your blood pressure, and so on. If you live on a ranch or where it is impossible to keep in close touch with a physician, I advise you to study a modern book on prenatal care; and do your best to follow it. | ee you now in the doctor's care, I will turn to the everyday, home side of the question. If you are going to a' hospital, your preparations will be very simple. If you want your baby to be born at home, and a great many women do, preparations will of course be more complicated. If there is any reason why you should be in a hospital instead of at home, your doctor will say so. Don't be alarmed if he does. Birth is a natural thing, but that doesn't necessarily mean it is an easy or uncomplicated thing. There is no reason any more, except on some occasions, for the old bugbear "morning sickness." There need be no nausea at any time of the day. It may be caused by several conditions, and can generally be alleviated by your doctor, if not entirely eliminated. You may have some very queer food cravings, but satisfy them as long as they are not perversions of a normal appetite; eat anything you want. Nor is it necessary to eat more than usual. Do not attempt to "eat for two." No two women experience the same tastes. One may crave raw cucumbers with salt, another soda crackers. Personally I have found that soda crackers will stay down when nothing else will. When things are normal, don't be afraid of moderate exercise. If you can't be on your feet, exercise lying down. Swelling feet are greatly relieved by wearing broad, low heeled shoes instead of slippers. I have known women to wear high. Boots and obtain comfort from them. They also lessen the danger of varicose veins. PpeNnt stay at home and miss your accustomed good time with your friends. You need recreation as much as you ever did, and you don't look half as ridiculous as you think you do. A good pair of maternity corsets are a great help too. They make you look trim and neat, and improve your mental attitude. If you feel neat and trim, that is half of it. A good pair of maternity corsets are likely to be expensive, but they pay in the long run, being comfortable and efficient, while a cheap pair only aggravates things. 'BEFORE THE Discard your high heels. They can make you look more awkward and ungainly than anything. There is something stilted and ungraceful in the walk of even the most slender flapper in high heels, not to mention an expectant mother. Your back and abdominal muscles have enough to do at this time without adding to them the burden of an unnatural posture. HOULD your skin become discolored, don't be alarmed. It may do so and then again your complexion may be more beautiful than ever before. Castile soap (the genuine comes in bars a foot or so long and can be cut by a string) and olive oil make a very fine combination. If you are inclined to be nauseated, the odor of perfumed soaps and creams will be a great aggravation. There is no odor to genuine. Castile soap or olive oil, and they are more efficacious than high priced patented toilet requisites. Olive oil used as a cold cream makes a fine powder base. Also, rub your abdomen daily and well with olive oil. It relieves that drawn feeling of the skin. I hope that in this day and age there no longer persists the old superstition of "marking babies." You can't do it. An all-wise Providence has made it impossible. Were this once general belief true, there wouldn't be a normal baby ever born. - wit your baby is to be, was. Determined before its parents were married—and long before. Neither can you make a poet out of it by reading poetry before it arrives, nor a musician by listening to music before it arrives, any more than you could make a blacksmith out of it by going daily to a boiler works and listening to the racket. BABY COMES 493 Look forward, then, to your baby without any hopes and longings for its worldly success, and likewise with no misgivings as to its worldly failure. You can't alter it one way or another except in your choice of a mate. As for diet, when your nausea ceases, eat vegetables, fresh if possible. Drink freely of milk, and plenty of water. Generally it is more comfortable to eat little and eat often. In this way you avoid the feeling of stuffiness and short breath caused by a too full stomach. Eres your teeth frequently, and rinse your mouth with any one of the alkaline mouth washes on the market. A solution of common bicarbonate of soda will serve. Your mouth will be inclined to taste sour or bitter and this adds to your general discomfort. Keep your bowels open. If you must resort to cathartics, get your doctor's advice about the type to use. Exercise and bulky foods will aid greatly. Get as much rest and sleep as you can. Lie down in the day time if only for a minute or two; stretch out and relax. Pe out the layette, I am not going to say much. It need not be large, and the nicest thing in it should be the christening robe. It is rather a nice thing to put away and keep until the expected child is grown, and then present it to him or her. A clothes basket makes the best bed in the world for a tiny baby. It is easily cleaned, easily moved, and just as cute as can be. It should be equipped with a pillow for a mattress, covered with a rubber pillow case. A tiny down pillow for baby's head should have several washable slips of soft nainsook or linen. Ev- 494 erything should be washable. A woolen shawl of knit or crocheted yarn is a splendid thing to have. Have an abundant supply of clean white rags. Old linen tablecloths make especially fine towels and wash cloths for baby. A square of cloth put in the diaper and burned if soiled will save a lot of unpleasant laundry. M AKE baby's little outing flannel nighties as simple as possible. They may be turned up under baby and kept dry. One a day is enough if this precaution is taken. Baby's bands should be made of white outing-flannel six to eight inches wide, torn straight across without hems. They are most easily put on when rolled like a legging. Don't put anything all wool next to baby. It is irritating. Wool and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE silk things are much more comfortable. Don't put any lace around the necks of the little dresses. It is very likely to chafe baby's neck. Quilts of outing flannel are warm and washable, as everything pertaining to the bed should be. BE doesn't pretend to be a list of things—it is just a reminder or two of things likely to be forgotten. And now I must close without mentioning a good many things I should, such as medical supplies, and so on; but I couldn't begin to cover the field in my limited space anyhow, so we'll not even touch on it. I do hope that this article has at least aroused your interest and curiosity to the point where you will investigate for yourself. And courses. Inspiring opportunities await the young man and young | woman with business training. Our practical courses prepare you to start as stenographer, bookkeeper, junior executive, etc.— with every opportunity for advancement. Fall term starts September 2. Write today for free literature describing positions L. D. S.