Training the Health Habits of the Child By Elna Miller, An Experienced Home Demonstration Agent Both in North Dakota and Utah tT: is no bigger job in the world than that of being a parent. The good example and correct teaching of parents control much of the future of the child. The child comes into the world a mere "bundle of possibilities." This bundle is like a tiny bulb with the future plant within itself. We plant the bulb in good soil, give it plenty of sunshine, air, and water, and the plant unfolds. We put the tiny child into an environment surrounded with love and understanding, and out of this bundle of possibilities develops his personality. ERSONALITY reflects environment. Habits of cheerfulness, self control, truthfulness, obedience, courtesy, courage, independence, sincerity, and love are just as contagious as scarlet fever and measles. So also are habits of jealousy, anger, fear, irritability, and rage. Born entirely without habits, the child, if the training is begun early enough, just as easily learns good as bad habits. The child develops far more of his habits during his first five or six years than he does during any other five or six years of his life. Habits formed during the years before the child enters school affect him not only during this preschool period, but for the rest of his life. They affect alike his physical health, his mental and emotional attitudes, his social relationships, and his spiritual well being. During this period the child must learn that the health game, like every other game, has its rules. He must learn to play the health game by forming good habits of exercise and play, of fresh air and sunshine, adequate sleep and rest, proper selection of food, cleanliness of mind and body. | helping the child to form desirable habits, a few points in the psychology of habit should be considered. The first essential for any habit formation is the practice of that habit. The child's attitude has much to do with successful habit formation, and the conditions surrounding the child largely determine his attitude. Mere repetition of the desired habit will not form the habit; it must be repetition with successful results. The child learns the thing that he practices with success. When the habits he practices result in failure, he does not learn them. Practice with satisfaction builds, while practice with annoyances tears down. This does not mean that the child needs to form habits for doing only the things that are pleasant to do. He must learn also to do some things that seem disagreeable to him. In teaching the child to face the disagreeable things, we must help him to build up proper interest; we should let him understand the reasons why such things must be done rather than to enforce blind obedience. REWARDS and punishments always enter into the process of habit formation. The task which the child is given to do must. Be within his power of accomplishment. It must not be so hard that he cannot achieve success, nor so easy that failure is not possible. When a child performs his task successfully, he should be given credit for the act. HEALTH HABITS OF CHILDREN Praising the child teaches him to want to do things right. Credit and praise for things well done give better results than punishment for things wrongly done. Credit and praise, when given the child, should not be in the form of rewards or pay; the successful accomplishment of the task should be its own reward. Bribes made to the child encourage bargaining. Rewards distract the attention from the task itself, thereby cheapening it. On the other hand, punishments that afford revenge for the parents—as most punishments do—or those that tend to frighten the child, do not achieve their purpose. The parent rather than the child is not infrequently the one who should be punished. ' PpUX ISHMENT should help the child to act and think better; it should never tend to break his spirit; but should so educate and train him that he derives no satisfaction from a repetition of the offense. Physical punishment is rarely necessary. Its main value lies in making the child feel inferior because he loses his sense of honor and self respect. (No child should ever be made to feel inferior. A sense of inferiority is often increased by calling attention to his faults by shaming or belittling him. The child is profoundly responsive to suggestion. If he is told that he is a spoiled or a bad child, he soon feels the need of acting the part suggested. The child will have less difficulty in learning desirable habits if those concerned in his training are con- 481 sistent in their demands of him. One should not follow one policy one day and another one the next. The child must learn that "no" always means "no," that "yes" means "yes." GREEMENT between the father and mother is essential. Parents should agree on the course to be followed and should never discuss their differences before the child. Neither should they make threats that they do not intend to carry out. Inconsistencies such as these not only undermine the child's stability but make him lose confidence in his parents. Threats are the most useless and harmful of all appeals made to the child. They either control him by terror, which is bad for the child, or they result in an utter disregard of any of the threats because he soon learns that none of the promised happenings take place. Before any threat is made, one should stop and think whether or not he intends to carry out that threat. An unfulfilled promise means to the child one more degree of confidence lost in the one who makes the promise. Eo training goes on more smoothly when positive rather than negative methods are used If "don't" were a less common word, the child's life would be happier, and his reaction towards correct habits more wholesome. This does not mean that no restrictions should be put on the child. It is far 'better to let him know what he can do, suggesting substitutes for the wrong thing, rather than to use the negative method of always putting "don't" in the child's pathway. Dr. Alexander McKean, director of the Utah county health unit, in a lecture at the B. Y. U. Summer school at Aspen Grove, paid high tribute to the Relief Society organizations of the L. D. S. Church. He declared that through the cooperation of the members and officals of this organization, preventive medicine has made more rapid progress in this State. Than in many others. |. = |e CA Mother's Reverie "O By LuRena H. Johnson My darlingichild, so sweetly sleeping, I stand beside thee, my whole soul weeping; In penitence and grief I bow For scolding you, my dear, just now, For: what you did, but did not know I did not wish to have it so. In haste I must not censure you But gently guide, so gently teach, In such a way your soul to reach. I want that you should trust in me And feel you have my sympathy And love, so that you will care Your inmost soul with me to share. I plead with Him, who oft must, be _ Ashamed much and grieved for me, To give me strength, to give me power Over myself, that from this hour, In haste, from me, no unkind word By you, my child, may e'er be heard.