Notes from the Field HE inspiration of the anniversary year of the Church is in evidence from the "Notes from the Field" in all parts. The observance of this sacred event was general in the stakes of the Church. Utah Stake: 1930 was also the 88th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. At the Utah Stake celebration there was, an attendance of over 700; therefore, it is not surprising to report a "gala" afternoon. As the guests entered the festive hall, with its bower of white and yellow, their smiles and warm hand clasps were returned by the long line of stake officers and ward presidents. The program opened with spirited singing by the congregation. Prayer by General Board Member Inez K. AUen. Trio, "Coming of Spring." Words of greeting by President Achsa Paxman were figuratively speaking lighted up by the 88 yellow candles burning on an elaborate white birthday cake. Sister Jennie B. Knight of the General Board brought greetings from the President, Louise Y. Robison. The one-act play, "Soul Mates," contributed to the entertainment and reflection of an eager audience. The stunt program followed on scheduled time and with unusual pep: 1. Silent picture revealed Joseph Smith giving the keys, and the growth of the work up to date, culminating in motherhood glorified through Relief Society work. 2. Scotch Lassies with harmonica band. 3. Eliza R. Snow writing "Oh My Father." 4. Misfortunes of a Relief Society sister taking her Sunday eggs to "Help the cause along." PRESENTATION AT UTAH STAKE ANNUAL DAY NOTES FROM THE FIELD 505 5. Story told in rhyme and acted by 21 sisters, telling of overcoming difficulties in Relief Society work on the way to their goal—''success." 6. An officers' meeting 100 years hence. Imagination was not cramped. The judges, believing in a forward look, gave decision here. 7. Two sisters of 30 years' experience lead out. "Love to serve" was beautifully portrayed. 8. "Health and Beauty," 10 years hence through Social Activity. 9. "The Last Quilting," where all finally yield to these "new fangled ideas." Refreshments followed, during which President J. Wm. Knight of the Stake Presidency entertained, speaking words of appreciation for Relief Society work and the privilege of being there. Sister Alice L. Reynolds, of the General Board, gave a final touch to a glorious day. The above picture shows one of the presentations on the program of the Utah Stake Annual Day. It tells the story of the Lord, through his prophet, Joseph Smith, presenting the keys of enlightenment to all womankind, in the organizing of the Relief Society on March 17, 1842. Eighty-eight years of growth finds the Spirit of Truth (theology), Culture (literature), Progress (special activity), Service (Social Service), and Peace (work of visiting teachers), all smiling as multitudes pluck fruit from the branches of the Relief Society tree. The most luscious fruit of all their plucking is the gift of Motherhood. Los Angeles Stake: a Los Angeles stake Relief Society held its third Annual Picnic at Bixby Park, Long Beach, California, June 13, 1930, with 601 members in attendance. The honored guests of the day were all members over 70 years of age; special places were reserved for them at the tables and during the program. Badges were presented them, indicating their respective ages. Luncheon was served at 12 o'clock noon, each ward decorating its own table. This was followed by a program consisting of musical numbers, dances and pageants contributed by members of the various wards, and in which a number of our honored guests participated. The presence of Sister Mamie Stark was appreciated, and her pleasing contribution to the program added much. Practical, though very beautiful were the prizes awarded to the following guests of honor: the oldest man, who was 87 years of age; the oldest woman, who was 85 years of age; the couple who had been married longest, 55 years; mother of 15 children; father of 16 children; the earliest pioneer, who came to Utah in 1851; the longest continuous resident of California, who had lived here 49 years; one who had held membership in the Church 83 years; one with 117 posterity; the youngest guest of honor, whose 70th birthday was June 5, 1930. The annual June picnics have been so successful that they are anticipated each year with great joy and there is a splendid spirit of cooperation existing in all wards of the stake. Beaver Stake: EALTH conferences for children of pre-school age are being held, with the help of local doctors, and the follow-up work is well taken care of. Each Relief Society held a ward conference in 1929. The Happy Hour, or Sunshine Committee, organized in some of the larger wards, is doing a great deal in various ways to bring happi- 506 ness into the lives of the aged, homebound and afflicted. Before the close of the vacation in 1929, the ward Relief Society choirs throughout thestake, and other workers, had a very enjoyable outing at Hanging Rock Park, in the Minersville Canyon, under the direction of the stake Relief Society chorister. After lunch was served to nearly 200 people, a program was rendered in the pavilion and some time given to a singing practice on new selections in the Relief Society song book, followed by games and dancing. On the 17th of March, the Relief Societies of the Beaver wards celebrated conjointly. The West Ward presented a pageant, portraying some of the special features of the work accomplished by each of the General Presidents of the Relief Society. The East Ward gave a one act play, "A Mother's Love." xpressions of appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine are often heard from the women, as they are realizing more fully as time goes on, the great value of the important courses of study and other reading matter given therein, and the great effort being put forth by those who are sharing in the various responsi bilities of its publication. Wayne Stake: THe largest Relief Society conference ever held in Wayne stake convened at Bicknell, Utah, July 15, 1930, under the direction of the Stake Board of Relief Society. President Mary A. Brinkerhoff presided.. There were at the sessions, all members of the stake presidency, Wm. F. Webster, Geo. W. Okerlund and Geo. T. Eckersley, also High Counselors Willard D. Brinkerhoff and R. Arthur Meeks, and President of the High Priest quorum, Wm. H. Morrell. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Five ward presidents, 5 secretaries and 15 counselors to the presidents were present, and all special activity committees, and all wards and branches were represented except Hanksville, which lies in the eastern part of the stake, 90 miles from the county seat. There were two sessions of conference held, one at 10 o'clock and the other at 2 o'clock. A delicious luncheon was served at the noon hour to 225, Topics treated were: "The Relief Society as an Education," 'The Value of Work and Business Meeting to the Organization,' "The Value of the Literary Lesson," and "Prophecies of the Book of Mormon." Excellent musical numbers were furnished by each ward and branch. The Stake Priesthood Presidency spoke on the growth of the Relief Society, and gave appreciation for the excellent program and luncheon which were ent ani by all present. There were present several of the pioneer Relief Society workers who are nearing 90° years of age, Sarah Meeks, of Bicknell, and V. Leah Blackburn of Loa. These pioneers have been Relief Society workers for more than half a century, and lent dignity and spirit to the conference. California Mission (San Luis Obispo Branch): jp ne Relief Society organization of the San Luis Obispo Branch are certainly to be congratulated in their splendid effort in behalf of the new Church erected in this little sea-coast town. Organized August 28, 1927, this little group of women immediately undertook to do their share in raising funds for the new Spanish-type church building, to which the entire community now points with pride, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 507 RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY OBISPO BRANCH Mrs. May Thornton Glines (center) was the first president of the original Relief Society, and her counselors were, Mrs. Radie Anderson Sullivan (left), and Mrs. Lydia Lee Hausey (right). Under the leadership of these three officers, the women conducted a series of bazaars, dinners, beach picnics and other entertainments which proved popular events, not only with the church members, but also with OF SAN LUIS residents of the community. The results of their efforts, combined with the whole-hearted support of the other saints, was the erection of the church which now serves as headquarters for their branch organization. Their goal reached, the women did not suspend efforts, but have continued, through their Relief Society, to assist in every way the progress of the Latter-day Saints in central California. Good News for Baby What is the important news of the day, anyway? Perhaps this little item from Washington ought to qualify: The children's bureau of the department of labor announces that a baby born in 1928 has just twice the chance of living his first year out and attaining a normal, healthy childhood than had the baby of 1912. The spread of medical care to people that formerly had to go without and the increase in skill of surgeons and nurses are doubtless largely responsible. But whatever the reason, the mere fact itself is one of great importance——New York Telegraph. Suggestions for Work and Business Day Programs Peet are merely suggestions and it is. Optional with the stakes and wards as to whether or not they use them. All suggestions given have been tried in the stakes and reported successful. There are five things we should like kept in mind by those in charge of the work day: 1. That varieties of work be provided so that all may participate. 2. That there be a social value to the meetings and that opportunity be given for informal greetings and conversation. 3. That some sewing be done for the needy, or to increase the funds that may be used to help others, or to provide. Clothing at a low cost to those who cannot afford to pay the full price. 4. That well thought out plans be made by ward and stake officers, and thorough preparations be made for each meeting. 5. That by the end of June, 1931 we should like a report from each stake giving the number and kind of articles of clothing contributed by members of the Relief Society to their ward organization, as asked by the General Board at the April, 1930 conference. ER RDENG to the reports of work day, the most successful stakes have several instructors in the ward, one in charge of the art work, one of quilts, one of remodeling, etc. Each instructor plans and teaches the work for which she is responsible. Many wards found demonstrations of various sorts successful. One ward had members demonstrate their own recipes and serve the group. A penny fund was maintained to defray expenses of this plan. October would be an opportune time to demonstrate sandwich fillings, eétc., for school lunches. Commercial 'demonstrators are glad to bring gas or electric ranges and furnish materials to demonstrate cooking. One ward bought package goods at half price to embroider. These were made up on work day and sold at bazaars to increase funds. Suggestions and demonstrations of remodeling winter coats for children might be very helpful at this time of year. No little child in your ward should go to school insufficiently clothed. One stake specialized on table favors in their art work. Many beautiful and inexpensive decorations were made. Ste following is the outline of one stake's plan which was very successful: October—Bound button holes and tailor's tacks. Remodeling dresses and hats. November—Door-stop. Applique quilting. Candy making. December—Bags—wool, silk. Flowers. January—Afghan—new or old material. Hand knit articles. February—Study of pfants and the growing of flowers; plant diseases. March—Stenciling and fabric painting; embroidery. A pril—Pillows—felt, patchwork, applique, toponta quilting. May—Demonstrations mestic science.