Ay ——- EMMA HALE SMITH First President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XVII SEPTEMBER, 1930 No. 9 Fiftieth Birthday Of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association By Amy Brown Lyman, General Chairman of Committee PYINETEEN hundred thirty has been the most thrillingly interesting and remarkable year in the ' history of the Church, save the organization year, 1830. The spirit of the Centennial has permeated every gathering and has stirred the hearts and emotions of every Latter-day Saint, reaching a climax in the great Church conference held in April. The year chronicles another significant, historic event, which, though of minor importance, is of deep interest in Church circles and particularly in the women's groups —namely, the fiftieth birthday of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association, which occurred on June 19. The forming of the Central or General Boards of these three auxiliaries should not be confused with the organization of the auxiliaries themselves, for they had all been functioning for a number of years previous to 1880—the Relief Society since March 17, 1842; the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association since November 28, 1869; and the Primary Association since August 11, 1878. Nor should the idea prevail that the local groups of each auxiliary had been entirely without mutual interest before 1880, for Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was appointed by President Brigham Young in 1866 to supervise the organization of Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primary Associations in the stakes and wards of the Church, had, with her assistants, traveled from one end of the Territory to the other in the interest of the work in its different phases. From 1866 to 1880 she had stood at the head of the women's work in the Church, and was known as the "president of the L. D. S. Women's organizations." But there had been no Central or General Boards to specialize in and direct the work of each organization un- 466 til President Taylor tgs action in the matter. Ie will be interesting for a moment to go back to the eventful occasion on June 19, 1880, when the organization of the Boards took place, and the foundation was laid for drawing the stakes more closely together in each field. It was a '"'Sisters' Conference,"-held in Salt Lake City, with President John Taylor and President Angus M. Cannon in attendance. It was the second day. The morning session was held in the Tabernacle, and the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall. The Tabernacle meeting was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and Primary, the middle seats of the great auditorium being filled with children. The organization of the Primary Board came first and was followed by that of the Relief Society. The afternoon session. Was held in the Assembly Hall, where the work of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association was featured, and it was here that the organization of this Board was effected. In taking this important step President Taylor was no doubt motivated by two major ideas: first, that a separation of the work of the three women's organizations into more definite and specialized fields would bring better results to the various phases of work and to the workers themselves; secondly, that through central boards the work in each field could be better standardized and unified. THe Central Boards, as inaugurated, consisted only of executive officers, but were later augmented by the addition of aids. Following is a complete list of the original officers: Relief Soctety—President, Eliza R. Snow: Counselors, Zina D. H. RELIEF. SOCIETY MAGAZINE Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney; Secretary, Sarah M. Kimball; Treasurer, M. Isabella Horne; Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association—President, Elmina S. Taylor; Counselors, Margaret Y. Taylor and Martha Horne (Tingey); Secretary, Louie Wells (Cannon); Primary Association—President, Louie B. Felt; Counselors, Matilda M. Barrett and Clara C. M. Cannon; Secretary, Lillie T. Freeze; Treasurer, Minnie Felt (Cutler). A WORD of explanation regarding the nature of the "Sisters' Meetings" and "Sisters' Conferences" might not be out of place in this article, and might make it clearer as to why the forming of the Central Boards took place in these meetings. Sister {M. Isabella Horne, president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, conceived the idea of holding, under the direction of the stake Relief Society, joint meetings of the women's organizations in the city, feeling that the Relief Society should mother the work of. The women and make jopportunity for reports and discussion of their work and problems and for comparison of progress. - So these meetings were joint affairs of the Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association, held regularly, mostly in the Fourteenth Ward, with Mrs. Horne presiding. They were in reality union meetings— forerunners of the present monthly union meetings held in all the auxiliaries of the Church. Thee interesting fiftieth birthday anniversary on June 19 of this year was celebrated jointly by the three General Boards in a most fitting manner, with the present members of the Boards as hostesses, and the General Authorities of the FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY Church, and their wives and all former Board members as guests of honor. The invitations to the affair were beautiful and will no doubt be kept and prized as souvenirs by those who received them. They were gold and white—gold embossed letters on soft white paper. While it was a time of rejoicing together, it was also a solemn occasion. A spirit of reverence seemed to pervade the atmosphere and to stir the emotions. Everyone present seemed to be conscious of the fact that it had been half a hundred years to the day since President John Taylor had seen fit to organize separate Central Boards to direct the work of the organized women of the Church, and thus to release latent possibilities in the organizations themselves and in the workers also. The celebration consisted of a reception and luncheon in the Board rooms of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement 'Association and Primary Association, and a program in the large auditorium. The guests were received by a special reception committee, headed by President Louise Y. Robison of the Relief Society, President Ruth May Fox of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Superintendent May Anderson of the Primary Association. The presence of President Heber J. Grant and Counselors, and other General Authorities of the Church; and their wives, together with many of the former board members, lent dignity and importance, and historic interest to the occasion. Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey, former General President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, was the center of much interest, for not only had she. Been a former General President, but also one of the original officers of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im- 467 provement Association, receiving appointment as second 'Counselor to President Elmina S. Taylor at the historic organization meeting fifty years before. RESIDENT Louise Y. Robison presided at the meeting in the auditorium and extended a hearty welcome and greetings to those assembled. The program consisted of musical numbers, introductory remarks by the 'General Chairman; brief addresses by the three Presidents of the General Boards, sketching the growth and present work of the respectiveorganizations; Reminiscences by Mrs. Martha Horne Tingey (a charter board member); remarks by Presidents Heber J. Grant and Anthony W. Ivins; and the presentation of stereoptican pictures of the past and present executive officers of the General Boards. The musical numbers were hymns which had been sung at the organization meetings and were as follows: "Sweet is Thy Work, My God, My King;" "Come, O, Thou King of Kings;" "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning;" "O,° Awake, My Slumbering Minstrels;" and "O. My Father, Thou That Dwellest." The /first three were rendered by the congregation; the fourth, ""O, Awake, My Slumbering Minstrels," was given as a trio by members of the Primary Board, and the last, "O My Father," was given as a solo by Mrs. Ida Peterson Beal of the! Relief Society Board. The invocation was offered by Mrs. (Elizabeth S. Wilcox, a former member of the Relief Society Board, and the benediction was given by Mrs. Maria Young Dougal, former member of the General 50th Birthday of Gen. Bd... Presidency of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. 468 COREEEOR Amy Brown Lyman of the Relief Society, general chairman of the committee, gave a short talk stating that the program to follow would be of an historical nature. She gave a brief account of the organization of the Boards and of the founding of each of the separate groups. President Louise Y. Robison gave a report of the Relief Society from the beginning, showing a_ steady growth in membership, interest and activities. She stated that the organization had carried out as nearly as possible the spirit of the original organization under the direction of the 'Prophet Joseph Smith, as an aid to the Priesthood in caring for the sick and needy. She stated that the work went forward more rapidly after the organization of the first Board in 1880. One achievement she felt greatly to the credit of the Relief Society was the work it had accomplished in the field of health. The educational features for members were also commented upon, as well as the opportunities for spiritual development. Miss May Anderson, General Superintendent of the Primary Association, reported the organization and growth of the Primary since 1880. She mentioned as an outstanding feature of Primary work the Convalescent Home for boys and girls. She pleaded for support to this very worthy institution to aid unfortunate childien. The hospital is supported by birthday pennies of Primary children of the Church and is an outstanding institution of the country, she said. President Ruth May Fox of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association spoke briefly concerning the organization and growtt. Of the Association since the appointment in 1880 of Sister Elmina S. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Taylor as the first General President. She read extracts from the Woman's Exponent, giving an account of the organization meeting held at the Assembly Hall. She stated since that time the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association had expanded from one group meeting to discuss religious subjects, to include four groups and that the Association now has also been given the assignment of conducting the recreation and leisure time of the Church for all members over Primary age. She reported Mutual work being carried on in practically every mission in the world, as well as in the United States, and that it was doing much to aid missionaries in interesting young people in the gospel. Mrs. Martha H. Tingey was the next speaker, who, together with Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze are now the only living members who were present at the original organization meeting in 1880. Sister Tingey, then Miss Martha Horne, was made second counselor to President EImina S. Taylor of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement 'Association. Sister Tingey gave remi- -niscences of the first organization and the early growth of Mutual work and the difficulties under which the officers worked in order to get Associations started. She marveled, she said, in looking back, to find the development that had taken place. She expressed gratitude at being permitted to live to this éay—-: the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of General Boards oi these three women's auxiliaries of the Church. PRESIDENT Heber J. Grant was the next speaker. He expressed his pleasure at being in attendance at this gathering. He commented on the splendid work being FIFTIETH carried on by the three organizations and offered words of encouragement. He expressed confidence in the officers placed in charge of these auxiliaries and pronounced a blessing on those assembled. President Anthony W. Ivins commented on the faithfulness of the women of the Church from the very beginning of its organization, in carrying on whatever assignments were given them, and paid a tribute to their energy and interest and loyalty. He also expressed appreBIRTHDAY 469 ciation for the growth of the three associations. Pictures were thrown on a screen, showing officers of the three organizations from the first ones installed up to the present time. Those for the Relief Society were presented by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, member of the Relief Society Board; those for the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement 'Association by Mrs. May Booth Talmage of the Young Ladies' Board; and those for the Primary Association by Counselor Edna H. Thomas of the Primary Board. The Clock Shop By Eugene L. Roberts Tick-tock, tick-tock, a host of clocks With none in tune, and none in time; Tick-tock, tick-tock, a mother clock ~ Would time their ticks and make them rhyme; But no such thing can long be done Since each lone clock must have its fun. Tick-tock, tick-tock, good mother clock, Be well content to watch your flock; For in good time they'll see the need Of timing ticks to mother's lead. Editor's Note—This poem was inspired by a clock-shop which made Mr. Roberts think of his wife and their eight children. The first woman to win the gruelling 750-mile King's Cup air race is Winifred Brown, 26 years old, on July 5. There were in the contest many famous fliers, both men and women. Among these women was one whose husband had competed. He explained rather apologetically to his wife the reason for his plane failing, to which she answered, "Never mind; for the first time a woman has won." - UU DAADDORAOURONODOROOAONORNARIAGOOONCOOAUDONRODOCORUODOGRNGDOOROOOONOONNCURUONCROGQOGRNORAGURSONIONGGUIIONODFOROORIDELOSESOSIOROGHOAVUDULONUOSEDOLEREGOUAUGNGAUDCOLUADEGUTUELEEIOOTSCISOCASCOOUOOGODEOOEUODOODEOCOCGORCURSCUNCOcQQegrend CUTEOACNCORENUANEUODOOGELZURUUQUECREOUGOCOUNEDORODIENIOVONCUOUDONOOLESANHCUGUDEEOUCQOUOEGAUGHOUOGEGMEDOUUOUAUGDOOUOROSIOOGUOUDUDONOLUCECUOCOOSANUUOOUAUSOVOQUORIULOOOQDEDUVEGANCUUSNOONOUGHONNRONUENNUORORSEOON OM