CORRESPONDENCE.
MESA CITY, ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is so seldom the good people of our isolated little
city find themselves represented in your valuable paper,
I take the liberty of forwarding you a few items. The
heat of summer is over, and we are now enjoying the
most delightful weather imaginable. But we have
found to our cost that the excessive heat and accom-
panying disadvantages of the summer season, that we
have to endure in this southern climate, are not the
greatest evils in the world. That dreadful disease, small-
pox, made its appearance in our usually healthy city
over two months ago; and although we are now free
from the disease itself, it has left foot-prints of sorrow
in a great many hearts; and right here our much abused
warm weather has proven to be our best friend, as there
is no telling where our troubles might have ended if we
had had cold weather to contend with. We have had
forty-two cases in all, and eight deaths. Quite a num-
ber were only varioloid, while nearly one third were of
the very worst type, and believed by some of our Ari-
zona physicians to be closely related to the black small-
pox. Our death rate has been very low in comparison
to other places where the malady has raged, especially
at Phenix, where they have lost nearly two thirds of
their whole number of cases; for although they have a
good hospital and excellent nurses, they lack what we,
as Latter-day Saints, prize above their learned phsyic-
ians, namely, faith in God and the administration of
His servants. We have had some examples of heroism
among our people hero that are worthy of record.
History records the deeds of many brave men and
women facing death for home and country, but who
would not choose death at the cannon’s mouth rather
than a lingering, horrible death by small-pox.
The county offered to furnish nurses, if more were
needed than could be obtained here, but our people felt
rather to trust themselves in the hands of the Lord
than outside nurses, and in consequence quite a number
entered the hospital without being protected by pre-
viously having had the disease. Sister Eliza Stewart
was one of the first to sacrifice herself at the shrine of
motherly affection, being unwilling to allow her daugh-
ter Estella, aged 16, who had contracted the disease,
to pass from under her care. She remained with her and
both subsequently  died, leaving the home circle doubly
sorrowful. Both were faithful Latter-day Saints, and
are greatly regretted by the entire community.
Another case I mnst mention, Sister Susan Savage
left her home and children at the call of suffering hu-
manity, without even the protection of vaccination, but
armed with her faith in God and her religion, and with
promises made to those that keep the word or wisdom. 
In due time she came down with the disease in its worst 
form, and although to all human appearances she had
no chance for life, through the prayers and fasting of
her brethren and sisters, and her own faith and good
care she came off victorious, and now bears her testi-
mony to the comforter that was with her during her en-
tire sickness, in opposition to the evil spirits that
sought her destruction.
Other cases I might mention, but my letter is getting
too lengthy. We feel to thank the Lord that he has
been so merciful to us as he has, and appreciate our
numerous blessings more than ever. The welcome
ringing of our meeting house bell is again heard in our
midst, our Mutual Improvement and Primary Associa-
tions will soon be in active operation, and a spirit of
animation and cheerfulness is rapidly taking the place
of the horror and gloom of our small-pox siege.
With good wishes for the welfare of the Exponent, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,	
Zulie P. Kimball
Oct. 21st, 1833.	
BURNHAM, SAN JUAN, NEW MEXICO.	
Editor Exponent;
Dear sister, some time has elapsed since I have taken
up my pen to write a line for our dear little paper, and
even now my heart is so sad I scarcely feel able to do
so. Such very sad news has reached us from the Salt
River County. Two dear sisters and one little nephew
and my stepmother have all suddenly died with that
terrible scourge, the smallpox.
Mrs. Caroline Matilda Taylor, daughter of Alvin F.
and Camera Stewart, died Sept. 4th, 1883, at Phoenix.
She was in her twenty-ninth year. Her little son,
Keith Stewart, died a short time before. It is possible
Mrs. Taylor might have lived had she not been railed to
part with her child, but this trial and the fierceness of
her disease was more than that widowed heart could
bear. An hour or so before death her reason returned,
and she called for pen and paper, and wrote a request
for her brother to take care of her two little ones she
was about to leave without father or mother.
Camera Estella Stewart died Sept. 5th, at Mesa City,
aged fifteen years and one month. She was the daugh-
ter of Alvin P. and Eliza Stewart.
Mrs. Eliza Barnett Stewart, wife of Alvin F. Stewart
and daughter of John and Eliza Barnett, died Sept. 19th,
1883, at Mesa City, aged thirty-six years and a few days.
Farewell, dear ones, for awhile. Oh, how I had
longed to see your dear faces once more on earth: lonely
and isolated as we are the thought that you, my sweet
sister, might yet be near me has been such a comfort.
God bless and strengthen my poor father in this his
hour of trial. He, too, has just been at death’s door,
but was spared to remain with the little ones now left
motherless.
It is the Sabbath day, and I am alone. The littla-
ones are at play, baby is sleeping in his cradle. It is
but one short year since we laid his mother in the silent
grave, but his sweet baby heart knows no sorrow over
it. "We that have tasted so deeply from the bitter cup,
oh, how would we keep it from these innocent lips if we
could, but, alas, we cannot only for a short time. Our
Heavenly Father knoweth all things and doeth all
all for the secret good of His children, and in wisdom
has designed that all should taste of the bitter that
they might truly appreciate the sweet. We often
think that some have no crosses to bear, yet we cannot
always read the human heart, and each one realizes its
own burdens, and a stranger cannot understand them.
It is so sad to lay our friends away when we have done
all that skill and love could devise, but when we can
only hear they have died among strangers, without one
dear one to sooth their last moments, or a loving hand
to close the eyes whose depths we love to gaze into so
well, it is sadder still, and we then learn to appreciate
the privilege of caring for the dear ones to the last. If
our trials will purify us and cleans us from dross we
will not complain. We must be trying to live worthy,
so that at any time we are called we will be joyfully
greeted on the other side by the dear ones we now feel
so sadly at being separated from. God comfort all who
are called to mourn among the Saints, and give us
faith and light to live above the trials in life. is the
prayer of your sister,
Mary Stewart Burnham.


