WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]		
		PRIMARY MEETING.
	Primary Semi-Annual Meeting of the 20th
Ward convened on Friday, Oct. 26th. Present
on the stand, President Toone, Sisters E. S.
Clawson, L. Felt, Presendia Kimball, Fanny
Thatcher, E. B. Ferguson, Sister Mary Davis
of the 21st Ward, and Bro. T. B. Lewis.
	Exercises commenced by singing, "Love at
Home."
	Minutes read by Secretary. Essay on the
benefits of the Primary Associations, by E.
Salmon; Bible verses, recited by Frank Lewis;
Reading by Miss Lucy Savage; Recitiation by
Kate Sansom, a little toddler of three years;
Song by L. Sansom; Dialogue by Alice and
Lizzie Tibbins; Recitation from Rosie Romney;
Essay by Flora Phillips; Song by Lennie Sav-
age and Alice Clowes; Recitation by Josie Sim-
mons; Recitation by Nellie Lewis; Dialogue,
Lawrence Romney and Frank Pusey; Recita-
tion from Kate Romney; Duet by Emily Sharp
and E. Clowes; Recitation from Lily and Maud
Patten; Reading from George Ewing; Recita-
tion by Lucy Wright; Song by Ida Savage
and Ida Sansom; Essay by Georgina Toone
Recitation by Hugh Stainsburg; Dialogue by
Alice and Flora Reynolds; Recitation, Albert
Romney; Recitation, Maude Lewis; Recita-
tion, Paul Culmer; Song, Della Daynes; Reci-
tation, Isabel Romney; Dialogue, Mary Smalie
and E. Johnson; Recitation, Beatie Fowler;
Song, Martha Angell; Reading by Willard Pe-
tersen closed the exercises.
	Sister Louie Felt said that she had had a
rich treat; was glad to see so much improve-
ment, though at the last anniversary she
thought there could be no improvement; spoke
to the boys about missions; prayed that God
would bless them all.
	Sister Ellen Clawson felt as Sister Felt had
said, that every thing was so well done that it
seemed hardly possible to improve. Spoke of
the word of wisdom and hoped all the child-
ren would keep it and all the commandments
of God.
	Brother T. B. Lewis thought these anniver-
saries were the most pleasant part of the P. A's.
The children like them, the President likes
them, and your friends who visit you like
them. But if you want to make these anni-
versaries a success, you must attend punctual-
ly all your weekly meetings. Hoped the boys
and girls would be put into practice the lessons
taught in the pieces recited and do what is
right because it is right. Spoke about diph-
theria, and begged the children not to get
scared, but to attend to their duties and leave
the result to God.
	Sister Presendia Kimball felt so thankful to
meet with the dear children again; hoped they
would remember what Brother Lewis had said
and keep the laws of God and they should
grow up mighty men and women of God.
	Bro. Romney thought the children would
rather have the cake and candy than hear him
speak. Prayed for a blessings on those who
felt interested in the P. A.
	Bro. Levi Richards felt pleasure in meeting
with the children, and prayed for a blessing on
all.
	Sister Davis spoke a short time; hoped the
children would remember that God saw them
at all times.
	Sister Ferguson spoke to the children on
health and the care of their bodies while there
is so much sickness.
	Sister Toone hoped the mothers would more
frequently attend the weekly meetings. Asked
the children to thank the brethren and sisters
for their presence and invited them to come
again.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sister
Kate Romney for her services at the organ.
	Conference adjourned for six months, until
[column 2]
April 19th, 1884. Children sang, "I'm not too
young for God to see." Benediction by Bro.
Romney. Cakes and candy were then distrib-
uted to the children, and they were then dis-
missed. 					E. B. FERGUSON.


