EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT;

	By way of encouragement the R. S. and Y.
L. joined with the Primary in holding their first
fair at Pima, November 2nd and 3rd. Each
association was represented by separate tables,
being beautifully decorated with different
kinds of needle work, embroidery, (silk and
cotton) crochet, netting, lace ties. cushions,
cardboard ornaments, flowers, lamp mats, knit-
ting, home spun yarn, home made hats (which
met with a ready sale). The walls were nice-
ly decorated with a numerous variety of quilts,
rugs, and different kinds of ornaments. There
was also forty yards of rag carpet made by the 
R. S., and twenty yards by the Y. L., both be-
ing very good quality. We will not forget to
make mention of some very nice cotton raised
by the R. S. There was on exhibition speci-
mens of sweet potatoes weighing three pounds,
raised by E. W. East, also turnips weighing
six pounds, raised by J. W. Moody.
	As far as the Primary department was con-
cerned, it was simply beautiful, being nicely
ornamented with different kinds of pastry, but-
ter and bread, also a nice display of little toys,
consisting of picture frames, pin cushions, em-
broidery, doll's stockings, little chair and ta-
ble, rakes, butter paddles, churn dashers, ox
yokes, ladders, knives, etc., etc.; melons, pop-
corn and squashes were seen on the table,
raised by little boys under eleven years of
age. The talent displayed by the little ones
was excellent. We had almost forgotten to
mention the quilts and patchwork made by the
little girls, which were very nice, we will men-
tion the quilts and patchwork made by the
little girls, which were very nice, we will men-
tion in particular a little bed set, made by La-
prial Nuttall, aged five years, the hemming
would do credit to a ten year old girl.


We closed with a dance for the little folks,
interspersed with singing from the children.
"Watching for Pa" was sung beautifully by
two little boys and three little girls under eight
years of age.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we re-
main, your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
			WILLMIRTH EAST, Stake Pres.
