POLITICAL OSTRACISM.

	I have just been reading that (to me) amus-
ing article, the second annual report of the
Utah Commission. Let us quote from the
precious document, "It is thought that discrimi-
nation between those Mormons who practice
polygamy and those who do not, while not
likely to have much effect upon elderly men
who have already a plurality of wives and
several wives, must have great weight with
young men of the Territory, many of whom
are ambitious and aspiring, and would not like
voluntarily to embrace political ostracism."
	Well, for the sake of the honor and future
welfare of the young men of Utah, I hope that
the opinion of the Utah Commission is well


founded in that they are ambitious and aspir-
ing. Seeing that their fathers and mothers are
the most ambitious people upon the face of
the whole earth, not to obtain worldly honors,
but to become good and great, and that they
are aspiring to thrones, principalities and
powers in the celestial kingdom of our God, to
become Gods, even the sons and daughters
of God, if they were not aspiring they
would scarcely do credit to their paren-
tage and training. As for political os-
tracism, I fancy that they would scarce-
ly feel at home in any other element,
'tis their native air. Has the world ever
treated them, as brothers in the great family of
our Father? Their fathers and mothers have
counted the world well lost for the Gospel's
sake, and have freely forsaken all in obedience
to the call, "Come out of her, O ye my peo-
ple, that ye partake not of her sins, that ye re-
ceive not of her plagues."
	Brave young men indeed, if they cannot
bear political ostracism, when their parents
have not only borne that, but banishment
from civilization (so called) to a wild, barren
country, inhabited only by savages and wild
beasts, (even these were kinder than their
Christian friends) where it was hoped they could
not live. Worthy sons of such self-sacrificing
fathers and mothers. Had I a son grown to
manhood who would forsake the religion for
which his parents had suffered so much for po-
litical honors, or any other consideration, ex-
cept from an honest conviction that it was
wrong, I should be far, very far from proud of
that son.
	But I have no fears for the yonng men of
Utah. God has designed that a noble race
should be raised up in these mountain fast-
nesses, and trained in the nurture and admon-
ition of the Lord, for this purpose has the Lord
revealed that holy order of celestial marriage,
which the world make so much fuss about,
that a righteous seed might be raised up unto
Him, with greater faith even than their fathers
had, that they might bear off this great work
triumphant; and what is the world that they
should fear it, when they know they are en-
gaged in the work of the Great God?
								RUTH.
	November 1st, 1883.


