PRESTON, BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
EDITOR EXPONET: 
	The Stake Presidency of Primaries, Sister
Annie Laker and Counselor, visited us March
6th. 1883, and organized a Primary Associa-
tion, which has generally been very well at-
tended. Sister Eliza Dalrymple acts as presi-
dent, and performs her duties to the satisfaction
of all concerned. We have thirty-one mem-
bers in our Association, officers included; aver-
age attendance nineteen. Our Relief Society
was organized March 12th, 1883, assisted by
Stake President, Julia P. Lindsay, and coun-
selors. Sister Martha Dalrymple acts as presi-
dent and is doing her duty as far as possible
with so few to assist in the work. We have
only ten members here now, several having left
here, but hope to be able even with this small
number to accomplish a work that will be ac-
ceptable before the Lord. With respect and
love for the noble women of Utah, we remain
the friends of truth and right. 
		AMANDA DALYMPLE, Secretary.
			NEPHI, JUAB STAKE.
	On the 22nd of September, 1883, at ten
o'clock a.m., the Juab Stake organization of
Relief Society held their 22nd Quarterly Con-
ference in the Nephi Meeting house, Mrs.
Elizabeth Kendall presiding. Present on the
stand, of the brethren, President Paxman and
Counselors, Bishops Warner and Udall, Patri-
arch J. G. Bigler, and Elder George Kendall;
of the sisters, E. B. Wells and H. M. Whitney
from Salt Lake City, the stake and branch
officers of Nephi, and others. After the open-
ing exercises and reading the minutes of last
conference President Kendall called upon
Branch President Pitchforth to represent the
Nephi branch, which she did, showing it was
in good condition, after which President E.
Kendall and J. Picton, in their usual kind
and motherly manner, made a few remarks
and gave good counsel to those present; felt
proud of their associations with the Relief
Society; spoke in praise of the teachers and

[Column 2]
members of our society. Was very pleased to
have our highly esteemed sisters with us from
Salt Lake City; did not wish to take up the
time as all were anxious to hear from them.
	President Kendall then introduced Sister
Wells, who made a few remarks. Said the
Relief Societies had made a great improve-
ment in our sisters, that they were better
women, better wives, and better mothers than
they would have been without these blessed
opportunities for development. That they are
so engaged in the good work that they do not
think half as much about the little trials they
have to pass through, but were seeking to bless
and comfort each other, and to do good to all
humanity.
	President Kendall then introduced Sister
Whitney, who said she was proud of her asso-
ciations with the sisters; was very pleased with
the singing, and also to come to Nephi.
Thought the hand of Providence overruled her
coming here. Said she was her Father's hand-
maid and was on hand to do her duty when-
ever it was made known to her. Spoke on Ce-
lestial Marraige, and how she had been greatly
blessed by advocating that principle. Made
many excellent remarks, and gave much good
advice to mothers.
	After singing conference adjourned till 2
p.m. Benediction by President Joel Grover.
	At 2 p.m. conference was continued accord-
ing to adjournment. After singing and prayer
President Kendall reported the condition of
the Mona Ward, which was good (the Presi-
dent of that branch being absent on account
of sickness). President Serena Aagaard re-
ported the Levan Ward as being united and
striving to do their duty in all things.
	Prest. Wm. Paxman was the next speaker.
Spoke of our late President, Amelia Golds-
brough, of her faithfulness, and of the able 
support of her counselors, Elizabeth Kendall
and Jane Picton, that on account of her death
it was necessary to have a reorganization. That
himself and counselors had talked the matter
over and had selected the following names for
officers: Mary Pitchforth, Stake President;
Amy Bigler and Nicolena Brown, Counselors;
Mary Hoyt, Secretary; Thirza M. Vickers,
Treasurer, who were all unanimously sus-
tained. Branch officers: Miranda Bryan, Pres-
ident of Nephi Ward; Rebecca Udall and Ann
Midgley, Counselors; Matilda E. Teasdale,
Secretary, Hannah Grover Assistant Secre-
tary; Charlotte Evans, Treasurer; and Julia
Bryan, Assistant Treasurer, unanimously sus-
tained. Levan and Mona officers sustained as
they were already organized.
	The balance of the time was taken up by 
excellent and appropriate remarks from Prest.
Kendall, Sisters Hannah Grover, Miranda
Bryan, H.M. Whitney and E. B. Wells.
	Prest. Paxman made a few closing remarks;
felt well pleased with the exercises of the day,
but felt that we had too little time to say all
the good things that were necessary.
	It was moved and carried that a vote of
thanks be returned to Sisters E. Kendall and
J. Picton for their faithful labors in the Re-
lief Society.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Patriarch J. G. Bigler.
		MARY PITCHFORTH, President.
	AMY L. BIGLER, Acting Secretary.
		    FERRON CITY, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I deem it a pleasure to have the privilege
of mingling my voice with my beloved sisters
in the EXPONENT, though we are far off in
this vicinity, seemingly away from the society
of our highly esteemed sisters who dwell in the
northern part of this territory, notwithstand-
ing this, we feel that we are greatly blessed of
the Lord, not forgetting to thank Him for His
many blessings toward us. 

[Column 3]
Our Relief Society was organized December
10th, 1882, assisted by our beloved President, 
Annie Larsen, and her Counselors. Sister
Mary Olsen was elected President, with Sisters
Eunice Molen and Dinah Wridgley as her
Counselors; Sister Hannah E. Stevens, Secre-
tary; Sister Hannah Henry, Treasurer. Since
that time we have been striving to do our du-
ty to the best of our ability, as a Society; we
hold our meetings monthly, and they are pret-
ty well attended, considering our scattered
condition; we have twenty names enrolled;
most of these sisters are striving to do their du-
ty as far as they know and understand. We
feel to uphold and sustain our president and
counselors in all their works and ways, for we
feel that they are chosen of the Lord to take
charge of the society here in this vicinity,
therefore, in order to be united we must love
and respect them, for the Lord says if ye are
not one ye are not mine. We have a desire
to do all we can for the advancement of His
Kingdom and for the building of Temples in 
which we can receive ordinances necessary for
our progression, and all other blessings which
the Lord has promised to the faithful.
	Ever wishing to be one with my co-workers
in the Gospel of Christ, as ever your sisters,
			      HANNAH E. STEVENS, 
			Secretary R. S.
		SPRING CITY, SANPETE STAKE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Sanpete held their
Quarterly Conference at Mt. Pleasant, Septem-
ber 15th, President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
The usual devotional exercises were rendered,
after which the minutes of the previous confer-
ence were read, also the statistical and finan-
cial reports. There presidents who were there
gave verbal reports each of her respective
ward. 
	The President, Mrs. M. A. P. Hyde, made a
few remarks, giving an account of her labors
and experience while in the St. George Temple,
also of the accident she met with while in St. 
George, which had caused her absence so
long.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the con-
gregation upon the duties of wives and
mothers, also on the necessity of the sisters un-
derstanding politics and government, that we
might know and understand our rights. Re-
ferred to the Primary Association work said it
was an apostolic work, and should be consid-
ered as such; mothers should not neglect to up-
hold the sisters who labor in the Primary.
	Sister Horne addressed the audiance, speak-
ing of the necessity of mothers realizing their
positions and learning to think and decide for
themselves; said if mothers realized that they
were bringing forth spirits from God not one
child would grow up to apostatize. Mothers
should live near to God, avail themselves of
the privilege of receiving knowledge from
Him, keep their nature in subjection to His
laws and commandments.
	President Peterson spoke of the importance
of looking after the dead, and of drawing near
to God; said that if we were not drawing nearer
we were certainly drawing farther away from
Him. Spoke of the factory, and the necessity
of being prepared to sustain ourselves, as we
would need factorios and the grain the sisters
have been storing for several years, before
twenty years, as Babylon will fall. Said the
young men and women should take an interest
in learning different trades, as these occupa-
tions will be necessary.
	Sister Hyde felt impressed to speak in
tongues, which she did, Sis ter Young interpre-
ting. 
	Singing by choir. Benediction by Bishop
Andersen. Conference adjourned, to be held
at Moroni, Dec. 15, 1883.
		FANNY KOFFORD, Secretary R. S.


