WOMAN’S VOICE.

	I hope a few lines from our Relief Society
in Marriottsville will not be intruding on the col-
umns of our noble little paper, the EXPONENT.
Ouo sisters, generally, are wide awake to their
duties, and show their faith by their works, in
looking after the sick, the poor and needy, of
which we have some few in our midst. They
also donate liberally to the Temple in course
of erection, and whenever calls are made to
help emigrate the Saints from abroad they
always respond, and I think keep pace with
the societies in other wards. We also have a
granary, and are storing up wheat. We have
purchased an acre of land and have two hun-
dred live mulberry trees, have done what we
could in the silk culture, and expect to get
our silk reeled this fall. Our Primary Associa-
tion held their fair in September. It was al-
together a success. The little folks showed
their taste and skill to good advantage. I must
make mention of the surprise we gave our
worthy President, Mrs. Ann Bickington. On
the first day of the present month (November)
being her 67th birthday. After she came out
of fast meeting she was escorted by the sisters
to Brother and Sister William Gill’s, where a
sumptuous dinner was in waiting. About
thirty of the brethren and Bisters surrounded
the table, and were enabled to do ample justice
to the good things before them, having fasted
all the morning.
	The afternoon was spent in a very agreeable
manner. Bishop Ritchie made appropriate re-
marks, and gave much good instruction.
Others spoke of their long acquaintance with
Sister Bickington, and of her integrity and
good works, wishing her many happy returns
of her natal day. She was then presented
with many gifts as tokens of respect, to which
she replied with a short but affecting speech.
After singing, benediction was pronounced by
Bishop Ritchie, and all dispersed, leaving our
beloved Sister Bickington to enjoy herself, hav-
ing the satisfaction of knowing she was respect-
ed and beloved by all her acquaintances.
The EXPONENT is taken by a number of our
sisters, and is read with much interest; it is a
noble paper and is full of choice  reading, and
some of the wise, learned heads that have so
much to say about the down trodden women
of Utah would do well to read our little paper.
As for myself I prize it. The Scenes and In-
cidents in Nauvoo is the first thing I read; it
brings back so fresh to my own memory the
trials and persecutions of those days, for hav-
ing been identified with this Church from the
days of Kirtland, Ohio, to the present time,
and been a partaker in all its persecutions I can
testify to the truth of  many things contained
in that article; and in closing I bear my testi-
mony to the truth of this Gospel. It is of
God and will prevail. The wicked will not
have power to stop its progress, for they cannot
measure arms with the Almighty.
		Your sister in the Gospel,
