WHAT THEY SAY.

	We publish in this issue of our paper some
extracts from the Cincinnati Enquirer" about
"Mormon women," as given in a lecture by
Mrs. Angie F. Newman, also a few items from
the lecture by another Gentile woman who was
in the audience, and who comments on the sub-
ject as well.
	The papers of Cincinnati announced that
Mrs. Newman, of Nebraska, was in the city,
and had spent much time in Utah and closely
studied the problem of Mormonism as it relates
to women, and so forth, and that it had been
proposed to call a meeting of the ladies of all
denominations to hear her speak. Mormon
women are fast becoming a popular subject for
lectures, and by such means the Gospel is being
proclaimed because it makes honest people anx-
ious to know "whether these things be so." It
is very annoying to be thus cruelly misrepre-
sented, but the women of this Church know
that the words of the Savior are true: "He that
would be godly in Christ Jesus must suffer per-
secution." The "Enquirer" said Mrs. Newman
was prepared to give much intelligent and re-
liable information on the subject of Mormon
women. Let us see. She tells her audience
she has held argumentative conversations with
Eliza R. Snow and other ladies. We would
be glad to know who they are, for Sister Eliza
R. Snow had never heard of her, nor any other
Mormon woman so far as we can learn. How-
ever, as Mrs. Newman has told the ladies of
Cincinnati so much about Utah, we feel called
upon to speak in defense of these women she
condemns, and the homes she represents as so
degraded.
	Milton said: "So Truth be in the field, let her
and Falsehood grapple," but as regards the
women of this Church, Truth is scarcely in the
field, considering how Falsehood has been
flaunting her banner in the wind of public opin-
ion. It is time Truth came forward to the res-
cue and threw down the gauntlet in defense of
her own honor. It has been said that there is
a time when forbearance ceases to be a virtue,
it seems to us there is now a time when silence
on the part of the women of Utah would be an
ignominious reproach.
	According to Mrs. Newman the women here
are not ALL fools, and it is highly proper for
them to express themselves on what is most em-
phatically their own question, and as the race
is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong,
it may yet follow that Mormon women can
maintain their own ground and vanquish the
enemy. For Truth will eventually prevail.
Quoting the speaker's words, "Every house is
a house of prostitution!" How any sane woman
dare make such an assertion seems incredible!

[Column 2]
This is too much! Mrs. Newman from her
own statement lived here for some time in this
hot bed of iniquity, and a great many other
Gentiles manage to exist among the "Mor-
mons," and to thrive and grow rich and exceed-
ingly prosperous. They visit in "Mormon"
houses, but they probably don't know that they
are such dens of infamy. Now that Mrs. New-
man has given such "reliable information" on
the subject all the Gentiles will run away im-
mediately, no doubt, for fear of being contami-
nated.
	Mrs. Newman's assertion that "a man may
take for his wives his mother, grand-mother, or
sister" is as false as it is cruel. To speak so
positive one should have the statement well au-
thenticated, but she heard it possibly from some
wicked, designing, malicious person, someone pre-
pared to say anything false to injure the Mor-
mons. Our Savior said: "Blessed are ye when
men shall revile you and persecute you, and say
all manner of evil against you, falsely, for my
name's sake, for great is your reward in heaven,
for so persecuted they the saints that were be-
fore you."
	Mormon women are not only virtuous, but
chaste. The principle of plural marriage
itself tends to the strictest chastity, and child-
ren born in this order of marriage will, from
ante-natal influences, be purer in character. To
enter upon an explanation of this principle and
its consequent results was not our object and
would make this article too lengthy, however
briefly dealt with, but suffice it to say, nowhere
on the earth exist purer women than right here
in Utah, those who have embraced this sacred
order of marriage the world is so ready to con-
demn. Mrs. Newman with all her pretensions
evidently knows nothing of Mormon women,
their homes or associations. She says "there is
no love, care or tenderness," nothing could be
more untrue. There are no stronger ties of af-
fection existing upon the earth than those
which bind together the families who live in
the order of celestial marriage. This intensity
of affection helps them to bear the scoffs and
reproaches heaped upon them by those who can-
not understand the position they occupy, nor
the motives which influence them, and they
find comfort and solace in the society of each
other which unites them in the strongest bonds
of human sympathy, and strengthens the so-
cial strata that the Gentiles such as Mrs. New-
man and others of her class are trying to break
down and destroy. "Money," she says, "is
what is needed, and needed at once." For what,
pray? Not for the "Mormons," they are abund-
antly able to feed, clothe and educate their own
children, and are in no need whatever of pecu-
niary help. When this people were driven from
their homes, destitute pilgrims, without shelter,
by mobs who threatened the lives of even aged
men and defenseless women and children, no
one offered them aid or protection, though many
hundreds perished in consequence of the priva-
tion and suffering they were compelled to en-
dure from the persecutions of their fellow citi-
zens in this boasted land of liberty. Now the
"Mormons" are prosperous, and they would
scorn the idea of receiving money gathered
from the people of the United States to educate
their children. What about the masses of un-
educated children growing up in the eastern
citses and towns without homes, without proper
food? We read in the Boston "Woman's Jour-
nal" this evening, that Chicago has 30,000 pau-
per, Cincinnati has no doubt a moderate pro-
portion, and Salt Lake City has none; the la-
dies who contributed so liberally at the close of
Mrs. Newman's lecture to the fund to educate
the children of the Mormons, who are already
well fed and housed, as well as taught, would do

[Column 3]
well to use the means to provide for the desti-
tute and homeless in their own proud city, or if
Foreign Missions are their grand ambition there
are plenty of barefooted, half-starved children
in Ireland, and in other lands across the sea,
who need their benevolence; as for the Latter-
day Saints they spurn such offerings. The treas-
ures of the earth and the riches of heaven are
for the Saints in the due time of the Lord, and
they have no fear. There is so much opposition
just now to the Latter-day work that one can
scarcely take up a magazine or newspaper with-
out seeing some extravagent article on the Mor-
mon problem, as it is very generally termed.
	Dio Lewis' Monthly for November contains
one of the most ridiculous we have seen, writ-
ten by Dora Darmore, (Mrs. A. J. Boyer) former-
ly editor of the Golden Dawn, in San Francisco.
The lady passed trhough here in the summer of
1881. We have seen one of the articles published
in a New York paper. She wants "an army of
moral, industrious, intelligent young men" sent
here to marry the bright Mormon girls. Now, as
there are many hundreds of bright Mormonboys
expecting to marry these Mormon girls what
will Dora Darmore do with them? They will
certainly be in the way of her pet scheme be-
ing carried out, for Mormon boys are not only
very bright, but physically strong and steadfast
in purpose, and they assuredly will not be inter-
fered with in this way, so her solution of the
problem will fail. The lady has credited the
writer with some things she did not say, but on
the whole it was so long ago she has probably
forgotten what sort of language was used on that
occasion. She alludes to the care-worn counte-
nances of the faces of women in the Tabernacle,
but forgets to tell us there are any unhappy
women in the world outside of Utah, but as
most Mormon women know plenty of unhappy
marraiges outside the pale of the Church they
know how much her words are worth. Mrs.
Boyer stayed a few days in Utah, and she had
very little opportunity of seeing or judging the
character or motives of Mormon men and women.
She says, "God help and pity the unhappy
women of Utah, for the men who own them,
body, and soul, have no pity." Now, if there
are anywhere women more happy in their home
with their domestic relations, more satisfied
withtheir surroundings than these women she
pities so, where are they? As for the help of
God, the Latter-day Saints have it, and expect
to while they are faithful in keeping His com-
mandments. As for men owning women, if
women are not free and independent here,
they are not anywhere, for there is more freedom
for women in the Gospel than in the laws of
men. Mormon women are not asking for pity
form any source, they simply want justice, no-
thing more. We do not expect the world to be-
lieve in celestial marriage, but to respect our
religious belief and accord us the right the Con-
stitution of the United States guarantees to all
its citizens, the freedom of religious liberty.


