BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	During the week that we remained in Nau-
voo we called upon a few of our old neighbors,
among them was Dr. Weld, one of the oldest
settlers, where we spent one evening. My hus-
band's sister, Sarah Ann, accompanied us to
Mr. Hibbard's, who were also old settlers at
Commerce, and they had received the Gospel.
The "Mormons" settling there speedily in-
creased their wealth, so that instead of their
old log row a large brick mansion was soon
reared. But their worldly riches made a ship-
wreck of what little faith they possessed. We
had been associated together from the first set-
tling of Nauvoo, and the first party that my
brother William and myself attended in that
place was given on the first Christmas by their
little son and daughter, and after we were
grown up we were invited to several balls
given in their new home. In fact the old lady
had a number of times, when in a good na-
tured mood, thrown out sly hints that I might
be the wife ef her son William, who would be
the heir to their estate. Though their home
was beautifully situated upon the banks of the
Mississippi, with a lovely green lawn sloping
down from the house to the river bank, with
flowers and shrubbery, and the view from the
water was most charming, neither my ambition
nor my fancy would lead me in that direction;
for he had neither education, polish or wit.
	His father was what might be termed a fine
old gentleman, and was very generous and hos-
pitable, but his wife was quite the opposite, and
sometimes nearly a shrew. They owned large
orchards with a great variety of fruit, but to
see other people eating of it without paying
her caused her to feel very uncomfortable.
	Her son and youngest daughter were her
pets, and the latter had been lately married to
a cousin who had come there from the east.
We did not call out of any desire of our own,
but went by the request of a friend, as we were


[Column 1]
riding around for pleasure. When we entered
their door we met with so cold a reception that
it was like being in the vicinity of an iceberg.
Neither Mr. Hibbard nor his son were at
home, but the son-in-law was, and his looks
showed plainly how he felt towards "Mor-
mons," and that was the first time that we had
met him. There was but one in the room who
treated us with any degree of respect, and that
was their daughter, Mrs. Amos Davis, who was
the one we called to see. We ouly stopped a
few minutes, and before the hall door was
closed behind us we heard them roaring with
laughter, which, of course, was intended for
our ears. They thought, no doubt, that this
would crush us, but we considered the source
and felt as much relieved as though we had es-
caped from a hornet's nest. A few years after
we had settled in this valley we were told by
good authority that William Hibbard was
taken up with a gang of horse thieves some-
where in California and hung.
	Friday, the 27th of February, I bade my
last adieu to our home and city and recrossed
the Mississippi with Bishop Whitney's family,
whom he sent to camp in charge of Father C.
R. Lott, the Bishop remaining behind to see
his own and the church teams over, and he
came to the camp next day. Brother Joseph
C. Kingsbury and Wm. Clayton staid back in
Nauvoo to assist in winding up the church
business. During that time Wm. Clayton
composed a parody on the song, "Dido and I,"
and though I have forgotten the words, the
burthen of it was that the chores had been
left for the "Bishop and I," which was after-
wards sung in camp with much gusto by the
boys.
	It seems only a little time since those scenes
were transacted which I have been rehearsing.
When memory is once aroused how many a
forgotten incident comes up which has lain
hidden for years among the dusty and smoul-
dering cobwebs of the past. Just now my
mind reverts back to a lovely evening in the
summer of 1844, when strolling upon the hill
side with a young gentleman (Mr. Hatch) and
two of my girl companions who proposed, as
we came to the brink of the hill, that we
should seat ourselves upon some of the Tem-
ple rocks near by and watch the setting sun
with its beautiful reflections on the river and
our quiet city that rested in the valley below.
We little dreamed, as we sat there enjoying
the delightful scenery, more particularly the
lovely landscape beyond the Mississippi, until
the sun had sank behind the western hills, how
very soon our paths would be in separate di-
rections, and our cities abandoned to wicked
foes, and I be traveling with homeless exiles
beyond those hills towards the setting sun.
Scarcely seven years had elapsed since the
saints were driven from Missouri, and came
there weary, homeless and destitute,-hundreds
lying sick and dying with scarcely an earthly
comfort, or well ones enough to hand them a
drink of water or even to give a respectable
burial to their dead. And in the midst of
this scene my father and his brother Apostles,
who were sick, and their families, almost unto
death, started for Great Britian to fulfil a rev-
elation, and which the evil one was determined
to frustrate. But the Lord blessed them and
their families, as He had promised inasmuch
as they were obedient. And by faith and
perseverance, with the blessings of God, there
in the place of forests and sickly swamps lay a
beautiful and thriving city, with lovely farms
and villages springing up around us as if by
magic, and this had all been accomplished by
the toil and sweat of an honest and energetic
people, whose efforts and desires were centered
in the building of a Temple to the Lord. And
in this they had proven their love and devo-
tion to Him; for with willing hands and tithes
and offerings from their frugal store, and His

[Column 2]
assistance they had accomplished it, and been
endowed with those blessings and keys which
had been promised through His Prophet Jos-
eph, which were the greater riches, and of
these no man could rob them. Though the
wicked and lawless could drive us into the bar-
ren wilderness to endure the pangs of hunger
and death in many forms, and they could des-
ecrate and demolish our Temple, they could
not turn us from our faith, nor break down
the walls that preserved the virtue and chasti-
ty of "Mormon" women. We preferred to go
among the wild savages and suffer, if need be,
rather than forsake the only true religion or
to dwell in the midst of alarm. All the crimes
committed against the "Mormons" have been
allowed to go unpunished, which is a lasting
stain on our country, a boasted land of free-
dom and a refuge for the oppressed of every
nation. What mockery! The following is
from a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph:
"I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of
my church, in befriending that law which is
the constitutional law of the land. And as
pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more
or less than these cometh of evil. I, the Lord,
make yon free, therefore ye are free indeed;
and the law also maketh you free; neverthe-
less when the wicked rule the people mourn."
	Though our people have long been oppressed
we have not lost any of that spirit and love of
freedom which inspired our fathers—the dar-
ing sons of liberty, to stand in their own de-
fense—but we shall not turn traitors to our be-
loved country nor its institutions, which we
know were formed by inspired men; but we
shall continue to sue for our rights, and leave
the rest in the hands of the Almighty, who is
already vexing them as he said He should do if
they would not cease their wickedness and per-
secution of His people.
	The testimony of the servants of God has
gone forth unto the condemnation of this gen-
eration, because the majority have hardened
their hearts against them, and in a revelation
to Joseph the Lord said, "Verily, I say unto
you, that woe shall come unto the inhabitants
of the earth if they will not hearken unto my
words. O! this anbelieving and stiffnecked
geraration, mine anger is kindled against
them." * * * * *
	"For a desolating scourge shall go forth
among the inhabitants of the earth, and shall
continue to be poured out from time to time,
if they repent not, until the earth is empty, and
the inhabitants thereof are consumed away
and utterly destroyed by the brightness of my
coming. Behold, I tell you of these things,
even as I told the people of the destruction of
Jerusalem, and my word shall be verified at
this time as it hath hitherto been verified."
The Lord also said, "Whoso layeth down his
life in my cause, for my name's sake, shall find
it again, even life eternal: Therefore, be not
afraid of your enemies, for I have decreed in
my heart, saith the Lord, that I will prove you
in all things whether you will abide in my cov-
enant, even unto death, that you may be found
worthy. For if ye will not abide in my cov-
enant, ye are not worthy of me." Concerning
those who have been afflicted and persecuted
and cast out from the land of their inherit-
auce, He said, "I, the Lord, have suffered the
affliction to come upon them, wherewith they
have been afflicted, in consequence of their
transgressions; yet I will own them, and they
shall be mine in that day when I shall come to
make up my jewels. Therefore, they must
needs be chastened and tried, even as Abraham,
who was commanded to offer up his only son:
* * * Verily I say unto you,
notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled
with compassion towards them: I will uot utter-
ly cast them off; and in the day of wrath I
will remember mercy."
	"I have sworn, and the decree hath gone

[Column 3]
forth by a former commandment which I have
given unto you, that I would let fall the sword
of mine indignation in the behalf of my peo-
ple; and even as I have said, it shall come to
pass.'
	It may not be out of place here to repeat a
few of the prophetic worde spoken in the Tem-
ple at Kirtland, much of which has come to
pass, and therefore our faith should be strength-
ened to believe that the whole will be as liter-
ally fulfilled. They were related to me by
Father Butterfield, of Santaquin, where I vis-
ited this summer. And Brother Charles Hyde,
the Patriarch, being at Father Butterfield's,
bore witness that he was present in that Tem-
ple, and heard the same things. The former
was doorkeeper there for two years. The Pat-
riarch, Father Smith, said, "It is a time of
peace now, but there will be a great apostacy
here among us. The judgments will commence
right here, and they will try to burn this Tem-
ple, but they cannot do it, for it will stand as a
monument for this generation to look at.
There will be men that you little think of who
will seek Joseph's life—then we shall be driven
from city to city—we shall go beyond the
Rocky Mountains into the valleys of Ephraim.
Then there'll be great excitement for Mexico
and Oregon, for the Lord will contrive a way
to call out the honest in heart." The Prophet
Joseph said, "Thus saith the Lord, the govern-
ment will send an army far away in the west
beyond the Rocky Mountains, and it will be
just before the north and south go to war, and
I will give it to you as a sign, as the Savior
gave the disciples, "When you see Jerusalem
surrounded with armies they may know that
their desolation is at hand." They heard the
mother of the Patriarch, Charles Hyde, give
the interpretation of tongues in that Temple.
Among the things spoken was that "this people
would be driven from city to city, and many
would shed their blood for a testimony to the
truth of this work, Joseph would be cast into
prison, and the people would say "Mormonism
is down." The trials would be so great that it
would seem as if the Saints could never go
through them. Then there would be another
that would be more severe than the first, and
it would appear as though they could never go
through it. Then the power of the Lord
would be made manifest, and their enemies con-
founded, and Joseph's name would then be sa-
cred among all nations." He said that some
of the Saints felt very sad over these things,
believing that the Prophet would have to die
before they could be fulfilled. We have wit-
nessed his death and the fulfillment of the
most of these predictions, and we know that
the blood of our martyrs is still crying from
the dust, and that He who has promised to
avenge His people of their wrongs will repay
our enemies four fold, and that all they have
taken from us will have to be restored with in-
terest; and let the faithless ones mark it down,
that day is nearer than many of us have imag-
ined.


