LETTER FROM CINCINNATI.
DEAR EDITOR:
	I send you some clippings from the Cincinnati
Commercial Gazette, and Cincinnati Enquirer,
and take a few moments of time from press-
ing duties at home and beside my mother's
sick bed to write to you concerning the lecture
of Mrs. Newman.
	"Mrs. Angie F. Newman, of Nebraska, is in
the city, and the guest of Mrs. Dr. R. H. Rust.
Mrs. Newman is deeply interested in all that
concerns the welfare of her own sex in physical,
social, and religious life. She has spent much
time in Utah, not only exhibiting a substantial
sympathy for the cause of Home Missions, but
has closely studied the problem of Mormonism,
as it relates to women, in its uses and abuses,
and is prepared to give much intelligent and re-
liable information on the subject. It has been
proposed to call a meeting, to be composed
strictly of the ladies of all denominations of the
city and suburbs, to be held on Monday next at
2:30 pm, at St. Paul M. E. Church, to meet
Mrs. Newman and hear an address. The lady,
who is said to be a very talented and attractive
speaker, is en route for the National Convention
of the W. C. T. U., at Detroit, and has consent-
ed to remain in the city for the benefit of those
who may wish to meet her.
	"The picture of Mormonism in its relation to
the classes of women are both startling and
painful. The stronghold of their system resides
in three dominant features: their missionary or-
ganizations, financial and ecclesiastical systems.
Every man, woman and child is required to
give one-tenth of everything they possess in
money and goods, and this brings in the im-
mense revenue of $1,097,000 per annum. Sever-
al hundred missionaries are employed continu-
ally, and it is expected to make two thousand
converts a year. In proselyting, the subject of
polygamy is never mentioned, but there is pre-
sented a pure organization of the "Latter-day
Saints.” They entrench themselves behind the
Christian's Bible, claiming that Jesus was the
founder of their system.
	"Among the civil features is the enfranchise-
ment of women, which is used to justify their
position and give the balance of power, and
every woman's vote serves to tighten the chains
of their degradation and bitter bondage. Women
are graded according to their capacity to work,
and children are loveless, deformed and a blank.
EVERY HOUSE IS A HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION. A
man may take for his wives his mother, grand-
mother and sister, and the presentation of their
teachings and its effects on their lives is such as
can scarcely be made in words. The basis of
their religion is polygamy, and woman's highest
office to reproduce the species. There is no love,
care or tenderness.
	"Mrs. Newman then spoke of the good im-
pressions made by the Home Missionary Socie-
ty in Utah. Hundreds of Mormon children at-
tend the Christian schools, which are the hope
of the country, and hundreds more would apos-
tatize did they dare,and a shelter were provided,
the speaker added,with much emphasis,“Ladies,
your societies are too parsimonious in paying
salaries to preachers and teachers who exhaust
all their sympathies and energies, and then
have to leave lest they starve. Money is what
is needed, and needed at once.” The most ab-
sorbed attention was elicited, and a generous
contribution given at the close of the service.”
	I went in to hear what she would have to say
on the interesting subject of Mormonism, and
will tell you that the report In the Commercial
Gazette of the speech, is correct as far as it goes.
But the reporter forgot to mention that Mrs.
Newman said of Eliza R. Snow and other ladies
there, with whom she had held argumentative
conversations for hours at a time, and then ac-
knowledged to herself that she had made no
headway at all towards upsetting the Scriptur-
al arguments they brought forward in proof of
Mormonism, that they were earnest, intelligent
and very superior women.
	That what Mrs. Newman said against Mor-
monism was in the words of a Mr. Bates; re-
peating word for word the article I sent to you:
once from the California paper. She also re-
ferred to Mrs. Stenhouse.
	Perhaps I expected too much from one who
had seen the evils of Mormonism, or I was preju-
diced, in your favor, beforehand, but I really did
not think that Mrs. Newman proved very much
against you though she is a good speaker and
seemed in earnest.
	Once I thought her arguments contradictory.
She said: "Home is a word not known in Mor-
monism; they have no homes, only kennels for
reproduction.” Then afterwards she said:
"These new converts brought from foreign
countries, many of them young girls, seeing the
Mormons in their thrifty, pleasant homes, imag-
ine that there could be no happier life than to
be one of the wives of these men, and to reign
with them as queens in paradise would be the
highest bliss; but they awaken from their
imaginative dreams in bondage, soul and
body.”
	Mrs. Newman, belonging to the upper, and
called, by her duties, to the lower strata of socie-
ty, must acknowledge that in her observations
of the rules and regulations of both, even out-
side of Mormonism, the same thing is true of
young girls and the married state. They never
learn the geography of the state well until they
get into it, then generally find that they have
traveled downward when they thought they
were going north, that the capital is Selfishness,
located on the river Lust, instead of Bliss on the 
Paradise river. Her observations certainly tell
her "in mournful numbers,'
	"That marriage bliss is mostly an empty dream,
	And things are not what they seem."
	I looked about me, before the lecture began,
and saw some familiar faces, and thought, how
well sealskin sacques and paisley shawls cover
hearts full of bitterness; I knew that some came
there because they must interest themselves in
something to take their minds off domestic trou-
ble, or go mad. And their goodness of heart
leads them into missionary work and keeps them
from taking opium or liquor to silence the cries
of their anguished souls.
	I am glad that Mrs. Newman spoke to the
ladies of Cincinnati; the subject of marriage, in
all its phases, it an important and interesting
one, and ever will be.
	As in agriculture—in fact in all nature there
is a constant demand for changes—the old stock
degenerates unless grafting, budding, and cross-
ing are scientifically attended to, so it may be
in social life. At any rate, Mrs. Newman, the
Mormons and others do well to stir and irrigate
the soil, scatter new seed; if the counsel and
the work be of man it will come to nought, but
if it be of God it will be established in due time
and cannot be overthrown.	EMILY SCOTT.


