MISCELLANEOUS.

	Mrs. Frances D. Gage completed her 75th
birthday on Friday, the 12, ult.


Mrs. Mary A. Livermore has in press with
Lee & Shepard, her lectures, "What shall
we do with our Daughters?" "Superfluous
Women," and other lectures.
	"Sorosis held their first social meeting of the
season at Delmonico's, on the 1st Oct. Lunch
was served at one o'clock. The question for
discussion was:
	Resolved, That it is more philanthropic to
provide children of the poor instruction in in-
dustrial arts than in the higher branches of
the schools.
	Papers were read by Rev. Phoebe Hanaford,
Mrs. Esther Herman and Mrs. Meredith. The
discussion was lively. They, had also some
very fine recitations and music."
	At a meeting of the Executive Council in
Boston, Mass., October 16th, the Governor
took the ground that a woman was not a per-
son by declaring the place occupied by Mrs.
Clara T. Leonard vacant in the Board of
Health, Lunacy and Charity, amd made a
nomination for the vacancy. The correctness
of the ground the Governor has taken
in this matter will not be admitted, even
by all the parties interested, and it will no
doubt cause this question which has before
been agitated in divers places and in relation
to important matters, to come before the pub-
lic for discussion. We hope to hear more
about this matter which is of vital importance
to all women. If a woman is not a person,
what is she? What are her claims? I sup-
pose this great and wise man considers woman
a creature. We shall see what will come of
this controversy. Some wonderful enlighten-
ment no doubt.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FURGUSON,
PYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Office and Residence on 2d South between 3d.
and 4d East Streets.

Special Study has been give to SURGERY, DISEASES
OF WOMEN, and Diseases of the 
NOSE, THROAT AND LUNGS
	Can be Called by Telephone Day or Night.

For Sale at this Office.
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 2	25c. per copy.
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book,	40c.	"
POEMS, by E.R. Snow, Vol. 1,	-	$1.00 "
"	Vol. 2, containing steel engraving
	of the author, bound in morocco,	1.25	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
TOURISTS, with steel engravings of
George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
bound in cloth, $1.25, in morroco, -	1.50	"

