HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN the last number of the EXPONENT, in the
article entitled, "Scenes and incidents in Nau-
voo," where Mrs. Whitney speaks of her hus-
band and herself as being proud and high-mind-
ed, it is a mistake, and should read, "light-
minded."
	A LETTER from Sister Mary Ann Hyde, of
Spring City, Sanpete Co., states that the Re-
lief Society of Sanpete Stake will hold their
Quarterly Conference at Moroni, Saturday, Dec-
ember 15, commencing at 10 a. m. Sister Hyde's
friends will be pleased to learn that she has re-
covered from her injuries so far as to be able to 
walk around now with one crutch.


[Column 1]
	ON Monday, November 12th, Sister M. I.
Horne and E. S. Taylor went to Sandy to meet
with the Relief Society and Primary Associa-
tion. The meetings were held in the new meet-
ing house, and were very well attended. Bishop
Holman was present and made some excellent
remarks. Wagon loads of sisters came over
from Union to attend the meetings and receive
instructions.
	The annual meeting of the Relief Society con-
vened at 10 a.m., Mrs. Wilhelmina Olsen presid-
ing, and the Primary meeting was held at 2
p.m. Much interest was manifested by the sis-
ters in trying to improve and renew diligence
in their labors.
	ON Saturday, November 10, we had the pleas-
ure of attending the annual meeting of the Pri-
mary Association of the Eleventh Ward of this
City, Mrs. Louie Felt presiding. There were
over one hundred children present. After the
exercises, which consisted of singing and recit-
ing from the little ones, two essays and one or-
gan solo, and the answering of questions from
"Bible Questions and Answers," remarks were
made by some of the ladies who were present by
invitation, Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S. Taylor,
E. B. Wells and M. A. Freeze, the last named
speaker dwelling with special earnestness upon
the "Word of Wisdom." After the remarks
of the sisters one of the girls of the Association
stepped forward and preceded by a few words
the presentation of a very handsome plain gold
ring to Mrs. Felt, a tribute of affection from the
children under her care. Mrs. Felt responded
in rather a touching tone, evidently affected by
this expression of their love, and said the ring
resembled her love for the children, as it was
without end. One of the secretaries then read
some verses composed for the occasion. It is
very evident that Mrs. Felt and those associa-
ted with her in this most excellent work have
won the love of those under their care, which is
a great point gained. One of the best features of
this particular Association is that regularly pre-
vious to the opening prayer the president inquires
if they know of any sick to be prayed for. And
the children state if there are any, and especial-
ly any of the members, and they are prayed for
in faith, and very often the sick have been
healed, or if not healed, benefitted by these
humble petitions, to which the most fervent
amen from the children is added. After the
meeting adjourned refreshments were served to
all in the house. These little meetings for spir-
itual education should be encouraged by the
parents, and every opportunity given for the
cultivation of faith and the Holy Spirit.
	MISS KATE FIELD gave her "Musical Mono-
logue" in the Salt Lake Theatre, Monday even-
ing, November 5th, to a large and intelligent
audience. It was something entirely different
from entertainments generally, quite original in
style and exessively funny. It was full of wit
and sparkle, and merriment was the conse-
quence. Everybody laughed, they couldn't
help it, and wouldn't if they could. If a good
laugh is a good thing for the health, then Miss
Field must have done considerable towards im-
proving the condition of her audience. To enu-
merate all the good points and elaborate upon
the entertainment would take more ability than
we possess, but will say it was thoroughly enjoy-
able, especially "The silent song," the "Spanish
Muleteer's song," with castanets, the toast of
the Englishman at the dinner party, "The Ital-
ian Opera Burlesque," etc., etc. Miss Field is a
clever humorist, and one appreciates the fact
most emphatically when they listen to her Mu-
sical Monologue. She is quite deserving of all
the papers say in her praise. No doubt her
play presented some time ago in London was
full of good hits and thrusts, as the name would

[Column 2]
indicate, "Extremes Meet." Her book, "Ten
Days in Spain," is said to be a very entertaining
work, and judging of the lady as a humorist, and
seeing the comic side of absurd and ridiculous
things, and able to present them to the public
in the most happy fashion, we should conclude
her to be adept in the style of writing bril-
liant and amusing articles on all subjects. I
suppose she will at some future time not far dis-
tant give the public some of her experience in
the West, that will be quite equal in point of
merit, jest and wittisiam to the London inci-
dents and the burlesque of Italian opera. Miss
Field is prolonging her stay in Salt Lake con-
siderably, probably to gathermaterial for future
use, in the meantime it is to be hoped that the
lady and her sharp shrewdness will be able to
discern truth from error, and facts from fiction,
and not be prejudices in her views by those who
make it their business to cram tourists, espec-
ially editors and writers. We wish her a pleas-
ant and profitable stay in our mountain home,
and success and safety in her journeyings, and
prosperity in her efforts for progress in the right
direction.


