PHYSICAL CULTURE.

	Gymnastics is a term of very extended sig-
nification. Among the ancient Greeks it meant
that part of physics which related to exercises
for the health. The Greeks understood well
what an intimate connection there is between
body and mind; how invariably the healthy or
sickly temperament of the one influenced that
of the other; so that when the body is strong,
healthy and active, the mind is elastic and ca-
pable of accomplishing a great deal; but when
the former is diseased and frail, the latter is
languid or depressed. The Spartans wor-
shipped the beautiful; but the beauty of the
face did not suffice; it had to be a beautiful
body; they saw the highest ideals of beauty on-
ly in the perfect human form. I quote in
brief from an article written by Dr. Holbrook
in the Herald, of Health. "The Spartans did
more than worship the beautiful and useful;
they took means to secure them. They gave
to every boy and girl such an education as
would secure to them bodily perfection. The


youths were almost continually out of doors;
every boy learned how to plant and harvest
the crops, every girl how to do household work.
The highest lady in Sparta did menial work.
In their early training in the gymnasium the
boys and girls contested with each other in the
simplest clothing—indeed in very little clothing
at all. Every physical power stood out bold-
ly. Every healthy Spartan girl was obliged
to marry; every sickly girl was obliged to ab-
stain from marriage. Girls were not allowed
to marry young; they had to be mature first.
Boys and men were treated in the same way.
No sickly young man could marry, but all
healthy ones were compelled to do so. For
five hundred years there was produced in
Greece a succession of the strongest and brav-
est men, and the most healthful and beautiful
women that have ever lived."
	I would like to say a kind word to Alice C.
Smith. I am very pleased to make your ac-
quaintance, and greet you warmly over moun-
tain and sea. You say you are a "coward
and so wear your old clothes—fetters," I am
not, but wear independently a short dress
about my work. If people do not like it they
are at liberty to dislike it, it is all the same to
me.						S. G. S.—Ex.


