NOTES AND NEWS.

	Lousia M. Alcott has in press with Roberts
Brothers "Jo's Boys and How they turned 
Out," the long-looked-for sequel to "Little
Men." It may be looked for early in 1884.

	"The sovereign people" have given their ver-
dict. Hereafter the present cheif magistrate
cannot exhibit the tanned skins of babies from
the Tewksbury almshouse. The Republicans
of Massachusetts have "saved the honor of the 
State. Amid the general rejoicing, it would
be out of place to recall the fact that not a 
mother in Massachusetts, from the tip of the
Cape to the Berkshire hills, has any legal con-
trol over the skins of her babies, whether those
babies are dead or alive. This trifle is to be
passed over now, as it has been for many a
year. Some time in the far future, when
women shall have importuned the "sovereign
people" sufficiently, some attention may be
given to this little matter; also to that other
fact, not worth naming in this important cam-
paign, viz.: that more than half the same adult
people are denied tehir right to vote. Mean-
time, "the honor of Massachusetts is safe." Is
it? And if the women have anything to com-
plain of, is it all their own fault? -- L.S.
Woman's Journal.

	BRAIN-WORK AND FOOD.-- The notion that
those who work only with their brain need less
than those who labor with their hands has
long been proved fallacious. Mental labor
causes greater waste of tissue than muscular.
According to careful estimates, three hours of
hard study wear out the body more than a 
whole day of hard physical exertion. "With-
out phosphorus, no thought, " is the German
saying; and the consumption of that essential
ingredient of the brain increases in proportion
to the amount of labor which this organ is re-
quired to perform. The wear and tear of the 
brain are easily measured by careful examina-
tions of the salts in the liquid excretions. The
importance of the brain as a working organ
is shown by the amount of blood it receives,
which is proportionately greater than that of
any other part of the body. One fifth of the
blood goes to the brain, though its average
weight is only one-fortieth of that of the body.
This fact alone would be sufficient to prove
that brain workers require more food, and even
better food, than mechanics or farm laborers,—
Boston Journal of Chemistry.


