Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
March.?Hope and joy are reborn in the heart of the world as the earth awakens to the sounds of spring.
The 1934 modes for women's wear are fashioned on 18th century lines in color fabric and style. Velvets, satins, and silks, set off with fine laces and ribbons therefore are they gay, attractive and extravagant,
Her Majesty Queen Mary accepted a lift on the highway from one of her humble subjects, her own car having broken down. Will he be knighted for gallantry?
Anne Lindbergh has been awarded the Hubbard gold medal by the National Geographic society for her brilliant accomplishments as radio operator, aerial navigator and co-pilot. She is the first woman to receive the medal.
Princess Nur Hamida of Damascus, founder of five women's social and political organizations in Syria and India is in the United States on a lecture tour.
Miss Florence Locke has chosen for her recital pageants this season, "The Triumphant Women of Shakespeare," by Ellen Terry.
Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt was given a party by her many noted friends on her 75th anniversary. She still carries on for equal rights for women, the work she started as a protege under Susan B. Anthony.
Marina Yulona, Cossack soldier and concert dancer has written her life "Cossack Girl." The pages of the book are full of thrills and hairbreadth escapes which seem incredible and the illustrations are even more horrifying, but her publishers declare the story to be "authenticated by documents."
Madam Helena Paderewski, wife of the great pianist, died early this year at her home in Switzerland. She was born Baroness Van Rosen, daughter of a Russian nobleman and her influence and fortune as well as devotion were strong factors towards the success of the great artist. In 1916 Madam Paderewski launched a plan to care for war brides of Poland and established a Warsaw asylum for the care of 500 women and children.
Rose Marie Brancato, though raised in Kansas City, is an Italian girl with a marvelous voice. She is singing with the Chicago opera company this season in leading roles.
Octave Thanet was the pen name of Miss Alice French who died recently at the age of 84. Her authorship of novels and short stories extended over a period of many years. In 1911 the Iowa University gave her an honorary degree in literature.
Roxana Farnsworth Hase of San Bernardino, winner of the Second prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Contest has just written a successful pageant for the P. T. A. This pageant was presented at the San Bernardino, Calif., City Council of P. T. A. For their Founders Day Program, and has been sent into the National Council at Washington, D. C.