Bread Upon the Waters By Anne Wells Cannon "Cast thy bread upon the waters for thou shalt find it after many days."'?Eccl. 11:1. SITTING one evening under S the spell of the twilight hour the thread of memory slowly unwound, and numerous pictures of experiences connected with Relief Society work through many years of service came before me. Service not of my own, but of many with whom I have been closely associated. As time passes more and more am I impressed with the fact that every act of our lives is recorded in the heavens, as that events are registered on the human mind and stored away to be recalled at will or flashed like electric sparks as occasion requires. The pictures thus brought back to me were many and they were beautiful. Would it were possible to pass them on for others to see, especially those experiences relating to that band of humble women, who labor as ward teachers; devoted women who contact every class of people, and learn as no others can, every condition of life. Out of the many pictures that illustrate the thought of this writing let one stand as a symbol, for well I know that thousands of teachers have had similar experiences; going as they do among the people like angels of mercy.
One of my first Relief Society trips was in company with Sister Emma Woodruff to the Uinta Stake. There were also representatives from the Young Ladies' and Primary Associations. The occasion was of more significance than usual, as a new Stake Tabernacle was to be dedicated and at this Stake Conference all the organizations were to be represented. The time was before good roads and automobiles. President Joseph F. Smith and his party in their own carriages took the route through Summit and Wasatch Counties while the delegates from the auxiliaries went by train to Mack, Colorado, on the Denver and Rio Grande railroad; changing there to a small train on a narrow gauge track which rocked and whirled like a ship high on the sides of the Uinta Mountains to a place called Daggett. After a night there we went by stage over a desert country, stopping at a very lonely ranch house for dinner and then on to Green River to be ferried across that picturesque stream, stage and all; then off again by stage to Vernal. A trip full of thrills but interesting with all, save for the fact of the crowded stage whose occupants were all men with the exception of the four women delegates, Three of us had the second seat in the coach but it fell to my lot, I being the youngest in the group, to sit in front with the driver, the other occupant of this seat was a man, who had been quite courteous to us, especially to Sister Woodruff, who had great difficulty in mounting on and off the high steps of the stage and in other ways found the journey difficult.
152 During the three days of this trip conversation was at times general, and naturally we learned something of each other. I do not recall the name of the man who sat by me in the stage, perhaps I never knew, but he, very much surprised me after we told him of our mission, by remarking, "I know something about the Relief Society of the Mormon Church, and have a very high regard for your organization." "Indeed," I answered, "how does that happen?" "It touches one of the saddest but sweetest memories of my life, and though I seldom speak of it, I will tell you. I am connected with the Denver and Rio Grande railroad company. It is in their interest I am taking this trip. When I first came West I was located at Provo, my young wife and little son, not quite three years old, came with me. We had never been in a Mormon community and had our prejudices, so we did not make friends. "This little boy was his mother's only companion during the hours I had to be at the office and she idolized him; in a man's way so did I. One day he became very sick and when the doctor came, to our horror, he pronounced the illness diphtheria. My wife young, inexperienced, alone, and frightened was in despair, when two women came to the door. Even the step on the porch and knock at the door that broke the silence was a relief. Mary (my wife) told me, afterwards, that never had she heard such gentle voices, such welcome words as came from those two women. "'We were passing.' said one of them 'on our way and we saw the doctor come out of your house. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Knowing you were strangers, we thought we would come in and see if we could help you. Is it the little curly haired boy we have seen you playing with that is sick?" "My wife answered, 'Yes, it is our baby. He has diphtheria and my husband will have to stay from home, until some one comes to relieve him at the office. Perhaps you know some nurse you could send me?' "Just then, the little fellow cried out and the mother rushed in to him. One of these women followed her to his room telling the other one to go on, and she would see what she could do to help. She proved a wonderful comfort and knew everything to do, at least it seemed so to us. She stayed with us during that week and when the baby died she prepared him for burial. When we offered to remunerate her she told us that she was a Relief Society teacher and it was her mission to comfort and help wherever she could, but she hoped we would always have a good word for her people. "We could never forget such kindness. It was more Christ-like than anything I ever knew. After we took our precious baby home to bury him, we were stationed in Salt Lake, but such kindness made my wife and this good lady lasting friends and, of course, changed our attitude towards the Mormon people altogether." How far-reaching this kind deed of one ward teacher became she will never know and when one contemplates, that daily, hundreds of those engaged in this good work are in some similar way "going about doing good" surely the bread cast upon the waters will come back after many days.