Seeking to Discredit Religion, the Bible and Deity
By Bishop Edwin F. Parry
There seems to be an attempt with some writers to destroy confidence in religion and the Bible, and to deny that God has anything to do with human affairs or has any place in the universe. Uninformed or misinformed writers rush in print, evidently feeling that they have a message for mankind that ought to be sent broadcast to the ends of the earth as a warning against what they consider superstition. When examined, their claims are found to be nothing but bare assumptions without proof. And yet they speak in tones of authority, making dogmatical statements which no doubt they expect their readers to accept for solemn truths. The world has had such pessimists before to contend with. More than one hundred and fifty years ago a celebrated French writer said that in one hundred years from the time of his writing the Bible would be forgotten as a thing of the past! And yet more Bibles have been printed and sold since his day than during all time before, while the man and his writings are forgotten long ago! A very prominent American writer of the past generation blasphemously criticized the Deity for being so vain as to demand the worship of his creatures. Had the writer considered the matter more seriously or sought advice from wiser men he might have learned the true purpose of worship. Worship is deep admiration. When a person possesses estimable qualities, people admire him, and that is the leading step towards acquiring those qualities. The Lord desires his children to cultivate his attributes and become like him, and by worshiping him they will be led to do this.
People who sneer at religion are ignorant of what religion really is. Honesty, playing the game of life fairly, moral cleanliness, the love of God and fellow-man are the most prominent or essential parts of religion. Can anyone ignore any of these virtues? Men may differ as to the forms and ceremonies of religion, which are helps and safeguards to the worshiper, but the consciousness that men and women have that they are responsible to God for their conduct, and that some day they will have to give an account of their acts is what preserves civilization intact. Remove religion out of the world and civilization will cease, Religion has furnished the highest incentives for achievement tending to the betterment of man in every branch of endeavor. Most, if not all, the great benefactors of the race have been religionists. Men have devoted their lives in medical and surgical lines to lessen the sufferings of their fellows through love for them: and love of neighbor is next to love of God. Scientists and inventors have spent their lives and fortunes in contriving scientific and mechanical improvements for the comfort of humanity. And this has been done through love of mankind inspired by religious impulses. Hospitals and homes for the aged and afflicted are sponsored mostly by religious societies or through the influence of religious people.
SEEKING TO DISCREDIT RELIGION 157 The Bible has furnished inspiration for artists, musicians, poets, dramatists and others. From it the foundation of the laws of civilized nations has been derived. Many of the laws of hygiene have been gathered from this wonderful book. The foremost nations of the earth are believers in the Bible and have attained their high enlightenment through its influence. It has done more good in the world than any other book, then why speak disparagingly of it? To reject the Holy Scriptures, the source of so much of the good in the world, is like denouncing a true friend and benefactor.
As to God directing the destiny of man and of the universe, the words of the late Thomas A. Edison might be quoted: "I know that the world is ruled by infinite intelligence. It required infinite intelligence to create it, and it. Requires infinite intelligence to keep it on its course. Everything that surrounds us, everything that exists, proves that there are infinite laws behind it." Mr. Edison also said, "I believe in the teachings of our Lord and Master. There is a great Directing Head of people and things?a Supreme Being who looks after the destinies of the world.' The Literary Digest for November, 1931, has this quotation from an unnamed author: "Religion affirms a God. "Science is coming to that assumption. The purpose and plan scientists find in the cosmos require it. It is the key to the puzzle of the universe. "In other words, scientific research has been swinging away from the notion that the universe is a vast piece of mechanism controlled by purely mechanical laws. Leading scientists are asserting, rather, that the universe has purpose and direction." The "infinite intelligence" by which Edison says the world is ruled and the force which gives the universe "purpose and direction." as scientists assert, is the same as what we call the power of God, the Creator. It is infinitely superior to that of mortal man in knowledge and intelligence.