Religion in Action?The Relief Society
By President Hugh B. Brown
"This is my commandment that ye love one another"
The best story of "Religion in Action" is the story of the Good Samaritan: he did no preaching, he gathered no statistics, did not ask if the unfortunate's sad plight was the result of his own folly; he saw a man who needed help and he took time to serve his neighbor, a stranger. He who needed help was not embarrassed by publicity. The Good Samaritan did not advertise himself. While other organizations foster activities, teach theology, and train the youth of the Church, the sisters of the Relief Society?modern Good Samaritans?interpret religion in terms of service. Some estimates of the value of the service rendered by this organization may be made by a study of its activities in any of the Stakes or Wards of the Church. For example, one Stake has the following yearly average during three years of the depression:
27,659 visits made 261 days spent with the sick 3,853 special visits to the sick and home bound 18 bodies prepared for burial 10,086 articles of clothing renovated, remodeled and given out 583 families completely outfitted with clothing 156 children provided with shoes and stockings $13,500 total disbursements, exclusive of clothing
Similar activities are being carried out in all parts of the Church. This service is the very essence of Mormonism, combining as it does the qualities of love, loyalty, devotion, faith, hope, justice, mercy and truth. No one can measure the results or extent of these daily acts of helpfulness. Without publicity and without causing embarrassment, this army of mothers goes out into No Man's Land and feeds the hungry, clothes the naked, buries the dead, and mends the broken hearts of thousands of casualties on life's battlefield. But more helpful even than the providing of material comforts is the atmosphere in which these sisters work where the souls of the needy are fed and mended. One who returns after the funeral service of a loved one and finds them in his home, cooking, mending, cleaning, bringing sunshine and hope, will appreciate what is meant by the "Relief Society Atmosphere." They give of themselves and not only of their goods. They carry blessings of which they themselves are unaware, as Henry Ward Beecher said: "Gifts from the hand are silver and gold, but the heart gives that which neither silver nor gold can buy. To be full of goodness, full of cheerfulness, of helpfulness, hope and understanding, causes one to carry blessings of which one is as unconscious as a lamp is of its own shining. Such a one moves on human life as stars move on dark seas to bewildered mariners." Surely there is no more central interest in the Church than the winning of human life to the principle RELIGION IN ACTION of love and brotherhood?reminding men that God is not dead, but living. Seeking ever for more efficient methods; keeping pace with the times and changing conditions, our sisters shed the radiance of that eternal spirit of love, most ancient yet ever new, which shone in the Master's ministry. They never substitute well-wishing for well-doing; but with aprons on and sleeves rolled up, they meet the need of the occasion. Here religion is a living compelling fact and not a mere theory. With a membership made up of the mothers of the Church no organization could be better fitted for its mission, i. e., to respond to the heart hunger of the shut-ins and the bereaved, to minister to the sick and the broken hearted, to provide for the needy and to train new members 133 in the Divine art of self sacrificing service. Here is opportunity for each member to serve in the capacity for which she is best fitted. Here are departments for the Sunshine Workers, Welfare, Literature, Art, Household Duties, Theology. Here it is learned that none is so weak as not to bear the relationship of strength to someone weaker still, and that none is so strong as not to bear the relationship of weakness to someone stronger yet. Much honor is shown to the Priesthood of the Church, and properly so; men hold responsible positions and are praised for their service, but when it comes to efficiency, devotion to a cause, self-less service, true religion, hats off to the ladies, God bless them.