Avoiding Obesity
By Lucy Rose Middleton
Most women still desire the slim figure, so how to keep slender is as timely a topic as ever. This is no wonder since modern feminine modes in dress make it practically impossible to conceal excess weight. Until one is thirty-five it is better to be slightly overweight than underweight. Tuberculosis is the chief cause of death among the young adults and ample nutrition is the best safeguard against this disease. Doctors say the desire to be slender has endangered the health of many young girls since their obesity cures are undertaken not from the health standpoint but for esthetic reasons. With no reserve in the form of fat for the body to draw on, the vital tissues suffer. Furthermore, a little excess fat helps toward buoyant rather than merely passable health.
Excess weight after thirty-five, on the other hand, is conducive to degenerative diseases such as high blood pressure, hardening of the arteries, heart failure, and diabetes, which are the chief causes of death in elderly persons.
It is stated that fifty per cent of the cases of obesity is of hereditary origin, while the rest may be due to disturbances of the glands of internal secretion, unbalanced diets, overeating, or lack of exercise. A thorough examination into the lives and habits of those who wish to reduce should be made to be sure that dieting is the solution of the problem. If the doctor says "go ahead" then it is safe to make the attack on corpulence. Fat people usually claim to be small eaters, but a strict record of the food consumed daily would doubtless show that they are eating more than their age, weight, and mode of living require. In following a reducing diet there are certain daily nutrients necessary but aside from these the body should be forced to use some of its stored energy. There will be hunger pains but these can be partially relieved by eating bulky foods of low caloric value. In subtracting calories from the diet foods with high caloric value, such as white bread, cakes, pastries, puddings, cereals, candies, fat meat, butter,. Cream, and fried foods, should be cut low and many of them eliminated entirely. Our daily requirement is for foods rich in minerals, vitamins, and roughage. The caloric-poor foods we select should supply these needs. Every day plan to use:
One egg One pint milk
Skimmed milk or buttermilk is preferable.
Fruits: Oranges, grapefruit, lemons, strawberries, and apricots are of lower carbohydrate content than figs, dates, raisins and bananas.
Vegetables: Asparagus, brussel sprouts, spinach, celery, lettuce, cabbage, and tomatoes may be eaten in abundance, while carrots, sweet potatoes, corn, onions, and winter squash must be eaten sparingly.
Lean meat?one serving a day.
The amount of food cannot be AVOIDING OBESITY 165 given exactly because the caloric needs of each person are different. One may gain on the same diet that causes another to lose. There will be a trial-and-error period before you discover just how much you can eat and still lose weight.
Reducing Diet for One Day
BREAKFAST: 1 medium size orange.78 calories 1 poached egg.......75 calories 1 thin slice of whole wheat toast......50 calories 1/2 cup skimmed milk (hot)......45 calories 248 calories
LUNCH: 1/2 cup cream of spinach soup....100 calories Asparagus on toast..135 calories 7 stalks asparagus 35 calories 1 slice toast 50 calories 1/2 tablespoon butter 50 calories Salad.........90 calories Lettuce?1/4 head 15 calories 1 medium size tomato 15 calories 6 slices cucumber 10 calories 1 tablespoon French dressing?50 calories 1 cup apple sauce.. 97 calories 422 calories DINNER: Jellied boullion...... 15 calories Broiled lamb chops..100 calories 1 baked potato......100 calories ?  tablespoon butter.: 50 calories String beans....... 34 calories Salad...........4.170 calories 1 slice pineapple 130 calories 14 head lettuce 15 calories Boiled dressing 25 calories Lemon snow 14 cup. 7 with 14 cup custard. 7 5 calories 5 calories 619 calories Total for the day....1289 calories Ordinary requirement.2200 calories SALAD SANDWICH LOAF 1 small loaf sandwich bread 1/2 cup butter 3 cups salad Lettuce Mayonnaise or cheese Remove crusts from bread and cut in 4+ slices lengthwise. Cream butter and spread on both sides, top and bottom slice on 1 side only. On bottom slice, buttered side up, arrange layer of lettuce and  salad. Cover with slice buttered on both sides. Arrange another salad layer. Repeat and put on top slice, buttered side down. Press under light weight. Spread surface with mayonnaise or cream cheese, mashed and moistened with cream or salad dressing. Garnish as desired. Cut in l-inch slices for serving. One salad may be used for all layers, or a combination, such as vegetable salad and chicken salad. May be used. SARDINE SALAD LOAF 1 large tin sardines 4 hard-cooked eggs 14 cup shredded lettuce  Stiff, mayonnaise 1 small sandwich loaf ? cup butter Pickles Remove skin and bones from sardines. Slice 1 egg, chop others and add to sardines with lettuce and mayonnaise to moisten. Arrange bread as for salad sandwich loaf. Put mixture between slices of bread. Ger. Spread entire outside with mayonnaise. Garnish with sardine, sliced egg, and pickles. FRUIT AND GINGER ALE SALAD 2 tablespoons granulated gelatine soaked in 2 tablespoons cold water 1/3 cup boiling water 1/4 cup lemon juice 2 tablespoons sugar. Few grains salt 1 cup ginger ale 1/3 cup skinned grapes, seeded and cut in halves 1/3 cup each diced apple, pineapple cubes, diced celery, 2 tablespoons chopped, candied ginger Dissolve soaked gelatine in boiling water. Add lemon juice, sugar, salt, and ginger ale. When mixture begins to set, fold in other ingredients. Turn into border mold and  chill. Unmold, garnish, fill center with mayonnaise. Other fruit combinations may be used with this ginger ale jelly foundation. God's Gifts to Mankind By Camilla C. Nuffer SPRING! What magic has the word! The reawakening of new life. Each thing from the smallest bud to the great earth, throbs with the expectancy of birth. Man's soul soars away on the wings of hope. New ambition swells in his breast as he turns over the moist brown soil?his heritage. The earth kissed with sunshine and spring rain, gives forth her bounteous gifts to man. Streams unleashed from their winter prisons, splash gaily away to water the valleys below that man might reap a golden harvest. God's gifts are ever before his children; the music of songsters. Magic of growing things, the breath of scented breezes at twilight. USINESS depressions and panics may sweep the earth, causing people to feel that they are sorely afflicted. But let us think for one moment: If the sun should cease to shine, the rains cease to fall; if the seasons each with their numerous blessings should cease to visit the earth; if all nature's gifts were suddenly lost to us?then indeed we should know real panic. How good is God! How blessed is man!