3 EDITORIAL March 17, 1934 ANOTHER year has winged its way into history and our anniversary comes to bring forth the ingenuity of the officers, to challenge the associations to prepare and carry out programs that small be worthy of our great organization, and to call us to contemplate the history of past achievements and to voice our gratitude for the opportunities the Relief Society offers and 'the inestimable blessings it confers. The past year has been outstanding in accomplishments. The work and business display, that was Church-wide in its scope, held in connection with our April, 1933 Conference, gave the most concrete example in our history of what the Relief Society women are doing in this department. Leading brethren expressed themselves as delighted and surprised that such things were being accomplished in the organization, and many non-members of the Church came again and again to see the beautiful things displayed and to voice their appreciation. Someone said it was the most encouraging thing she had witnessed since the depression began. The intimate contact with the National Council of Women in preparing for the Exhibition at the Century of Progress Exposition and the presence of executive officers at the International Council of Women's sessions from July 16th to 22nd, 1933, at the Palmer House in Chicago, Illinois, was most illuminating and broadening. The display of photographs in the Council! Books of the Relief Society activities compared very favorably with those of any other constituent organization. The beautiful music rendered by the Singing Mothers and transmitted from the Tabernacle 174 in Salt Lake City to the Exposition in Chicago by the Columbia Broadcasting Company, was thoroughly enjoyed. The dedication of the Relief Society Monument in Nauvoo was a fitting tribute to the Prophet Joseph, who organized the Relief Society in 1842 in that beautiful City on the bend of the Mississippi River, and to the first officers who carried on the work. It was a great pleasure to the Executive Officers to meet so many descendants of the Prophet and his wife, Emma Smith, and to enjoy their cordiality. Friendships were cemented that we believe will last forever, and the Monument will stand there to tell all passers-by of Joseph Smith's foresight and appreciation for the work of women. The convention of class leaders during our October conference was helpful and stimulating to our educational work. During the year the welfare department was moved to the Young Building where most commodious quarters are enjoyed. This has relieved the cramped condition in the Bishop's Building and has made it possible to set aside a room for our Stake Presidents where they may RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE meet each other at conference time, telephone, write letters and rest during their visit in the City. The General Board Members have found; in their annual visits to the Stakes, that the organizations are in an unusually strong condition They are delighted with the fine work being done throughout the Church. We are pleased to note the innovation Liberty and Ensign Stakes have been carrying out during the past year on their work and business days. They have increased their attendance very materially through the programs in Vocabulary Building and Correct Speech. While it is expected that all organizations shall carry out in general the work as outlined by the General Board, it is praiseworthy to see the Stakes exercise their ingenuity and meet the particular needs of their women. Very often some of the fine things tried out in Stakes later get Churchwide adoption. We congratulate every woman who belongs to this great organization. We urge each one to let the spirit of love and good will actuate all that she does and to make the most of the opportunities for service and education offered by the Relief Society.