Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Like PICTURES AND Bric-A-BRAC HERE is no surer way of expressing your personality than in the minor details, the accessories that are added after the furniture is placed, the rugs are laid and the windows draped. These are the accents?the highlights?of the room picture. They are the little things that distinguish our homes from mere lodgings. We often hear the expression "a woman's touch," and if we stop to analyze it we will find that this feminine touch consists of such things as pictures, books, cushions and objects D'art. They not only give an intimate clue as to the personal tastes of the members of the household, but may give a distinctive and compelling charm if correctly chosen, or, if not, will mar an otherwise perfect room. William Morris says "Do not have 11 your home anything that you do not know to be useful or believe to be beautiful."' One may legitimately excuse a person who uses a thing through necessity, even though it is not beautiful, but the accessories of a room if not beautiful have no other excuse for being, and the use of bric a-brac and pictures, and other objects of questionably beauty, or outright atrocities has no excuse decoratively and only results in an expression of vulgarity, destroying any claim a room might have to charm and dignity. PROBABLY the most important of these accessories are pictures and yet more decorative crimes are committed in choosing and hanging them than in any other single medium. Our tastes, ideals and culture are revealed in the choice of pictures which go into our homes. It might be said: "Show me the pictures you hang on your walls and I will tell you what you are." In choosing pictures for any particular room it is better to wait until the room is finished before deciding upon the pictures as the type, size and color will then more or less suggest themselves. Sometimes, however, our rooms are built around a lovely painting and so it should be hung first and from it the room scheme taken. Pictures should be chosen for their intrinsic worth or decorative qualities and because of their suitability to the spirit of the room in which they are to be hung. If one does not know herself to be a competent judge of art it is safer to choose the works of the great masters (not originals for most of us, to be sure, but excellent copies and prints) which time and artistic judgment have set a seal upon and are of unquestionable and permanent beauty. Such are Medici and real old Japanese prints, copies of Holbein, Turner, Whistler and others, Real art will nearly always 146 fit in. It might be said in passing that there are now on the market reproductions of the old masters done on canvas, giving a very real effect which for purposes of decoration are as suitable as the originals. TCHINGS and engravings have a quality of strong accent that make it desirable that they be hung by themselves as in a man's room or library, and not in a room with water colors and oil paintings. Water colors if carefully chosen are charming, especially in informal rooms. Old Costume prints, flower paintings, framed pieces of old chintz, samplers maps and charts all find use in certain rooms. Landscapes and other cheerful pictures are suitable in dining rooms. One may often find excellent prints in some of the better magazines. Avoid pictures of dead fish or ducks and of harrowing sentiment, also calendar art. Many pictures which are really rather good have become so hackneyed and commonplace with over-use that it is well to avoid them for the sake of individuality. A stereotyped subject betrays a stereotyped mind. Do not hang amateurish attempts. Reproductions of good pictures are far better than poor originals. [T*amily portraits unless of real worth as paintings should not be hung on the walls of your living rooms. Do not hang pictures that are neither beautiful nor desired in any other part of the house in the children's room. Far better to hang there copies of old masters so the children by constant contact grow to enjoy truly fine things.: E careful in your choice of pictures that must hang in the same room. Tor instance, a Madonna or "Innocence" would not agree in spirit with "The Horse Fair", a sporting RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE print or a modern picture with its splash of colors. You must decide the type that agrees with your room. If it is of strictly period character then you must choose pictures of that period and frame them to agree with the type of decoration chosen. In framing pictures be sure the frames are suitable to the picture and in harmony with their surroundings, e. G. A small quiet picture would be absurd in a wide gold frame. In general it might be said oil paintings require heavier, wider frames than do water color prints, etc., which should have simpler, narrower mouldings. The weight of the frame should balance the weight of the picture, that is, -pictures with dark masses and contrasts need a wider frame than those lighter in effect. Oil paintings need gilt (not bright, shiny gold) frames, while etchings and engravings have narrow black mouldings, or black with a gold inner line. Many prints, especially Japanese, are good in painted frames, or narrow gold ones. Usually the more simple the frame the better it is likely to be. Groups of pictures, which should be similar in size and subject, should be framed in a uniform manner. Pictures should be hung at eye level, or nearly so, for a picture that is hung too high to be seen is of no use. Of course, when hung over a piece of furniture a picture must be hung so that together they form an agreeable group. They should be hung flat and parallel with the walls, never tipping forward. Hang with two cords to the picture moulding, or by invisible nails, never with. One cord from one nail, which makes an ugly triangular space above the picture, at variance with the structural lines of the room and so attracting undue attention. Heavy pictures should be hung from strong nails YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL and cords so they seem to have a visible means of support. The wires may be toned in with the general wallcolor. It is highly appropriate to set oil paintings in the panels of a room, using the panel moulding as a frame. This is especially so above a mantel. Pictures, rather than be hung alone should be grouped with furniture. Usually the focal spot for a picture in the living room is above a mantel. Over a chest of drawers, sideboard, groups at each side of a secretary, highboy or dressing table, or above a couch or bookshelves?all offer themselves as suitable places for pic. Tures. Be sure the picture is not too large or small for the furniture with which it is grouped or for the space it is to occupy on the wall. In hanging a picture on a panelled wall be sure it fits well within the panel and does not overlap at the side, and it should be of the same general shape. That is, a wide rectangular picture should not be hung in a long narrow panel. Observe, too, the principle of balance, remembering that pictures may be used to help balance furniture. Groups of pictures should be hung with their tops even or directly underneath one another, never in "steps," They should be hung about two or three inches apart so they seem to form a decorative unit. Pictures should be hung so they get the best light possible, and that from only one direction. Light from two ways as on a picture hung between two windows only detracts and confuses. Oil paintings may have special artificial lighting. Either at top or bottom which throws the light on the picture. Practically the same effect may be secured by putting shields on candlesticks and lamps placed in front and side of. Pictures. 147 Before leaving this subject let me repeat the rule given in a previous lesson: If the walls are decorative never hang pictures or any other embellishments upon them. If this is done they are forced to compete with each other and both lose their importance thereby. If a picture is worth hanging it is worth open spaces and freedom from competition. Do not attempt an art gallery effect. Too few pictures are better than too many. It is better to use none at all than those that have no artistic merit, and if too many are used, even though good, they detract one from another until they lose their effect A good rule would be to follow the Oriental idea. They hang only one picture at a time and enjoy that to the utmost and change it from time to time. They use this rule also with their bric-a-brac. Family photographs are, as a rule, better in bedrooms and boudoirs than in living rooms as they are of interest only to the family circle. However, one or two photographs of real worth, properly framed add a personal touch to a living room and may be set on a table, low bookcase, etc, but seldom is it permissible to hang them on the watt ONE of the most valuable decorative mediums, yet one perhaps most seldom employed is the use of wall hangings. They have been used in nearly all great art periods and they should not be overlooked in present day decoration. To be sure the wall on which they are hung must be a background wall, and too many of them should not be used in the same room. Only the very wealthy can afford the antique tapestries and embroideries, but there are many fine reproductions. However, caution should be used in buying148 the machine-made tapestries, most of which are so obviously common and cheap looking. Be on the watch for the very fine and unusual. A Chinese embroidery, a length of damask, velvet or brocade, a batik, or hanging of hand-blocked linen, Oriental, Persian, East Indian, Java and Egyptian textiles all adorn the wall in an excellent manner, providing always that they are appropriate in period, color and scale to your room. Such delightful pieces may also be used for table covers, scarfs, drapes for piano and even for bedspreads. Peasant weaving and embroidery are very delightful for small homes and informal rooms. Unless the hanging is of sufficient size to nearly cover the wall so it seems to be a part of it there should be some article of furniture or structural fact with which it may seem to group. Wall plaques, carvings, flower pockets and plaster bas reliefs are all charming wall decorations when used with discretion and care. TIRRORS are of great decorative usefulness. They may be used in practically any place a picture can, and it is wise decoration to use them in place of pictures to a large extent, especially in a small house or apartment where the use of mirrors will give a sense of spaciousness, open out your walls and give perspective and depth to your room. Above the mantel & mirror set in a panel is an especially happy device. Screens are very decorative and make charming backgrounds, and are of much use in preventing drafts and hiding ugly corners. NE of the most admirable developments in the modern home is the elimination of the innumerable bric-a-brac that formerly cluttered up every available space. Now to a large extent utility goes hand in either side of a center object. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hand with beauty and the articles that adorn have a definite use and the articles one requires for daily use have a note of beauty. However, one still finds many people who make museums of their rooms in their use of accessories,?cluttered up with "calendars, sea shells, cheap vases, artificial flowers, statuettes, photographs, cushions, souvenirs, dried grass and cattails, tidies and others too numerous to mention, cheap, unbeautiful articles that rob a room of its dignity. Small articles can, if correctly chosen and displayed play a real part in the decorative scheme. But restraint in their use must be a guiding principle, and until one is very sure of her ability to choose an article for its beauty and artistic value alone it is better to choose for use. Ornament for the sake of ornament is vulgar, and it is far better to eliminate even to a condition of bareness than to have anything which is not useful or which is not absolutely essential as a decorative note in the general scheme so that the room when finished is a unit, a harmony in color, form, texture and spirit. Bric-a-brac should be placed so that they balance and are in scale, but following this general principle you can use your own instinct in placing them. Don't be a copyist. They must agree in texture with the articles on which they are placed, e.g. a piece of peasant pottery would not be suitable on a table of fine mahogany. They must agree also in color. Pairs of anything give formal balance and dignity if set on Interesting balance may be secured by two unlike articles of the same weight-effect. Make one article of a group the center of attraction?do not scatter interest too much. For instance, if the over-mantel decoration YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL is a fine painting then on the mantel have only subordinate articles, nothing that will take attention from the focal point. Never use draperies or hangings of any sort on the mantel. Chinese bird cages at a sunny window lend a homelike atmosphere. Rare porcelains and china, such as Spode, Wedgwood, Spanish Moresque, Chinese powder blue pottery, Gonda ware from Holland, Serves from France, Dresden, etc., and old and new pewter look well in a corner cupboard or cabinet, or set on tables or mantel. A large pottery vase is suitable as an umbrella stand. Book ends of solid material that will really hold up books, cushions made to be used, single odd and lovely tiles as Maiolica, old and rare glass as Bristol and Venetian, incense burners, small lacquer boxes, workbaskets and flowers (real, never artificial) are some examples of what might be used. The field is unlimited as one can easily see in any department store, decorator's shop or even in the 10 and 15 Cent store. We are limited by our ability to choose the right thing and we cannot always be guided by its expensiveness or by its age, but by its fundamental beauty and agreement with the place it is to occupy. Never buy a number of things which are capable only of collecting dust. And never, for the sake of "sentimental foolishness" use as decoration articles which have been gifts from some loved one, if they have no artistic value. You can store them away, out of sight without in any way affecting your feeling toward the giver. There is an opportunity for fine distinction in the selection and arrangement of bric-abrac. Do not be afraid of plain spaces, however. Overcrowding minimizes the effect of each separate object. 149 Look at your sideboard and mantel, two pitfalls. Are you making an ostentatious display of silver, glass and china on your sideboard? Is your mantel the catchall for baby cups, photographs, and souvenirs? Three good pieces, at most five are all that are necessary, and none at all if they are not good. Concentrate on a few choice things rather than many of a mediocre sort. NOTHING will give that homelike air to a room as much as books. They give a lived-in look suggesting the presence of those who are never lonely. Books in your home give evidence that the inmates come in contact with other minds. Nothing so suggests a home of culture as good books, and books constantly at hand will have an influence in cultivating in children a love of good literature. American homes are lavish in their use of books, suggesting our national ideal, education of the masses. But books have a decorative value as well. They are so companionable we do not to a large extent need to worry about the colors of their bindings and if they are old and worn they may be covered with dark oilcloths and the titles painted along the back. Books should be properly housed. Shelves on either side of the fireplace seem particularly suitable. Book shelves set below a window seat, at one end of the room, and above doors, in an unused door, in wall niches, on either side of a large window, in tall narrow cabinets for narrow spaces, hanging shelves?all are suitable places. The shelves may be painted to match the woodwork and lined with a predominating color in the room. Movable bookshelves now come in many attractive styles to harmonize with your style of dec150 oration..\ few books set between bookends on an occasional table, chest or desk or in a book trough keep current books within easy reach, and with books we must not forget magazines, which add greatly to the comfort of a fireside. It is sometimes a good device to break up a row of books with a fine bit of pottery, copper or pewter or a lovely figurine, or to use the top shelf for a vase or a bowl of ivy. Flowers grouped with books are always good. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE They seem to have a natural affinity for each other. To summarize, then. Do not put too many things in one room, even though lovely, for no amount of individual beauty the objects possess in themselves will permit this mistake. ''Any work of art, regardless of its intrinsic merit must justify its presence in a room by being more valuable than the space it occupies." And judging from this standard we may say that a good book always justifies its presence in the home.