Glancing Forward
By Kate M. Barker
"As we gain the loftier eminences we see the snowy summits before us touched by the light of the moral ideal, transforming themselves before our eyes into what appear to be the ramparts and spires of the Golden City. We climb still higher, and the vision travels with us lighting on the next succeeding range. And so on and on as we ascend."?Adler.
Progress is effort stimulated by ever truer sight of new and finer outlooks. Each new age has a double duty to perform. It has its own special problems to solve and it must keep its eyes to the future for ever brighter visions. An organization for social uplift must not only function for the conditions under which it was created but it must have elasticity to meet new needs or solve new problems as they arise. If it is kept in mind that the world has created and perfected its social machine slowly and with great difficulty and that some of its best and most tried social machinery seems now to be breaking down, the inspiration of the prophet in organizing the Relief Society is at once apparent. "There are other kinds of service to be rendered. New conditions will continue to arise. But Joseph Smith, the founder of the Relief Society, though he gave fundamental principles to guide, had the vision to leave it unrestricted to grow and expand to meet the changes in the social world." Amy W, Evans, Radio Talk.
That the women of this organization were so well prepared to meet the emergency in relief work of the past three years was due to the vision of their leaders in preparing for this very need. This seems to be the special problem of this age and nobly are the women meeting their responsibility. But the work must not stop with giving material relief. These measures must be only temporary. The big job is yet to be done?the bringing about of fundamental social improvement. Human beings have the right to be freed from the crushing fear of want and they also have the right for future growth a hope or opportunities for richer and more satisfying lives. "The old standards that had to do with money and success are gone. Now human happiness, not privilege, must be the test of everything." ?Frazier Hunt.
130 In a world so abundantly blessed with the necessities and even the luxuries of life, surely there is enough intelligence to find such means of distribution that no one need suffer for the lack of necessities. Are we not beginning to glimpse the future when the order of society will be?not "Some will work, and get and share,' but "all will have the joy of working and getting' ?when each one can have joy in some creative work and share in the opportunities for education, health and recreation.
Someone has stated a new commandment thus? "Thou shalt build an economic system and a social order in which it will be possible for people to love their neighbor as themselves." To attain this vision of a better future will require far reaching changes in our whole social and economic structure. Anything dealing with human welfare is the province of the church and is woman's special work as outlined by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Women must do their part in this social re-construction work and it is the opportunity of the Relief Society to help its members to understand the changing social problems, to arouse them, from the passive attitude too many take, to a sense of responsibility and to awaken in them the impulse to find out how best they may meet it.
Leisure time has always been a problem and is becoming increasingly so. The way it is spent may determine in no small degree the, future of civilization. It is a problem for which the mothers must prepare. The culture of the home depends more upon the mothers than upon anyone else. And it is in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE home during the formative, impressionable years of childhood that the foundation for future ideals is laid.
William Sloan Coffin, president of the Metropolitan Museum in New York, says? "At the present we have plenty of leisure for culture but little culture for leisure." And George W. Alger in "Leisure for What?" says? "The great problem before us today is to create a civilization that does not degenerate under leisure. This can be done only by setting in operation forces working for a culture that recognizes as no civilization, since the fall of Rome has been required to do, that leisure is and must be a means, and not an end; that its true value is measured by what we do with it?by whether it lifts or lowers us in the great world of intangibles, the world, not of material, but of spiritual values."
The self-denial recent years has forced upon us has resulted in reawakening our idealism, the mind and spirit have assumed new importance and new beauty. We realize we have not lived up to our possibilities as children of God, that our way of life has been too small for the capabilities we inherit. In "glancing forward" we need to look deep into our minds and souls and ask ourselves wherein we have failed. We have not been left to struggle in the dark. We have been given the fundamental laws of right living in the gospel, of which all truth and beauty are a part. We need a broader understanding of its principles and their application to present problems, we need a greater appreciation of its worth in our lives and a broader culture to help us see its real beauty and above all we need to have GLANCING FORWARD our knowledge vitalized. We need impelling ideals to give enthusiasm, strength and inspiration, to put the breath of life into our beliefs, to give us the Will to do as we know that belief and action may be in harmony. "To lift us in the great world of spiritual values," is the aim of our educational work. To achieve the result we must strive to improve our methods of teaching that our work may become really creative.
One of the great needs of the world today is more friendliness. Human sympathy and helpfulness are among the most beautiful things in life. There is so much suffering and sorrow, each one has special problems and needs, yet too often we have to say, "If I had only known," or "why didn't I remember?" Every one longs for friendship, sympathy and understanding, yet we live our lives so apart and in the real difficulties of life we understand each other but little and help each other less. In our ordinary social contacts we touch but the surface, there is little expression of our real selves, little soul contact. It is only in spiritual contacts that real understanding comes. In our Relief Society organization where we focus our energies on the finer things of life, where all our lessons are coordinated and animated by the spirit of the Gospel, giving all a spiritual significance, this mutual understanding and helpfulness should grow and from the contacts we should discover new and deeper meanings and richness of life.
131 It is only within such a social medium that persons can realize themselves. Each person has something he can contribute to the good of the whole something probably which is found only in himself. All have equal obligation to give their best but they need help, encouragement and opportunity to give this best and to make their best still better. The Relief Society should give this help, this opportunity to each of its members. If we can create this generous and vital friendship cemented by a testimony of the Gospel to give perspective and set standards, can we not look forward to the time when every adult woman in the Church will be drawn into the group? A group, intelligent, alive to its social responsibility, realizing each has a contribution, each eager to assume the responsibility. A group which realizes that no activity, no cultural course is an end in itself but the means to a more complete life which will show itself in the kind of human relationships the members maintain in the home, in civil life, in the Church, wherever they go and whomsoever they meet. If we pass on to the next generation the best work we have been able to achieve and the loftiest visions we have been privileged to behold as a result of our strivings, we shall make it possible, for them to do their work better, to behold visions still grander than ours and with a clearness excelling our own.