Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in May) ZION, THE NEW JERUSALEM 1. The Term Zion. The term "Zion" as it appears in the scriptures is variously applied, chiefly as follows: (a) To Mount Zion, a hill in the city of Jerusalem, and in a less definite way to the city of Jerusalem itself. (b) To the (Moses 7:18-21.) (c) To the people of God, called the "pure in heart." (D. & C. 97:21.) (d) To the entire North American continent. (History of the Church, Vol. 6, pp. 318, 319.) (e) To the location mentioned by Micah from which the law shall go forth in the last days. (Micah 4:2.) The Zion with which this lesson is concerned is the one mentioned by Micah. 2. Scriptural Predictions. The scriptures are replete with predictions concerning the establishment of Zion in latter times. Micah of old said: "In the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." (Micah 4:1, 2.) Micah's statement thus City of Enoch. Plainly indicates the existence of two holy cities in the last days, namely, Jerusalem in the land of Judea, and Zion, the location of which he does not mention. 3. Location of Zion. The Nephite prophets were much more definite concerning the location of Zion, the New Jerusalem. Ether, the last of the Jareditic prophets, plainly foretold that ''a New Jerusalem should be built upon this (the American) land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has been a type." (Ether 13:6.) On the occasion of the Master's visit to his people on the American continent, he spoke concerning Zion as follows: "I will establish my people, O house of Israel. And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you." (III Nephi 20:21, 22.) Speaking of the repentant Gentiles, the Master said further: "They shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob, and also as many of the house of Israel as shall come, that they may build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem. And then shall they assist my people that they may be gathered in, who are scattered upon all the face of the land, in unto the New Jerusalem. And then shall the power of heaven come down among them; and I also 176 will be in the midst." (III Nephi 21: 23-25.) 4. Exact Location Revealed. In March of 1831, a few weeks after his first arrival in Kirtland, the Prophet received a revelation that contained the following: "Assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent, and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me. And with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may purchase an inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you. And it small be called the new Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, a place of safety for the saints of the Most High God; and the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion." (D. & C. 45:64-67.) 5. A month or so later the Prophet himself journeyed from Kirtland to Independence, the last three hundred miles of the distance on foot. When he reached his destination, tired and footsore, he was evidently not favorably impressed, particularly with the people. He said: "Our reflections were many, coming as we had from a highly cultivated state of society in the east, and standing now upon the confines or western limits of the United States, and looking into the vast wilderness of those that sat in darkness; how natural it was to observe the degradation, leanness of intellect, ferocity, and jealousy of a people that were nearly a century behind the times, and to feel for those who roamed about without the benefit of civilization, refinement, or religion; yea, and exclaim in the language of the Prophets: 'When will the wilderness RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE blossom as the rose? When will Zion be built up in her glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days?" (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 189.) The Prophet records that the Lord did snot keep. Them waiting long for an answer. Here it is: "Hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land, which is the land of Missouri, which is the land which I have appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the saints. Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion. And thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom here is wisdom. Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the court house." (D. & C. 57:1-3.) 6. Immediate Preparations. With characteristic energy and dispatch, the Prophet proceeded immediately to carry out the instructions of the Lord. He wrote a long letter descriptive of the country now called Zion, for distribution among the saints everywhere; (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 197, 198.) He encouraged the saints to purchase land in the neighborhood; and he appointed brethren to have charge of the proceedings. The Lord cautioned, however: "Let the work of the gathering be not in haste, nor by flight; but let it be done as it shall be counseled by the elders of the church at the conferences, according to the knowledge which they receive from time to time." (D. & C. 58: 56. ) LESSON DEPARTMENT 7. The Lord further said. 'My law shall be kept on this land. Let no man think he is ruler; but let God rule him that judgeth, according' to the counsel of his own will, 6, if other words, him that counseleth of sitteth upon the judgment seat, Let no man break the laws of the laid, for ne that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." (D, & C. 58:19: 21.) Doubtless all these were timely instructions. 8. Foundations of Zion Laid. Within a few days after the exact location of Zion was revealed, the Colesville branch of the Church, consisting of about sixty souls, arrived at Independence. On the second day of August, 1831, the Prophet assisted these people in laying the first log for a house, as a "foundation of Zion," in Kaw township, within the present limits of Kansas City. The fog was carried and put in place by twelve men, in honor of the twelve tribes of Israel. The place was then appropriately dedicated as the land of Zion by Sidney Rigdon and accepted as such by the voice of the people. After the prayer had been offered Sidney Rigdon arose and said: "I now pronounce this land consecrated and dedicated unto the Lord for a possession and inheritance for the Saints, and for all the faithful servants of the Lord to the remotest ages of time. In the name of Jesus Christ, having authority from him. Amen." (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 196.), Forebodings of Sorrow. Much 'was expected of the saints who gathered at Zion. They were regarded. As the chosen people of the 'Lord. All, who were strong enough -were expected; to haye the United Order and otherwise keep all the commandments of God. On the 177 other hand, they had been in the Church but a short time and therefore did not possess the maturity that many of the saints possess at the present time. Moreover there were a few among them who were: not truly converted to the faith. In consequence of these and other conditions, the members of the Church as a whole did not fully comply with all that was expected of them. The: Prophet foresaw this condition 4s: early as January, 1834, and in a letter to Wm. W. Phelps, then in Missouri, wrote in part, as follows: "The Lord will have a place whence his word will go forth, in these last days, in purity; for if Zion will not purify herself, so as to be approved of in all things, in his sight, he will seek another people; for they who will not hear his voice, must expect to feel his wrath. Let me say unto you, seek to purify yourselves, and also all the inhabitants of Zion, lest the Lord's anger be kindled to fierceness. Repent, repent, is the voice of God to Zion. I say unto you, hear the warning voice of God, lest Zion fall." (History of the Church, Vol.. 1, p. 316.) 10. Expulsion from Jackson County. The saints were expelled' by mob violence from Jackson county?in which Independence "'the center place" is situated?in the early winter of 1833, scarcely two and one-half years after its settlement by our people. The details of this inhuman affair need not be related here. When word of this calamity reached the Prophet at Kirtland, the Lord gave him a revelation containing the following: "I, the Lord, have suffered the affliction to come upon them, wherewith they have been afflicted, in consequence of their transgressions; 178 yet I will own them, and they shall be mine in that day when I shall come to make up my jewels. There were jarrings, and contentions, and envyings, and strifes, and lustful and covetous desires among them; therefore by these things they polluted their inheritances. In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me." (D. & C, 101: 2-8.) Again: "I speak not concerning those who are appointed to lead my people, who are the first elders of my church, for they are not all under this condemnation." (D. & C. 105:7.) 11. Redemption of Zion Postponed. While enroute to Missouri with Zion's Camp, in June of 1834, the Prophet received a revelation in which the redemption of Zion was postponed "for a little season." Here are the Lord's words: "In consequence of the transgressions of my people, it is expedient in me that mine elders should wait for a little season for the redemption of Zion, that they themselves, may be prepared, and that my people may be taught more perfectly, and have experience, and know more perfectly concerning their duty, and the things which I require at their hands." (D. & C. 105:9, 10.) 12. Project Not Abandoned. The redemption of Zion is only temporarily abandoned, and in course of time will be resumed. Touching this matter, the Lord says: "Zion small be redeemed, although she is chastened for a little season." (D. & C. 100:13.) Again: "Zion shall not be moved out of her place, notwithstanding her children are scattered. They that remain, and are pure in heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste places of Zion-?and all these things that the prophets may be fulfilled. And, behold, there is none other place appointed than that which I have appointed neither shall there be any other place appointed than that which I have appointed, for the work of the gathering of my saints?until the day cometh when there is found no more room for them; and then I have other places which I will appoint unto them, and they shall be called stakes, for the curtains or the strength of Zion." (D. & C. 101:1721.) 13. The Latter-day Saints are looking hopefully forward to the time when the Lord will see fit to begin again the work of Zion's redemption. Zion, however, will not be redeemed by individuals who disregard the word of God, for, "Zion cannot be built up unless it is by the principles of the law of the celestial kingdom; otherwise I cannot receive her unto myself." (D. & C. 105:5.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Under what conditions was the exact 'location of Zion revealed? Give in as much detail as possible. 2. In what respects is Jackson County, Missouri, ideal as the "center place' of Zion? 3. Why was it necessary that the saints at Zion be unusually strict in their attitude toward the law of the Lord? 4, What conditions will prevail in Zion that do not prevail among us at present? Enumerate them. 5. When and under what conditions will Zion be built? 6. Describe the character of the individuals who will assist in building Zion. LESSON DEPARTMENT 179 Teachers' Topic BE OF GOOD CHEER The center color in life's bouquet is cheerfulness. With a bowed head one sees only the ground, and we must look up. Rupert Hughes says: "We are actors in one of the most exciting dramas of all history. Each one has a part to play and is entitled to a thrill. We get it if we have the right attitude." History will record many heroic deeds done during this glorious battle. Cheerfulness will keep the sparks of courage glowing, and help us to look up and ahead. Ella Wheeler Wilcox well said: "The one worth while is the one who can smile when everything goes dead wrong." Not just what one does and says, but what others do because of his influence is worth while. What happens to us matters less than how we take it. Our own attitude conditions the weight of our load. This is illustrated by the boy who was overtaken carrying another child up a steep hill. When the passerby said, "Too bad you must carry such a heavy load," the boy retorted, "Oh, it isn't very heavy, he's my brother." When facts or circumstances are met squarely and cheerfully, the battle is half won. Cheerfulness overcomes fear and self-pity; it fills the humblest home with peace and sunshine. Consideration of other's happiness helps one to be of good cheer. "Tears dry soonest in the eyes that see another's pain." The President of the United States requests that a "united nation banish all fear and face the sunrise of a new day." We shall not fail him. Literature (Third Week in May) THE MESSAGE OF A GREAT MASTER THE TEMPEST?SHAKESPEARE "What a piece of work is man. How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a God! The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!" ?Hamlet. The desire and struggle for Happiness has brought about Man's highest development. Through a succession of experiments, mistakes, and penalties he has learned to know the laws of his own being, physical, intellectual, and spiritual, also the great universal laws. Above the ancient world soared the mysterious import of human life. Philosophers and priests strove to find an answer to the mystery. The accumulated wisdom of the Greeks offered to Man the philosophy "Know Thyself" for "Man is the measure of all things." The prophetic wisdom of the ancient He180 brews exhorted mankind to "Know God"; later Jesus issued the injunction "Be Ye Perfect," for "You are also His offspring." The master spirits of literature have striven to understand the divinity of man and to find the meaning of life. The Great Problem William Shakespeare, who learned to understand human nature because as a man he felt and thought, rejoiced and suffered, brooded and dreamed, recorded "perhaps the richest and most varied creation from the genius of one man in the history of the world." This "giant of Parnessus' hill, the pride, the monarch of mankind" who has molded the spiritual hues of thinkers, writers, and poets since his day, is still a problem to those who try to read him aright. Matthew Arnold in 'his sonnet on Shakespeare voices the problem: "Thou are free. We ask and ask?Thou smilest and art still, Out-topping knowledge. And thou, who didst the stars and sunbeams know, Self-school'd, self-scann'd,. selfhonor'd, self-secure, Didst tread on earth unguess'd at." What self-schooling and self-security made Shakespeare the creator of literature that has influenced the intellectual life of the whole civilized world? This is the great problem. The reader of Shakespeare, who is anxious to understand the human spirit concealed there, declares, "I will not let you go until you have confessed to me the secret of your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE being." For almost three centuries it was the custom to say, "We know nothing about Shakespeare." There are today many literary scholars who have sincerely and reverently sought to understand their great master. Among these reverent scholars the outstanding are: Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Edward Dowden, and George Brandes. Their method was to look at the poet's life work as a whole in order of sequence and to discover, if possible, the life experience that prompted the different creations. Mystery surrounds the details of the life of William Shakespeare. His early life at Stratford-on-Avon, England, was marked by adversity ?his father's loss of property, the suffering of a debt burdened family, the disgrace of his own public whipping at the command of the lord of the manor, his early marriage at the age of eighteen to a woman eight years his senior. So the young man left Stratford for London to make a name and a fortune. Of the name we shall have much more to say; of the fortune, in little over ten years the debt-burdened father was made a landowner and a gentleman with a coat of arms, while the actor himself became the owner of New Place, the largest manor in Stratford. Shakespeare arrived in London when the Elizabethan glory was at its brightest. Religious freedom, political power, cultural aristocracy gave a zest to life. It was the springtide of a great nation's spirit. Social activities were marked by a splendor and extravagance hitherto unthought of. Wealthy noblemen became patrons of bands of entertainers for private and public revels. It was to this Bohemian splendor that the young Shakespeare became attached LESSON DEPARTMENT as a member of the Earl of Leicester's company of players. Shakespeare soon attracted attention through his ability to revise old plays, and by his own personal charm. The complex life of the period contributed much to the poet's growth. In the first period of Shakespeare's dramatic growth, we see the zest for life and love?the conceit of the age being "a man is master of 'nis liberty'"?reflecting the life of youth, life without any serious purpose. This period of literary beginnings over, the genius of Shakespeare began to assert itself. The first great masterpiece was "A Midsummer Night's Dream," a festival play or masque, a whimsical play of faries and clowns, a triumph of lyric grace. In it we see Shakespeare eager for recognition as a poet, a higher honor than that given to a mere playwright, an honor such as the age had conferred on the great poet Edmund Spencer. The growth of the national spirit of the Elizabethan period reached its climax with the supremacy of England over Spain by the defeat of the Spanish Armada The expression of patriotism by the dramatists took the form of historical plays, the lives of the great kings of England. Shakespeare's voice soared above his contemporaries in patriotic enthusiasm: "This royal throne of kings, this sceptr'd isle, This earth of majesty. This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England." The historical plays of Shakespeare were not merely chronological studies, in them we see the elements of weakness and struggle as revealed by the behavior of men given power and 181 authority. With almost sympathetic touch Shakespeare makes Richard III one of Nature's victims, deformed of body and chaotic of soul. Henry V is a presentation of English patriotism, also Henry V represents Shakespeare's ideal of manhood, heroic and practical. Looking at the material world of events and things Shakespeare is purely objective, evaluating the qualities of leadership in men?sources of power and weakness, causes of success and failure. The events of Shakespeare's life now led him to be his own Romeo. He abandoned himself to love, the love of a dark lady of the Queen's court, highborn, beautiful, and accomplished. This love first brought a joyous quickening to his life. Then he was wronged by his friend. The drama "Romeo and Juliet" and the sonnets are a record of this love, first the beauty of love, and later the bitterness of the realization that passion is not love. During the period of love's happiness, Shakespeare's brilliance of expression reaches great heights. It seems as if his whole life was bathed in sunshine; then it seems as if the joy of life is suddenly blotted from his being. The laughter of comedy gives way to the gloom of tragedy? Romeo becomes Hamlet. From the period of storm and stress Shakespeare emerged as Hamlet: "For wno would bear the whips and scorns of time, The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes." 182 Penetrating deeply into the facts of life, he saw but darkness?"wordy morality, double-tongued falsity, perpetual hypocrisy." The problem of the relation of good and evil in the world was a mystery, and Shakespeare's thought no less than Hamlet's "beats at the locked door of the mystery." The tragedies followed, "Macbeth," "Othello," "King Lear," "Anthony and Cleopatra,' and the others?dramatizing ambition, jealousy, ingratitude, sensuality as tragic elements in human life. "King Lear" is the most imposing and the most extensive tragedy. It has been called a world tragedy, because it is the tragedy of the ruin of the moral world: "When he who is noble and trustful like Lear is rewarded with ingratitude and hate; when he who is honest and brave like Kent is punished with dishonor; when he who is merciful like Gloucester, taking the suffering and injured under his roof, has the loss of his eyes for 'his reward; when he who is noble and faithful like Edgar must wander about in the semblance of a maniac, with a rag round his loins; when, finally, she who is the living emblem of womanly dignity and filial tenderness towards an old father who has become as it were her child? when she meets her death before his eyes at the hands of assassins! This is the titanic tragedy of human life." Out of the gloomy sky the sun shone again for Shakespeare. The tragic note ends in the last frenzied shout of indignation in "Timon of Athens," and a new note is struck in the last plays "Pericles," "Cymbeline," "Winter's Tale," and "The Tempest.' There seems to be no evidence to help us to find a direct cause for this change. This is the last period of Shakespeare's dramatic activity?autumn with its clarity RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of atmosphere and its variety of hues. Shakespeare, master of himself, his emotions and his thoughts, accepts the fact of a moral order in the universe. He now knows of a surety that the divine presence is never absent in the world. In the last dramas we see the new world of the poet, a world of infinities. He saw life with increasing clarity, "the ethical relation of the individual to society and to his environment, the significance of character as a product of the will, and the gradation of qualities in a scale of spiritual values." In this new world we have altruism and reconciliation instead of selfishness and revenge, love is a beautiful thing, and the true freedom of man lies in service. The last plays are the testimony of a great philosophy of life. In the last dramatic work of the master, "The Tempest," Shakespeare became Prospero, a priest, teaching to all the harmony of life. What then is the reward of the reader who has sought to solve the problem of Shakespeare, who was in turn Romeo, Hamlet, and Prospero? In the words of that great scholar of Shakespeare, Edward Dowden: "Shakespeare does not supply us with a doctrine, with an interpretation, with a revelation. What he brings to us is this?To each one courage and energy and strength to dedicate himself and his work to that, whatever it be, which life has revealed to him as the best and the highest and the most real."
The Tempest
This drama has been called Shakespeare's "Book of Revelation." It is in reality a poem cast in dramatic form and as such is one of the most beautiful creations in English poetry. LESSON DEPARTMENT As one reads the fairy-like fable of the poem, there is a haunting sense of a spiritual significance. The play is a wedding play, similar to "The Midsummer' Night's Dream," written for the celebration in honor of the betrothal of the Prince Palatine and the Princess Elizabeth. There is very little knowledge of any source from which "The Tempest" might have been drawn. It is possible that the legend of the banished Duke and his daughter was derived from an old play by Jacob Ayres of Nurenberg, an adaptation of a Spanish story found in "Winter's Nights" by Antonio Eslava. It has been suggested that the island setting of the drama was suggested by an account of the shipwreck of Sir George Sommers off the Bermudas in 1610. The wrecked sailors of the "Sea Venture" reported the "Isle of Devils" to be an enchanted place with heathen people and mighty tempests. Prospero, the Duke of Milan, became so absorbed in his intellectual life that he entrusted the care of his realm to his brother Antonio. The brother in alliance with the Duke's enemies, Alonzo, King of Naples and his brother Sebastian, succeeded in deposing Prospero. The Duke and his three-year-old daughter, Miranda, were carried out to sea and placed on an old abandoned ship. A loyal friend, Gonzalo, supplied the outcasts with provisions, clothes, and the precious books of Prospero. The ship was driven ashore upon an island with one strange inhabitant, a primitive man, Caliban. Caliban is a strange creature, the son of a witch, Sycorax. He is a primitive creature, more of an animal than a human being, the essence of grossness. He yields to the kindness of Prospero, but serves always with 183 rebellion. Prospero, soon after his arrival upon the island, releases Ariel, a creature who has been imprisoned in a tree by the witch. This creature, more a spirit than a human being, with strange ethereal qualities, serves Prospero gladly on the promise of complete freedom in the future. With Ariel and Caliban to do his bidding Prospero lives happily on the island, devoting himself to the enjoyment of nature, the cultivation of his mind, and the education of his daughter. Twelve years pass happily on the enchanted island before the drama opens. A storm is lashing the shore of the island. Prospero and Miranda watching the course of the storm see a noble ship wrecked. Miranda pleads with her father to use his magic powers to allay the waves lest some noble creature be dashed to pieces in the wreck. He does as his daughter requests. With the advent of strangers to their island world. It is necessary that Miranda should know the story of their banishment, because the storm has brought their enemies to their shores. Ariel now returns to report that he has done his master's bidding. The enemies are wandering about the island unharmed while Ferdinand, the King's son, has been left alone in an odd angle of the isle. Ariel proud of his accomplishment, requests the long-promised freedom. Prospero, reminding Ariel of his age-long imprisonment, promises the freedom after two more days of service. Ariel now takes the shape of a sea-nymph, invisible to all but his master. Caliban enters carrying wood for his master. He also is rebellious in his bondage. Prospero reminds him of the kind treatment he received until in his earthy vileness he sought to violate the honor of Mi184 randa. Until Caliban conquers his animal nature he must remain a slave driven by stripes. Ferdinand, alone and brooding, hears the singing of the invisible Ariel, Following the injunction of the song "Come unto these yellow sands,' he follows the invisible singer. The singer-guide tells Ferdinand that "Full fathom five thy father lies." Ariel takes him after much wandering to Prospero. Miranda is captivated by the brave form of Ferdinand, to her virgin innocence he appears a thing divine. Ferdinand, in turn, is entranced by the virgin beauty of Miranda. Prospero, seeing the result of the meeting of Ferdinand and Miranda and not willing that love be too freely given or too lightly taken, treats Ferdinand with bruskness and orders him to the menial tasks of Caliban. Meanwhile, Alonzo, Sebastian, Antonio, and the sailors are roaming about the island. By gentle music Ariel puts all to sleep except Sebastian and Antonio. These men plan to murder their king so as to obtain his kingdom. In another part of the island two others of the shipwrecked party discover Caliban and learn his story. Telling the men that the Duke has cheated him out of his island home, Caliban plots with the men to dispatch Prospero, burn his books, and take the island for themselves. Somehow Caliban feels that Prospero's superiority is due to his knowledge; he hates him for this strange power. Ferdinand, meanwhile, is occupied with the menial tasks assigned him by Prospero. Miranda comes upon him carrying logs, and sorrows at the task. She offers to bear the logs for him if he will but rest awhile. Ferdinand refuses the aid, explaining his willingness to be a slave for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her sake. Love brings a new beauty to life for both. Miranda in the marvel of the revelation gives herself to Ferdinand in a beautiful love scene. Prospero, satisfied with the outcome of Ferdinand's trial, bestows his daughter's hand upon him. The lovers are entertained at a betrothal feast. Prospero with his magic powers produces a fairy pageant in which Ceres and Iris bring useful gifts to the lovers, while Juno sings a betrothal song nymphs and fairies dance around the couple: "Honor, riches, marriage-blessing, Long continuance, and increasing, Hourly joys be still upon you! Juno sings her blessings on you." The entertainment is interrupted by the news of Caliban's conspiracy and the plot to murder the king. Ariel is dispatched to frustrate the plans. The conspirators are assembled before Prospero, they have suffered much through hunger and discomfort. Prospero has decided to be merciful to his enemies?"the rarer action is in virtue than in vengeance." Prospero, clad in his magic robes, assumes his greatest role: "Now does my project gather to a head My charms crack not; my spirits obey; and time Goes upright with his carriage." All his wisdom is to be displayed as he handles his enemies. Prospero reveals his identity to them forgiving them fully. Ariel attires Prospero in the emblems of his lost glory, ducal hat and rapier, as he sings the song, "Where the bee sucks there suck I." Miranda and Ferdinand, the betrothed, are presented to the King. By common consent Prospero is to be restored to his dukedom. Life on the enchanted island is LESSON DEPARTMENT closed. Prospero takes leave of the magic elves that have done his bidding: "But this rough service I here abjure. And, when I have requested Some heavenly music, which even now I do.  I'll break my staff, And deeper than did ever plummet sound I'll drop my book." The parting of the master spirit with his servant Ariel is touching: "My dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee, Be free, and fare thee well." Prospero has attained the highest level of attainment, the moral level. He is master of his own being. He will always maintain his dream rights, however: "We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep." As a man now he goes to accomplish his duty, to promote the welfare of his kingdom. Many interesting and curious interpretations have been given to this last play of Shakespeare. By many, Prospero is Shakespeare himself, the neglected dukedom is his home at Stratford, the enchanted island is the world of the theatre, and the magic art the dramatic power of Shakespeare. Like Prospero, Shakespeare "had sacrificed his position to his art, and like him he had dwelt upon an enchanted island in the ocean of life. He had been its lord and master, with dominion over spirits, with the spirit of the air as his servant and the spirit of the earth 185 as his slave. By his magic art graves had opened, and the spirits of the past had lived again." Just as Ariel had longed for freedom, the genius of Shakespeare longed for rest. With such an interpretation, "The Tempest" is Shakespeare's farewell to his art. Another interpretation of "The Tempest" is most worthy of our attention. In the drama Shakespeare has represented mankind as he has come to understand it. Prospero represents the highest development of mankind, he is the product of a harmony of body, mind, and spirit. In Caliban we see an undeveloped man, a creature of the senses, almost an animal as he lives to satisfy his appetites and his passions. Ariel is a simple spirit, a body without a sense, subject to the bidding of a greater spirit. He longs always for freedom to become an individual and work out his own destiny. The events of the drama represent the conflicts of life in which man attains his highest development; man with his own being??physical, mental, and spiritual, man with society?the use of his powers for constructive ends. Whether "The Tempest" be the message of a poet or a priest, Shakespeare or Prospero, its message brings a beautiful interpretation of the meaning of life, The Quest for Happiness.
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials.
1. The Story of the World's Literature. Macy Chapters 25-27.
2. Tales from Shakespeare. Lamb
3. The Tempest. Shakespeare 4, Shakespeare, His Mind and Art. Dowden 186
4. The Life of Shakespeare. Lee
B. Program. Music: Songs from "The Tempest." Discussion: a. Shakespeare's Experience with Life. b. Shakespeare's Life. View of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Story: The story of the drama, "The Tempest."
C. Method. The purpose of the lesson is to bring an understanding of a beautiful philosophy of life as revealed by a master spirit of literature in his work.
Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
Constructive Use of Out of School Time
LESSON XVII
Of schools in 1845?Caldwell & Courtis say: "Schools were in session all the year round, but apparently there were many and frequent vacations, varying in length. Every Wednesday and Saturday afternoon throughout the year and all fast days were holidays. National holidays, like Christmas, Thanksgiving, Fourth of July, Election Day, etc., were also observed, and there were many short special vacations. Specifically mentioned as vacations are the week beginning on the first Monday in June and the remainder of the week after the exhibit in August and the two' succeeding weeks."" (Then and Now in Education, p. 13.) With such a program the use of out of school time is not so important. At the present time in most American rural areas the school season is from twenty-eight to thirty-six weeks in length. This leaves from sixteen to twenty-four weeks out of school. In cities the school term is generally longer and the vacation period correspondingly shorter. In most rural localities the vacation period is scheduled at the time when the children can labor most profitably in raising or harvesting the crops. The city vacation time is almost universally the midsummer. The aim of this lesson is to point the way to parents for planning the non-vocational part of the activities of the summer. The lesson will set forth some aims and ideals. The class members will have the responsibilities of planning the concrete detailed expression of these. The theme of the lesson is found in the following paragraph from the report of the White House Conference?p. 170. "A progressive educational policy which provides an educationally and healthfully sound and complete program throughout the entire year, including the long summer vacation, which has become a major problem in child education. Rightly directed the vacation becomes an asset; but wrongly managed or neglected, a serious detriment to child health and development. Every school should assume leadership in securing for the child during the summer vacation, opportunities for healthful and creative activities." LESSON DEPARTMENT In a recent article is found the following statement of the aim of the lesson: "The objects to be sought are fourfold, relating to health, pleasure, the background of experience and the broadening of the child's horizon." (H. G. Bull: Vacations for Children?Hygeia, June 1932, pp. 534-536)
Suggestions for Procedure:
1. By discussion have the class members decide clearly whether their vacation problem is essentially one of providing relaxation from a term of formal, straining, uninteresting school life, or whether the school is modern, providing a variety of healthful activities so that the vacation problem is essentially one of carrying on in a constructive way. This analysis of the life of a child in the local school will point the way to the selection of proper vacation programs.
2. The material outlined for reading is interesting and complete. Take all of the time that is necessary to discuss the topics and questions given in the reading guide.
3. Use the supplementary material as helps in discussing these points.
Reading guides for the class members: Personality, pp. 31-39. School seems to be taken for granted for part of the year. Three problems are implied in the opening paragraphs. These should be carefully noted.
1. The value of the alternating program of school and vacation.
2. The temporary management troubles of the parents during vacation time.
3. The permanent educative value of the use of out of school time Pages 32-33 give a detailed argu187 ment in support of this third point. The educational objectives of vacation activity are listed as follows:
4. Physical welfare or health.
5. Teaching children to face the realities of life.
6. Teaching the value of cooperation.
7. Making life richer.
8. Developing wider interests.
9. Recapturing eagerness or "the thirst for life."
10. Integrating the personality.
A paragraph is written on each of these. After reading you may want further information about some of them. The practical suggestions weave themselves around the idea that parental memories do not interpret the present child world but that social conditions of today call for a program of utilizing the facilities now available for vacation activities. The following questions are answered somewhat definitely: What is a desirable program for summer play schools? What educational activities are desirable for regular summer school classes? What are the possibilities of summer camps? What are the limitations of summer camps? What is necessary to build a satisfactory neighborhood play organization? Describe a "proper variety" of activities for a neighborhood or home program. What are the special problems of the rural child?
Supplementary Material:
1. What is meant by "Integrating the Personality?" "A man's personality is revealed 188 in the way he thinks, feels, acts with regard to his daily life situations. In truth, the way one meets life situations is a true index of personality for after all, one's personality is simply character in action. "The way a child learns to respond to his many daily life situations thus determines his character or personality. Left unaided and unguided, he will often respond in ways that are socially desirable, exhibiting such traits as cooperation, sympathy, and service. In far too many instances, the clash between impulsive desires and duty is disastrous, developing such traits as loss of self-control, attitudes of failure, inferiorities, selfishness, and sullenness. Such maladjustments tend to make the child a misfit in group living. He is said to be abnormal, to possess a distorted or warped personality. He is doomed to failure and unhappiness. Guidance, then, at all those points in his experience where wrong choices are likely to be made is the child's birthright. He was not born for failure and misery. "The crucial factor, then, in the building of the stable character, the integrated personality, is child guidance in all those experiences which cause him to respond in ways unwholesome either for himself or for society. These life situations may be classified into three groups: (1) work situations, (2) civic-social situations, and (3) leisure situations." (Germane: Integration of the Personality. Dept. Of Superintendence of the N. E. A. 1931).
2. Releasing the creative activities. Quotations from Cobb: The New Leaven.
3. "One evening, as I read scenes from a narrative poem that I had been writing, the scene of which was laid in ancient India, she sat on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE floor in the midst of the family drawing illustrative pictures as I read. Some eight illustrations were made within an hour and a half, wonderfully catching the spirit of the poem and its Oriental atmosphere, surprisingly correct in accessories of Oriental costume and physiognomy. How she got that Orientalism into the pictures, and the expression of rhapsody in some of them describing an Oriental saint, it is difficult to say; because one never knows how much of our creational expression in life comes from the subconscious memory and how much from inspirational sources beyond that." (pp. 132-3).
4. The following is quoted from a letter to a so-called progressive school which really states the purpose of well planned vacations. "We keenly appreciate what the school has done during the past year for our three boys. The happy combination of freedom and skillful stimulus in an environment of well-chosen materials has aroused their eager interest and has developed their ability for independent and creative activity. We have been particularly delighted at the emphasis you have placed on esthetic expression for each child, regardless of age or special aptitude. The orchestra, the weaving, the modeling, the fresco painting, the gardening, the building, the play-acting, the singing, the dancing have done so much to enrich the children's outlook and capacity for enjoying life. We have been glad too that they have been getting the significance of everyday things in their walks and trips. Perhaps, above all, we have appreciated the love and understanding you have all given the individual development of these three quite different personalities. We have actually seen each LESSON DEPARTMENT boy grow under it? Ben in interest and character, Jack in the assertion of his own personality, and Peter in observation and coordination." (pp. 138-9)
5. "Creative desire on the part of the young child naturally expresses itself in handwork and crafts, in the arts of modeling, painting, music, poetry, drama, and rhythmics."' (p. 139)
6. "Also in other forms of art-expression using different mediums, such as paper cutting, clay modeling, ivory-soap carving, woodwork, handicrafts of various kinds, children show marvelous courage, skill and creative power." (p. 149)
7. "Of the value of music in the life of the child, Mr. Surette has this to say: 'Music, it may be pointed out, is the one form of activity in which a whole school can take part while at the same time creating something beautiful. It is like play minus the exuberant physical activity but plus an exuberance of the spirit. It requires the most accurate teamwork, it is unselfish, it awakens sympathy, creates joy, frees the soul and subtly harmonizes the physical being. What school can afford to neglect it? What school can afford to offer its children anything less than the whole of it." (p. 144-5)
8. "Dramatic expression in the acting of plays is a very important factor in the emotional and esthetic development of children. In many of the progressive schools such expression differs radically from the ordinary form of school dramatics; first, in that here every child in the group takes part; and secondly, that the acting flows naturally and genuinely from the child's own consciousness instead of expressing an artificial mode set for it by someone else." (p. 151)
189 7. "Even in play? or one might say?especially in play, the child is creative. Here are no hampering forms, no technique or modes already established to which the child soul must adapt itself in order to express. In play the child finds utmost freedom to be itself. In play the child, furthermore, is satisfying only its own vivid desire. In play, therefore, more than anywhere else, the child shows those qualities of the true creator,?imagination, initiative, inventiveness, resourcefulness, persistence in the face of difficulties, and a marvelous power of adapting material at hand to an inner purpose. As I write, children outside are improvising a military camp. One boy had a vivid idea which came to dominate the group. First it was drill with wands; then mimic warfare from behind every vantage point: next a Red Cross unit sprang into existence and a stretcher was improvised out of two wands and a raincoat. There came up a rain. This, instead of putting a damper on the project, only heightened creativeness by suggesting the need of shelter. Raincoats spread over chairs furnished temporary shelter, but a more permanent form being desired the next move was to build a frame and stretch over it pieces of canvas, oilcloth, gunnysack?anything which came to hand. The next day a boy brought a pup tent. This has been set up in the back yard. Where and how will it all end? Such play of the imagination is bound by no external goals. In this fact inheres its charm; and this is the nature of true creation, that the end is not foreseen from the beginning." (pp. 153-5)
3. A combination of work and play suggestions is found in the following plan suggested by Pulliam in his 190 "Extra Instructional Activities of the Teacher. (pp. 286-287.)
A Boy's Vacation Program
I. Work Activities.
1. A vacant lot and home gardening contest for which ten prizes are offered by the Rotary Club. Division I for boys under 12. Division II for boys between 12 and 17. Last year 141 gardens were registered. Each one of these gardens was assigned to a member of the Rotary Club who was its sponsor. This sponsor made regular visits to the garden and gave the boy in charge advice and encouragement. Each boy was, of course, permitted to sell all he raised in his garden. The boy who won first prize in Division II. A fifteen-year-old living in the heart of town, made over $75 clear on the garden that covered less than two city lots.
2. A bureau of employment where farmers and citizens may get in touch with boys to do odd jobs, pick berries, and similar work.
3. The organization of block clean-up squads of boys, to clean up the various blocks of the city.
4. Construction and maintenance of tennis courts and play equipment, and improvement work on the boy's camp. No charge is made to any boy to go to camp in his turn but he is obliged to do two hours' work each morning for the good of the camp. This summer a dam to make a swimming pool at the camp was constructed entirely by the boys.
II. Play Activities.
1. Camping. It is possible for every boy in town to spend several weeks at camp if his parents are willing for him to go. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE He needs only to pay the actual cost of his food while there.
2. Baseball leagues. Junior league, for boys under 15. Senior league, for boys between 15 and 18. The schedule of games and general oversight of the league are in the hands of the director, but each team is organized and managed by the boys themselves around their own natural play-groups. Last year over two hundred boys participated in the baseball games. An all-star team is picked to play in the National Junior Championship elimination contests.
3. Swimming, tennis, and other individual contests.
III. Development Activities.
1. System of recognition. Medal for achievement of the Playground and Recreation Association of America for general athletic prowess.
2. The Boy Scout Program. Already organized troops are encouraged to do as much work as possible in camp, and efforts are made to start new troops and to interest all boys. However, a boy does not have to belong to the Scouts to participate in the summer program, or even to go to camp.
3. Pictures and Lectures. Educational pictures and inspirational short lectures by local men each Saturday afternoon at the City Hall auditorium free to all boys who want to come. It is hoped that in the future some short courses in motor mechanics, airplane building, carpentry, and agriculture (in connection with gardens) may be offered to boys who will attend them voluntarily an hour or two a day, several days each week,"
Supt. Willis A. Sutton of Atlanta, LESSON DEPARTMENT Georgia, outlines the problem and a variety of programmed activities in the following quotations from a recent article (Sutton: The Wise Use of Summer Vacations?Child Welfare, April 1932, p.478) A record of the summer activities is kept in points and is given a place beside the school record. "The old idea of vacation is a relic of the past ages. It was all very well when children were needed to work during the summer, assisting their parents with the harvest and having other things to engage their time. "I do not underestimate the value of the home training nor the home supervision, but I do say most emphatically that in the average American home today the period of vacation is a taxing, trying period for the mothers and fathers of our land; and for the majority of children it is a waste and an extravagance of time and a type of relaxation that often destroys the mental discipline and organization which has gone on in the regular school during the preceding months. The children of virtually every city in this nation return to school in September exhausted in body, lowered in vitality, and sometimes thoroughly disorganized socially and even morally. "We have carefully thought out the plan and realize that if 400 points are really made, practically all of the time of the child will be occupied. We have made every effort to give 191 the greatest possible variety to these activities so that every line of work may be encouraged. The children may do such simple things as cutting out pictures and making a scrapbook. They may take care of the baby, set the table, wash the dishes, care for the lawn or automobile; they may look after the sick of their community, write letters, read books, and teach others to play games; they may learn to swim, study works of art or places of historical interest, and do a hundred other things for which credit will be given." School exhibits, etc., in the fall check up the summer work.
4. Social training in manners, courtesy, and entertaining is possible only in vacation when visiting and entertaining should be encouraged. This is possible on simple scales in the neighborhood and other small groups as well as in distant visiting. This point is especially stressed in H. G. Bull's article "Vacations for Children" ?Hygeia, June, 1932.
5. Vacation is a great opportunity period for applying the learning of school. Planning purchases and figuring costs is a good child occupation. Provisions for general reading should be made so that the children may continue their quest for experience in the field of books. Picnics and trips furnish occasion for observing and identifying objects of nature. Telling to others offers occasion for natural language expression.