Culture in Entertainment
By Emma A. Empey
The success of social entertainment depends largely upon the culture associated with it. Culture is the practice of good manners. Good manners are the result of unselfishness, a kind considerate heart and careful home training. As a guide to culture, rules of behavior have been formulated and handed down and classified as etiquette. While unselfishness, a love of our fellows and a genuine desire to please are the greatest stimulant to real culture, still it is important to know those simple and sensible rules of etiquette which have proven a great asset in our social intercourse. For example one might wonder why the rule was made that waiters at table should pass food at the left: but the convenience resulting from this custom was the basis for the rule. The inconvenience of a person trying to take food from a dish at his right is readily apparent, as is also the reason for placing the knife at the right of the plate. What is lovelier than a well managed home entertainment? Take a dinner for example?The steps to be taken are as follows: First decide on the personnel of the guests inviting at a given time only those whom you know will be congenial to each other, reserving other friends for another occasion. Second, decide on the menu which should be done at least one day previous to the dinner. Third, make a plan of your table indicating where each guest. Shall be seated. Guests of honor should be placed at the right of the host and hostess who are seated at opposite ends of the table. On the day of the dinner the house should be put in perfect order early in the morning, so that no later thought need be given to the matter. The table should be completely set long before the time of serving, this will leave the hostess free to either cook her dinner herself or direct the cooking of it. As the dinner hour approaches the hostess will be calm and confident and ready to receive and properly welcome her guests. Other home entertainments should receive the same careful consideration. She can put aside all thought of how the house looks, whether all is running smoothly in the kitchen or dining room, as all of this has received earlier attention. Also the thought of how she looks, she is then free to anticipate an evening of pleasure with her guests. Many dinners and other functions in the home are spoiled because of a lack of planning and preparation.
All social entertainment such as our Relief Society parties should also receive the same careful attention. First step in such entertainment would be the appointment of committees. For a reception three committees are suggested?decoration, reception and refreshment. These committees should meet jointly at first to make complete plans and divide responsibility. Afterwards meeting separately to arrange details. The decoration committee should 154 first see to it that the rooms to be used are immaculately clean and that the work of decorators and all evidence of it is out of the way well in advance of the time of gathering. The work of the reception committee also needs very careful attention and planning for the success of a social gathering depends largely upon the reception committee. It is therefore important to choose women of tact, refinement and resourcefulness, women who are willing to devote their entire time to the comfort and enjoyment of their guests, women who understand that to introduce strangers is but the beginning of their responsibilities to them. The reception committee creates the atmosphere of an entertainment which will immediately be felt by the guests on entering the building. The reception committee should be at the place of entertainment far in advance of the guests. Where there is a receiving line those who stand in line should also be early. The receiving line may be composed of executive officers, distinguished visitors, past officers, some senior board members, or it may consist of an entire board; however, it seems preferable not to have too many in a receiving line as this restricts the activities quite often of some of the most clever entertainers who could give better service scattered among the guests. Special attention should be given to people who are inclined to be shy or backward. It is a good idea sometimes to solicit their help in entertaining for often when once the ice is broken a wealth of understanding and kindness will be found to draw upon in making successful interchange. It is the duty of the refreshment committee to plan the refreshments RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and arrange the service. Most of our churches are equipped with kitchen and dining room. The use of these rooms will depend on whether the reception is large or small, simple or elaborate. If light refreshments such as punch and wafers, candy, etc., are served from one or more tables, they are usually partaken of while standing and people rarely stand long in one place, so the service is not difficult. However, if somewhat more elaborate refreshments are to be served, the guests should be seated the while. There should be a comparatively large room with chairs close together around the walls, a center table with beautifully laundered (linen table cloth or a lace and linen if possible) decorated with a center piece of flowers and room sufficient for side dishes and the silver, which should be attractively arranged. Soiled plates etc. Should not be put on this table but should be taken immediately to the kitchen and washed for use again. The use of attractive paper plates, doilies, napkins, etc, is permissible. But the nicest of food can be spoiled by the use of ill kept iron forks and spoons. The standard in dining room service can be raised by the use of silver, a high grade silver plate is really not expensive when you consider its years of service, but it must have good care in order to look well. Use always a good silver polish for cleaning, and never mix knives, forks and spoons, either in collecting, washing, wiping or putting away for use again. One of the greatest attractions in the dining room will be a bevy of prettily dressed, intelligent young girls to serve, girls who are delicately sensitive to the needs and enjoyment of older people.
CULTURE IN ENTERTAINMENT In large gatherings it is well to begin serving early in order to accommodate any who must leave early. Crowding in the doorway of the refreshment room should be avoided and the reception committee should make an effort to see that this is not done. A little patience exercised on the part of the guests will also be appreciated by those in charge. At a large reception it is important to have plenty of help in the kitchen and each person there should have a definite understanding of her duties. Those appointed to serve and assist in the dining room should not loiter in the kitchen, as this is most confusing and makes progress difficult. All unnecessary conversation among those assisting should be avoided. As indicated in the beginning, our entertainments should represent the best that we have in the way of culture and refinement and the Relief Society women who are the mothers in the church should set the pace for high standards.