Notes from the Field European Mission. DURING the summer of 1933, Nettie J. Woodbury and Ileen Ann Waspe. Two young women missionaries from Utah, made a tour of the European missions, in the interest of the auxiliary work of the Church. During that time they met and worked with the local mission auxiliary boards, which at present consist of a president. Two counselors and a secretary. In their report, the work of President Widtsoe is in evidence, and a good beginning has been made toward strengthening the work and building up Zion in the world. In most of the missions visited the local sisters are in charge, under the supervision of the Mission Mothers. The following missions were included in this general survey: Danish, Swedish. Norwegian, German-Austrian, Czecho-Slovakia, Swiss-German, French, Netherlands. The Relief Society work is progressing very satisfactorily in most of the missions. The women on the boards are all full of faith, and are anxious to do whatever is asked of them. The Mission Mothers are wonderful women and certainly have a heavy load to carry?supervising the mission home: supervising auxiliaries; many of them caring for their own small children and giving help and counsel to their husbands. To say nothing of looking after the welfare of the missionaries, Elsie F, Parton. HE wide extent of Relief Society, and the interest taken by women in all parts of the world, is well demonstrated by the results of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Alberta Huish Christensen, whose home is in New York, and Elsie FF. Parton, who lives in far off Australia, tied for first place in the contest. And both submitted poems of very great beauty and deep spiritual appeal. Sister Parton writes: "I have had two great ambitions in life, one was to secure first place in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, and the other is to go, with my husband and two sons, through the Temple of the Lord." Sister Parton has been a very active member of the Church since her baptism in 1922. She and her husband were at that time residents of Tasmania. Their hearts were touched by the truth of the everlasting Gospel. And each year Sister Parton says her "faith has grown firmer." She has been very active in the Church and Relief Society, serving as visiting teacher, theological class leader, and a counselor to the Relief Society President of the branch. She writes: "l thank my Heavenly Father for the success I have had. I sent my first entry in the poem contest in 1928, and secured third honorable mention, and have entered every year since without success, until 1933, when I tied for first prize." Australian Mission.I N the Fall of 1933, a very delightful letter came from Mrs. Hazel B. Tingey, President of the Australian Mission Relief Societies. To quote in part from the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 169 AUSTRALIAN letter: During the past year a wonderful work has been done to relieve distress and to bring cheer and comfort to a large number of our members, also to many who are not of our faith. Food-stuffs, clothing, bedding, shoes and even new suits for men have been distributed. Really it is surprising the amount of help that has come from our own little organization. Just last month the Hurstville Branch Relief Society presented to that branch ten pounds (HAND WORK ling) as the very first contribution towards the building fund for a little chapel. This is our youngest branch, and is not yet a year old until January next, and of course we are now meeting in a little rented hall. How happy these sisters were to be the ones to make the first contribution. We now have eight fully organized Relief Societies and hope soon to organize the ninth. "Tam very happy to report that all our sisters engaged in the work 170 enjoy it very much and are most faithful. We would hike to see more of our sisters enroll, but the distance most of them live away from the church makes it rather impossible to do so. We do appreciate the lessons and other readings in the Magazine." The picture shows the beautiful handwork which was sent from far away Australia. Every one of the enterprising branches sent in some articles which were placed on exhibition in the  . Hawaiian Mission. HE picture is of the Kapaa Branch on the Island of Kauai RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE received a very delightful and novel gift from the Relief Society in Hawaii. The picture indicates the exhibit of beautiful native work, which was arranged in the  . The following account of the exhibit here in Salt Lake appeared in the "Salt Lake Tribune." December 25, 1933: "Not often do Salt Lakers receive so novel a gift as arrived for Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, president of the National Woman's Relief Society, and other general officers, recently. "Members of the L. D. S. Relief Societies in Honolulu, T. H., KAPAA BRANCH was taken upon the 32nd  anniversary. The president of this enterprising branch is Sister Benjamine Ohai; herself the mother of six small children, she is doing a very splendid work among the sisters in the organization in Kapaa. December, 1938 the General Board to Relief Society decided to send a gift which was within their means and vet which would be appreciated. "So they sent a variety of luncheon accessories woven expertly from the leaf of the hala tree, one of the most useful trees growing in the Hawaiian Islands. "Included is a set of four small NOTES FROM THE FIELD 171 luncheon covers; a large beautifully designed center cloth: a fruit basket; three fans, also of unique pattern and workmanship; four flower cones with artificial flowers showing several varieties of the Hibiscus of which there are 1,500 varieties; a pillow; six leis or necklaces, one for each of the Hawaiian Islands: a cocoanut with the outer shell colored and figured, also a tapa cloth made by Hawaiian members of the church at Laie. "Accompanying the gifts was a greeting from Mrs. Verna F. Murphy, president of the mission Relief Societies, and wife of Castle F. Murphy, president of the L. D, S. Hawaiian mission." The enthusiasm of the faith and spirituality of the sisters of Hawaii have long been a source of inspiration to the general organization, = EXHIBIT FROM HAWAII 172 Tableaux Featured in Liberty Stake NE of the most delightful features of Liberty Stake Relief Society work was the tableau review of the Sermon on the Mount with a poetic prologue and postlogue, and a musical background, the eight beatitudes were portrayed in modern RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dress and manner. Such features as Sunshine workers and the campaign against intolerance brought the beatitudes close to life today. In the picture of the Pure in Heart, motherhood and childhood accompanied by a lullaby made an impressive scene. THE PURE IN HEART In pure delight God made His perfect earth, And moulded harmony into its ways: Clear skies, translucent waters, then He prayed And human hearts more pure were given birth: The mother heart that in its purity Hallows all life with love divinely spun, The child's, whose innocence and piety Make daily earth and heaven strangely one! MOTHERHOOD AND CHILDHOOD Edna Mathews Gessel and her grandchildren, Ardeth and Stephen. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager: -: Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman VOL, XXI MARCH, 1934 No.