The Cultural Side of Relief Society *
By Janet M. Thompson
The word "culture" meant originally and still means? the cultivation of the soil. But in the course of time men and women found that the mind might be cultivated as well as the soil; they realized that mental as well as material crops could be sown and garnered? so a second definition was added to the first?this second?higher culture?covers all training, development and strengthening of mental and physical powers. It stands for the fruitage of enlightenment of civilization.
*When the Ensign Stake Relief Societies held their annual ward conferences last November, one of the Ward Presidents asked that the cultural side of Relief Society work be presented, and the following embraces some of the thoughts discussed at this particular ward conference.
One authority says culture is the systematic improvement and refinement of the mind, especially one's own. In connection with our Relief Society work I like to think that culture is the acquainting of ourselves with the best that has been known and said in the world. We know that the religion embraced by the L. D. S. People is a religion of improvement, and seeks higher culture and also prompts us to search diligently after knowledge. The Doctrine and Covenants says? "And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom?yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom ?seek learning even by study and also by faith." When the Relief Society was organized, the Prophet Joseph Smith, in turning the key over 134 to the Relief Society sisters said, "And this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." Our Relief Society Hand Book tells us that the Relief Society was first organized for human service, but other aims of the organization, were to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life ?to raise human life to its higher level?to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities?to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement.
Education at any age is necessary for intelligent living in this rapidly changing world. Whatever makes people think is valuable intellectual training. Cultural development comes to us through welldirected energy. We may raise our thinking to a higher plane?but force and energy must maintain it there. One of the greatest factors in our cultural development is our social contact and our Relief Society gives us this social contact and helps us to develop the character and quality of our refinements. We might ask?Does the knowledge we gain in Relief Society have any cultural value in the home? The children of today are daily challenging our intelligence. We are faced with obligations we should strive to meet. Just recently one mother said, "My children come home and ask me questions far beyond my intelligence and I surely feel the need of more education." A short while ago a young girl came home from High School complaining about the English she was studying. When the mother inquired what the trouble was, she said, "Oh, we are studying all about Chaucer and I don't see why we are." It was evident the young girl knew nothing of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wonderful contribution to literature that Geoffrey Chaucer had made and it was also evident she was of the opinion her mother knew nothing about the matter under discussion. But this mother, by exercising her membership in the Relief Society was fortified to make an immediate adjustment of her daughter's complaint. This mother had had the opportunity in the Relief Society of studying all about Geoffrey Chaucer, in "The Delight of Great Books" by John Erskine. Then, too, she was familiar with the course of study being used in the Literary Department this year?"The Story of the World's Literature," by John Macy. The mother happened to have both of these books in her library and immediately furnished the daughter with all the information and material she could possibly use regarding this particular English lesson. So, I would say, the knowledge we gain in Relief Society has a definite bearing and value in the home. The lessons prepared by our General Board of Relief Society offer great stimulation for cultural thought and development and it seems most fitting, if we are seeking a more abundant life, that we should take advantage of every opportunity our Relief Society offers in helping us attain higher levels in education, culture and refinement. Anselmus de Insulis said, "Learn as if you were to live forever and live as though you were to die tomorrow." And Brigham Young said, "If we wish to be taught, to receive and understand, we must train ourselves?we are in a great school and we should be diligent to learn and continue to store up the knowledge of Heaven and earth and read good books. It should be our labor and our business to seek continuous education."