Legislation in Western States Local Problems
MRS. ETHEL R. SMITH General Board Member
At the conclusion of a legislative session, undoubtedly the prevailing question that is asked by thoughtful people is, "What has been accomplished?" We are social workers and as such are vitally interested in any legislation that affects our work. At the beginning of this nineteenth session of the Utah Legislature, we saw a "rainbow of promise" in certain measures which were presented, but at the end we discovered that we had not obtained all that we had hoped for. The State owes a duty of protection to its children. Mr. Drowne, National Probation worker, says in his survey: "In the past political favoritism has played an important part in the selection of judges and probation officers; in fact from what could be learned much more attention has been paid to the political affiliations of the candidates than to their qualifications and fitness to deal successfully with children in trouble. In Juvenile Court work a careful selection of personnel is more than ordinarily important because upon it depends the success of the courts in giving to each under-privileged boy or girl an opportunity to grow into self-respecting citizenship." If there is any court which should be free from politics, and have intelligent social minded judges, it is the Juvenile Court. Juvenile judges and probation officers should be especially trained and fitted for their work, and have an intelligent, scientific attitude toward their problems. Every court should have an opportunity of the services of a psychiatrist as well as a physician to help determine the treatment of their case. Such advantages are slow to come if the court is tied up in politics. However, we are very grateful for the few crumbs that fell from the table, and hope for better things in years hence. In the past many grievous crimes have been committed against helpless children. People have been placing children, including matrons of maternity homes, doctors, etc., some of whom have charged for the babies. This monetary consideration and greed has defeated every altruistic motive. Now, however, due to the activities of those who are deeply concerned in children's rights, changes in the law have been made declaring it to be unlawful for anyone to place a child under 16 years of age in any home, either permanently or temporarily, other than the child's relatives within the second degree of consanguinity, or to solicit money in behalf of any child placing agency without a written license from the State Board of Health. The General Board has such a license, and is the official agency for child placing for the Church. This is a very important type of protective legislation. Child placing is a very serious undertaking, and should be done only by specially trained people. Adoptions should not be made without a definite knowledge of the physical and mental status of the child, something of the child's heredity, and without a knowledge of the intentions and abilities of the proposed foster parents. Some children are not placeable, and should not be given to prospective parents who might later suffer disappointment. Children from feebleminded
or syphilitic parents are not desirable for adoption. Now, what is our responsibility as Relief Society and social workers? As I see it, it is as follows: First, to educate ourselves in regard to social needs. Second, to work for good social legislation. How can this be done? By ascertaining the attitude of prospective legislators and informing them in regard to human welfare, and by using our franchise intelligently that proper representatives who have a high regard for human value, may be sent to our legislatures. One of the finest pieces of social work ever done was accomplished by a group of intelligent women in some of the stakes in one of our Sister states when they secured an appropriation to provide a public health nurse in their county. Led by one of our stake presidents, they formulated a letter stating their stand, and asking the aspirant for legislative honors to give his stand on the question. The result was that the men were glad to pledge their support to such a measure. We can all by individual, as well as united effort, accomplish similar things, and become great factors in social progress in our communities. May our motto ever be the words of an eminent jurist: "For every child let truth spring up from the earth, and justice and mercy rain down from heaven."
General Problems
MRS. KATE M. BARKER General Board Member
Sisters of the Relief Society: Someone has said that "The love of justice which exists in the heart of man, is the distinguishing mark of his humanity, and should be respected as such. And it is the supreme obligation of each generation to find the means by which this love of justice may be purified and still further increased." I think I would say in spite of the fact that recently we have had some very unfortunate legislation in some of the states, that the general trend of legislation in the Western States has been in the direction of wider justice and in accordance with the best ideals of social service work. Of course law must always lag a little behind public opinion, because it can wisely be made law only when public opinion has crystallized. There is apparently an increasing interest in attacking some of the more serious problems of community life through legislative means. In recent years advance has been made not only in strengthening existing laws, but in further providing for modern protection for health and safety of the wage earners. The employment of women and children, which historically was the first labor problem to be attacked by the state, still holds interest in the legislature. California has recently strengthened the investigation power of the Industrial Welfare Commission, and has increased the penalty for failure to comply with the orders of this commission respecting the length of working hours and the working conditions of women and minors. The care of the aged is becoming more and more a serious problem, and most of the existing agencies for the care of the aged are changing their methods, and there is increased talk of old age pensions. Idaho, in her last legislature, joined the other Western states in passing the old age pension bill. Every child is entitled to a chance for normal development, and it is generally accepted that this normal
development can best be carried on in the child's own home, or foster home, and because this idea is so generally accepted the legislatures all over the country have tried to put it in operation, and so in most of our states now we have what is called the Mothers' Pension Law, but the trouble is that the administration has not kept pace with the legislation. Due to the fact that in many states the public interest has decreased for the passage of the bill, and adequate appropriation has not been made in spite of the fact that we hold to this idea of the care of the child in the home, the problem is not yet adequately solved. The bulletin of the Children's Bureau estimates that in 1929, 200,000 children received help. This was not sufficient, as there were more than 400,000 children who needed it. It is quite evident that what we need is not more laws, but to create public opinion that the appropriations will be adequate to take care of the children the law was meant to benefit. The earlier laws, and these are still in operation in many of the states, permitted only children of widowed mothers to receive this help, but the general trend of legislation in the last few years has been to grant aid to any dependent children of any mother. Any child which is committed to an institution, whether for dependent or delinquent children, when he comes out of that institution is handicapped. It is now the idea back of the most advanced work in our Juvenile Courts to use the institution as a last resort, and to widen and perfect the probation system. The Juvenile Court of California is probably the most up to date Juvenile Court in any state. It is an arm of the district court; judges
are elected and it is absolutely non-political. For this reason the judge can choose his own staff and he has a very well trained, well paid corps of probation officers. The idea is to use the juvenile institutions only as a last resort. They also have in connection with their Juvenile Court, a behavior clinic, and a psychiatrist who is appointed by the state. The idea is to individualize punishment, and to find out what each delinquent child specially needs, not with the idea of punishing him, but of trying to keep him from committing further misdemeanors. There have been two movements in the Western states during the past year, which may give us an idea of the trend of legislation in the near future. One of these sponsored by Colorado is the idea of stricter marriage laws. If a couple wish to marry, the ceremony cannot be performed until five days after the marriage license is issued. Another movement is that of social insurance. The Workmen's Compensation law has put the responsibility for accident and sickness of the employees back on industry itself. We are facing a very serious problem, that of unemployment, and the idea now is that this can best be solved by unemployment insurance. That is a matter that is now being agitated, and many bills are being introduced. As yet not one state has passed this law. In 1921 Arizona took a step forward in her social service work. She organized a State Department of Public Welfare. At the head of this is a trained social worker, whose duty it is to go out into every corner of the state and help organize county units. This type of organization has been adopted by every western state except Utah, and every other state has a State Board of Public Welfare which supervises
all the welfare work which is done in the state. We all know of the good that was accomplished by the Sheppard-Towner Bill, and the wonderful work that was done in the states during the seven years that bill was in operation. If the percentage of deaths of infants under one year had remained the same as when the bill was introduced in 1921, 60,000 more infants would have died. The percentage of deaths of mothers has been very materially decreased. In 1929 the Sheppard-Towner bill ceased to function, and last year in Congress, the Jones bill was introduced to take the place of the Sheppard-Towner bill. The Sheppard-Towner bill gave $5,000.00 outright to each state; then it gave $5,000.00 additional to each state that matched that $5,000.00, so that the states matching it had $15,000.00. This was to operate for five years. The Jones Bill is somewhat different. Nothing is given outright to the states, but $15,000.00 is given to each state which will match it, therefore each state will have $30,000.00 to operate on, and there is no time limit to the bill. The bill was vetoed, but it is hoped that this will be one of the first bills that will be taken up at the next session of Congress. After the Sheppard-Towner bill ceased to function, the advocates of the bill carried on quite a campaign in all the different states, trying to get the state legislature to appropriate an equal amount to that which had been given by the federal and state governments to carry on this work, but only nineteen of the states in the United States made this appropriation, New Mexico being the only western state to make it. This is an extract from an article in The American Magazine: "In some of these states the appropriation was made because the women of the state requested it in such overwhelming numbers that refusal seemed impossible." This is only one of the many instances in which women have influenced public opinion, and constructive legislation has resulted. That is our responsibility as Relief Society workers, and as citizens of the various states, but let us not forget, as Jane Addams says, that this work of spreading justice is hampered inasmuch as each one of us "fails to perceive or perceives incompletely, or judges superficially." Let us try to keep up with the social work of our state, and try our best to influence public opinion in that direction.
Taxation
MRS. IDA PETERSON BEAL General Board Member
My dear sisters: It is not my purpose or privilege to go into a discussion of tax problems, the merits or demerits of the same, but simply to bring to your attention the trends of tax legislation in some of our western states. It is a vital question, and one upon which the women should inform themselves, so that when they go to the polls they may there register their approval or disapproval with understanding and satisfaction. I assume that many of you sisters have property in your own right, and I am certain that you are anxious to inform yourselves as to how these tax problems will affect you. During the pioneer period of our state, and even in early statehood, as the general property tax was adequate, because tangible property, lands, homes, etc., formed a basis of wealth and ability to pay, but since the expenditures have increased for state and local purposes, it has become necessary for state governments to use additional means, such as the inheritance tax, various license and franchise taxes, and the income tax in order to raise enough revenue to meet these increased expenditures without placing too heavy a tax on that kind of property such as lands, homes, etc., which were already overburdened with taxation. It is estimated that about 80% of the tax burden of the state has been borne by this kind of property.
Utah. After a twenty year lethargy as far as accomplishments, but not as far as endeavor, a special or extraordinary session of the legislature of Utah was called for January, 1930, having tax reform as the chief problem for solution. During these twenty years three special investigating committees, 1912, 1922 and 1930, had produced the customary reports berating the outgrown property tax. Many people have a vague fear of a change, they would "rather bear the ills they have than fly to others that they know not of."
As I stated, in January, 1930, our legislature met to consider the report of the legislative committee of 1929, and a commission was appointed by the governor, the two bodies which had set about deliberately to find property tax relief, and a distribution of the burden so that intangible property, such as bonds, stocks, moneys, mortgages, etc., and large incomes would pay their rightful share. Public and private hearings were held by these two committees, so that the taxpayers in all walks of
life would have ample opportunity of airing their views and in a measure have their objections ironed out by the experts who were called in for advice. It was a lengthy session, but much good came out of this open minded procedure. Prejudice to the "new" was in many instances removed, and a better understanding of proposed measures established. The tax commission and the legislative committee appointed by the governor recommended six amendments to the constitution, four of which had to do with tax reform. These were passed by the people in the Fall election of 1930. These amendments provided for: First, the personal income tax; second, corporation or business tax; third, state school equalization fund; fourth, a tax commission. To these were added at this recent legislature, a filing fee, an increase in the gasoline tax from 3 cents to 4 cents per gallon. From this tax it is expected to raise approximately $3,000,000 per year, to be spent on the public highways of the state. Under the new income tax law every person, except those exempt because of age or dependency, who has an income of $1,000 or more, and is single, or an income of $2,000 or more and is married, must file an income tax return. If married, the taxpayer deducts $1,000 from his net income and is taxed on the remainder. If his taxable income is exactly $1,000 after all deductions, his tax would be $10. If married he is exempted $2,000, and $400 for each minor child under 21 years of age. So that a married man with three children would be exempted up to $3,200. For example if such a person should receive $4,000 a year, his taxes would be 1% on $800 or $8. Against this is an offset not to exceed thirty-three and one-third per cent of the tax on income, and which does not apply to the filing fee. Somewhat similar to the income tax is the corporation tax which provides for a flat rate of 3% on income of the corporation, with an offset of one-third, or thirty-three and one-third percent. State school equalization fund—For some time it has been realized that inequalities exist in many of the school districts. To overcome this difficulty an equalization fund of $5 per school child would be necessary to overcome this difference. The governor in his message to the legislature of this year sounded the warning that because of the financial condition of the state it might be unwise to enact legislation calling for $5 equalization at this time. The legislature heeded the warning, and adopted a five-year program beginning with a fund of $1 per school child, which will bring about $150,000 a year, and increasing $1 each year until the $5 maximum has been reached. The bill will not be effective until the school year of 1932-33. The legislature also wisely said that no district should participate in the fund until a minimum school levy of 5.5 mills had been imposed, and the assessed valuation was in conformity with those throughout the state. A filing fee of $1 is required for every person, except dependents, over 21 years of age. It is estimated that this tax will bring in the neighborhood of $200,000 a year.
Idaho. Idaho has adopted a similar system to that which we have here in Utah, but the same scale is applied to both persons and business. Single persons are allowed exemptions of $1000, and heads of fam-
ilies $2,500, and $300 for each child and additional dependents. This is 1% on the first $2,000 above exemptions; 2% on $4,000; 3% on $6,000, and all above, 4%. The rate is graduated at larger amounts.
Nevada. Nevada, from what we can learn, has not done much with tax systems, but provided additional revenue through license taxes, that is, a license tax for all kinds of business and games of chance, legalizing gambling somewhat. Much revenue is expected from this source.
Oregon. In Oregon the state legislature passed the three following measures: first, an excise tax of 5% on corporations with certain deductions allowed; second, a flat tax on income of intangibles, such as moneys, credits, bonds, etc., of 8%; third, a property tax relief act, providing for taxes on incomes of everyone on all net income arising or accruing in Oregon. These exemptions are somewhat similar to ours in Utah, $1,000 for single person, $2,500 if the head of a family, and $400 for children under 18 years of age. The rate in Oregon is 1% on first $1,000, 2% on next $1,000, three on the third, four on the fourth, and all above, 5%.
California. Recent measures have provided for a bureau of tax research, also for the relief of property and inequality between taxes on corporations and persons. The personal income tax was introduced in 1931. The exemptions are similar to those granted in Utah. The women of the Church will render a genuine service to their communities by becoming students of these vital problems, and lending their support to forward looking movements which will help fulfil the sacred obligations of citizenship.