OFFICERS' MEETING Afternoon Session, Thursday, April 2, 1931
Theology Department
MRS. CORA L. BENNION Chairman
Mrs. Zina Bennion Cannon, Class Leader of Forest Dale Ward, gave a detailed and inspirational talk on the study of the Book of Mormon lessons. She suggested the extensive sources for a background for this study. The Book of Mormon cannot be fully appreciated when considered by itself alone, but clarifies the knowledge and expands the information presented in the scriptures, and in other historic materials. Considered in this broad light, and with the whole knowledge of the Gospel and the peoples with whom it deals, considered in true relationship, the Relief Society Theology studies are greatly enhanced in interest and value.
MR. JOHN HENRY EVANS
Everybody, I suppose, who has ever studied the Book of Mormon has felt a very pressing need for something in the way of a map, so as to tell where these people came from, and where they are going. A map, however, of the Book of Mormon is really impossible. We have not sufficient information about the migrations of the Nephites to enable us to make a satisfactory map. However, we do have a chart which enables us, I think, better than anything else, to understand the events of significance in the Book of Mormon. This chart was made by one of the greatest students of the Book of Mormon that we have ever had, Elder George Reynolds. If a map of the Book of Mormon were possible, George Reynolds would have given us a map, but he has given us this chart, which I think is one of the greatest helps to a study of the Book of Mormon that I know anything about. It has been out of print for many years, and for that reason, I suppose, it had never been called to my attention, otherwise we would have been studying it a good many years. My suggestion is that you keep this chart before you constantly, so that when you want to refer to any particular event, you can do it from the chart. I am sure it will contribute to a clear and more definite understanding of the history of the Nephites, and the chief events and characters in the Book of Mormon than anything else that you can possibly get. Occasionally I think it would be a good idea to call attention to the whole period, and the characters, historical events and dates, and if you call attention to the chart you will find it will be much clearer than it otherwise would. Now a few words about the course for next year. I am anxious that you get this view, because it is something different from anything that I have seen in the way of organization of the material that we find in the Book of Mormon. I am going to write the nine lessons next year with the idea that we have more information about the immortality of the soul and heaven than the Christian world has ever had for more than 1800 years of time. Joseph Smith tells the world that he saw a resurrected
man. If Joseph Smith is telling the truth, that is the greatest piece of evidence that we have for the immortality of man that the world has ever had since Jesus Christ rose from the dead. How are we going to know whether Joseph Smith was telling the truth or not? These are two things by which we can test his statement, one is to be found in the Book of Mormon itself. The Book of Mormon is a tangible thing. We can test the truthfulness of the Book of Mormon by going into the book itself, which I propose to do. I am going to ask you next year to consider the ideas that we find in the Book of Mormon. By ideas I mean the doctrines of the Book of Mormon. Some of these doctrines are truly remarkable. The idea of the pre-earth life, for instance, in the Book of Mormon, has never been revealed to man, so far as we know. Where did Joseph Smith get it? Then I am going to ask you to consider the views which we hold of the people of his day, with a view of finding out whether he could have got his ideas from these people. Then I am going to ask you to consider such ideas as the free agency of man in the Book of Mormon; the power of God in the Holy Spirit, which helps man to live properly, and some of the social, economic and spiritual truths that we are expected to live, according to the Book of Mormon. In this way we shall be able to cover the main doctrinal features of the Book of Mormon. The other thing by which we are able to test the Book of Mormon, is the testimony of the truthfulness of Joseph Smith's statement, and the testimony of the witness of the Book of Mormon, and I am going to take them up in a slightly different way from which we usually take them up. So I am going to close the Book of Mormon study with as much in the way of evidence as we can get from the witnesses and the Book of Mormon teachings themselves, so as to have an estimate of the truthfulness of the statement of Joseph Smith concerning the appearance of this resurrected man to him. If we can find out that he was telling the truth, then we have some foundation for the teachings of the Book of Mormon about heaven. We want to know what we are going to do when we die, and the Book of Mormon helps us to get an idea of heaven, especially in view of the fact that Mormon lived on this continent, that he died here, was raised from the dead, and did some service to his fellowmen in our own day. That is the outline in brief, of what we are going to study next year. I imagine that this ought to be faith promoting. I do not think, of course, that this is going to prove the immortality of the soul, that cannot be done; the only way by which we can know these things ourselves, is to have them revealed to us, but aside from that we can have evidence in the testimony of other 'people, which we can test by certain fundamental laws, and that testimony, if it stands the test, will enable us to have a better and clearer idea of where we are going, than we could possibly have through any other means. I do not want you to expect too much from the course, but you may expect at least that. I hope that you will catch the main thread in this series of lessons, viz., that we are doing to find out. Through the teachings of the Book of Mormon, and the testimony of the witnesses, as toits divinity, whether Joseph Smith was telling the truth, and whether we can rely upon his word respecting the appearance of Mormon, a resurrected being, to him.