NOTES FROM THE FIELD 461 way the outlined Relief Society lessons were discussed in all the organizations. Recently the Auckland branch Relief Society, which has thirteen members, held a bazaar. The chapel was decorated beautifully, and the several booths vied with each other in making a display. From the sale of useful articles of clothing, sweets, etc., £12 (about $60) was realized. The Auckland branch holds meetings weekly and the women are active and interested in the work. A picture of the Auckland branch is printed herewith. California Mission Mrs. Margaret K. Miller, president of the California mission Relief Society, in company with her husband, Dr. John T. Miller, is leaving shortly for a trip around the world. Prior to her departure Mrs. Miller visited several of the Relief Society branches of the mission. She reports that the Relief Societies are fully organized and are doing splendid work. Tongan Mission Mrs. LaVera W. Coombs, president of the Relief Societies of the Tongan mission, reports that the Tongan mission ls progressing nicely, considering the handicaps under which it labors. She states that one difficulty is the lack of text books. The Bible is the only Church book printed in the Tongan language. The mission has just completed a splendid new chapel, to which the Relief Society donated almost $400. Juab Stake The Relief Society women of Juab stake have been working on articles to be placed in a loan closet. Already, several sheets, pillow cases, towels, gowns, etc., have been made and will be used by the Relief Society in assisting in sickness and maternity care. North Weber Stake The North Weber stake Relief Society informs us that the 1922 report shows a pleasing increase over the record of the year before in every respect. The wards are all interested in the lesson work and there has been an exceptionally large attendance of officers at the union meetings. Quite a number of the wards have enlisted the services of the young women, with splendid results to the Societies. During the year, the Relief Society e200 board gave a bazaar which netted the Relief Society about

 President Martha H. Tingey. The Relief Society extends its sincere sympathy to Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, General President of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, in her bereavement, caused through the loss of her honored and beloved husband, Bishop Joseph S. Tingey. We feel sure that our Heavenly Father will be mindful of her and her children in this hour of separation, and we extend to her our heart-felt love and sympathy, and importune Him for her constant care and well-being. May His richest blessings be her portion and the portion of her loved ones. Mrs.''Julina L. Smith. Our hearts go out in sympathy to Mrs. Julina L. Smith, who was counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells, and so long a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, in the bereavement that has come to her through the loss of her daughter, Mrs. Julina Smith Peery. The death of a mother, leaving a family of small children is particularly sad, therefore, we feel keenly for the bereaved husband and little children at this time, and take this opportunity through the columns of the Magazine to extend our sympathy to all Mrs. Perry's family. May the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father rest upon them, and may they find comfort in the promises that the Lord has made to those who are bowed down in grief, because of the loss of loved ones.
THE ELIZA ROXEY SNOW MEMORIAL POEM
There seems to be a misconception in the minds of some persons who read the announcement concerning the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial poem. The idea is not to write a poem with Miss Snow as the subject, but to write a poem on any fitting theme that may suggest itself to the writer. To ask contributors to write a poem on Eliza R. Snow only, worthy as was her life, and confine them to that one topic, would at once defeat the purpose of the memorial, which is to stimulate the writing of good poetry. All poets have their favorite themes, and do better work when permitted to select their own subjects; therefore persons competing for the prize may select any subject they desire. Put a Christian in the presence of sin and he will spring at its throat, if he is a true Christian—Wendell Phillips. The Word of Wisdom Lucy Wright Snow On February 21, 1833, Joseph, the modern seer and prophet, received a remarkable revelation known as "The Word of Wisdom," the substance of which deals with man's temporal salvation. The revelation not only especially points out the errors of intemperance bo'h in food and drink for the human body, but embodies wonderful promises to those who will study it and live up to its teachings; namely, that the weak and sick shall receive their health, also great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures for their guidance and benefit. The Latter-day Saints have been in possession of this valuable document ninety years, during which time its validity has been tested thousands of times with the result that thousands of souls have testified to the verification of the promises made theirin. It has been read and commented upon extensively throughout the world and many great health institutions have been organized which by adherence to its principles even in part, have been able to alleviate thousands of suffering human beings from their many and varied ills, while those who have followed its teachings diligently, have not only been able to cure their physical ills, but have kept their minds and bodies in a state of health, and gained hidden treasures of knowledge that have raised their standards of living, increased their faith and multiplied their joys, in proportion to their understanding of and obedience to its teachings. An effective outline covering the promotion of general health for all people, and even cattle, will be found in the Word of Wisdom, while those who need special advice or individuel healings will find their remedies under the heading of "Hidden Treasures," providing they themselves command them by obedience to the general outline and prayer for further light, but it must be the "prayer of faith, nothing wavering," if the desired blessings be granted, for no blessings are obtainable, except by obedience to the law upon which they are predicated. _ The human body requires the most careful measured amounts of food, air and water to assist in the process of its earthly existence or onward march to its final perfection. In the wisdom of the Lord, work and exercise are also necessary, as in the case of Adam being cast out of the Garden of Eden, thereby making it imperative for him to earn his food by the "sweat of his brow." High blood pressure, torpid liver, auto intoxication, headache, nervous exhaustion, and other manifestations of digestive disturbances can many times be traced to over eating, or eating im- 
 properly balanced rations and lack of exercise, without which the body perishes for lack of oxygen. Brigham' Young once prophesied that the time would come when stoves would be eliminated from our kitchens. That time seems to be close at hand. Science having discovered the truths set forth in the Word of Wisdom, educators are advocating the use of more uncooked foods, or foods in their natural state, such as fruits and every herb in its season. Noted dietians are pointing out the value of these foods for the vitamines and mineral salts they contain, and physicians advise the curtailment of meat and cooked foods, candies, and such rich concoctions as are made up only to tempt the appetite. Nervous exhaustion and self pity too often become the disease of the woman past forty simply because she begins to lead a too sedative life, lives on meager diet, usually stimulative, or over eats while her body starves for the vitamines nature calls so loudly for, and she takes on excessive flesh. Mother Love While waiting her turn at the grocery the other day, the Woman witnessed a pathetic example of one variety of mother love. "Mommer, I want some crackers." "All right, Dearie, Mommer will buy you some." ""Mommer, I want a dog." "All right, Precious, Popper will buy you one.—No, Darling, you cannot have any more crackers.—Well, just two, then." "Mommer, I want to go home.": "Yes, Dearest, we're going in just a minute. Now you mustn't take any more crackers." Darling takes three this time. Sudden assertion of authority: "Albert, you cannot have any more crackers, not a single one. I mean it." Display of Darling's sweet temper; he reaches for the nearest object and batters it on the counter. It is a bag of eggs. "Madam, your little boy has broken this lady's eggs." "Oh, did he? That's all right; I'll pay for them. Darling, you must look what you are doing. You thumped the wrong bag." —New York Sun. Airplane a Lusty Infant For a nineteen-year-old infant, the airplane is quite husky, thank you. It was on December 17, 1903, now nineteen years ago, that Orville Wright astonished the world by flying, at Kittyhawk, N. C., in a crude biplane, for all of fifty-nine seconds at the rate of thirty miles on hour. Many years before that the American writer, J. T. Trowbridge, had taken a fling at the flying proposition in his humorous verse, "Darius Green and his Flying Machine," which the elders of today used to read with wonder in their old school books. Darius was a Yankee lad, with ambition, just as are many boys of today, and had enough persistence to try out his ideas, even if he did meet with disaster. Darius' intention to "astonish the nation and all creation" by flying ovér the Fourth of July celebration, came te grief when he landed in the barnyard amid the ruins of his "flying machine." But Mr. Trowbridge lived long enough (he died in 1916, at the age of eighty-nine years) to see the "idee" of the Yankee lad become a successful fact when worked out by the Buckeye boy. The problem had engaged the attention of thinkers, usually styled "visionaries," for many years. Back in the middle of the last century Duechemin had published a work dealing with the pressure on planes at different angles. Lilienthal in the '80s and Langley in the 90s had confirmed the earlier ideas of Duechemin. On the work of these pioneers the Wright brothers, Orville and Wilbur, the latter now deceased, predicated their own efforts, and they won out against all scoffers. Today the airplane has been brought to such perfection that it can remain in continuous flight for forty-eight hours, or travel at a speed of 200 miles, or carry twenty men for long distances. It is regularly utilized in the carriage of mail and other freight, as well as in regular passenger service both in this and foreign lands. And it's only nineteen years since that first brief, successful flight was made back in North Carolina!—Los Angeles Herald. Patriotism In an article on "Patriotism and Public Spirit," in your June 7 issue, the writer says: "Patriotism is the highest of all virtues, consummating all virtues of any genuine human significance." Edith Cavell did not agree with him. As she went to her death, she said: "Patriotism is not enough." Who doubts the patriotism of every German who obeyed the Kaiser's call to arms?

 The writer calls the tomb of the Unknown Soldier "the most sacred spot in America." What about Mount Vernon, the Independence Hall and Gettysburg? He decries the professor who teaches his class: "They do it better in England or Germany or Switzerland; we Americans are SO provincial." Why should national conceit be any more admirable than personal or family conceit? Why not admit that we have been too much absorbed in our own affairs and have been provincial, just as you might admit that you were too short or that your family were not singers? Some things Great Britain does much better than we. She gets through an election and gets to work in two weeks with a new Parliament. We wait thirteen months and let the "lame ducks" legislate against the people's will. Why not learn something from her when much of our political machinery is so notoriously clumsy and needs revision? Germany before the war had her cities far better governed than ours. She had better city planning, relying on experts and not on haphazard development; she had cleaner streets, more public galleries, gymnasia, better building laws, etc. Why not admit it as you would admit that your neighbor was a better musician or better farmer than yourself? Switzerland led us in the initiative and referendum; Australia, in the Australian ballot. Why not avail ourselves of every bright idea that any one in any land has thought of? Said Goldwin Smith: "Above all Nations is Humanity." This has become the motto of many college clubs. Would that it were written in golden letters on the walls of every schoolroom. Said Emerson: "The right patriotism consists in the delight which springs from contributing our peculiar and legitimate advantages to the benefit of humanity." —Lucia Ames Mead, Journal of Education. 'Tis to Hope Gertrude P. Knapp O, it's hope, hope, hope, When there isn't any hope, And it's keep on fighting to the end! Just double up yout grit when you feel like losing it, And peg away till matters start to mend. O, It's smile, smile, smile, When you haven't any smile, And take the blows of fortune in the face; Cio ahead and see it thru with the nerve and heart of you Put your soul into the running of the race! —March Nautilus. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY (First Week in November) Habits and Customs in Heaven.—Fart II. A. Preparing and ordaining individuals for special missions, is a custom in heaven. The Prophet Jeremiah 1:4-5 "Then the word of the Lord came unto me saying,' "Before I formed thee in' the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee; and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations." Other great characters, Compendium Gems, page 285, para- - graph 3: "Foreordination of Man.—May 12. 1844. Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before this world was." B. The sending of special messengers to earth to perform a special mission is a custom in heaven. 1. The angel of the Lord to Adam, Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, 5:6, 7, 8. "And after many days, an angel. Of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. "And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father which is full of grace and truth. "Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son for evermore." 2. The visit of the angels to investigate and act in case of Sodom and Gomorrah. Genesis, 19: 1-2, 15-23. "And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom; and Lot seeing them, rose up to meet them; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground: "And he said, Behold now, my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet; and ye shall rise up early, and go on your ways. And they said, Nay: but we will abide in the street all night."

 "And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters which are here; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city. "And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the Lord being merciful unto him, and they brought him forth, and set him without the city. "And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee neither stay thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed. "And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my Lord: "Behold now, thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die; "Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one; Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one) and my soul shall live. "And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou hast spoken. "Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar. "The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar." 3. Gabriel to Mary, Luke 1: 26-27: "And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God, unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth. "To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary." 4. The many messengers of the Dispensation of the Fulness of times. Doc. & Cov. 128: 20-21. "And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment of the prophets—the book to be revealed. A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book. The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light. The voice of Peter, James and John, in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehenna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times.