HARDING PRAISES PIONEERS 439 man turns his hand to toil, sometimes successfully, sometimes with disappointment, and yet always he has time to appraise the thing that he has done and to find a pride in his work. "Tf I were going to give a message to the boys and girls who are listening to me at this moment I would tell them always to have a pride in what they undertake to do in life, for pride in accomplishment is always impelling humanity onward. "Oh, it has been good to see you, and I wish I could leave with you an adequate impression of the happy and wonderful day we have had. It is good to come so far from the great centers and find this distinctly American population working hopefully and confidently in the making of a greater America. (Applause. ) You are doing your part handsomely, and I offer you my congratulations and pay you my tribute. I cannot tell you how proud I am, as President of the United States, that you are carrying forward your splendid work." (Applause and cries of hurrah for Harding. ) At this point Mr. Randell Jones called the President's attention to the fact that there were present a number of the original pioneers of Iron County, whereupon the President said: "IT am glad to salute the pioneers, and I should like to shake hands with each one of them, as I should like to shake hands with all who are present, if time permits. The pioneers, let me say, make a strong appeal to me. I know something of the type of men who make successful pioneers. I saw them go out from my own community in Ohio to build up the wonderful West, particularly that portion embraced within the states of Missouri, Iowa, Kansas and Nebraska. "T saw some of them possessing a little material store in life cut adrift from everything, build their covered wagons, place all their belongings therein, as well as their families, and start Westward the march of the "Star of Empire" to build a new empire of the West. It took courage, and only the fit survived and made a success of it. I know the sturdy stuff of which the pioneers were made. I pay you pioneers of this section my greatest respects for the foundation which you laid in building this magnificent community of southern Utah. "Now I should meet the pioneers." The pioneers present thereupon were greeted by the President and Mrs. Harding. "You live in a wonderful State, and you people of Utah are truly 'empire builders.' Senator Smoot was telling me today that the resources of Utah are so great and her industries so varied that although a wall were built around the State, shutting it off from the world, yet the people could live within and for themselves alone. But you do not want to do that. You are citizens of

 the greatest republic in the world, and the Republic wants you to bea part of it. I like to tell you, for I believe it with all my heart, that all of the Republic is concerned in the common welfare ot America. It is impossible to have a great country where one section prospers at the expense of another; we cannot have a fortunate country where one class of its citizenship is doing wéll while another is suffering. We can only have a happy, contented and thriving people when the common weal is, in fact, the common weal and everybody is a participant in the common good fortune. "T wish you your share of the common good fortune of the United States of America. (Applause.) I wish you every good that can come to you. If I am the first President to visit your section, I am going to give some of my successors such an im-° pression of you that they likewise will want to come. I am sure they will enjoy their visit, as we have done today. "T thank you all for your cordial greeting and this manifestation of your interest and friendship. It is, I can assure you, more than cordially reciprocated." (Applause. ) Two Prayers Lafayette Hanchett For five days prior to the visit of the Presidential party to Zion National Park, it seemed as if the elements had conspired with the evil one to make the visit impossible. The wind gods drove their chariots through the air with forty mile gales; the dirt and dust rose in vast clouds. The good "Mormon" people of Iron and Washington counties raised their voices in prayer, asking that the President of the United! States be permitted to see the world wonders within their borders in both comfort and safety. When the Presidential train was leaving Salt Lake hy, the wind was still raging across the southern' desert—but it suddenly stilled—the morning dawned, bright, beautiful and quiet. The President came, journeyed safely to the great canyon, and returned to his train; as he climbed the steps of his private car, a silent prayer of thanks went up from the gathered throng—the prayer of the day before had been answered. The President had ended his speech to the group hovering about the train—he entered his car; the door closed and the curtains were tightly drawn, and then the great day seemed over, when the silence was broken by a woman's voice in song —first, one or two, and ten—twenty, then a hundred or more