THE SCENIC WEST 437 shelf for a soda fountain long enough to accommodate 950,400,- 000 people at one time. Has over 4,000,000,000 feet of timber ready for the saw. Has one-third of the nation's arsenic; one-fifth of the nation's silver; one-sixth of the nation's lead; one-eighth of the nation's manganese, Is the leading alfalfa seed producing state in the Union. Is the world's largest smelting center. Has one mining camp from which $130,000,000 has been paid in dividends. Has one hundred and seventy seven known minerals. The value of the farm crops of 1922 was $26,665,000. It was in Utah that irrigation was first made a success by the Anglo-Saxon race, in either North or South America. There are over 4,000,000 acres of dry farming land awaiting the plow. Utah has water power enough to operate, with electricity, 1,000,000 factories and light every city and town in the state. Utah has over 1,000,000 acres of land under irrigation, and with proper development can double the acreage. Utah has, untouched, mountains of silica for the manufacture of glass. Utah has the greatest silver mining camp in the world. Utah has oil shale deposits, undeveloped, to supply the present gasoline demand of the United States for years. For the ten years, 1910-1920, Utah gained in population between twenty and thirty per cent. Only five other states in the Union had a greater gain in the ten years. These states are Arizona, California, Idaho, Wyoming and Michigan. During the same ten years only one state, Arizona, showed a smaller movement from the farms to the cities. (U. S. Census, 1920.) The Best for Me Bertha A. K. Nehoema There is a best for everyone, though long the trail to find it, There is for each a rising sun, though dark the night behind it, There is a summit all may reach, though beetling crags forbid it, A rainbow splendor spanned for each, though drenching mists have hid it; There is a cross that all must bear, nor high, nor low may spurn it, And lo! A crown that each may wear, albeit years to earn it. There is a best that waits to bless nor heaven can bequeath it, Till hearts are shorn of selfishness and chastened to receive it. Harding Praises Hardy Pioneers of ~ Utah Town (New York Sun and Globe, Thursday, June 28, 1923) Before leaving for Idaho, President Harding spoke at Cedar City, a small community in Utah, many of whose members had never before beheld a President of the United States. Mr. Harding spoke as follows: "Ladies and gentlemen: "Tf it were not so late I should like to wait for a few moments, because the man who operates the radio amplifying device has not as yet returned from the trip, and I wanted you to see one of the marvels of modern science as exhibited in the amplifying of public speech. It is not very often that those so far from the larger centers have such an opportunity, and I thought you would enjoy the experience. A speaker talking before one of these devices (indicating) can have his voice carried from this platform to the farther edge of your city and be heard distinctly. However, it is not in operation for the moment. "T will take the opportunity to say how pleasing it is to us t» be so cordially greeted by so large a representation of the citizenship of southern Utah. We have had a very wonderful day today—wonderful in many ways. We have come to have a new love for the beautiful; we have found a new charm in the marvelous works of nature; we have seen exhibited the results of her convulsive moods, and then we have seen the effect of her relentless force operating throughout the ages in the canyons and gorges and other aspects of Utah's magnificent scenery. With it all, I think we have come to have, perhaps, even greater reverence for the Creator, a new wonderment at His purposes, and a new curiosity to know when we ourselves are going to fully understand. God's purposes. It has been an enthralling day. "One of the things that has entertained most has been to see how men and women will toil with all their might and with all their hopes on a little strip of land, asking Mother Nature to yield to their desires. I have come to the conclusion that it is due to something more than the mere ambition to subsist and make a home. I believe the more impelling purpose must be an inherent one in man to have something he can call his own and a place where he can see the results of his handiwork. (Applause). After all, that is about the greatest inspiration there is in life.