Newcomers in Zion Lonne Heaton Nave NE of the tragedies of the last war which drew the _ sympathy of the world toward the fate of the displaced persons of Europe, has also a significant, brighter angle of which the world has no inkling. Due to the loosening of the habits of security, where outright economic ruin was not accomplished, many hundreds of Latter-day Saints are moving their homes to Zion. Our missionaries in foreign lands tell of the great desire and determination of many who remain to follow as soon as restricting circumstances will allow. The wards of the Church are feeling the increase in their population, bishops are caring for the newcomers, and nationality groups are organized here to assist their countrymen. Shifts of population centers during the war, together with easier movement of the people because of increased employment possibilities, likewise gave migrating opportunity to members and converts within the States and from the Pacific missions. These movements add up to a substantial body of newcomers in Zion. 'They are coming here for safety, for fuller freedom of worship, for sanctuary, and for inspiration in shaping their lives according to gospel standards. The degree to which these aims are realized will determine the measure of the rich potential contribution the new residents make to the strength of the Church. This age of the world is becoming strongly characterized by the marshaling of the forces of evil; and the teachings of the gospel place Page 168 upon each Church member the responsibility of giving the full quota of his strength and watchful care for his brother's keeping. Even a feeble attempt to understand the viewpoint of the immigrant will disclose the particular measure of that responsibility toward him which may properly be held by those already established in Zion. 'The traditional zeal of the convert and pilgrim has been sobered for the saints from the battleground of Europe. They have achieved, at terrible cost, a clarity of vision which saints in sheltered Zion can only approximate by careful study. 'The difference in good and evil is outlined starkly for them. Their eyes upon us may well move us toward prayerful self-examination. The spirit of gathering is a spirit of high hope—essentially a spirit of promise. 'Therein lies the second outstanding characteristic of the newcomer—his vulnerability. It is easy to shrug off responsibility by questioning the strength of the testimonies that have succumbed to disillusionment in Zion. But it is not easy to see, nor to describe, the background of conflict—mental, social, and spiritual—that is woven into the soul fiber of the saint reared outside geographical Zion. No matter what the strength of his testimony, so long as his residence here remains at the adjustment level, his hold on spiritual assurance will be tenuous and dependent. To him, and to the convert alike, Zion has been the promise of sanctuary from the evils which hurt him personally. It may be that, in casting his lot NEWCOMERS IN ZION with the Rocky Mountain saints, he must learn to work with them, forgiving as he himself needs forgiveness, toward the ultimate sanctuary in a more distant millennium. But for a long time he will continue to feel himself apart from those reared in the security he has longed for, if by unworthy example some deny him admittance thereto. He is used to greed, cruelty, unkindness in varying degrees from former associates, but those contacts were tempered for him by the sharp realization of the differences between him, a possessor of the gospel testimony, and those who mistreated him. He knows too well those meetinghouse __religionists whose dealings with their fellow men are completely divorced from the teachings of the Christ, but he had his secret knowledge that in Zion, to which he would escape some day, the gospel was an everyday religion guiding completely the lives of the saints. [N contrast to the mystic religions of the East, where the devotee finds his ecstasy in contemplation of sublime doctrines, the Latter-day Saint discovers the divine nature of his religion in the level at which he is able to deal with his fellows. Brotherly love is, in effect, the height of his expectancy in his dreams of Zion. Now if he finds in his daily existence in Zion that human nature is here no more refined than elsewhere, particularly if any who offend him hold Church office, his back is to the wall. His belief in God may not be challenged, but a blow to his belief in his fellow men strikes close to where his testimony lies, and his hurt may confuse all his thinking. 169 The average saint who answers the call of gathering has the belief that there is a great source of strength in the unity of the Church community, from which he will be able to derive help in his own efforts to live by gospel patterns. The example of those members with whom he lives and works and has dealings will represent Zion to him. Their motives, their attitudes toward him and toward their own neighbors, their degree of generosity and kindliness when put to any test of incorruptibility in any emergency —these intangibles will interpret for him the applied gospel far more than their regularity at Church services, their obedience to the mere taboos of the Word of Wisdom, or even their having sons and daughters in the mission field. For these former things denote brotherly love, and if their absence for him indicates the need for the reaffirmation of that culminating principle of the gospel, even in Zion, his potential contribution to the spiritual force of the Church may be impaired. For all who pray, then, that the will of God be done upon the earth in this day, let this responsibility be recognized and discharged carefully. It is a highly individual responsibility and cannot be shifted to others. The thirteenth article of our faith is, in actuality, the working test of its authenticity and of our worthiness to be called saints. Let us seek to understand any stranger or newcomer in our immediate environment and be true to our faith with him and before him. For, unwittingly, the welfare of his soul and a portion of the welfare of Zion may be in our keeping.