EVERYBODY'S TALKING OF UTAH.

   At present the small portion of territory known
as Utah, and occupied mostly by "Mormons," is
the place to which all eyes are turned; and all
sorts of schemes are being concocted to destroy
and break down the power of the people, who
were the first settlers of these then barren val-
leys. Various bills are being introduced into
Congress by worldly wise and learned men, cal-
culated to enforce severe measures, and, in fact,
to oppress this now free and independent people.
The prosperity of Utah, the industry and thrift
of her inhabitants, are no consideration in the
minds of those who are working to destroy the
institutions which this people have exerted their
best efforts in laboring to establish.  They can-
not see that it is the very existence and efficacy
of the peculiar regulations of which they com-
plain, that has helped to produce the prosperity
and general happy conditions that are remarked
upon by all unprejudiced men and women who
deal in facts.
   So earnest and indefatigable are the leaders of
one of the largest religious bodies in the country,
that they have presented a memorial of the gen-
eral assembly of their church to President Ar-
thur, which he has transmitted to the House
among other important documents.  The me-
morial has been referred. So much is being at-
tempted, and so many suggestions are being
made to the Executive power of the nation, that
one would naturally think that "Mormonism"
would be blotted out.  But there are those out-
side the Church of Latter-day Saints that are
far-seeing enough to realize that nothing of this
kind will hinder the work, and who believe there
is a power in this kingdom that will manifest it-
self in the growth of a Western empire.
   Senator Morgan has acknowledged in his
speech in the Senate "that there is not such a
missionary establishment in the world belonging
to any church whatever."
   At the present time, those who are clamoring
for special legislation seem anxious that women
should be dealt with.  They begin to fear the
political potency of woman as a citizen.  They
would wrest the ballot from the women of
Utah for the same reason that prompted them to
suggest the measure. The Senator from Ala-
bama is very greatly interested in suffrage cer-
tainly.  He does not forget to state in one por-
tion of his speech that "the power of the ballot
is attended with the responsibility of this repre-
sentative character," that "it adds much to the
dignity and value of an American citizen in all
the different departments," etc.  However, we
are very glad he did not have power to hinder
the appointing of a special committee on Woman
Suffrage, and hope his influence may be as weak
on the "Mormon" question, for he proposes to
take from the women of Utah the elective fran-
chise, which they esteem as a gift from God.
Mormon women think it as much a duty to vote
consientiously as to pray conscientiously. If
there is any woman who does not vote thus hon-
estly, she sins against herself, for there is no
reason whatever shy she should not vote ac-
cording to her convictions of right, if she is pos-
sessed of ordinary intelligence.
   Surely there are honorable men in Congress
who favor woman suffrage, who will not silently
consent to its being taken from Utah after twelve
years' exercise of the ballot here.
   The brave women who have helped to settle
these waste places in the heart of the Great
American Desert are worthy of some political
consideration. If the Alabama Senator persists
in pushing matters to the extreme against "Mor-
mon" women on the question of misuse of the
ballot, it might be a good plan to adopt the
method of the old lady in Vermont, and send
him a box of butternut candy. We are inclined
to think the National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will make some suggestions to President
Arthur about postmistresses that will not be
nearly as "delicious" as the butternut candy was
on Thanksgiving day.


