MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister--Your esteemed communication
of the 20th inst. has just reached me, and has
been perused with pleasure and satisfaction. I
am glad to see that you [-]ake the interest in mat-
ters here, and in the proposed measures against
us, which your letter evinces. it augurs well
for us, for our children and the future of our
cause when the women of Zion feel that there
is a public part which they can and are willing
to perform in repellin assaults upon them and
their households; and this is one of the results
which I have desired and anticipated would fol-
low the encouraging of women during the past
few years among us to enlarge the sphere of
their sex. Much is said about the right of suf-
frage for women; but that is only one of the
small expressions of freedom among us. It, of
itself, is not much of an indication. for the rea-
son that there has never been any distinction
between the sexes in voting, either in religious
or political gatherings from the time we left
Nauvoo, and in fact from the beginning of the
Church, until the present. The indifference of
many womon to matters which are of vital im-
portance to them I have always deplored. While
there are many things which do not fall to wo-
man's province to attend to, there are others in
which she should be interested and take her
part, as well as her brother, her father, her hus-
band or her sons. I think the time has come
for woman to assume her proper share of re-
sponsibility in this work. She has magnificent
opportunities presented to her, and I doubt not
that, among us, she will avail herself of them.
	This sin-cursed world has to be emancipated.
The fruitful cause of many of the woes under
which humanity groans is the badly regulated
relations of the sexes, and these are traceable to
the indadequate marriage system now in vogue.
God having revealed a system to correct these
evils, every effort is being made to create a pub-
lic opinion hostile to it, by means of which its
destruction can be effected. And upon no one
point is there more falsehood and misrepresen-
tation circulated than upon the effect plural
marriage is having upon woman. Polygamy in
oriental lands, where harems and seraglios are
replenished from the slave market, and women
are immured from seciety and the world in jeal-
ously guarded and walled-in houses, and are
treated as an inferior order of beings, can furnish
no correct idea of the effect of plural marriage
upon the women of our Church, with their sur-
roundings and advantages; yet the popular ideas
of to day concerning our women are based upon
oriental polygamy. The assertion is confidently

[Column 2]
made that we are fostering a system which de-
grades woman and makes her the slave of man's
lust, instead of the sharer in his joys. Very few
can conceive, or will even think of the possibility
of any other effects than these following plural
marriage. While we know that under our sys-
tem of marriage the most unselfish, heroic and
well-developed type of womankind is to be
found, unequalled by any that exist anywhere
among men. I am confident, from my observa-
tion and experience, that a standard of excel-
lence is being reached by our women who are
true to their principles, under our system of
plural  marriage, which approaches nearer to the
angelic than can be found anywhere else on earth.
It is very true that this is not the result in every
instance, but that is not the fault of the system.
Now, the world does not believe this; in fact,
it believes the very opposite of this; and what a
magnificent opportunity there is for our women
to make the truth known to it. I hope to see
the day, and that, too, before many years elapse,
when we shall have the best educated, cultivated
and endowed women to be found anywhere; wo-
men so superior in physical and mental vigor,
and in every department which belongs to their
sex, that it will only be necessary to know them
for the lies and misconceptions which exist con-
cerning plural marriage to be swept away. We
cannot become the people which God has prom-
ised we shall be, according to my view, by the
development of the men alone; the women must
keep pace with and stand beside them; and
hence, I have always been a warm advocate of
giving woman every encouragement and oppor-
tunity to develop and exercise all her powers. I
desire to see our daughters acquire every accom
plishment, to understand every subject of hu-
man thought, to receive as broad and compre-
hensive an education to fit each one of them for
her sphere as her brother ought to receive to
qualify him for his.
	You say: "You may not have the faith in wo-
man's diplomacy that I have." Perhaps not;
but I think very highly of her and that which
she can accomplish when she engages in it with
zeal. Much can be done and ought to be done
by all of us to counteract the lies which are cir-
culated by the anti-polygamy women and others
But there is this which is plain to me: we can-
not accomplish it in the same way. It is not al-
ways the best to repel one of their attacks by re-
course to the same method which they use to
make it. They have their methods, and we have
ours. I must say, though, theirs is not so effec-
tive as ours, for the reason, as a rule, theirs is
confined to words; ours consist of both words and
deeds. Lying and misrepresenting are their
only methods of assault. Our defence is not
confined to circulating contradictions of them.
On this account, that which they circulate does
not affect me as it once did. I thought we ought
to be more active in contradicting; but now,
while I think it is our duty to be vigilant and
ready to expose their falsehoods on all proper oc-
casions, I have become satisfied that they can
and will lie faster, than we can contradict in the
time we have to spare. It is apparent that we
must live down their misrepresentations, and
let our lives, their deeds and all their fruits do
for us that which our denials and protestations
cannot do. Yet we should let no opportunity
slip where we can let the truth be known. Print-
er's ink can perform a mighty work in this con-
test, and we should fully avail ourselves of it.
Your suggestion about petitions is a good one.
At the present they will not accomplish that
which they will do when we get into the thick
of the fight. It will be then that we shall have
to strike our most telling blows.
*		*		*		*		*		*		*
	By this time you will be tired of this long

[Column 3]
screed, which I had no intention of writing when
I commenced. Pardon it. You do not say a
word about Annie and Geo. Q.; I accept your
silence as an evidence that they are well. Give
them my love; also Louie and Brother Wells,
also our mutual lady and other friends.	*	*
	I was pained to hear of Sister Heywood's
death; but was gratified to learn Sister Kimball
is recovering. The Lord bless you. I am your
brother,					GEO. Q. CANNON.


