					HEBER C. KIMBALL."

	His next letter is dated Kirtland, Nov. 16,
1839; but being too feeble to sit up, Brother
Dean Gould wrote the most of it for him. He
says:
	"I have arrived safe in Kirtland, but at the
present time I am confined to my bed; have
been quite low for several days, but through
the grace of God I shall be able to go forth on
my way rejoicing, to do the will of my heav-
enly Master.	*	*	I have made it my home
at Bro. John Young's Brother Bond's and
Dean Gould's, and have received the best of
care. Last Sabbath Bro. John Taylor spoke
in the forenoon, and I in the afternoon; had
very good liberty. I spoke in  parables gener-
ally, and some of  them being so applicable to
those that were before me; a judge came to me
and wanted to know  whom I referred; I told
him to no one in particular, but if the coat
fitted any one they might put it on.

[Column 2]
	"Some others of the brethren have preached
and gave good satisfaction; but as a general
thing there cannot be a meeting without some
dispute, yet there are some few who stand firm
in the faith. I am greatly disappointed; I ex-
pected to find the brethren united and enjoying
the blessings of the people of God, but found
them broken up and divided into several par-
ties.	*	*	*
	"Brother Taylor has been sick several days
with the ague, and the rest of the brethren
have been quite unwell, but are now on the
gain. We still, God being our helper, feel de-
termined to press our way onward. We have
but little means to prosecute our journey, but
still we think that some of us will be able to
start within a few days." He closes the letter
with his own hand. He says: "You see that
this letter is written by a strange hand. Bro.
Bond and wife are true and streadfast; are
much pleased that you are coming here. I
have seen but few of the brethren, only in pub-
lic; they have had several evening meetings. I
have not been able to attend but one, and that
was last Sabbath. I have got a very bad
cough; took cold riding nights. I think I
came near the time of my release when at
Pleasant Garden. But be of good cheer, my
dear Vilate, for this is only one more trial
above the rest, so we have gained one more
victory over the devil."
	In the suffering condition of the Saints who
had sought refuge from the Christian mobbers
of Missouri, and were lying sick and dying in
Commerce, it looked impossible for their fami-
lies to exist in their absence and under their
impoverished circumstances. My father, Brig-
ham Young and others felt that there would
be no objections raised to their visiting among
kindred and friends during their missionary
labors in Europe. According to the following
letter from father, dated "Victor, State of New
York, Dec. 27, he and  brethren left Kirtland
on the 22d of November for Fairport, where
they were detained until the 26th by a tremen-
dous snow storm; took steamer and landed at
buffalo on the morning of the 27th. Took
stage the same day and went to Batavia; stayed
there till the next day, and in the afternoon
took the cars for Rochester. Father says:
"When we got to Byron I got out and left the
brethren, supposing Hall (his sister Eliza's
husband) was living there; had not more than
got out before I was told that he had gone to
Rochester. I think I never felt worse in my
life—my  anticipations were so great to see
them; but I could not get away until the next
night. Just at evening got aboard the cars
and got to Hall's at eight o'clock in the eve-
ning; found them well and rejoiced to see me.
I stayed there one week, and was confined to
my bed part of the time. I took cold on
board the steam boat; had to take deck fare
for want of means. The cold settled in my
right side, and was so bad I could hardly draw
my breath. Brother Thayre carried me to
brother Solomon's; found them well and glad
enough to see me. Your letter got to Mendon
about three weeks before I did. Sister Hall
was at Solomon's, and advised him to take it
out. He did so; they broke it open, but could
not tell where I was, supposed that I was dead,
and had many bad feelings about me. There
seems to be a great feeling of sympathy for us
here. I have received great kindness from our
friends in Victor. Several strangers have called
to see me, and Lucretia (my mother's sister)
introduced me as her "Mormon" brother. They
appeared to take a great interest in our suffer-
ings. This seems to be the feeling of all can-
did people. When I presented the presents
you sent Lucretia, she wept over them, desir-
ing to see your dear face once more. They
wept over some of your letters, and laughed at
the rest.	*	* All of our friends want you
to come here next Spring and make them a

[Column 3]
visit. Caroline (his brother Solomon's wife)
says she will keep you three months or more,
and all our friends seem to have the same feel-
ing. They want me to go after you, which
would be a pleasure for me to do, but this will
not do; for my face is turned thitherward, for
he that looketh back is not fit for the kingdom
of heaven, and you would consider yourself
disgraced in the sight of God and man.
	"My dear Vilate, you know what we are
called to do; we will press forward to the mark
which is laid before us at the expense of all
things. I was thankful to God to hear of your
health, for I believe it is He who has raised
you and the children up, for when I was in the
town of Winchester, at Father Murray's, I had
such a travail of soul for you as I never had
before. I would go into the woods four and
five times a day to call on the Father in the
name of Jesus for you.. I saw you in a dream
in a sickly state, almost dead; I clasped my
hands on each side of your face and raised you
upon your feet. And since that I have felt
contented about you and the children; but once
in a while, being among our kindred, it brings
home back to me, and I feel a little homesick.
They are all pleading with me to stay till warm
weather, on account of my poor health. A
little fatigue brings me down again.	*	*	*
	Dear Vilate, I hardly know how to express
my joy, but  suffice it to say, on the first day of
the year one thousand eight hundred and forty
I went into the water and baptized William E.
Murray and wife, and they are rejoicing in
God. The weather was as cold as it was when
we joined ourselves to the Baptist church. They
are very faithful, and remember you in their
prayers. Your father says Gould can't begin
to pray like them; says it beats all that he
ever saw. He has become firm in the faith
and preaches it wherever he goes. He said to
me one day, "Heber, I am as good a 'Mormon'
as you are." He is a great advocate for this
work, and seems uneasy here, and wants to go
back to the West. Says he would not stay
here if he could have all the town of Victor,
for the people don't seem to him as they did.
Your brother Gould and wife are about the
same as ever, very proud.	*	*
	"Bring all the little chickens with you. Sis-
ter Eliza wonld like to have one of them come
there and go to school. Sister Malvina would
take one, and I will pay them for it. Now,
my dear Vilate, you know this would be better
than to have them strolling around the country.
Take counsel of some of our fathers in Israel,
and see what they think best to do, for in much
counsel there is safety. As for going to Kirt-
land to live, as things are now it is against my
will; for I had rather live in a cave, or be
driven with the Saints every year while I live,
and be one with them, than to have all the
good things of the earth and be at variance
one with the other as they are there. I had
rather go forth amongst the unbelieving Gen-
tiles, and suffer by them, than be among such
poeple as those who have named the name of
Mormon. I pray my heavenly Father to de-
liver me from such while I live. If it be pos-
sible let teh cup pass from me. Amen."
	My Grandfather Murray, though a believer
in this Gospel, had not obeyed the ordinance of
baptism; but when he went back with father to
visit his family and friends, he could see the
beauties of "Mormonism," which made him a
strong advocate; but he died there in Victor
not long after father left him, and on his death-
bed he expressed his sorrow at not rendering
obedience to its requriements.
			To be continued.


THE public schools of Boston employ
twelve hundred and seventy-six teachers, of
whom 198 are men and 1078 are women.


