UTAH LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY.

	The members of the Legislature of Utah
elected for the present session convened in the
Legislative Hall in this city on Monday, Jan. 9,
at 2 p. m. The Council and House both organ- 
ized permanently, and Acting Governor Thomas
administered the oath of membership to the
Legislators. After which a message from the
Council requested a joint session to receive the
Governor's Message. The joint session was or-
dered. Secretary Thomas, as Acting Governor,
then proceeded with the message and some other
written documents. We have neither the space
to give to the Governor's message nor the com-
ments which might with propriety be made
upon it, but would advise every woman inter-
ested in the general welfare of the Territory to
read it carefully for herself.
	Jan. 10. After some preliminary business had
been disposed of, the report of the committees
to draft rules for the government of the House
was rendered; rules read, and after a little dis-
cussion report was accepted, and it was ordered
that the rules be printed.
	Jan. 11. The day was occupied by the Legis-
lature mostly in the appointing of committees
for such adjudication as is necessary in the trans-’
action of special business.
	The Legislature seems already to be in work-
ing order, and from present indications a great
deal of good will be accomplished in a short
time.
	The ladies should manifest their interest in
the public good being done by these honorable
gentlemen by visiting the Assembly as circum-
stances may permit. Although the freedom of
the House or Council has not been extended to
ladies, yet as the women of Utah are entitled to
vote, they ought to be sufficiently interested in
the public welfare to avail themselves of any le-
gitimate opportunity of seeing how business of
this kind is transacted; in fact, how the laws are
made by which themselves and their children
are to be governed. The indifference manifested
by some intelligent persons, both men and wo-
men, to matters of vital importance is to be de-
plored, for as has been wisely and truly said
“Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty;" and
in our humble opinion, it is the vigilance of the
whole people, not of a few, that is needed to pre-
serve and maintain liberty.


