SOME FACTS.
	"Shall we continue in sin that grace may
abound? God forbid.
	The above Scripture verse was suggested to
my mind by an article in the Cincinnati Ga-
zette, in which the writer says, "The eyes of the
nation are turned in horror towards Utah."
Now, I thought, let me in imagination turn my
eyes that way and see if I experience any of
that horror. I have seen children in the twi-
light hour, play "booger men," enjoying the
"scart" feeling. So I wished to share the feel-
ing of horror just to see what the sensation is.
So turned my mental eyes towards Utah, and.
viewed in imagination the wives who receive
the sympathy or scorn of all Christendom.
Well to be honest, the feeling was more of won-
der than of horror. I wish I just knew how those
women do feel. Now I am not a Mormon;
and no doubt if some other woman was brought
into my house to share the rights; there would
be a fuss. But leaving myself entirely out of
the question, I wondered- is Mormonism such
a wicked, terrible affair? It sounds very nice
to tell about the love, the holy bond of union
between husband and wife, in the sacred institu-
tion of marriage, of two souls with but one
single thought &c. But upon looking into the
family relations of my personal friends about
me I am forced to acknowledge that "there is
something rotten in Denmark" here, for at
Mrs. V.'s there is no happiness, her husband
drinks, stays from home half the night in the
gambling room, although his home is made
cheerful and bright, and she is devoted heart
and hand to him. She depends so entirely on
him for her happiness, that his conduct is
breaking her heart. Mrs. Jones, another
neighbor, "has a notion to leave her husband
they are so unhappy together." Mrs. W., a
lady of refinement and a devoted wife and mo-
ther had to stand the shame of having a baby
laid upon her doorstep with the knowledge
that, though she was not its mother her hus-
band was its father. What has all this to do
with Mormonism? Some one asks. Well, let
us go still further and pry into the home mys-


teries of some of our newly married friends: We
find that in about the fifth year of their mar-
ried life, the wife begins to worry about
bearing children. Three out of every five,
say, "I'd be happy if I was just sure I would
not have any more children, but would rather
die than have another child." The husband in
sympathy for his wife, or in provocation denies
himself, or seeks satisfaction elsewhere, and a
change comes over the spirit of their dream of
married happiness. Now, though I consider it
injudicious to tell family secrets, yet am I for-
ced to acknowledge to the Mormon wives that
the cases cited are from real life! "Shall we
continue in sin that grace may abound? God
forbid. Happiness is to be desired, I think
God intended and wishes that his children
should be happy even here upon this earth.
How shall that happiness be secured? Will
Mormonism give it? Let some Mormon woman
be as honest as I have been, come out plainly,
deal in facts and tell the true state of affairs
there. Are you happy, Oh Women of Utah?
Some one has said: "Weak and timid minds are
content to hold an opinion, and not hold its
consequences. Strong and courageous minds
push things to their conclusions." Now, women
in Utah, I for one, am willing to push things to
conclusions. The strong arm of the law is
about to reach forth and take matters in hand,
but while it settles the case Cannon vs. Cam-
pbell we can talk over our domestic affairs
without disturbing anyone. Bring your knit-
ting and come over to spend the afternoon and
let's talk it over.
				EMILY SCOTT. (Gentile.)


