SOME FASHIONABLE DOINGS.

	An elegant residence on one of the fashion-
able streets of——was the scene, within the
past few days, of a party given in honor of the
young Miss of the household, who is just enter-
ing upon the giddy walk of a fashionable and
aimless life. This girl is not yet out of her
teens, and were she a member of one of the
old English households, she would still be in
her pinafores, with her mind occupied in useful
study, carefully chaperoned by an older and
wiser head, until such time as her mind and
body were mature enough to be trusted in so-
ciety. The father and mother of this girl are
considered people of common sense, and would
be surprised indeed if society should call them
to account for indiscretion, to say nothing of
wickedness; in their influence on the young
people invited to be their guests on the occasion
of their recent party. But if reports are true,
and they are certainly very reliable, the con-
duct permitted at this party was such as to
make every mother blush who allowed her son
or daughter to participate in the festivities.
Notwithstanding the fact that nearly every boy
and girl present were under twenty years of
age, a room up stairs was set apart by this
model (?) mother, this aristocratic hostess, for
the purpose of a general smoke. Cigarettes
were furnished, and both boys and girls repaired
thereto and smoked a la the lowest den in the
lowest part of a city. Only two present, a
young lady and her escort, refused to join the
upstairs company, their disgust being so great
that they declared, "If that is —— society, I
want none in mine." There is much more that
might be said upon this subject, and there is
much more that some parents in —— might
well open their eyes and see before it is too
late, with reference to the conduct of these
boys and girls who are "Germanizing" their
winter evenings and their morals away. One
thing is certain: when people pretending to so-
cial standing will set apart a "smoking room"
in a private house on the occasion of a select
party, when they allow boys and girls (and it is
no worse for the one than the other) to repair
to such a place and disease themselves with
poisoned cigarettes, something is wrong, and
respectable people ought to draw the lines on
these families and relegate them to the lower
strata of society, to which they properly belong,
notwithstanding the gilding of furniture and
assumed respectability. Every mother should
feel that her son or daughter were corrupted
by such associations, and ever debar them, in
the future, from the possibility of such under
the guise of fashionable respectability. If this
practice becomes common, the name of host
and hostess, as well as smokers, shall be given
to the readers of Our Herald without fear or
favor. Mothers who are so lost to all that is
decent as to permit and encourage such con-
duct from the young under their care, should
be held up to public gaze along with the saloon
keeper, who finishes the task of corrupting
those who began their downward course in the
homes of these women from whom society has
a right to expect something better.—H. M. G.
in Our Herald.


MISS M. E. Harding has taken the Queen's
gold medal, and Miss Constance Wood the
Queen's scholarship, in the competition at the 
London Female School of Art.—Ex.


