WALLSBURG.

	We have been favored with a visit from Sis-
ters M. I. Horne and E. Howard, and our
Stake President R. S., Sister Emma Brown.
The people convened at the Wallsburg school-
house at 6 o'clock, p. m., Nov. 14, 1881. Meet-
ing was opened with singing and prayer. Our
President, Sister E. Clifton, introduced to the
congregation Sister Horne, who gave us some
excellent counsel. Said she was pleased to see
so many of the brethren present, so that they
might be able to judge of the spirit of the sis-
ters, and hear what we teach their wives and
daughters. Spoke to the Secretaries about
keeping their books properly and being punc-
tual in making correct reports. Encouraged
the sisters to be prompt in attending their
meetings and faithful in teaching their chil-
dren in the principles of truth, and governing
their families with kindness and love. Spoke
of the outside influence creeping in amongst
us, and earnestly advised the boys and girls to
keep the Word of Wisdom, read useful books
and try to cultivate their minds, instead of
striving to follow after the fashions of the
world. Gave us much good instruction which
was calculated to strengthen and elevate us.
	Sister E. Howard was pleased to see so many
at meeting this cold night, and hoped we would
always be punctual in attending our meetings.
Said the sisters worked too hard and did not
devote time enough to improving their minds.
Appealed earnestly to the young boys; advised
them to be orderly and quiet while in the
house of worship and while going to and from
parties at night. Referred to the evil resulting
from the use of whiskey and tobacco. Advised
us to provide our children with suitable books
to read, and make their homes pleasant. En-
treated mothers to teach their children in the
ways of virtue and goodness, and exhorted us
to try and elevate ourselves in all things.
	Brother F. Kerby said he had listened with
great interest to the remarks of the sisters, and
felt to endorse all they had said. Bishop Nut-
tall felt thankful to the sisters for visiting us;
thanked them for the good counsel they had
given us, and hoped we would profit by the
same.
	The following morning, at 9 o'clock, the sis-
ters held a meeting with the Young Ladies'
and Primary Associations. Spoke very en-
couragingly to the children, and gave the young
ladies some excellent advice. By request of
our Bishop the Young Ladies' Association was
reorganized; officers: Mrs. Martha E. Timothy,
President; Miss Ada Glenn and Mrs. Martha
Nuttall, Counselors; Mrs. Zorah Glenn, Secre-
tary; Mrs. Martha Parcell, Assistant Secretary;
Mrs. Martha A. Cook, Treasurer.
	The sisters of Wallsburg have built a good
substantial lumber granary, 10x12, with good
bins and double floor, cost forty-one dollars;
built by donations. We have received on dona-
tions this season twenty-four bushels of wheat,
making in all 168. Ever praying for the wel-
fare of Zion, we remain your sisters in the Gos-
pel of truth,
			ELIZABETH CLIFTON, Pres't.
