EXTRACT FROM A LETTER.
			CONCORD, MIDDLESEX Co., Mass.,
										July 20, 1881.
Mrs. H.T.King:
	My Dear Friend--How I wish you were
here! for certainly you would thoroughly en-
joy this atmosphere of intellectual refinement.
You know Boston is the Athens of America,
and in Concord are the classic groves of the
modern Athens; for Boston approaches nearer
to the Athens of Socrates and Plato than any
other city in the world, and it would be diffi-
cult to find grander historic associations, or a
richer galaxy of great minds, that make Con-
cord one of the world's hallowed places. Here
was fired the shot that awakened the world to
a sense of their own individual rights; here
began that glorious struggle that gave liberty
to half the world, and revealed the goddess in
her true beauty to the other half.
	"Here, too, lived Hawthorne, our greatest
writer of romance, author of "The Scarlet
Letter," Marble Fawn," "House of Seven 
Gables," and a host of other works of marvel-
ous beauty. Yesterday I visited his grave, a
spot secluded on a hilltop, a beautiful valley
rolling away from its base, and over and around
it lofty pines bend  and sigh and sob, as if the
burdens of humanity had passed into them.
	Here too lived Thoreau, the American
Jean Jacques Rousseau; here, in lonely woods
on the shore of a fairy-like pond, he endeav-
ored to show us that man can be sufficient unto
himself without society.
	Here the Transcendental School met and
taught a new gospel	  *	     *	 	and
Margaret Fuller roused woman from her ob-
scure depths. Here lives our glorious, saintly
minstrel-seer, Emerson, ready now alas! to
sink into the grave. Still he comes sometimes
to our lectures, bringing with him an atmos-
phere of heaven. The bright, practical face of "Aunt Jo" is
seen also at our meetings. Of course you
know Louisa Alcott, authoress of "Little Wo-
men," "Old-fashioned Girl," &c Dear Aunt
Jo! beloved of every heart whether young or
old! We walked home with her one evening,
and she talks just as she writes. Her father,
A. Bronson Alcott, the patriarch of philoso-
phers, a grand old man of eighty years, as
fresh, as spiritual, as quaint as ever.
	Concord has always been a favorite resort of
literary people, of thinkers, and well it might;
its walks, shaded with elms, some of them two
hundred years old, its woods and fairy-like
lakes (they call them ponds here), its hills and
undulating fields, its beautiful homes and its
quiet and repose, although only twenty miles
from Boston, a dozen or so of trains passing
every day, yet it is as calm and peaceful as a
country village.
	I have kept the great thing for the last. In
this quiet rural nook, possessing at most 2500
souls, is a free public library of 1600 volumes.
	I know I shall feel homesick when the mo-
ment of departure comes, as it will in a few weeks.
	And now, I suppose you are aweary of Con-
cord. As to the School of Philosophy, I send
you a list of the subjects discussed. If you
would like to read the newspaper reports of
any of them I can send them to you; I am
keeping them all, one or two excepted, and
those I shall try to get.
	And now, my dear friend, how are you?
physically, I mean, for your mental condition
is ever fresh and active--witness those articles
on Disaraeli. Was the poem, "Reminiscences,"
a late work , or is it of an earlier date? It
touched me very much.
	As far as regards Disraeli, I am not really
an enthusiast; certainly I admire him as a man
of strange destinies, an historical phenomenon,
so to speak, but being a liberal heart and soul.

[Column 2]
I was rather glad to see the helm of state pass
to the conservatives. Are you at all interested
in the great movements that are now agitating
the Northern States of Europe? It seems to
me that a great struggle is preparing; what its
issue will be we cannot well say but one thing
is certain, the birth of liberty for all the world
is at hand.
	The next great question after Nihilism, is
the revision of the New Testament. For some
weeks before my departure from Romeo, the
revision was the one absorbing theme. Will
you give me your ideas upon it? I will write
mine and send them to you at my first leisure.
Some of them seem to me quite radical.
				Yours affectionately,
