						HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]
	A ﻿DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.
		Zina D. H. Young
			CONTINUED.
	Under the able management of Sister Zina,
and the board of officers cooperating together,
a great deal of good was accomplished in seri-
culture after the organization of the Deseret
Silk Association. Mulberry trees were planted
and cocoons raised in every part of the Terri-
tory where the climate would permit. A good
article of silk was manufactured without ma-
chinery, or with such as could be obtained at
home. The enterprise grew and increased
while Sister Zina labored indefatigably for its
promotion. Her labors were of such a char-
acter that, looking back upon them to-day,
one might think they were of little consequence;
but those who know what it is to begin with
nothing and found any business, or industry,
will be able to comprehend something of the
difficulties and obstacles to be overcome in
making a thing of this kind successful. The
details of such work can never be given; the
amount of energy expended, or brain force
brought to bear upon the subject in laboring
to make its advantages understood.
	In all departments of woman's labor for the
public good, Sister Zina has been found at her
post, doing her share of active work in the best
manner possible. She has traveled much and
widely among the different settlements, visiting
the organized societies, or assisting Sister Eliza
or the local authorities in organizing. Wher-
ever woman's help is needed in any public in-
terest for the good of Zion, there she is to be
found laboring with zeal and her utmost ability,
side by side with Sister Eliza, for the advance-
ment of truth.

[Column 2]
	At a Mass Meeting of ladies in this city;
held Nov. 16, 1878, Sister Zina delivered a
very eloquent impromptu address, and perhaps
it would not be amiss at the present time to
make an extract therefrom. The address was
favorably commented upon by the press abroad:
	"The principle of our holy religion that is
assailed is one that lies deep in my heart.
Could I ask the heavens to listen; could I be-
seech the earth to be still, and the brave men
who possess the spirit of a Washington to hear
what I am about to say. I am a daughter of
a Master Mason! I am the widow of a Master
Mason, who, when leaping from the window of
Carthage Jail pierced with bullets, made the
Masonic sign of distress; but, gentlemen, (ad-
dressing the representatives of the press that
were present) those signs were not heeded, ex-
cept by the God of heaven. That man, the
Prophet of the Almighty, was massacred with-
out mercy!  *  *  Sisters, this is the first
time in my life that I have dared to give utter-
ance to this fact, but I thought I could trust
my soul to say it on this occasion; and I say it
now in the fear of Israel's God. and I say it in
the presence of these gentlemen, and I wish
my voice could be heard by the whole brother-
hood of Masons throughout our proud land.
That institution I honor. If its principles
were practised and strictly adhered to, would
there be a trespass upon virtue? No indeed.
Would the honorable wife or daughter be in-
truded upon with impunity? Nay, verily.
Would that the ladies of America, with the
honorable Mrs. Hayes at their head; would that
the Congress of the United States, the law-
makers of our nation, could produce a balm for
the many evils which exist in our land through
the abuse of virtue, or could so legislate that
virtue could be protected and cherished as the
life which heaven has given us! We, in com-
mon with many women throughout our broad
land, would hail with joy the approach of such
deliverance, for such  is the deliverance that
woman needs.
	"The principle of plural marriage is honor-
able; it is a principle of the Gods, it is heaven-
born. God revealed it to us among other
things as a saving principle; we have accepted
it as such, and we know it is of Him, for the
fruits of it are holy. Worthy men and women
of old practised it, even the Savior himself
traces his lineage back to polygamic parents.
	We are proud of the principle, because we
understand its true worth, and we want our
children to practice it, that through us a race
of men and women may grow up possessing
sound minds in sound bodies, who shall live to
the age of a tree.'"
	This is only a part of one of Mrs. Young's
speeches, but will give the reader perhaps some
idea of the ability of the lady as a public
speaker. Had she been educated for the plat-
form, and spoken upon other subjects, she
would doubtless have received many encomiums
of praise and won distinction in the lecture
field; but being only a "Mormon;" she is con-
tent with the love of her own people, and am-
bition to do good to others inspires her to move
forward wherever duty calls her for the benefit
of womankind and the interests of Zion. And
in pursuing this course she finds her highest
happiness.
	During the summer of 1879 Sister Zina's
health seemed to demand a change of climate
and of scene, and she decided to take a trip to
the Sandwich Islands to recuperate. She was
accompanied by Miss Susie Young, one of the
daughters of Prest. B. Young. While away
on this tour she met many people of note, to
whom she had an opportunity of speaking upon
the principles of our religion, and she distrib-
uted many books and tracts setting forth cor-
rect ideas of our faith and of our people gen-
erally. Great respect was paid to her every-
where, and upon the Hawaiian Islands she was
almost constantly feted and honored by the af-
fectionate and simple-minded natives. She as-
sisted the native members of the Church there
in getting an organ for use in their meetings
and Sunday Schools, and contributed liberally
for other benevolent purposes. In fact, Sister
Zina has always given liberally to the poor
aod for public benefits. No woman in Israel,
perhaps, has more friends among the poor than
she has, for she possesses that ready tact of
sayling kind words and pleasant things at a
happy time, besides having the faculty of giv-
ing alms gracefully.
	Her visit to the Sandwich Islands greatly
improved her health, and on returning home
she commenced laboring again in her active
public duties.
			To be continued.


