MARRIAGE.

	As the Leaders, or authorities of our nation
are seeking to bring us into bondage, except
we repudiate that sacred and vital principle of
our religion, viz., Plural Marriage, I feel like
taking up my pen in its defense, knowing that
God has revealed it to his Saints for their ex-
altation and also to purity the earth of the evils
and abominations under which it groans, at the
present time. There is a disposition among some
of our young people to deride and deny the di-
vine origin of that principle; trying to make
themselves believe that man was the originator;
Satan is putting these thoughts in their minds,
that he may gain power over them and thereby
use them as his tools in warring against that
Holy Order, for he hates it, because it came
from heaven and is calculated to redeem man-
kind from their low and degraded state, and
loosen his power and hold upon them; and be-
cause God has designed it as a means whereby
He may raise up a righteous seed in the earth,
that those noble spirits which He has held in
reserve, may have pure tabernacles, that they
may come with their heavenly power, and war
against sin and wickedness, even until Satan
and his emissaries are bound so that they have
no more power over the Saints. For there will
be a mighty power wielded, by those who are

[Column 2]
born in that Order, even such as has not been
known among the children of men, for the rea-
son, that there is a greater work to be done in
the last days than ever has been done before in
the history of the world. The wicked who are
plotting against us have no more conception of
the purity of motives of the men and women
who enter Plural Marriage, than they who
dwell in the infernal regions, know the feel-
ings and desires which actuate heavenly beings.
They judge us by the thoughts and desires of
their own corrupt hearts, whose imaginations
are evil continually, and it is a noted fact, that
the most corrupt and licentious are the ones
who are the most bitter against us, and who
propose the severest measures to do away with
our peculiar marriage institution. That one
fact should be a great proof of its purity and
truth, because like cleaves to like, and if it were
sinful in its nature the wicked would love it.
They do not labor so hard to do away with the
Social Evil, with all its train of crimes, because
that accords with their desires and practices
giving full license to their unhallowed appetites
and they will license that which degrades wo-
man and shortens her life, while they would
even use the sword to compel us to abandon
those principles, which are calculated to pro-
mote life, health and happiness and people the
earth with a superior race of beings. God has
implanted in the heart of every true woman a
desire to become a wife and mother, and it is
her inalienable right, but according to the sta-
ticties, there are so many thousands more wo-
men than men, and because of the proscriptive
laws enacted by men, it is impossible for that
righteous desire to be gratified, and there are
thousands of women who go to the grave un-
married, and many thousands more who are
ruined and forsaken to lead lives of shame and
perhaps die in the street, who would love home,
husband and children, as well as you or I, and
would make as good wives, if that sacred right
were only granted them. Let the young pon-
der upon these things, and the Spirit of God
will bear testimony to their spirits, that they
are true, for just as sure as God has spoken
from the heavens in this our day, so sure is
Plural Marriage one of the principles He has
commanded his children to obey, and none can
disobey it, and be exalted in His presence; He
has spoken it, and His word cannot fail.
	Many profess to believe in every principle of
our religion. Plural Marriage excepted, what
an inconsistency! believe that a man can be a
prophet of God and yet practice sin? I could
believe no such thing. It must either all be
true, or all false, But we know our religion is
true in its entirety, because the fruits thereof
are peace, joy and happiness here in this life,
and the Savior said, "a tree is known by its
fruits, men do not gather grapes of thorns nor
figs of thristles." We the daughters of Zion
are going to step forward, and stand side by
side with our brothers, in upholding every doc-
trine of our Church, Plural Marriage included,
and we will say to our sisters 'come share with
me, my husband and home and we will love
each other, and labor for each other's welfare
as we do for our own." We will show to the
world that we live in that order from choice,
not from compulsion, and we will continue to
bear testimony that God's special blessings rest
upon those who are striving to live that Holy
Order in purity before Him.
