PLAIN CITY.

	Primary Association of Plain City held a
Conference in the schoolhouse Dec. 24, 1881.
Sister Susannah Robinson presiding. Sing-
ing, "In the chambers of the mountains."
Prayer by Bishop Shurtliff, Singing, "Live
for something." Minutes of the previous
meeting read and accepted. Present on the
stand, Sister Josephine West, President of P.
A. Weber Stake, and her Counselors, and also
Bishop Shurtliff and Counselors, of Plain City.
Recitation by Caroline Peterson and Margaret
Geddes, "What was witnessed in the heavens."
Recitation by Patrina Folkman, "Saturday
night." Song by Annie and Eliza Green,
"Happy greeting to all." Recitation by Lewis
Jenkins, "Joseph Smith's first prayer." Reci-
tation by Annie Poulson, "Faith in God."
Recitation by Orson Raymond, "I'm not too
young." Recitation by Caroline Folkman,
"Am I a soldier of the cross?" A dialogue
was then recited by five girls and four boys,
entitled "The young missionary." Essay on
"Love," by Orson Folkman. Recitation by
Joseph Richardson, "The crucifixion of Christ."
Recitation by Margaret Folkman, "There's
millions in it." Recitation by Josephine Folk-
man. "On the raft." Recitation by Ezra
Richardson, "Celestial Marriage." Song by
Elenora Winger and Annie Lund, "I think
when I read that sweet story of old." A dia-
logue was then recited by Samuel Eames and
Joseph Folkman, "Mormonism."
	Sisters West, Stanford and Canfield gave
some very excellent instruction to the children.
They were pleased with the exercises; said we
were as far advanced as any other Association
they had visited.
	Bishop Shurtliff then addressed the children.
Said he was pleased to meet in the Conference
of our little folks; could see an improvement
in the children since their organization; con-
sidered it a stepping stone to other positions in
this Church; was pleased to see our sisters

[Column 2]
present with us, and was very pleased with the
exercises, etc.
	Sister Susannah Robinson made some appro-
priate remarks, and closed by asking God to
bless us all.
	Members enrolled, 110. Conference was
then adjourned for three months. Singing,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Benediction by Brother Spires.
	Susannah Robinson, President, Charlotte
Swinson and Trena Folkman, Counselors; Jo-
sephine Christenson, Secretary; Annie Green,
Assistant Secretary.

