AT A WOMANS MEETING DEC. 3, 1881.

	Mrs. Williams said she rejoiced in the privi-
lege of mingling her voice with her sisters in
Salt Lake City. Said the same spirit pervaded
the assemblies of the Saints in Provo that
reigned here. Spoke eloquently upon the prin-
ciple of Celestial Marriage. Said our enemies
are seeking to uproot and destroy that vital
principle of our religion, and we, the daugh-
ters of Zion, should step forth and use all our
powers to maintain it. We should teach our
children that it is a pure and holy order, and
will exalt and ennoble all who live it accord-
ing to the spirit thereof. When selfishness is
put away, and we can love our sisters as our-
selves, then we can be happy. What is going
to stay the terrible tide of corruption which is
sweeping over the earth? Nothing but that
same holy principle; for the leading minds of
the age have labored in vain, while wickedness
is increasing daily and hourly; Mothers, Satan
is seeking to destroy our children; let us be on
our guard, that we may prepare them to take
the places of the older ones who are continu-
ally passing away.
	We all have trials to pass through, but we
should not sit down and fold our hands, allow-
ing them to curtail our usefulness. Let us ask
God to give us strength to bear what He gives
us to bear, working faithfully and unceasingly
to further the advancement of this great work,
which is committed to our charge. We should
also train our children to habits of industry,
which will save them from many evils.
	Alluded to the Brigham Young Academy in
Provo. Said God was with and blessed those
who acted as teachers there. That is the school
where parents can send their children, and be
sure their hearts will be educated as well as
their brain.					M. A. B. F.


LADY Duffus Hardy tells her readers in
England that if any one travels in America in
perfect comfort and freedom from anxiety, it is
the unprotected woman, to whom all men yield
deference and respectful assistance. She is
very sorry  her own countrymen are not always
decent and polite at such times.—Ex.
 THE alleged decree excluding women from
public offices will displace women from the post-
offices of Richmond, Va., and Louisville, Ky.,
who fill these positions so acceptably that no
ground of removal can be found except their
sex. It will displace hundred of widows, to
make places for office hunters. This infamous
order will strike Miss Sweet, pension agent of
Chicago, who has filled the position with great
ability for many years. But it will serve a
purpose in showing the uneven chance a wo-
man has for place and position just because of
her disfranchisement.—Ex.


