GOOD RESOLUTIONS.

	The beginning of the new year is the time
of all times when one feels like making good
resolutions; to renew courage and strength for
the battle of life. It is like turning a pleasant
corner when tired of a rough road, and look-
ing forward one anticipates smoother traveling.
Hopeful people are sure to feel buoyed up, and
new aspirations are often born in the soul.
Desires to obtain knowledge, to be more dili-
gent in the path of duty, to persevere in re-
moving obstacles that beset and hinder us in
the accomplishment. of the good we are striving
for. There is always, silently at least, a hope
that the new year will bring more of happi-
ness than of sorrow, and that we may make
steady, if not rapid improvement and growth
in those things that seem to us most desirable
to attain to. Many promises made in good
faith may be broken, and no doubt are, but
a little good seed is perchance sown even by
promising one's self, for an exertion to do good
and overcome the evil must be more or less
beneficial. We are in some measure the crea-
tures of circumstances, and as Paul said,
"When we would do good evil is present with
us," yet by great efforts and continuous persis-
tence, a few, yes many, attain to a very high
standard of excellence. Others look on per-
haps and think it was very easy for that person
to be good, everything favored the condition.
Such may be the case in some instances, but
one cannot judge by appearances. The rough
road may have been uncomplainingly traveled,
and not even a sigh have given token of the
wounds or distress experienced, but only the
one who knows the secrets of all hearts, has
been the witness of the self-denial, the earnest
prayers offered up for strength to overcome.
	It is a blessing to us all that we have times
and seasons that seem to be special reminders
of the duties we owe to each other, to ourselves
and to Our Father in heaven. And for this
reason if for no other the New Year should
bring joy and gladness. Good resolutions are
the awakening of the soul to a higher and better
standard and indeed they may be called step-
ping stones to a clearer and brighter atmosphere.
There are discouragements to be sure even
when one has gained some foothold in the right
direction for there are many alluring ways with
attractive sign-posts which lead hither and
thither that will tell the earnest toiler, "this is
the way to wealth," and "this is the sure path
to honor, but turning not aside to gather
wealth, or honor, or fame that is not honestly
earned, but by persevering in the path of duty,
and of that duty which is plainest and clearest
to the understanding, "seek first the kingdom
of God," and all other things shall be added in
due time. And while endeavoring to pursue
the way of eternal life, resolve to aid others in
their efforts to overcome weaknesses and resist
temptation, for this is true charity.
	The young are the ones who generally make
more good resolutions at the beginning of the
new year; and it is beautiful to witness how full
of fresh vigor, and earnest faith they enter up-
on the task of fulfilling the promises they make.
Are we older folks as watchful for the welfare
of the young as we should be? Do we seek to
point out the shoals and quicksands to them,
ere they have ventured too far? And when


they have formed good resolutions do we help
them to carry them out in their lives? Let us
consider these things and ponder them in our
hearts. There is a broad, a grand field open to
labor in, for all who will form the good resolu-
tion to help the young--for every effort that
can be devised seems to have been directed to-
wards leading the minds of the young people of
this generation into forbidden paths. Allure-
ments and attractions on every hand, and it be-
hooves every mother in her own home and
every woman everywhere who has courage,
capactiy and ability to labor in the interest of
the rising generation to rouse themselves, and
see what can be done to stem the tide of wicked-
ness, and if possible save many from misery
and unhappiness, which is sure to be the result
of the vices which are gaining ground so rap-
idly in the earth.
