EXTRACT.

From the Speech of Senator Morgan, of Alabama,
on the Question of Woman Suffrage in the
Senate of the United States, Dec. 20, 1881.

	"Let us look for a moment at the result of wo-
man suffrage in some of the Territories. I
have read to you the act of 1850, organizing
the Territory of Utah. The Territorial Legis-
lature has gone forward and conferred the right
of suffrage upon the women of Utah Territory.
The population of Utah Territory in the last
decade has reached from 64,000, I believe, to
about 150,000; I cannot state the figures ex-
actly. The Territorial Legislature of Utah
conferred upon the females of that Territory
the right of suffrage, and how have they ex-
erted that right? Sir, I am ashamed to say it,
but it is known to the world that the power of
Mormonism and polygamy in Utah Territory
is sustained by female suffrage. You cannot
get rid of those laws. Ninety per cent. of the
legislative power of Utah Territory is Mormon
and polygamous. If female suffrage is to be
incoporated into the laws of our country with a 
view to the amelioration of our morals or our po-
litcal sentiments, we stand aghast at the spectacle
of what has been wrought by its exercise in the
Territory of Utah. There stands a power sup-
porting the crime of polygamy through what
they call a divine inspiration, or teaching from
God, and all the power of the judges of the
United States and  the Congress of the
United States has been unabailing to break it
down. Who have upheld it? Those who in
the family circle represent one husband to fif-
teen women. 
	Utah Territory is increasing continually in 
its population and with great rapidity. There
is not such a missionary establishment in the
world belonging to any church whatsoever as
that connected with the Mormon church. It
is part of their creed that all those who have
united with the church of the Latter-day Saints
shall be brought personally into the Territory
of Utah, and there planted round the temples
in which they profess to worship. A continual
and rapid accumulation of the power of the
church and of polygamy is going on, and when
the Gentiles, as they are called, enter the Ter-
ritory with the view of breaking it up they are 
confronted by the women, who are allowed to 
vote, and from whom we should naturally ex-
pect a better and  higher morality in reference
to subjects of the kind. But this only shows 
the power of men over women. It only shows
how through her tender affections, her delicate
sensibilities, and her confiding spirit she can be 
made the very slave and bond-servant of man,
and can scarcely ever be made an independent
participant in the stronger exercise of the pow-
ers which God seems to have intrusted to him.
Never was there a picture more disgusting or
more condemnatory of the extension of the
franchise to women as contradistinguished from
men then is presented in the Territory of Utah
to-day."
	The paragraph quoted above should be care-
fully read by every woman in Utah who holds
dear her family relations and the right of suf-
frage. Why should "Mormon" Women not
vote conscientiously? Can any one give a good
reason for voting against what they believe to
be their highest interest? They vote for the
men whom they have known to be true and up-
right and who will maintain the best interests
of the Territory to the utmost of their ability;
and is not this the proper use of the ballot in
the hands of men or women?
	These remarks were brought out when Sen-
ator Hoar, of Mass., called up the resolution for 
appointing a special committee on Woman Suf-
frage. This resolution reads as follows:
	Resolved, That a select committee of seven 
Senators be appointed by the Chair, to which
should be referred all petitions, bills and resolves
providing for the extension of suffrage to women
or the removal of their disabilities.
	For the courtesy and presistent exertions
made by the Senator Hoar of Mass., in behalf of 
the rights of all the women of the United
States, he deserves their everlasting gratitude;
and the highest position which the votes of wo-
en could insure him when--women are per-
mitted to cast a vote for the Chief Executive
of the nation.
	Senator Hoar's request for a committee on
Woman Suffrage having been granted and a
committee appointed, Senator Morgan comes
forward again and offers a resolution, direct-
ing the special committee on woman suffrage to
inquire into the matter of suffrage in Utah and
report a bill to set aside any existing laws con-
ferring suffrage upon women of that Territory.
The resolution was laid over to be printed.
	The special committee appointed by the pre-
sident pro tem. on rights of women are Senators
Lapham, Anthony, Ferry, Blair, George,
Jackson and Fair.


