HOME AFFAIRS.

   GOVERNOR Murray is in Washington, and of
course using his influence against the "Mormons."
Judge Hunter is also there, and it is said His
Excellency and the Chief Justice are not the
best of friends.
   WE received a pleasant call on Saturday, the
14th inst., from Miss Ida Ione Cooke, Principal
of the Brigham Young College at Logan. She
gives a good report of the condition of the Semi-
nary, and also of the Y. L. M. I. A. in Cache
County.
   THERE will be a Conference of the Young Peo-
ple's Associations of this Stake of Zion held in
the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, Sunday, Jan. 22.
It will no doubt be an interesting meeting, and
al who have the future interest of Zion at heart
should attend if possible.
   THE Y. L. M. I. A. of the 17th Ward was re-
organized Tuesday, Jan. 3; Mrs. Maria Y. Dou-
gall, President; Mrs. Annie E. Hyde and Miss
Belle Clayton, Counselors; Miss E. A. Davis,
Secretary; Miss  Zina Hyde, Treasurer.  Some new
members have been enrolled.  Two meetings
have already been held since the organization,
at the residence of Mrs. Dougall, and there
seems to be a renewal of interest in the work of
improvement.
   THE Gardo House, which has been some
time in preparation, is at last occupied by the
President of the church, who held a reception
suitable to the celebration of such an event on
New Year's Day. About two thousand people
at that time shook hands with President Taylor,
wishing him a Happy New Year and many of
them in his new home, and afterwards partook
of delicious refreshments served for the occasion.
A few of his friends remained to dine with him.
We add our congratulations to those of thou-
sands of others, and with the President prosper-
ity and happiness, the favor of God and the love
of the Latter-day Saints.
   THE anniversary of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Tenth Ward of this city was celebrated on
Thursday, Jan. 12; meeting was held in the
schoolhouse at 2 p. m., Mrs. M. J. Pierce presid-
ing.  Minutes of previous annual meeting were
read and accepted.  Addresses upon subjects of
special importance to the young were given by
Sisters M. A. B. Freeze, M. I. Horne and E. B.
Wells, following which seven of the young lady
members made a few brief remarks.  Counselor
James Woods occupied a short time in speaking,
and the President, Mrs. Pierce, made a few clos-
ing remarks, expressing her gratitude to the sis-
ters who had come to encourage them in their
Association.  A party was given in the evening
in honor of the anniversay.
 AT the recent Stake Conference in this city
the dedication of the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
took place, on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 8, with
appropriate services.  The choir sang the hymn,
"This house we dedicate to thee." President
Joseph F Smith offered the dedicatory prayer,
and in the most humble and earnest manner
dedicated the building, including every part and
portion thereof, to the Lord. The choir then
sang, "He died, the great Redeemer died." The
sacrament was administered, and Apostle Eras-
tus Snow first addressed the congregation, and
was followed by President John Taylor, who
spoke with great power concerning the affairs of
the nation. Choir sang  the anthem, "Awake,
put on thy strength, O Zion."
   A primary Association was organized in the
Seventh Ward Wednesday Jan. 4, 1882.  Bishop
Thorne and Counselors were present, and Mrs.
Alice Nedham Pres. of the Relief Society of the
Ward. her board of officers and many of the mem-
bers.  Sisters M. I. Horne, E. Howard, E. B.
Wells and Louie Felt, were present by invitation.
   The following officers were elected Mrs. Wells


officiating in the organization. Minnie He
James President, Jane Jones and Ellen Broad-
bent, Counselors, Alice McLach[-]in, Secretary,
Mary Alice Lambert Assistant Secretary, John
W. Walker, Treasurer. Eighty-six members
were enrolled. Remarks were made sutiable to
the occasion by Sisters Louie Felt and E.
Howard.
	The meeting was adjourned and the Annual
meeting of the Relief Socitey was held at the
same place at 4 o'clock P. M., Mrs. Alice Need-
ham presiding. Minutes were read and also an
annual report, which was very creditable indeed,
showing that the sisters in that ward had been
actively engaged in doing good, and helping to
build up Zion. Bishop Thorne and Counselors
seemed much pleased with the day's proceedings,
and expressed a good feeling and interest in the
work of these organizations.


