[Vol23 | January 1936 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]
Kimball, Poem Contest Committee Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Cottonwood Stake COTTON WOOD Stake is especially proud of its Maternity Hospital, which was founded a little more than ten years ago, under the direction and supervision of the Relief Society of Cottonwood Stake. It is located at 414
East 56th South Street, Murray, Utah, away from the busy din of a much traveled thoroughfare. The institution owes much of its success to the fine supervision, executive ability and untiring efforts of the women directing it. At present Sister Lovina H. McMillan, president of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and her board members, are supervisors of the institution, with the first counselor, Lyle M. Berry in charge. During the past year there were two hundred and twenty-one births, with three sets of twins. More than two thousand children have been born in the institution. Patients from all parts of Utah and some from Idaho, Colorado, Nevada and Wyoming have patronized it. During the past year, two hundred and forty new articles were made, in addition to mending and repairing articles necessary in the hospital. This was accomplished at the Work and Business Meeting of Relief Society. The sisters also put up seven hundred quarts of fresh fruits, jams, pickles and relishes for use in the hospital. The public clinic in connection with the hospital has successfully served mothers in the work done among the pre-school children. Following the close of the hospital clinic the work was carried on in the City Hall by Murray City. The Salt Lake County Health Department has cooperated splendidly in providing the nursing service. The clinic is held on the first and third Thursday of each month, and funds from the Relief Society are provided through the Wheat Trust Fund. The clinic has been of inestimable value to the mothers of the community, and during the last year conducted examinations of 120 children, 66 new babies, and gave 368 physical examinations. Following the suggestion of the General Board the Relief Society instituted a Stake Library, which was organized and conducted by Sister Jane P. Bowers of the Stake Board, who is also the librarian and Magazine Agent. This work is conducted each month through regular classes in the Union Meetings. The newest methods of handling library work are being studied and given to the sisters. The Relief Society of the stake is very much pleased with the Project. The stake board purchased Aids to the Project enough to provide each pair of Visiting Teachers with a copy, and in some of the wards enough copies were given so that each Relief Society member might have one. North Weber Stake MOST interesting project was put into effect by the North Weber Stake. This took the form of a remodeling school sponsored by the Home and Community section of the Wilson Farm Bureau, with the Wilson Ward Relief So- 

  ciety cooperating. The school was conducted two days a week for three. Weeks. It included practical work of cleaning, pressing, cutting and sewing, as well as part of the time being given to a discussion of possibilities of remodeling, workmanship, finishes, color, line, design and pattern alterations.
Local leaders secured several long work-tables, and sent their own machines to the ward hall for public use during these classes. Two women were appointed each work day as hostesses to take Stake was very interesting and profitable, and Winter work started with characteristic spirit and was carried through to a most successful conclusion. The Magazine Drive was started with the play as outlined in the Magazine, and the accompanying picture the St. George South Ward in costume, together with the Ward Presidency. On Saturday, June 22, a most delightful outing was held.
This took the form of a teachers' convention, though all the members of the Relief Society were invited NORTH WEBER STAKE charge of the work program, to make arrangements for luncheon and entertainment of the young children' while their mothers were at work. Two trained demonstrators coming from the Utah Agricultural College were unable to take care of the great numbers of women who came, so local women were called to assist.
Garments of every description were re-made, ranging from ladies' dresses and coats to children's overcoats and suits. St. George Stake URING the last year the Summer activity of the St.
George and participated. The group met at the recreation center in Pine Valley, and more than 260 responded from the eleven wards in the stake. Central Ward, with an enrollment of 17 had 15 present; Leeds Ward with 25, had its entire membership in attendance; while St. George West Ward had 55, and other wards had an excellent representation. At the outdoor amphitheater each ward contributed one number toward the program.
