THE BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.

	There is a subject of vital importance to the
mothers of Utah—it is the educating of our
children. "Where shall I send my children to
school?" Is a question that vexes many a moth-
er’s brain, and with good reason; for often to
the sorrow of parents it is discovered too late
that the jewels given us from God, whose purity
we have so carefully guarded at home, have
become sullied by the pernicious influences of
bad associates found in the schoolroom.
	Can this be overcome? Yes. By what
means? By having our every action guided by
the Spirit of God. The mother needs it at
home, every day, every hour; her influence and
teachings are the foundation upon which the
teacher must build.
	Next to her influence comes that of the
teacher. If both are guided by divine inspira-
tion, we may expect but one result—the rear-
ing of children who are prepared to labor suc-
cessfully in Christ’s kingdom; being taught cor-
rect principles, they are able to govern them-
selves.
	But a reformation must take place in the
schoolroom, as in many other places among
the Latter-day Saints. It will be met as all
things and all persons are who take upon them
the mantle of Christ. If they follow his ex-
ample they must look for like experiences. On
the earth a constant struggle, in heaven eternal
joy.
	This reformation has commenced, my sisters.
	Where? some may ask. In the noble monu-
ment of love and wisdom left to bless God’s
people—the Brigham Young Academy. This
institution was founded by President Brigham
Young in 1876. He endowed it with a build-
ing for school purposes, and had made provision
for its support from other sources, but, in the
wise providences of the Lord, these endow-
ments were not consummated by him, so that
the school has but the building it can call its
own, and is supported by tuition fees alone;
which is something unparalleled in the history
of such an institution. But all is right, for
God will toke care of that which is established
to carry on his work.
	Let me consider all the readers of this price-
less little paper as one person. Together we
will visit, examine and learn of the real work-
ings of this school. The bell rings a hearty
peal at half past eight; the streets are alive
with scholars, from the little ones six years did
up to young men and maidens in their teens
and twenties.
	How happy, intelligent and orderly they are
(over four hundred pupils have attended this
year). One and all ascend the stairs. All is
subdued and quiet. A few words of general
instruction for the day from our beloved prin-
cipal, and the choir sings a hymn or anthem;
the bell taps, and all rise to their feet, when
one of the young students is called upon to
pray; an earnest and heartfelt appeal to "Him
who rules on high," for guidance through the
day and the scholars are dismissed to their sev-
eral departments for theological exercises, which
consist of three grades, the Primary, Interme-
diate and Advanced. We will follow the Pri-
mary and see how the little ones enjoy the
principles of the holy Gospel. Now all is
quiet. Brother Tanner (a student of the B.
Y. Academy, who is now the teacher of the
Academic Department) tells some incident in
the life of our Savior, or one of the parables,
in simple and effective language, drawing a
map of the Holy Land on the board, to illus-
trate his subject. The little ones are asked to
volunteer to tell the story over in their own
simple way. Ah! what happiness to see how
eager, how delighted they are with all the
beautiful truths taught in such a way that even
the smallest can understand.

To be Continued.


