ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

	This eminent and highly cultured lady is
perhaps more widely known,here and abroad,
than any women in the Church of Latter-day
Saints. She occupies the highest position
among the sisters, and may with all propriety
be designated, "The Elect Lady." Sister Eliza
is a woman of the strongest mental powers; of
sterling and unflinching integrity, and is val-
iant for the cause of truth and liberty. In fact
no better type can be given of historically famous
Pilgrim mothers, than the remarkable woman
whose life and works form the subject of this
sketch. She possesses in a high degree the
same striking energy of character, tenacity of
purpose and perseverance under accumulated
difficulties as the heroic foremothers of New
England, from whom she is descended, Indus-
try and economy have gone hand in hand with
her through life. She may justly be termed a
disciplinarian; is ever punctual to a moment,
has order very largely developed and remark-
able power of concentration, combined with
excellent ability; these with almost perfect self-
control, great decision of character and a reso-
lute will make her pre-eminently a leader. Jus-
tice is one of her strong points and she often
says "Justice before mercy."	In any age or in any country she must have
been a superior woman, but with the peculiar
experiences of Mormonism, she is lifted far
above anything she could possibly have at-
tained in the world. One of the most powerful
attributes of her nature is a sublime reverence
for the Deity and all that pertains to religion
and an exalted life. This combined with her
other qualifications for leadership peculiarly fit
her for the high and holy callings of Priestess
and Mother in Israel in the new and last dis-
pensation. Not only has she been elected by
the people and ordained and set apart to ex-
pound the Scriptures and preside over the
sisters in their various organizations by the
Servant of God, who holds the office of Prophet,
Seer and Revelator, to the Church of Christ
here upon the earth, but she has been baptized
as by fire and sanctified through suffering of
the keenest and severest character. These try-
ing ordeals have lifted her into the atmosphere
of a higher life, and consecrated and endowed
her for her ministerial work in the broadest
fields of labor, the hearts and homes of the
people.
	Think not gentle friends that this exclusive
devotion to the interests of the kingdom of God,
bringing this heroic woman as it does constantly
out before the public,is unaccompanied by daily
sacrifice. Her heart has the same holy aspira-
tions, the same tender womanly sympathies and
appreciations of the enjoyments of home and its
solid attractions, as that of her sister woman;
but these must not, she will not suffer them to
come between her and her life-work. She is
wedded to her sacred and holy mission: to

[Column 2]
minister to humanity in every condition of life
where woman can comfort, bless, sustain and
elevate.
	I have said so much of Sister Eliza not for
those who know her intimately, but who hear
of her as a representative woman and know
little of her real self and her individual life.
	Eliza Roxie Snow was born in Becket, Berk-
shire Co. Mass. Her parents were Oliver Snow
of Mass., and Rosetta Leonora Pettibone of
Conn. They were of English descent their
forefathers emigrating to America at a very
early period. In 1806 Mr. Snow moved with
his family to Ohio, and settled in Mantua
Portage Co. Being a man of sound judgment
and good ability as well as education he filled
several offices of emolument and trust in the
gift of the people, his daughter Eliza at quite
an early age officiating as his secretary. Mrs.
Snow like a wise and judicious mother deter-
mined her daughters should be instructed in
everything pertaining to domestic life and its
duties, and consequently Eliza though naturally
a gifted child and inclined to literary pursuits
was early initiated in all the routine and small-
est details of housekeeping, as well as plain and
ornamental needle work of which she still pre-
serves many rare specimens. She also learned
straw-braiding and was awarded two prizes at
the County Fair for the manufacture of the
best leghorn. Through this sort of training
she became practically selfhelpful. While quite
young Miss Snow commenced writing for the
press, and contrary to most young writers, her
poems were well received. She wrote for sev-
eral journals using a fictitious signature desir-
ing to be useful, but modestly shrinking from
public notice. Through writing a patriotic
poem at the time of the struggle between
Greece and Turkey she created quite a sensa-
tion. It was entitled "The Fall of Missilong-
hi;" and after the death of those famous states-
men Adams and Jefferson, which occurred on
the same day, she was requested through the
press to write their requiem. Shortly after she
received for a prize poem, eight volumes of
Godey's Lady's Book. Miss Snow's poems
have ever been of a prophetic and inspirational
character, and after partaking of the spirit of
the true Gospel she became more than before
richly endowed with the gift of poesy, inspira-
tion and prophecy, and her hymns and songs
have been such a feature of beauty in the
Church, that from an early period in its history
she has borne the title of "Poetess of Zion."
	We shall not attempt to give even in brief a
synopsis of the lady's writings—suffice it to say
she has immortalized her name, and crowned
with wreaths of honor, she might justly say
with the immortal Byron in his famous prayer
"I've lived the laurel wreath to gain." Her
poems have given comfort to the weary, encour-
agement to the weak and those whose burdens
were heavy and whose trials were grievous;
they have strengthened the hands and hearts
of pioneer men and women while enduring
severe hardships. They have stimulated the
young to nobler and higher purposes. Histori-
cally they have been of the greatest import-
ance. Through them the names of many of
the actors in the drama of Mormonism, will
be handed down to posterity. There has
scarcely been an event in the history of the
Church which has not been faithfully deline-
ated by her gifted pen. She was to use her
own expression, born a patriot, "she had that
sort of blood in her veins. Her grandfather


had been a revolutionary soldier; and when
quite young, she listened with intense and child-
ish eagerness to his thrilling, adventurous nar-
ratives of the war with the British. She has
written many patriotic and national poems,
Anthems and Choruses.
	In her writings both in prose and poetry, she
manifests a striking versatility of genius and a
happy faculty of adaptation to the various cir-
cumstances and conditions of human life at
times participating in the deepest sentiments of
sorrow and also with sublime ideality feasting
upon the perfection of enjoyment.
	Two volumes of her "Religious, Historical,
Political," poems have been published–the First
in Liverpool, England, in 1856, the Second in
Salt Lake City by the Deseret News Office,
which has just issued her Hymn Book for the
Primary Associations, which contains 20 hymns
from her pen, the others she has carefuly com-
piled from various authors,many from our own
poets—the remainder from foreign publications.
Sterotyped 1st. 7000 Edition.
	Her poems are true to life.—Those in her
published volumes addressed to pioneers and
those written during the drivings and journey-
ings of the Saints from place to place are some
very pathetic;—they come vividly home to the
hearts of the L. D. Saints. Two of this class
in Vol. 1, written after we left Nauvoo in the
bleak winter season, entitled "Camp of Israel"
describe minutely the condition of the Pilgrim
Saints. We should never let our children for-
get them. Poems like these make deeper and
more lasting impressions upon the memory
than whole volumes of history.

To be Continued.


