CHRONOLOGICAL STATISTICS.

	"In the Spring of 1820 the Father and Son
appeared in vision to Joseph Smith, Jr., in the
town of Manchester, Ontario County, New
York. Joseph was a youth of the age of four-
teen, and in this vision received a promise that,
if faithful, further light should be revealed to
him.
In fulfillment of this promise, on the morning
of the 22d of September, 1827, an holy angel
permitted this youth to take from tne hill Cu-
morah, in the township alluded to, ancient
records, which, by the command of God, he
translated through the aid of a sacred instru-
ment, anciently called the "Urim and Thum-
mim." In 1829, these metallic plates and sa-
cred things were shown to three witnesses by
an angel from heaven, and confirmed to many
others who saw and handled the plates. Five
thousand copies of this inspired translation
were printed and bound early in the year 1830.
On the 15th of May, 1829, John, the fore-
runner of Christ, appeared in glory to Joseph
Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery, and laying
his hands upon their heads, ordained them to
the Aaronic priesthood, with authority to bap-
tize for the remission of sins.
	And in the same year three of the ancient
Apostles, Peter, James and John, ordained Jo-
seph Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery to the apos-
ship, with power to confirm by the laying on
of the hands, for the reception of the Holy
Ghost.
	On the 6th of April, 1830, the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith being commanded of God, organ-
ized the Church of Christ, consisting of six
members. This infinitely important event took
place in Fayette, Seneca County, State of New
York.

[Column 2]
	Thus the Gospel, and the Church with divine
authority, were restored from heaven to earth.
Angels were the first missionaries. Men, in-
spired from on high, carried the message to our
own nation. The Saints in 1831, by divine
command, began to gather, first to Ohio, and
then to the western boundaries of Missouri.
Persecuted, robbed and murdered, they fled to
Illinois, and built the city of Nauvoo. In
1846 they were driven by armed mobs, and
compelled to flee west of the Rocky Mountains,
and sought refuge in the great American des-
ert, then a Mexican province."

