BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The last sketch from my father's history hav-
ing taken me back to the earlier scenes of my
childhood, I cannot resist the inclination of go-
ing still farther back. The names of some of
those mentioned by him are very nearly con-
nected with my earliest and fondest recollec-
tions, not only in Kirtland, Ohio, but in Men-
don, in the State of New York, where I was
born. Brother John Moreton and family were
our nearest neighbors in Mendon; also Ira
Bond's and one or two other families who stop-
ped in Kirtland. They received the Gospel
and moved up there nearly at the same time we
did. They seemed so near to us that my par-
ents grieved over their apostacy.
	Brother Brigham Young, with his wife and
two little girls, lived with us in Mendon; Mrs.
Young died in a few months after they came
there, and my mother took care of his children
from that time until after we moved to Kirt-
land, Ohio. We were like one family for
years, and I had supposed Brigham and Jo-
seph Young to be my uncles until years after.
I loved, them and their sister Fanny, who was
afterwards married to my Grandfather Murray,
more dearly than I did most of my own rela-
tives, for we left them all when we went to Kirt-
land. Aunt Fanny Young was living with
my parents when I was born, and took care of
me, and she was always ready to defend me if
necessary. Uncle Joseph was unmarried, and
always stopped with us when in Mendon. I
was frequently asked the question which I loved

[Column 2]
the best, Pa, Uncle Brigham or Uncle Joseph;
I would never give but one answer, "I love you
all at once." Brothers Brigham and Joseph
have often reminded me of my "first love." If
I had a leaning towards one more than another
it was Uncle Joseph, as he was without any
family, and I was the first to expect and to re-
ceive his sugar plums and kisses.
	The following interesting items are from my
father's history: "The family of John Young,
Sen., consisted of five sons, five daughters, and
two sons-in-law; John P. Green and Joel Sand-
ford moved into Mendon about two or three
years previous to hearing of Mormonism. They
belonged to the Reformed Methodists. They
were in lowly circumstances, and seemed to be
an afflicted people, in consequence of having a
great deal of sickness and sorrow to pass
through, and of course were looked down upon
by the flourishing church where we lived. To
them my heart was united, because a principle
had existed in my heart from my earliest child-
hood to plead the cause of suffering innocence
—to go on the side of the oppressed at all
times. I have many times turned aside from
the company of those who were highly es-
teemed in the world, and sought the society of
the poor and humble, even those who loved the
ways of the Lord bett[--] than the praise of the
world. These families had the same principles
in their breasts which I had in mine, for truth
was what we wanted."	*	*	*
The following paragraph is from my father's
journal:
	"On the night of September 22d, 1827, while
living in the town of Mendon, after I had re-
tired to bed, John P. Green, who was then a
traveling Reformed Methodist preacher, living
within one hundred steps of my house, came
and waked me up, calling upon me to come out
and behold the scenery in the heavens. I woke
up and called my wife and Sister Fanny Young
(sister to Brigham Young), who was living
with us; we went out of doors—it was one of
the most beautiful starlight nights, so clear that
we could see to pick up a pin. We looked to
the eastern horizon and beheld a white smoke
arise towards the heavens; as it ascended it
formed itself into a belt, and made a noise like
the rushing of a mighty wind, and continued
southwest, forming a regular bow dipping in
the western horizon. After the bow had
formed, it began to widen out and grow clear
and transparent of a bluish cast; it grew wide
enough to contain twelve men abreast. In this
bow an army moved, commencing from the east
and marching to the west; they continued
marching until they reached the western hori-
zon. They moved in platoons, and walked so
close the rear ranks trod in the steps of their
file leaders, until the whole bow was literally
crowded with soldiers. We could distinctly
see the muskets, bayonets and knapsacks of the
men, who wore caps and feathers like those
used by the American soldiers in the last war
with Britain; also saw their officers with their
swords and equipage, and heard the clashing
and jingling of their instruments of war, and
could discover the form and features of the
men. The most profound order existed through-
out the entire army; when the foremost man
stepped, every man stepped at the same time; I
could hear the steps. When the front rank
reached the western horizon a battle ensued, as
we could distinctly hear the report of the arms
and the rush. No man could judge of my
feelings when I beheld that army of men, as
plainly as I ever saw armies of men in the
flesh: it seemed as though every hair of my
head was alive. This scenery we gazed upon
for hours, until it began to disappear. After I
became acquainted with Mormonism I learned
that this took place the same evening that Jo-
seph Smith received the records of the Book
of Mormon from the angel Moroni, who had
held those records in his possession. John
Young, Sen., and John P. Greene's wife Rhoda


[Column 1]—
were also witnesses  of  this  scenery.  My wife
being frightened at what she saw, said: ‘Father
Young, what does all this mean?’ He replied
in  a  lively, pleased  manner, ‘Why, its  one of
the signs of  the  coming  of the Son of Man.’
The next night similar scenery was beheld in
the west by the  neighbors, representing armies
of  men  who were engaged in battle.”
	My parents had never professed any religion
until  about  three  weeks  previous  to  hearing
this  Gospel, they  joined  the  Baptist  Church;
but  as  soon  as  they  heard the principles of
Mormonism declared by some Elders who came
from Pennsylvania, they felt  that it  contained
the fulness of the  everlasting Gospel, and that
they had  only received  a  part.  Father says:
“Brigham Young and myself were constrained
by  the  spirit  to  bear  testimony  of the  truth
which we had heard, and when  we did this the
power of God rested upon us.”  *   *   "Upon
one  occasion  Father  John  Young,  Brigham,
Joseph  and  myself  had  gathered  together  to
get some  wood  for  Phineas  H. Young;  while
we were thus engaged we were pondering upon
the things which  had  been  told  to  us by the
Elders, and upon the Saints gathering to Zion;
and the  glory of God  shone  upon  us, and we
saw the  gathering  of the Saints  to Zion  and
the glory that would rest upon them, and many
more things connected with  that  great  event,
such as the  sufferings  and  persecutions  which
would  come upon the  people  of God, and  the
calamities  and  judgments  which  would  come
upon  the  world.  These  things  caused  such
great  joy to  spring up in our  bosoms that  we
were hardly able to  contain  ourselves;  and we
did  shout  aloud, ‘Hosanna to  God  and the
Lamb!’ These things increasing our desires to
hear  more, I took  my  horses  and  sleigh  and
started for  Columbia, Bradford  County, Penn-
sylvania—distance one  hundred  and  twenty-
five miles;  Brigham and Phineas  Young and
their  wives  went  along with me.  We stayed
with the Church there about six days, attended
their  meetings, heard  them  speak in tongues,
interpret  and prophesy, which truly caused us
to rejoice and praise the  Lord.  We returned
home confirmed in the truth, but were not  yet
baptized, and as we were  on  our way we bore
testimony to  the  truth  of those things which
we had seen and heard, and to our friends and
neighbors;  many received  our  testimony and
became  members  of  the  Church.    April  14,
1832,  Brigham  Young went  forward  and was
baptized  by Eleazer  Miller, and  the next day
Alpheus  Gifford  came  into my shop  while I
was forming a vessel upon the wheel,and while
conversing  with  me  upon  the  subject  of  this
work, I said: “Brother Alpheus, I am ready to
go forward and be baptized.”   I arose from
my seat, pulled off my apron, washed my hands
and  started  with  him.  * * * I went the
distance of one mile, where he  baptized me in
a small stream in the woods.  After I was bap-
tized  I kneeled  down, and  he  laid his  hands
upon  my head  and  confirmed me a member of
the Church  of  Jesus Christ, and said, ‘Receive
ye the  Holy Ghost.’ And before I got up off
my knees he wanted  to  ordain  me  an  Elder;
but I plead with him not to do it, as I felt my-
self unworthy  of such  a  calling and such  an
office.  In  about  two weeks  my wife was bap-,
tized by Brother  Joseph  Young, with  several
others, when we numbered about thirty in that
branch. * * * Under the  ordinances of 
baptism and laying on of hands I received the
Holy  Ghost  as  the  Disciples  did  in  ancient
days, which was  like a consuming  fire, and I 
felt as though I was clothed in my right mind
and sat at the feet of  Jesus.   Although  the
people called me crazy, I continued in this way
for  many months, and it seemed as though my
flesh  would  consume  away;  at  the  same time
the Scriptures  were  unfolded  to  my mind  in
such  a  wonderful manner  that it appeared to
me at times as  if  formerly I had been familiar 

[Column 2]
with them.  This alarmed the professing world
around us, and raised the devil to a great rage;
still our minds were calm and filled with peace,
while  the  wrath  of our enemies was  raised to
such a degree that they persecuted us. During 
one week some  of  those  who  had  professed to
be my greatest friends in the  Baptist Church, 
and others, persecuted me to such a degree that
five  or  six  executions were  taken  out against
me, and  I  turned  out  property  to  secure the
same to their great  disappointment;  God  hav-
ing opened my way so that I obtained money to
pay  all  my  debts  and  liberate  myself  from
them, so that none  of  my  property was sold at
auction.  In  the  mean time, during my great-
est trouble not one of them was willing to step
forward to assist me, excepting my brethren in
the  Church  and  my  brother  Solomon.   May
God  bless  my brethren, and  reward those my
enemies according to their works.
	“September 18, Bro. Brigham Young’s wife,
Miriam, having  been  feeble  for  months, died.
In  her  expiring  moments  she  clapped  her
hands  and  praised  the Lord; she continued in
this  happy state, and  when  her voice was too
weak  to  be  heard,  her  lips  and  hands  were
seen  moving until  she  expired.  This was an-
other  testimony  of the powerful  effect  of the
Everlasting Gospel, showing  that  we shall not
die, but  we  shall  sleep. * * * In these
scenes and other afflictions we felt to rejoice in
the Lord. * * * In September, Brothers
Brigham  and  Joseph  Young  and myself went
up to Kirtland,  Ohio, in my wagon, to visit the
Prophet. * * * We saw  Brother  Joseph
Smith  and  had a glorious  time, during which
Brother Brigham  spoke in tongues  before  Jo-
seph, this  being the  first time  that Joseph had
heard  the  gift  of  tongues.  He  rose  up  and
testified that the gift was  from  God, and  then
the gift fell  upon him and he spoke in tongues
himself; he afterwards declared it was the pure
or Adamic language which he spoke. * * *
We had a precious season, and returned  with a
blessing in our souls. I continued rejoicing in
the Lord and bearing testimony that God had
spoken  from  the  heavens, and of the things  I
had  received, until  I sold  my  possessions  and
settled  up  my  affairs.  In  the  fall  of  1833 I
packed up my goods, took my horses and wagon
and started for Kirtland, Ohio;  but to my great
surprise, some  of my  neighbors  issued attach-
ments  against  my  goods, although  I  was  not
indebted to  any one  of them  to  the  value  of
five  cents, for  I had  been  particular  in  such
matters, that  I  was  well  aware  I was  not in-
debted  in  any sum  to  any person, unless  two
cents to one man, in a case where change could
not  be  procured,  although  there  were  some
hundreds of dollars due me, which I was obliged
to leave  uncollected;  I  settled  their  unjust
claims.  Elder  Brigham  Young  and his  two
children went with me;  we arrived in Kirtland
about the last of October or first of November.”
	When we first went there we lived in a house
belonging  to  Mr.  Elijah  Smith,  uncle  to
Mother  Whitney.  In  the  meantime  father
built a small frame house, which was put up by
Uncle  Brigham,  who  was  a  carpenter  and
joiner, and also a painter and glazier.
	“Soon after  our  arrival  in Kirtland,” says 
father “there was a contribution  called  for to
finish the  schoolhouse  and  printing  office; I
contributed the  glass for the  house and I gave
Brother Hyrum Smith two hundred dollars for
the  building  of the  Temple.   The  brethren
were  engaged in building  the  House  of  the
Lord. * * * The Church  was  in  a state
of  poverty  and  distress, in  consequence of
which it  appeared  almost  impossible  that the
commandment  to  build  the  Temple  could be
fulfilled.  At  the  same time our enemies were
raging  and  threatening  destruction  upon  us,
and we had to guard night after night, and for
weeks  were  not permitted  to take, off  our
clothes, and were  obliged to lay with our fire-

[Column 3]
locks in  our arms to preserve Brother Joseph’s
life and  our  own. Joseph was sued  before a
magistrate’s court in Painesville, on a vexatious
suit.  I carried him from Kirtland  to  Paines-
ville, with  four  or  five  others,  in  my wagon,
every morning for five days, and brought them
back in the  evening. We were often waylaid,
but  managed  to  elude  our  enemies  by  rapid
driving  and  taking  different  roads.  Esquire
Bissell defended  the  Prophet  and he  came  off
victorious.   At this time our brethren in Jack-
son County, Missouri, were also suffering great
persecution; about twelve hundred were driven,
plundered  and  robbed,  their  houses  burned,
and  some  of the brethren were killed.  Mobs
were  organized around Kirtland, who were en-
raged against us, ready to destroy us. *  *  *
Joseph gathered together as many of the breth-
ren as he conveniently  could, with what means
they could spare, to go up to Zion to render all
the assistance  that  we  could.  We  gathered
clothing  and  other  necessaries  to  carry up to 
our brethren  and  sisters who had been plun-
dered, and putting  our  horses to  the  wagons
and faking our  firelocks  and  ammunition,  we
started  on  our  journey,  leaving  only  Oliver
Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon and a few aged work-
men who were  engaged at the  Temple; so that
there were very few men  left at Kirtland. Our
wagons were  about full with baggage, &c, con-
sequently we had to travel on foot.   We started
on the 5th of May, and truly this was a solemn
morning to me. I took leave  of  my  wife  and
children  and  friends,  not  knowing whether  I
would see them again in the flesh, as myself and
brethren were  threatened  both in that country
and  in  Missouri  by  enemies, that  they would
destroy us and  exterminate us from the land.”
	To be Continued.


