OBITUARIES.

	At the residence of her son-in-law, Isaac Price,
Round Valley, Bear Lake County, June 26th,
1880, of heart disease and dropsy, Elizabeth
Sophia Bailey, wife of the late Luther Reed, of
Bloomington, Bear Lake County, Idaho. De-
ceased was born July 22nd, 1823, in Nova Scotia,
North America, embraced the Gospel at Bath,
England, 1846, and emigrated to Utah in 1853.
Sister Reed was known and spoken of as a good
woman, unassuming, naturally self-sustaining
and independent to the utmost of her ability.
Having suffered a long time previous to her
death, she longed to lay her body down and go
to rest. Her end was peace.	H. LLOYD.
	Deseret News please copy.

	DIED at her residence in Moroni, May 18th, of
bronchitis and old age, Sister Kristen Jensen.
Deceased was born in Farra, in the Province of
Jutland, Denmark, October 26th, 1809; was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1861, emigrated to Utah in com-
pany with her husband and children, and set-
tled in Moroni in 1862. Her husband died in
1872. She was the mother of seven children, of
which six still live, and 37 grandchildren, of
which 35 are yet living. She was a consistent
Latter-day Saint, a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society, and died in the full hopes of meet-


ing her husband behind the vail, and with him
receive a glorious resurrection.
	Skandenaveens Stjerne please copy.

	Died at St. John's, Malad Valley, Idaho, June
the 18th, 1880, after a severe illness of ten days,
Rachel E. daughter of Richard Davis and Phe-
be Jones, aged 14 years, 7 months and 7 days.
Deceased was a kind and affectionate girl, belov-
ed by all who knew her, and her loss is mourned
by all.

Oh weep not gentle mother, and brothers, sisters dear,
Your loved one's safe from danger and sorrow; never
	fear.
And if like her we're faithful and strive to do our best,
We'll meet her in the heavens with the noble and the
	blest.
Deseret News please copy.				—COM.

	Died at her residence, Moroni, Sanpete Coun-
ty, after a short illness, Caroline Marie Soronson,
wife of Sorin Sorenson. Born on the 4th day of
April, 1855, in Denmark, and died on the 18th of
June, 1880, leaving a husband and numerous re-
latives to mourn her loss. She was a teacher
of the Relief Society and a worthy member of
the Church of Jesus Christ, and a faithful wife.
She was above reproach, and respected by all
who knew her. Almost the entire settlement
followed her remains to their last resting place.
"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,"
for they will come forth out of their dusty
graves in the morning of the first resurrection.


