A FOOLS FANCY.

	He had a pretty thorough knowledge of hu-
man nature who wrote, "A person who is not a
fool half the time is a fool all the time." This
remark is equivalent to saying that the people of
the world are constitutionally and continually
fools, for the reason that no one is to be found
who will admit that he is a fool half the time,
and when he is unwilling to make such an ad-
mission the inference is that he is a fool all the
time. It is an apparently extravagant idea, and
yet has much in it. In a feeling of the sublime
charity with which all are periodically effected,
especially when referring in the patronizing
spirit with which the wise ones of the world are
blessed to the shortcomings of an individual, it
is customary to perpetrate the angelic expres-
sion "Ah, well! we all have our faults," while
the air in which the remark is made, the tone of
voice and the whole manner say plainer than
words: "I say this, out of the goodness of my
soul, but candidly and with a full knowledge of
the weight of the expression, I do not believe
I ever had any such shortcomings; and if I
had I am certain I will never have them again."
	A momentary sense of humility having come
over me, I admit I am one of the fools in this world,
of whom there are so few and yet such a great
multitude. Until lately, I had an idea that the
intellect of the world was pretty evenly divided
among the people living in it, but a reverse opin-
ion possesses me now. One never learns of pub-
lic men doing anything of a public or private
nature, but he hears some one discussing its
propriety, and when he gets through, you are or
should be convinced that the public man is an
unmitigated fool for having done any such thing.
If you dare to suggest that the act was proper or
that it had its extenuating features, you are put
in the same intellectual boat as the public man,
and are pronounced a fool. Of course, there is
some satisfaction in the connection, even if it be
so unenviable, but you are unquestionably a fool.
There are persons in this world who carry their
idiocy to such a superlative degree that they
think, as a rule, mankind is working for the good
of mankind, and that the brains of the world
are pretty evenly distributed; but this delusion,
which you admit is very pretty and very de-
sirable, can not withstand the argument
of one of the fortunate wise persons, who
convinces you in a very few seconds that you are
a fool for entertaining such an idea. He wishes


to heaven it were so, but sighs and shakes his
head. This shake of the head, accompanied by
a deep sigh, is very suggestive and carries a
great deal of weight and argument when used
judiciously. A good solemn shake of the head
says: "No one knows how much I would re-
joice were the world wise;" and when the sigh is
added, the expression is completed thus: "And
no one can regret more deeply than I that the
world will not be taught by me and partake of
my wisdom."
	And what makes this more distressing is that
nearly everybody you meet has got the same
grave shake and trying sigh. In view of this
wide-spread idiocy, the great question of life is
how to get over being a fool, and the only suc-
cessful solution to the problem at present ap-
parently is to get over living with all possible
expedition. One-half the time of one-half the
world is spent in showing what fools the other
half is; and the other half occupies the remain-
der of the time in proving the same sad condi-
tion for the first half, forgetting always that the
best evidence of idiocy is in the attempt to
prove some one else an idiot. Josh Billings
once remarked that he loved his faults because
they made him feel he was a brother to the rest
of mankind; and for the same reason I love my
share of the idiocy of the world. He is least a
fool who does not think the world all fools.
"What fools these mortals be."
