FAITH AND WORKS.

	"Faith cometh by hearing the Word of God.—Doc-
trine and Covenants.

See! the wilds, so long forsaken, into life and bloom
	awaken—
'Tis the meed of Faith unshaken, the reward of labor
	too.
Faith hath wrought this exultation, for the "outcasts'
	of the nation;
Yea, through Faith "God favors Zion"—Faith and Works
	can wonders do.

Ah, this Faith! Can words express it? Can the jeers of
	foes suppress it?
'Tis superior to language, far above reproach and scorn;
'Tis indeed the blest assurance, that for patient, brief
	endurance,
We shall reap the full fruition of the hopes within us
	born,

'Tis in vain men cry "delusion," souls are thrilled with
	Faith's infusion,
Faith reanimates the spirit, as the life blood cheers the
	heart;
Needful 'tis that we obtain it, needful 'tis that we re-
	tain it—
Though we never can explain it, Fath doth power and
	peace impart.

Fath's the fruit of revelation, Faith's the anchor of
	salvation:
Faith obtains from God a knowledge of the truth that
	cheers the soul;
Faith's the true appreciation of Christ's love and media-
	tion;
Faith's the force of Truth within us, Faith's the power
	that makes us whole.

For this Faith it is no wonder, men have e'en been torn
	asunder,
Men have "cru'lly been tormented," scorning to accept
	reprieve,
Knowing (though by fiends surrounded) that in truth
	their faith was founded—
Scorn'd they to deny for freedom what they could not
	but believe;

By the ladder of affliction—sword, and fire, and cruci-
	fixion—
For their Faith, by deaths most tortuous noblest souls
	have upward soar'd—
Passed these martys up to glory, leaving us their death-
	less story,
While they cry, How long, Thou just One, ere Thy
	vengeance is outpour'd?

Of eternal condemnation there's a fearful reservation
For the murderers of these just ones, of these brave,
	illustrious dead!
Read we from the sacred pages, how that from remotest
	ages,
From the death of "righteous Abel," many for their
	faith have bled.So, within this generation, by a free and favor'd nation,
Prophets have for faith been murder'd, men have sorely
	been opprest;
For their Faith—through much privation—"sought they
	out a habitation,"
Even in a distant desert, in the wild, uncultured west.
Sheltered by majestic mountains, lo! they drank from
	freedom's fountains;
Blest with liberty, they-labor'd, 'reft of much that men
	desire;
Faith, by willing hands assisted, every obstacle resisted.
Faith in God and in the future still these exiles hearts
	inspire.

Faith shall make the Saints victorious, Faith shall make
	them great and glorious;
God Himself will watch keep o'er us, righteous laws
	we'll still obey;
Men may form their own deductions, why we honor God's
	instructions,

[Column 2]
Still we'll pray for Faith to serve Him though opposing
	hosts say nay—
Faith to brave the world's opinion, till the glory and
	dominion
And the greatness of "the Kingdom" shall be given the
	Saints for aye.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, July 24, 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
