SERVICES IN THE TABERNACLE.

	The assembly was called to order by the bugle,
the same bugle used in crossing the plains in '47.
The Tabernacle choir rendered the glorious an-
them, "O Praise God all ye nations."
	Elder George Q. Cannon offered an inspiring
and eloquent prayer. Apostle Wilford Woodruff
made a short speech, rehearsing a few of the
scenes and incidents connected with Zion's
Camp of 1833, the Mormon Battalion
of 1846, and the Pioneers of 1847. "Those
who know how much the history of either
of these remarkable events combine will
wonder that even an interesting synopsis of
each could be given in 20 minutes. Apostle
Woodruff's remarks were responded to by a
hearty Amen from the congregation. The Union
Glee Club sang a martial song, "Comrades in
Arms."
	Apostle Orson Pratt then gave a speech in re-
gard to the introduction of the Gospel into the
various nations, a brief synopsis of which is
published on another page.
	After the nationalities resumed their seats
came the pealing anthem, "Glory to God in the
Highest," Elder David McKenzie then read, in
an effective manner, a poem written for the occa-
sion by Bishop O. F. Whitney, entitled "The
Jubilee of Zion." The Careless Orchestra then
executed the charming overture, "Poet and
Peasant." Elder B. F. Cummings, Jr., deliver-
ed an address on education, which he had care-
fully prepared for the occasion; and also read a
letter from the "Department of the Interior,
Bureau of Education," addressed to President
John Taylor, commending the manner in which
the educational statistics of Utah had been pre-
pared, and recommending the example to others.
After this, the beautiful duet, "I Heard a Voice,"
was gracefully and melodiously rendered by Mrs.
S. E. Langford and Miss L. Nebeker. This was one
of the very best features of the entire programme.
Sentiments from the women of Utah (published
on another page) were then read in a clear, dis-
tinct voice by Elder L. John Nuttall. The la-
dies of the first presiding board of the Relief So-
ciety appearing upon the platform in front of the
audience: while it was being read. The ladies
received considerable applause, which we be-
lieve they richly merit, and here perhaps it is in
keeping to say that among the pioneers, seated
on the platform, was the one woman, the only
one now living of three who came with the first
pioneers in 1847, Mrs. Clara D. Young, widow of
the late President B. Young. Let it not be for-
gotten that three noble, heroic women, braved
the dangers and hardships of that adventurous
journey. Mrs. Ellen S. Kimball, wife of Heber
C. Kimball, and Mrs. Harriet P. W. Young,

[Column 3]
wife of Elder Lorenzo D. Young, were the other
two. Honor to their memory. May their names
be engraven upon the hearts of Zion's sons and
daughters. The 10th Ward Band then perform-
ed a selection, and President John Taylor deliv-
ered an extempore address, going over much
Church history, and making special reference of
the pilgrims of New England, the Declaration of
Independence and the adoption of the Constitu-
tion. Spoke prophetically of the great future;
said God was at the helm and would preserve Is-
rael, and blest the pioneers, the Battalion,
Zion's Camp, the Relief Societies, the young
people's associations, the Sunday Schools, the
Elders in Israel, the Twelve and all the Holy
Priesthood.
	The Choir and Careless' Orchestra rendered
the Hallelujah Chorus from the Messiah, and
Apostle Erastus Snow pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	This celebration will be remembered in Israel
as one of the grandest commemorative events
which has ever been recorded in the pages of
history. It was a grand and solemn occasion, for
when one remembers the many persecutions,
drivings and wanderings which the Saints have
passed through, the heart must ascend in grati-
tude and prayer to Almighty God that He has
permitted his people to enjoy the peace and pros-
perity which surrounds them in their mountain
home.
	Great credit is due the several members of the
general committee who so energetically labored
beforehand to plan and arrange this mammoth
affair, and particularly to the chairman, Elder
Joseph E. Taylor, who was unceasing in his
efforts to render it successful. Under his direc-
tion the minutest details of the entire programme
were carried out. The sub-committees also are
worthy of great praise; they spared no time or
means to make their respective departments all
that could be desired. The ladies of the decora-
tive committee certainly worked energetically,
and their works praised them; also the ladies who
arranged the home-industrial department.
	The Marshals and their aids deserve special
mention for the very able and quiet manner in
which they performed their part of the pro-
gramme. Everything was in the most complete
and perfect harmony. The music from the choir
and all the several bands was glorious. The day
was lovely, the heavens smiled radiantly and
the azure air seemed impregnated with the
breath of angels, and one might easily imagine
that hosts of glorified beings were ready to burst
upon the view.


