SENTIMENT FROM THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	Brethren and Sisters—Ladies and Gentlemen:
	As representatives of the Latter-day Saint
women of Utah, we feel highly honored.
	The celebration of this day of days, marks
two most important events—the entrance of the
noble and valiant pioneers into these happy val-
leys, and the Latter-day Saints year of Jubilee
	Historically it resurrects the past, propheti-
cally it opens up the future.
	In the various phases of life through which
this people have struggled, up to the present,
which to-day have been figuratively portrayed,
those whom we are proud to represent, were not
spectators: although not the foremost,they were
prominent actors and participators in those
soul-stirring and heart-rending scenes, and not
only by their faith and prayers, their labor and
fortitude, did they assist in sustaining the ser-
vants of God,under most painful circumstances,
but in many instances, actually performed lab-
orious duties assigned to men. For instance,
after the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo,
when 500 able bodied-men were called out of
our journeying camps, to cross the American
desert, to assist by force of arms in adjusting
difficulties with Mexico, by which this very
land was ceded to the United States, women
were under the necessity of driving teams across
the plains, besids watching over their little
ones, and preparing the frugal meals upon
which they subsisted. We have ever been one
with our brethren.

[Column 3]
	What we witness this day, stirs within the
bosoms of those who came here in '47 the
same thrill that vibrated through our very
natures, when we saw the dear old flag, the
pride of our youth, which had been sacredly
preserved throughout our journeyings, hoisted
and waving to the breeze of the Rocky Moun-
tains. It was hailed as an emblem of peace
and liberty for which we had left the lands of
our birth.
	In the past we have emulated the heroic ex-
ample of the noble Pilgrim mothers, who, for
the sake of worshipping God according to the
dictates of conscience in company of the Pil-
grim Fathers, dared the perils of the briny deep,
and in a desolate country assisted in planting a
colony, designated by the Almighty as a pre-
cursor to the founding of a government under
which his kingdom was to be established.
What would the Pilgrim Fathers have done
without the Pilgrim Mothers?
	And now, when through the overruling and
protecting care of God,we are no longer chased
and driven, we, the women, of Utah, in organiz-
ed capacities, as efficient helps to the priest-
hood, are exercising all the talents and influ-
ence with which God has endowed us, to bless,
comfort and sustain the needy, and purify and
elevate society.
	With feelings of gratitude and tenderness,
mingled with holy reverence, we, as mothers,
wives, sisters and daughters, greet you, hail you
with honor, brave-hearted Pioneers—silver-
haired veterans of Zion's camp, and heroic vol-
unteers of the Mormon Battalion! And while
we give honor to the living, our hearts instinc-
tively go out in affectionate and honorable re-
membrance to the absent, whose faces we do
not behold, but whose lives were so closely in-
terwoven with those who are before us. "We
name no names," but offer a silent tribute to
the sacred memory of the honored dead.
For one retrospective moment we are looking
back over the vista of fifty years, "th[-] horologe
of time" has struck with telling force, the
chimes of the first half century since the
Church of Jesus Christ was organized on the
earth in this dispensation. Years full of startl-
ing episodes, of thrilling tragedies—records of
good and evil,misery and happiness,and though
many have peacefully fallen asleep, and thou-
sands have died by the wayside,and though we
have mourned a martyred prophet and partri-
arch, yet we rejoice to-day with the living or-
acles of the Holy Priesthood; and when we look
abroad upon our fair and happy homes, our
verdant, smiling valleys, and realize the peace,
plenty and prosperity that surrounds us in this
our holy year of Jublee, we the women of Is-
rael, desire to consecrate ourselves anew to the
work of the Lord, and mingle our voices with
those assembled here to-day, in one burst of
glorious melody, with loud hosannas, that the
ensign upon the mountains has been lifted to
the nations, and that for fifty years the moth-
ers of Israel, with the sons of God as co-laborers,
have borne the burden and heat of the day,
passed through trying ordeals, proven their
integrity before Heaven, and propose in the
future, as in the past, to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may obtain a fulness of
celestial glory, and be crowned with eternal
lives.


