TRIED AS BY FIRE

	In the last issue of our valuable woman's
paper I noticed an article headed "Seek a
Reward." and I thought when I read it I
should like to add my testimony to the truth
therein contained,and to strive to impress upon
the minds of my young sisters the necessity of
perseverance and faithfulness if they would win
the prize.
	In early life I was taught if I recieved a re-
ward I must work for it, and to day when my


hair is silvered with age, I am most grateful for
it. But when my children were in my arms
O, how I wanted to hug them to my heart, and
shield them from the trials of life; but the ex-
perience that I have since gained has proved
to me that all have to be tried in life's furnace
and be purified from all dross by patience and
forbearance and long suffering, and then how
sweet will be the reward when we are through
with the toils and struggles of this life, and
how grateful we will be and how we will ap-
preciate the reward when we feel that we have
earned it by our own exertions.
	I once heard related the dream of a sister
that had passed through much persecution and
poverty, and had been tried to the very center
of her soul. She dreamed that she was travel-
ing and came to a beautiful mansion and
stopped there to rest; she went into the first
apartment, she noticed that many were sitting
around and among them two of her friends, and
as she was in the act of sitting down the guide
who was there told her that she was not to stop
but to follow him, which she did until they
entered a most beautiful room, and she was
motioned to take a seat, and she said that it
seemed so glorious and so full of rest. And
the odor of refreshments that were being pre-
pared were so grateful to her, that she turned
to the Prophet Joseph who was there and said
that she was as near Heaven as she expected
to get. She asked her guide if her two friends
that were in the entrance room could not come
in? His reply was "not until they have been
tried as you have, and are weary as you are."
And she awoke.
							EXPERIENCE.
	Manti City July 11, 1880.


