PIONEER DAY.

	The fiftieth year since the organization of the
Church, and the thirty-third year since the
pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley, was celebrat-
ed by a grand procession in the streets and ap-
propriate services in the Tabernacle on the anni-
versary of the ever memorable 24th of July. The
Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and
nearly all the public buildings were decorated
with flags, the stars and stripes, the national
emblems floating gaily in the breeze. Sunday
School children with Superintendents and
Teachers were ranged under the trees in the
route of the procession, and added greatly to
the beauty of the picture, with their flowers and
banners. The streets were thronged on all sides,
yet the Marshals and their aids had no difficulty
in preserving perfect order.

	As announced, the procession began forming
at eight o'clock in the morning, on First South
Street. The head of the column moved at nine
o'clock at the call of Chas. M. Evans,
bugler of the pioneers, from the corner of Second
West and First South Streets, and proceeded
eastward, the entire procession, a grand and
beautiful display of over three miles in length,
countermarching on First South Street, to
Seventh East, thence west to Third East, thence
north to South Temple Street, and thence west
to the Tabernacle. The order of marching was
observed almost strictly as advertised, a few
changes only being necessitated. At the head of
the procession were the surviving Pioneers of
1847, in five wagons, preceded by two horsemen.
In the first wagon, which was drawn by eight
horses, were Wilford Woodruff, Orson Pratt, C.
C. Rich, Erastus Snow, A. Carrington, Joseph
Young, John Brown, Thomas Bullock, H. K.
Whitney, Aaron Farr, Zebedee Coltrin, T. O.
Angell and Thomas Grover. The horsemen
ahead were Jacob Weiler and John Pack, the
former being among the first to enter the valley
in 1847, to break a road for the main body that
followed.
	A portrait of the late President Brigham
Young was exhibited on either side of the first
wagon; with the inscription "Gone Before" on
one side, and "Absent but not Forgotten" on
the other. Above them was the old Pioneer
banner, on which were the names of all the
Pioneers and a picture of Joseph Smith, the
Prophet, in the act of blowing a trumpet. On
the same wagon was the United States flag.
The remainder of the Pioneers were in other
wagons behind.

	They were followed by Capt Beesley's martial
band. Next came in wagons the surviving
members of Zion's Camp. The Mormon Bat-
talion followed, accoutred in their rusty and rag-

[Column 2]
ged regimentals, with their worn out but honor-
ed old flag floating over their heads. After them
came a wagon with ladies, having a banner in-
scribed, "We represent the Women of the Mor-
mon Battalion."
	Following, in a carriage drawn by four black
horses, and another carriage drawn by two
horses, were President John Taylor, Apostles
George Q. Cannon, Brigham Young and Joseph
F. Smith, Counselor D. H. Wells and Secretary
L. J. Nuttall. Behind, in carriages came the
Presidency of the Seventies and Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselors.
	The Minute men followed on horseback, led
by Col. H. P. Kimball, with a banner on which
appeared the mottoes, "The Guards" and "Al-
ways Ready."

	Next were the Union Glee Club in a covered
vehicle, and after them marched the Croxall
Brass Band.
	The General Committee rode in a carriage,
and next to them were the Presidency of this
and other Stakes of Zion, followed by the High
Councilors, and the quorums of the High
Priests, Seventies, Elders, Bishops, Priests and
Deacons,each with appropriate banners, that of the
Lesser Priesthood having inscribed the words of
the angel when ordaining Joseph and Oliver,
viz.: "This Priesthood shall never be taken again
from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer
again an offering unto the Lord in righteous-
ness." Midway among these quorums, which
marched afoot, was the Tenth Ward Brass Band.
	The Relief Societies were in three carriages,
the representatives being Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Elizabeth A. Whitney, Zina D. Young, Sarah
M. Kimball, M. I. Horne, Elizabeth Howard, B.
W. Smith, S. M. Heywood, M. E. Wilcox and
others, with a magnificent white silk banner, at
the top of which was the All-seeing eye. These
words were inscribed in a scroll, "Relief Society
first organized, March 17, 1842;" below was a
delicate wreath of blue and around the wreath
were the words "by Joseph Smith." In the
centre of the wreath is a dove holding an olive
branch in its bill, signifying peace. At each side
is the balm leaf, representing healing, and be-
low is inscribed "Numbers 300 branches, July
24, 1880." Under all is a rising star.
	The design is very artistic and the banner
beautiful.
	Next appeared three cars loaded with repre-
sentatives; a man and woman of the various
countries where the Gospel had been preached,
with banners. On one was, "The Republic has
made us all one nation. The Sunday Schools
had one car decorated with a banner "Zion is
growing, We are 30,000 strong." Following the
S. S. were 24 couple of young ladies and gentle-
men on horseback. The ladies wore cream col-
ored riding habits, white silk caps and white os-
trich plumes. The gentlemen, black cloth suits,
white neckties and gloves. They made a very
charming appearance. In front of them a horse-
man carried a banner with the inscription, "July
24, 1847—1880, God's gifts to the Pioneers."
	Education was represented by a splendidly
decorated car containing five ladies personifying
respectively, Religion, (Miss Priscilla Jennings),
History, (Miss Talula Young), Geography, (Miss
Fanny Little), Science, (Miss Josephine Beatie),
and Art, (Miss Louie Wells). The first occupied
a platform in the middle of the car. She was
dressed in white with a silver star on her fore-
head, her elbow resting on the Bible, and in her
hand was a palm leaf. History was apparaled in
gold, and stationed at one of the corners sur-
rounded by books with a scroll and stylus in her
hand. In another corner dressed in green, with
a globe by her side sat Geography. Science also
occupied a corner, as did Art, the former robed in

[Column 3]
blue, holding a telescope and surrounded by other
scientific instruments, and the latter in pink at-
tire, with palette, easel, sculpture, lyre, etc.,
around her. Near by were four children, two
looking at a picture book and on the other side
two larger children studying natural history and
botany. This car was one of the finest display-
ed. Behind it were carriages containing small
children with books in hand, and the inscrip-
tions "Our Schools" and "The Road to Great-
ness." School trustees and teachers and the
committee on education followed in vehicles
beneath banners with the sentiments, "A Free
People Must Be An Educated People," and "Our
Nation's Prosperity Lies in the Education of
Her Children."
	A carriage came next holding representatives
of the press, C. W. Penrose (Deseret News), Mrs.
E. B. Wells (WOMAN'S EXPONENT), G. C. Lam-
bert (Juvenile Instructor), John C. Graham (En-
quirer) and. Geo. G. Taylor (Junction), with a
banner on which was the figure of a power press
with a halo and inscribed "The Press—The Mag-
net of Intelligence; The Diffuser of Light; The
Champion of Right."
	The Drama, was finely portrayed in a chariot
decorated magnificently and occupied by several
characters representative of the nature, mission
and utility of the stage. The car was drawn by
six horses, the leaders led by court jesters, and
the others by Turks and Arabs, while guards in
armor walked at the corners of the car. The
body of the chariot was a splendid pavilion with
gothic canopy, surmounted by a bust of Shakes-
peare and upheld by marble pillars. The whole
was elegantly painted and draped, and gave a
very good idea of the stage with the curtain
raised. The central figure, seated on a pedestal,
was a lady (Miss Nellie Colebrook) personifying
the stage, with a glass in her hand, "holding the
mirror up to nature," while at the four corners
of a raised platform sat Tragedy, Comedy, His-
tory and Music. The first a lady (Miss Carrie
Cogswell), clothed in black, holding a dagger
and poisoned goblet; the next a lady (Miss Rida
Colebrook), attired in a light blue with a grotesqe
mask in her hand; the next an old man (Mr.
H. Horsley), holding a book, and the last (Mr.
T. Manning) dressed as Apollo; grasping the fa-
bled lyre. Around these figures danced a num-
ber of little fairies, with wings on their shoul-
ders and wands in their hands. This chariot was
the finest display in the procession. It was de-
signed by the committee and Mr. Fred. Lam-
bourne, chiefly by the latter, whose true artistic
taste and ability were manifested in its general
construction. Behind their car came the vota-
ries of the histrionic art—first, members of the
old Deseret Dramatic Association, and next,
those of the Home Dramatic Club, recently or-
ganized. Both had their banners, the latter es-
pecially beautiful.
	The Pilgrim Fathers landing on Plymouth
Rock, in 1620, were represented by tableaux, and
had a car elegantly fitted up for that purpose.
It was profusely decorated with flags and
banners. Purity was artistically represented
by a young lady attired in white. A piece of
the identical rock was framed and hung in the
car. Following this were several carriages of
New England people.
	Next came the Ogden brass band.
	The Y. M. M. I. A. marched in a body 1,100
strong, preceded by a finely mounted horseman
bearing their flag, one of the finest if not really
the finest in the procession. It was of white
silk, trimmed with blue and gold, and inscribed,
"The Glory of God is Intelligence," "Y. M. M.
M. I. A.," "We are 10,000 strong." Following
came the young men who marched by counties,
as follows: Salt Lake, 500; Davis, 150; Weber,
300; Box Elder, 50; Morgan, 40- Tooele, 30; mis-


[Column 1]
cellaneous, 30—total 1,100. Ahead were the
general and stake officers. There were over 60
banners displayed by these societies.
One of them bore the inscription "The Youth
of Israel will Sustain the Faith of their Fa-
thers."
	The Y. L. M. I. A. occupied three carriages,
holding the Territorial and Stake presidents and
other officers. Their banner was a large blue
one whereon was the inscription, "Y. L. M. I.
A.," and the sentiment, "Improvement our
Motto, Perfection our Aim."
	Following these came a carriage with the Ter-
ritorial and Stake officers of the Primary Asso-
ciations. One of the neatest and most pleasing
sights of the whole pageant was the Primary
Associations' car. Forty-two children—21 boys
and the same number of girls, representing the
21 bishops' wards of this city, all dressed in
white, and seated in the sleigh "Julia Dean,"
which was placed on wheels and beautifully de-
corated. It was drawn by six white horses, and
above on a tall mast was a banner of pure white,
with the words, "Primary Associations—Of
Such is the Kingdom of Heaven." Over the
heads of the little ones was a canopy to shade
them from the sun. In front, on each side of
the driver, was a little wood nymph, seated and
holding a silken rein, attached to the mouths of
the swans' heads on the sleigh, and behind were
two little sailors holding the ropes steadying the
awning and the banner. This fine display was
the result of the energy, taste and labors of Sis-
ter Ellen S. Clawson, president of the Stake
Primaries, assisted by her husband, H. B. Claw-
son, Esq.
	After these came the Pony Express in riding
costume with a banner, "1860 and 1861. From
the Missouri to San Francisco in seven days
and seven hours." Next was a car with telegra-
phy, then another Ogden band. Agriculture was
represented by a string of wagons loaded with
products, and with appropriate banners; then a
car of honey bees, then a horticultural car which
could not be excelled in beauty. A log cabin
with a mud chimney came next and seated in-
side was the widow of John P. Green. This was
followed by the most elaborate specimen of
modern architecture. Then the Payson band.
Next quarrymen and stone cutters in several
wagons at their work, the last filled with monu-
ments, graves and children strewing flowers,
and the motto inscribed, "In memory of the
honored dead who fell by the wayside." This
was most affecting "For every heart best know-
eth its own loss," and each would silently recall
its own. Workmen on foot followed.
	Wagon and carriage manufacturers, upholster-
ers. Printers, with press in operation, the names
of the various printing offices and newspapers in
the city. The car was 18 feet long decorated
with an eagle and a pennant with the words
"The Art Preservative." The pioneer press
west of the Missouri river brought here in 1848.
Binders of the principal establishments at work
in the next car, then the type foundry and paper
mill. Shoemakers and tanners next made a
very long and elaborate display. More than 100
men and boys represented this branch of indus-
try and about 30 girls were busy at their work.
A number of handsome banners, with witty
and appropriate mottoes. Saddles and harness,
house and decorative painting, tinners, butchers,
confectioners, wool press, cloth manufacture,
soap makers, mineralogy and mines, machinery.
Ladies industrial department. This car was pro-
fusely decorated with hanging baskets, and all
available specimens of ladies' needle work; this
committee of ladies spared no pains or means in
making attractive these useful and ornamen-
tal employments. In the car were young girls
braiding straw, making pillow lace, knitting,

[Column 2]
crocheting. The most conspicious motto was
"Men build and women beautify." The silk
car was finely decorated with cocoons and raw
material and the banner made entirely of varie-
gated twisted silk thread, was unique and hand-
some. On the platform was a ribbon loom, and
a silk reel, each with a lady at work, another
lady was knitting silk. Some very exquisite ar-
ticles of workmanship of silk material were hung
about the car.
	Merchants and bankers in carriages with a
banner of beautiful gold silk plush with the
simple word "Commerce." Salesmen followed
in four cars; appropriate mottoes with draping
and covering. Brooms artistically arranged,
making a fine appearance; then came chimney-
sweeps and last of all the Yacht Club. A neat
handsome yacht on wheels, crew dressed in cos-
tume, flags and streamers were quite an impres-
sive sight and when they cheered in counter-
marching in sailor fashion it was quite refresh-
ing, and made a pretty variety.

