REPORTS.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference S. L.
Stake of Zion, held in the Assembly Hall,
June 19, 1880, at 2 o'clock P. M. Mrs. M. A.
Freeze presiding. Opened by singing, "Prayer
is the soul's sincere desire." Prayer was offered
by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. Singing, "Come
all ye Saints who dwell on earth." Minutes of
previous Conference read and accepted. Re-
ports were read from several Associations.
	Mrs. Freeze then called upon the Presidents
to report. Mrs. Sarah Graham, First Ward,
spoke for a few moments, and stated their So-
ciety had forty bushels of wheat stored and
nine dollars in cash in Treasury. During the
quarter they had held one joint meeting with
the Y. M. M. I. A. of the ward, and met once
with the 11th Ward in joint session. Said the
young ladies of the 1st Ward had a library of
Church works.
	Pres. Freeze said she was interested in all
she had heard, realized these Associations were
a great blessing. Young people must have
s omething to interest them in the Gospel, they
must live for a testimony if they would obtain
it. Said it is necessary to have the Spirit of
God in our hearts continually, that we may
stand faithful. One thing especially that she
desired to say was, the spirit of unbelief is
abroad in Zion, and the inclination to argue
that there is no God; therefore it is necessary
that all should seek unto God; if they will do
this, they will overcome. Let us seek the Lord
more faithfully, and God will assist us in our
weakness and diffidence if we pray unto Him
earnestly. My desire is to see the young ladies
progress and not let the children get in advance.
We should each understand and know our duties,
and then do them. There are many sources of
instruction, let us arouse ourselves to the im-
portance of the obligations that rest upon us."
	Pres. E. R. Snow Smith said the greatest
obstacle to speaking in public was pride; a
speaker must be absorbed in the subject, we

[Column 2]
must be humble instruments in the hands of
God. After some other remarks, she nomi-
nated Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor to preside over
all the Y. L. M. I. A. in all the Stakes of Zion.
She was unanimously elected. Mrs. Maggie
Y. Taylor and Miss Mattie Horne were chosen
and elected her Counselors, Miss Louie Wells,
Secretary, and Mrs. Fanny Young Thatcher,
Treasurer.
	Mrs. Louie Felt made a few remarks; said
she wished to obey when called upon. What
Sister Snow had said about pride touched her;
she was proud of the principles of the Gospel.
If we sought improvement through prayer and
effort we would improve; God would bless the
diligent seekers after truth. Many had begun
earnestly, and then slackened their efforts; she
exhorted the young ladies to renewed diligence,
all those connected with these organizations.
	Mrs. C. Y. Conrad said: "We should not
fear the ridicule of men or of women, we should
do the best we can and seek to God for His aid.
We look around us and see some who are
gifted, they compose beautifully, but they could
not do that all at once, they had to attain to it
by degrees; it is so with other things. If you
refuse to act in any capacity, you cannot im-
prove; we have to make a commencement.
Young girls, write for the EXPONENT, all of
you who can; for my part I would not be with-
out it. Yes, write for it, and take it and read
it. Keep good company and do not keep late
hours; then you are safer from temptation. Your
mothers and fathers are the right ones to coun-
sel you; take their advice. We certainly need
spiritual food as well as temporal. I would be
glad to see more young sisters come into our
ranks."
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said in arising to speak
she felt very humble; she desired not only to
speak of good and true principles, but that the
spirit of her office and calling might rest upon
her. "Do I see young ladies here before me?
Only a few. Do they appreciate for what pur-
pose they have been born? I fear mothers are
much to blame in this respect. Have we not
an evidence of the growth of infidelity? Is it
true the spirit of infidelity is in our midst?
Then have we not instructed, have we not
trained our children as we should? We may
have taught our children the best we could; if
we have done our best we cannot reproach
ourselves. Joseph E. Taylor said on one occa-
sion, "If you have done for your children the
best you could, and you still hold them up by
faith, they will come back by and by." Our
young people should also be ladies and gentle-
men, and we should educate them in all the
sciences of the day, that they may not be b[-]
hind in any good thing. Mothers, look after
your daughters, keep them near you, keep their
confidence—that they may be true and faith-
ful, and that our Associations may not languish
and pine in the future as they have in the past,
is my prayer."
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said she was pleased
to be present on the occasion of the perfecting
of the organizations, and believed it would give
an impetus to them; thought in three months
from that time the young ladies would fill that
Hall. Hoped it would inspire a new interest
in these organizations; said we could not afford
to lose the intermediate link. Prayed that
Mrs. Taylor might have power to fill her posi-
tion; did not know of a more important one.
Said Sister Freeze had been much grieved at
the want of interest. "We have the senior, in-
termediate and primary departments, co-opera-
tive labor and individual labor—this perfec-
tion of organization will bring about the great-
est amount of good."
	Sister Eliza moved that the young ladies
have Sister Taylor visit them in their respec-
tive Associations, and those who did not do
anything resign their position, that some one
be put in the place who would fill it more
creditably.

[Column 3]
	Elder D. Graves made some remarks on
Sericulture, and read a letter from Philadel-
phia on that subject.
	Mrs. Freeze made suitable remarks, and
asked the presidents to invite Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and her counselors to visit them. Spoke of the
lecture to be given in the Theatre the following
Tuesday by Dr. R. B. Pratt, for the benefit of
Mattie H. Paul.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne spoke of the energy and
ability of Miss Paul; said she had great op-
portunities to talk to ladies of note about our
people and principles, and she was firm in the
faith of the Gospel. She had educated herself
gone out into the world to obtain perfect knowl-
edge of the profession she had chosen, and did
not forget her mountain home. The Confer-
ence was adjourned three months. The con-
gregation rose and sang "The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Benediction by Elder
Graves.						E. B. W.


