[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Swat the Fly]

Swat the Fly The Relief Society as an organization has always been very much interested in the "swat-the-fly" campaign, that has been carried on for the elimination of the fly throughout our communities. From July on, the fly is apt to be a very great pest, unless every effort is put forth to get rid of it. The following article from the pen of Professor Walter Cottam, of the Brigham Young University, selected from the columns of one of our local papers is to the point: THE MOST DEADLY BEAST OF OUR COMMUNITY Most people are horrified at the sight of a snake. Should one of these loathsome creatures, as harmless as they are, appear on one of our city streets, some women would scream, others would faint, and Mr. Snake would be straightway put to death. It is claimed by some statisticians that on the average two people die in the United States every year from snake bite. The figure is possibly too high. The abhorrence we have for snakes seems to be inborn; a trait handed' down to us from Mother Eve. What a pity she did not. Implant a racial abhorrence for the house-fly! This creature is the most deadly of all vermin known to man. At least 70,000 of last year's deaths in our country alone could be traced directly to this imp of Satan, this winged tool of Death, the house-fly. One-third of all typhoid fever cases and an unknowable proportion of such filth diseases as spinal meningitis, tuberculosis, and summer complaint of children is directly carried by the detestable fly. Why is he such a carrier of disease? One needs only to observe his habits and look at his hairy body under the microscope to find a ready answer. He is the filthiest of all creatures: born and reared in a manure heap, he takes wings to a privy vault, a daub of sputum, or some equally obnoxious filth, and thence directly to the dinner table or the baby's milk bottle. One cannot help but wonder if the fly is not struck with some sense of etiquette as he alights on one's bread or piece of pie, for his first duty seems to rub the muck and mire from his legs, which he neglected to do in his mad rush to the dining room. Look at the foot of the fly under the microscope and you will be struck with the fact that it is about the best filth gathering organ that could possibly be invented. The thick long hairs, coupled with two sticky cushions on the bottom of each foot, enable the fly to cling to the wall and make all less solid substances cling to it. With these six dusters and twelve sponges, together with a long sucking organ provided with rasp and glue, completes the fly's muck-gathering equipment. And the horrible fact about the fly is that none of this apparatus is cleaned after a visit to the privy vault, until the fly alights on your choice morsel of food.