[Vol10 | July 1923 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial, Faith in Our National Government]

Faith in Our National Government Newton D. Baker 'is responsible for the statement that Thomas Jefferson had, in a drawer in his study at Monticello, at the time he was writing the Declaration of Independence, the constitutions of one hundred democracies, all of which failed, yet he believed whole-heartedly in the new democracy that the Declaration of Independence should assist to bring into being. A similar attitude towards our government to that of Thomas Jefferson's should be encouraged today, by the people of this nation. There were forces at work when the Declaration of Independence was written that would have thwarted the birth of the nation. Much anxiety was felt lest the life of the new republic should be snuffed out during the war of 1812. The civil war brougth hours of grave concern, and today there are people who are fearful lest the evident unrest of society, the apparent anti-American attitude of some groups, to which is added a considerable amount of lawlessness, may finally result in the overthrow of the government. " Forces of right proved the forces of might in the early days of our national life, and in 1812, as also during the dark hours ot our civil conflict. No doubt we shall weather the present blast. The Latter-day Saints are definitely committed to such a faith and such a philosophy. They believe that the Constitution of the United States was inspired of the Lord, consequently they feel that it will endure. They have no dismay on acount of constitutional 
 amendments so long as those amendments thwart evil and extend righteous liberty. Undoubtedly Thomas Jefferson was sustained by an abiding faith that this nation would succeed. Had there been a thousand constitutions in his desk at Monticello of democracies which had failed, rather than a hundred, yet he would have believed. The Treasury We once knew a librarian whose chief concern was to keep the books in place on the shelves of the library. Someone suggested, perhaps not wholly unkindly, that he was a typical watchdog. It was his practice when meeting a person who had books from his shelves to remark, "If you will bring your book back I shall have all the books in again." He seemed in misery when the books were out. It is obvious that he, though a good mau, had a wrong point of view. He thought his duty as librarian was to take care of the books. It never occurred to him that a very important part of his work was to stimulate reading, study, and research. We sometimes wonder if such an attitude towards things has not come down to us from-the Middle Ages. The Middle Ages furnishes us pictures of misers who horded their money while they shivered and starved; of churchmen who kept apart from the world, hibernating in caves; of priests who preached the gospel in a tongue that few could understand. President Clarissa S. Williams voiced a most potent truth when she said, in substance, to the Relief Society workers at the officers' session of the conference, April 4: Our aim as an organization is not to have treasuries that show large amounts on deposit. Our aim is to show what may be achieved by the expending of money in legitimate and helpful lines. In other words we do not collect money to bank it for the purpose of making a showing in dollars and cents. We collect money to expend for relief. The organization with a slender balance and large achievement to its credit is the type of organization sought in Relief Society work. Christ said that man was not made for the Sabbath, but the Sabbath was made for man. So is it with the accumulations of the Relief Society; they are not tor the banks, but for those who are in need of succor and support.