A GRAND WOMAN SUFFRAGE RALLY.

	Some of the ladies outside Salt Lake seem
more enthusiastic on the subject of woman suf-
frage than are those who live at the Capital.
	On the 29th of July at American Fork the ladies
of the Association had a Grand Rally and a very
good time. People were invited from other
places and some from this City, Hon. C. W. Pen-
rose, President Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Lizzie
Penrose, and the writer went down on the morn-
ing train and on arriving found carriages in wait-
ing to drive to Utah Lake. The ladies wore the
yellow ribbon and quite a number of gentlemen
were adorned with sunflowers, (which grow all
over this Western country in great profusion,) the
ladies drove, and their whips were all tied with


yellow ribbon; the drive was delightful, and the
view at Utah Lake is charming, the sound of the
water there its dashing and murmuring reminds
one much more of the sea than does Salt Lake.
Returning from the Lake the party drove to the
meeting house where the audience were already
seated, and we saw more yellow badges and sun-
flowers, as well as many other beautiful flowers
with which the house was decorated.
	The stand was draped with the stars and stripes
and the flag of Wyoming with the one golden
star hung in a conspicuous place; the life size
portraits of Mrs. Stanton and Miss Anthony in
elegant frames hung over us, also small ones' of
Sarah M. Kimball the President of the W. S. A.
for Utah Territory and Hannah Lapish the local
President.
	The singing was excellent, they have a good
woman leader who is also a zealous suffragist.
The songs were well chosen from the Utah Wo-
man's Song Book, prayer was offered by the
chaplain Phebe Christensen. The President
heartily welcomed the audience and a young wo-
man read an essay on Woman, which contained
much sound philosohy. A young man William
Robinson made a stirring speech, the best speech
from one so young that we have ever had the
pleasure of listening to.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young spoke upon the
mothers of the land very feelingly, the difficulties
they labored under while held in bondage, the
taxes they pay, the requirements made of them
and the solemn responsibilities resting upon
them.
	The writer made a few remarks upon taxation
without representation, the condition of laws re-
garding women's property rights in New Eng
land in her girlhood, the modification of these
laws in many states by the suffrage agitators.
	Hon. C. W. Penrose occupied the remainder of
the time. He reasoned from a logical stand-
point, explained the difference between suffrage
and citizenship, spoke of the advantages that had
been accorded women in this Territory, and of
his own work in the Legislature at the time of
the passage of the bill to strike the word male
from the statutes of Utah, so that women could
have been eligible to office as well as to cast a
vote. Referred to the failure of its receiving the
signature of the Governor, which is a positive
necessity in this Territory. He also alluded to
the unjust way in which the women of Utah were
deprived of the ballot by Congress, without any
reason what ever, when the Constitution of the
country declares, such things cannot be done
"without due process of law." His speech
throughout was educational, he urged the ladies
to study the Declaration of Independence and the
Constitution of the United States, praised their
energy and diligence and encouraged them to
persevere until they obtained those rights that
had been wrongfully wrested from the women of
the Territory.
	After a few words from the President, singing
and benediction by the young lady chaplain the
meeting adjourned to Grant's Music Emporium,
where in the large hall handsomely decorated a
banquet was spread for the suffrage association
and invited guests. The dinner was thoroughly
enjoyed and also the music which was a feature
of the occasion. The remainder of the day until
train time was spent in chatting socially and in
singing and partaking of refreshments, and when
the visitors from this City left, the ladies and
gentlemen assembled there were in the midst of
a musical treat. The Rally will doubtless be a
good stimulus for the extension of the work in
this direction.


