	  	THE TABERNACLE LECTURE.

	Sunday evening August 7th Colonel
Francis Stuart Parker delivered an interest-
ing and instructive lecture upon “The
Child,” at the Tabernacle in this City,
there were 7000 people present, an
audience all attention and anxious to hear
this distinguished gentleman and lady, for
it was confidently expected that Mrs. Parker
would speak upon the subject of “Dress
Reform,” after her husband had closed.
It was a great disappointment to all that
she did not; the promise however that she
would address the people of this City on
that subject in the near future was made,
and we shall look forward to it with pleas-
ure. Mrs. Parker is a member of the Com-
mittee on Dress Reform appointed by the
National Council of Women, and her ideas
upon the subject will certainly be sugges-
tive and valuable.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided at
the meeting. The choir sang, “Light and
Truth the World is Waking.” Dr. Karl G.
Maeser offered the opening prayer, after
which the choir sang, “God of Israel the
Lord is our Redeemer.”
	Col. Parker was introduced by President


Angus M. Cannon. He prefaced his re-
marks by saying: “The child was the sun-
shine of the world.” His idea of the child
its tendencies, its nature and what its train-
ing should be, happily accords with the
views entertained by most of the people call-
ed Latter-day saints. The theory is all
right the difficulty lies in carrying it out
practically. We think as Col. Parker does
that when children are trained in that way
the world will have entered upon a higher
plane, and the Millenunim will come. But
first of all we argue that children must be
born right; the conditions under which
children are born the environments of the
mother, the maternal influences are the start-
ing point.
	If the people of this generation can be
made to see the necessity of training, it may
have a wholesome effect upon those to be
born in the future, and the few who accept
this higher ideal may leaven the whole in
due process of time. The greatest factor in
the world however is love, the child longs
for it, its nature craves it; not indulgence,
but real true love.
	The really great men of the country were
almost without exception those who came
from the farm or the workshop. Here in
Utah, or at the Institute in Provo he had
 met five hundred of the sharpest thinkers,
most earnest and intelligent teachers and
students that he had ever seen in the United
States, and he had held a great many insti-
tutes in different places. He felt that the
keynote to this was the pioneer life the
struggles for existence, the real practical
work and the love of industry transmitted
to this generation.
	The speaker thought the universe the
expression of God’s thought, and that when
a child turned to nature he asked God for
knowledge of his laws that he might obey
them. He alluded to these valleys set like
emeralds in the mountains, and that no one
could study them without bowing in sincere
admiration to the God who sculptured them
from nature. He referred to the great ad-
vancements made in science in the last cen-
tury or in fact during the last fifty years,
the discoveries that had been practically
worked out and adapted to the use of the
world at large.
	The whole lecture was beautifully illus-
trated with graphic word pictures that
brought the truths elucidated clearly be-
fore the mind’s eye, and will doubtless
make a lasting impression on those who had
the privilege of listening to his earnest elo-
quence. After Col. Parker’s lecture, the
choir sang “Zion Prospers all is Well,”
and Mrs. Parker came forward and stated
that the lateness of the hour prevented her
speaking as per announcement. She said,
“We women have been accused of putting
our brains into our clothes, but now we are
also putting our religion into our clothes.”
	The choir sang: “By Babylon’s Wave,”
and the meeting closed with benediction by
Elder B. H. Roberts.


