IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIX.
	The winter in London was superbly gay
beyond anything Clair or Lady Anna could
have imagined; Lady Walton entered into
the enjoyment with a zest scarcely consistent
after the protests she had made against
fashionable society, and her desire to do
something more useful, but she really
wished to initiate these young people into
the way and manner of the fashionable
world or as she herself expressed "the great
world," and all the ardor and vivacity of
her youth seemed to have returned as she
went from one place of amusement to
another, attended balls and parties and
made calls upon the great people.
	Clair was the favorite wherever the two
young men went, his foreign air and ac-
cent, his musical talent, and the mystery
that hung round him, which was a sort of
charm to the adoring mamma's and their
marriageable daughters,made him the centre
of attraction, or perhaps it was only the dif-
ference from other young men of distinc-
tion, the originality he possessed that was
the real cause. Lady Anna sometimes
felt she was more admired as Clair's sister,
than for her individual self. Yet Anna
was almost as much unlike other young
ladies as her brother was the generality of
young men.
	Miss Conway often thought what a
beautiful character her aunt Hilliard must
have been, to have such a lovely daughter
considering all the environments of her
cousin's girlhood,and knowing what a cold,
proud, haughty, arrogant man her uncle
Edward had been. He had his good points
she knew upon reflection and sometimes
she fancied he might have been different if
Anna's mother had lived to modify him.
Her principal fears for her cousin were in
Lady Walton's influence and yet she knew
that for Maitland's sake she would not wish
her to follow her lead exactly. Miss Con-
way scarcely ever attended Lady Anna to
any of the public balls, or receptions as
she always seemed de trop—for Lady Wal-
ton was very fond of playing the chaperone
to a lovely girl like Anna, and especially to
introduce her as the betrothed of her son.
	The winter passed quickly even to Miss
Conway for there were many things she
thoroughly enjoyed and she felt that her
stock of information was very greatly en-
larged. One can be always learning in
London, there is so much to see and to en-
gage one's attention, and Jane Conway was
one to make the best use of all that she
saw or heard, and she inwardly congratu-
lated herself that she would be much more
companionable as a wife, for having had
this opportunity. Although Miss Conway
had taken this London season quietly she
had really made more out of it than the

