[Column 2]

cences of the Church and of the Prophet
Joseph and his teachings to the Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought we scarcely
realized the magnitude of the work of the
Relief Society organization, and that each
individual member had duties to perform
therewith; the increase of love through our
associating together promotes charity for
one another and all the world, we think
more of one another's welfare and appreciate
each other better than we could have done
outside of being united in this capacity. Re-
lated some items of her visit to the Pacific
Coast recently and of having attended the
Bible class of Mrs. Sarah E. Cooper, the
great speaker and kindergarten organizer,
the interpretation she gave to Nebuched-
nezzar's dream interpreted by Daniel.
Spoke upon the subject of education and
what would be expected of our children in
the future.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, said "those who do
the most thinking are the best educated; in
the School of the Prophets in Nauvoo, when
Joseph Smith was giving instruction to the
brethren, he told them to make everything
they undertook a subject of prayer. If we
had the faith we ought to have this house
would be filled, we are not required to do
anything impossible; it is true we have
many duties to perform, but let us do those
that are most important, and meet our re-
sponsibilities in a proper manner."
	Mrs. Ada Brim, Cassia Stake; spoke of
the enjoyment she had experienced since
coming to the Young Men's Conference in
meeting with the sisters and hearing the
good instructions, and interesting subjects
that had been treated upon, hoped to take
home with her much that would be bene-
ficial to herself and others in that locality.
	Mrs. Agnes Cutler, President West Jordan
ward spoke of the Hall the Society had
built and of its having been dedicated and
the good influence in their meetings, said
"let us cheer and comfort our sisters who
are passing through severe ordeals and some
of whom are exiles at the present time, by
and bye the dark clouds will roll by.
	President Horne commended the Presi-
dents from the country who had traveled
fifteen or twenty miles to come to the Con-
ference and yet many Presidents who re-
sided in the City were not at the meeting or
came in late; thought we should be awake
to the importance of the work we had en-
gaged in and realize the many duties and
responsibilities of the times in which we
live, and never lose sight of the signs of the
times; and the indications are that we shall
need to secure our wheat and add to it, and
be prepared for any emergency that may
arise, that our children may not want for
bread; thought we should all take reproof
in a kind manner, look at the teachings and
reproofs given by our Savior, and may it
always have a good effect, let us accept it in
the spirit of kindness and profit thereby.
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at the same place. Singing, "O, ye
mountains high &c." Benediction by Mrs.
Elizabeth Stevenson.


30
