[Column 1]

of the Lord; rejoiced that we had no diffi-
culties to settle in our Relief Society,
realized the union that existed and that we
enjoyed the spirit of the Lord in our meet-
ings. Counselor Elmina S. Taylor spoke
of having just recently attended a very in-
teresting Conference at Brigham City; felt
that every branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should have a representative
present that we may know how the work is
progressing in our surrounding settlements;
"we have the best organization on the
earth, and it takes in the oldest and the
youngest and we know it is the work of the
Lord, let us be careful that we don't fall by
the way, but let us watch ourselves that we
may not be led by the snares that Satan is
laying for the people of God."
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the mothers, their influence with children,
thought example better than precept, hoped
we might live in such a manner that the
calamities that are coming upon the earth
causing destruction might be averted from
us through our humility and faithfulness
before the Lord. The following Presidents
made verbal reports of their respective
branches of the Relief Society, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Pixton, Taylorsville, Mrs. Z. V.
Eardley, also made some interesting re-
marks. Mrs. E. Weiler reported 3rd Ward
S. L. City, Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan,
Mrs. C. Smith, Draper, Mrs. E. J. Bodell,
Herriman. Each one of the sisters spoke
encouragingly of the work in the ward
where she presided and felt to persevere in
the duties pertaining to the Society.
	President Horne gave good and wise
connsel in regard to storing grain and also
the care to be taken of it, and referred to
the times of famine that were sure to come
in fulfillment of the predictions of the
prophets, quoted from the Scriptures "who
will not take up the sword against his
neighbor must needs flee to Zion for safety,"
also alluded to the saying of President
Heber C. Kimball that, "we would see the
time when wheat would be worth its weight
in gold."
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Diana Reid.

	Afternoon session: Opened with singing
"Come let us anew &c," prayer by Mrs. E. 
Webb, singing "For the strength of the
hllls we bless thee;" Mrs. E. Howard was
the first speaker, gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to San Juan Stake, spoke
of the long distances between the settle-
ments, the beauties of the scenery and the
hospitality of the people; also the interest
manifested by the women in all the great
questions of the day.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark of Farmington oc-
cupied a short time, spoke of the prophecies
being fulfilled in our day; of the necessity
of sacrifice in our daily lives, the overcom-
ing of weaknesses and guarding against
temptations; the need of cultivating our
minds by reading and study as well as our
hearts by the spirit of the Lord; desired to
gain intelligence which is the glory of God.
	President Zina D. H. Young: had re-
cently visited Logan Temple and enjoyed a
season of refreshing; made some remarks
upon the work for the dead in the Lord's
House; the joy and satisfaction it gave in
performing it, spoke of our dear beloved
Sister Eliza with whom she stood side by
side so long in many places, was reminded
of her particularly at the Conference in
Brigham City, related some early reminis-

