[Column 2]

others. Lady Anna had posed as a beauty
unconsciously to be sure, but it was a fact
nevertheless that it was her greatest at-
traction a sort of symmetrical beauty of face,
and figure. Clair was a favorite because he
could amuse and entertain company, he pos-
sessed to a great degree the faculty of mak-
ing others enjoy themselves without an
apparent effort, but Jane with her conscious-
ness of right and exalted ideas of personality,
and of cause and effect,looked on and learn-
ed from observation much that passed un-
noticed by her companions. Life was real
and earnest to her, and not the dream of a
summer day or the pastime of an idle hour.
She had sought to impress Anna with her
views until she came to London, and even
there gave her occasional glimpses of how
things appeared to her, but Anna seemed
not to comprehend life's great mysteries no
more than a child. Alas! for such women,
they often get the severest positive lessons
that enter like iron into the very soul, and
wound so deep that it is impossible for the
wound to heal however soothing the
remedies applied.
	Lady Anna's beauty attracted almost
universal attention, and was often the sub-
ject of conversation at fetes and receptions.
At a brilliant party given by one of the elite
of London, one evening when the season
was at its height, an elderly lady seated
near Miss Conway (who had gone by the
urgent persuasion of both Anna and Clair)
remarked to a gentleman on the opposite side
from Miss Conway, "Do you know Lady
Anna Hilliard, I mean the one in the soft
green costume dancing with Lord Simsbury
just there? The gentleman addressed re-
plied indifferntly that he had not that
pleasure and asked why she was so inter-
ested in watching her. "She reminds me
of an intimate friend of my girlhood, she
cannot be a relative I think for I have
made some inquiries about her, and yet she
has the very same eyes and her face is al-
together so like."
	"And what became of your friend, how
did you lose sight of her?"
	"She married suddenly I heard; some one
she had only known a short time, fell
desperately in love, and died soon after. I
was abroad at the time and never heard the
particulars, but by the bye I remember her
aunt with whom she lived had a son, who
was quite distinguished in literary circles,
he loved his cousin and was opposed to her
marriage, you would know him I am sure,
it would be in yonr time, let me see his
name was Harrison, Robert I think, I
wonder what became of him?"
	"Do you mean the Harrison who was a
member of Parliament for several years?"
Well I don't remember about that, but he
was very opinionated I think, he had
an opinion that the man this cousin was
going to marry was a downright villian,
and would break her heart." "The gentle-
man I allude to is in London now and by
Jove this romantic story of your friend has
interested me so much I'll call on him to-
morrow, and see if there can be any con-
nection between this young lady and the
one you fancy she resembles so strikingly."
"Depend upon it there is, I can see it in
every movement. See she comes this
way," and as the lady spoke Anna came
towards her consin who was so rapt in the
conversation that she was like one amazed.
She would not then repeat what she had
overheard but moved away and said aside to
Anna, "Do you know the lady who sat
next me or the gentlemen with her?"

[Column 3]

	It is Mrs. Devenish and the gentlemen is
Mr. Everhard I have not been introduced
but I have been told the lady is a most
amiable and attractive woman, and "blush-
ing deeply" that she greatly admires me
because of my resemblance to one of her
friends."
	"O, then you know what I have just
heard accidentally from her own lips."
	"To you, did she speak to you?" "No
child to the gentleman, who sat by her, his
name I think you said is Everhard, he is
going to trace the matter up through one
of his friends."
	"Then I shall know who I really do look
like, for no one has ever been able to tell
me."
	"Your father once said to me you were
very like your mother in temperament but
did not refer to features, I imagine this lady
must have your mother in mind, it came to
me as if by intuition, if I should prove to
be right in my idea, it will be a sort of
demonstration to me of the fact that I am
somewhat inspirational in my nature—and
I scarcely know whether that is a blessing
or the opposite, you know there are people
who know things before they happen; it is
either sensitiveness or susceptibility or some-
thing of the prophetic perhaps, and in our
day there are no prophets or prophetesses,
we only read of them."
	"My dear cousin," replied Anna, "this
is all Greek to me, I do not comprehend
your meaning, though I draw this inference
from it, that if it should have been my
mother whom I so much resemble that Mrs.
Devenish cannot keep her eyes off me, you
would begin to believe, you had the spirit
of the prophets—or was descended from one
of them."
	"Joking aside Anna, you ought to be
very glad if Mrs. Devenish can tell you
about your own mother for I think you once
said to me; you never heard of any relatives
on that side at all."
	"I suppose then we may expect a call
from Mr. Everhard if he finds out any-
thing worth hearing."
	"Possibly though I do not know that it
would follow." Here the ladies were in-
terrupted by Maitland who came to ask for
a dance, and Anna inquired whether he
knew Mrs. Devenish and would he intro-
duce her cousin and herself.
	"O, mamma knows her very well and
will be pleased to do the honor, but I
must not lose the chance of dancing in
this set, and the floor is fast filling," so
taking his arm, the two were soon gone,
and Miss Conway wandered into the library,
as she felt no inclination to dance; she was
looking backward to her childhood, and
trying to recall what her mother had told
her of her uncle and his affairs. She only
remembered her saying he was very rich and
could not forgive her for marrying a poor
man, and she had a faint recollection of his
neglect of home and duty. These reflections
together with the feeling she had of the
mysteriousness of presentiments, and what
some might term superstitions,absorbed her
so completely that she failed to notice what
other occnpants were in the room until at-
tracted by the conversation, hearing a
familar name spoken. She turned to look
and saw Mrs. Devenish talking to a lady
elegantly attired, and she distinctly heard
her say, "you will remember the Italian sing-
er whom we heard years ago and whose eyes
as well as her voice made so many men fall
dead in love with her, and all the ladies
jealous, O, I recollect so well my own


