PREHISTORIC MAN IN AMERICA.

			[Concluded.]
	J. W. Powell, in the Forum, says: “No
fragment of evidence remains to support
the figment of theory that there was an
ancient race of Mound Builders superior in
culture to the North American Indians.”
He also takes the view of Morgan, that the
early writers extoled the skill of the
sculptors of the mound building period.
They found carvings of birds and mammals
supposed to represent foreign species with
great accuracy; but these very objects which
they praised so highly have been re-ex-
amined and found so crude that, though a
bird may well be identified as such, it can
rarely be recognized as any specific bird of
this or any other country.
	There are many things found in some of
the mounds that do not belong to the origi-
nal builders. When white men first came
to this country European goods were traded
to the Indians, and these in time were buried
in the mounds made for this purpose; so to-
day many beautiful things are found that
are wrongfully termed the work of a pre-
historic race. Mr. Powell thinks that the
stone dwellings of which but ruins only
remain were built not longer ago than three
hundred years. He says there is no neces-
sity to search for lost and wonderful peoples
to account for any known facts. He further
states “that both the mound culture and the
pueblo culture have had a lowly beginning,
a slow, gradual development, and a modern
culmination. Both were at the height of
their glory when the oontinent was dis-
covered by Europeans, and nowhere do we
find evidence of peoples other than the
North American Indians and their ances-
tors.”
	Mr. Powell thinks that in the archæ-
ologic remains found in the United States
there is no evidence that man had learned
to use bronze or iron. There is no culture
found higher than that of the “stone age.”
He concludes his article by stating that the
graphic art on bark, bone, shell, or stone
never reached a higher stage than simple
picture making.
	Professor Putnam, of Harvard, and cura-
tor of the Peabody Institute, does not agree
with this theory. He has given up his life
to this study and is one of the best living
authorities upon this subject. He thinks
there was a prehistoric race who were not
the American Indians.
	In studying the remains in Central
America we find a race who had gotten
beyond mere household architecture, and
were rising to the sphere of art. That
statues such as are fonnd were produced by
a race not differing in descent or essential
habits from the northern Iroquois or other
Indian tribes seems simply incredible.
Higginson says in his history of the United
States: “In Central America we find the
remains of a race which had begun to busy
itself with the very highest department of
art, the delineation of the human figure;
and which had attained to grace and vigor,


if not to beauty.  The stately stone heads
of Yucatan, the arch and spirited features
 depicted on the Maya incense burners, the 
fine face carved in sandstone which is now 
in New York, all indicate a sphere of 
development utterly beyond that of those
northern Indians whose utmost achievement
consists in some graceful vase like that
found in Burlington, Vt."
	When we speak of the discovery of
America we always mean the arrival of
Europeans, forgetting that there was pro-
bably a time when Europe itself was dis-
covered by Asiatics, and that for those
Asiatics it was almost as easy to discover
America.  All that is necessary, even at
this day, to bring a Japanese junk to the
Pacific coast of North America is that it
should be blown out to sea and there lose
its rudder; the first mishap has often occnr-
ed, the second casualty has almost always
followed, and the Japan stream has done the
rest.
	Charles W. Brooks, of San Francisco,
has a record of no less than a hundred such
instances, and there is no reason why
similar events should not have been oc-
curring for centuries-  Behring strait is
but little wider than the English channel,
and it is as easy to make the passage from
Asia to America as from France to England:
and indeed easier for half the year, when
Behring strait is frozen.  Besides all this,
both geology and botany indicate that the
separation between the two continents did
not always exist.  Dr. Asa Gray, our high-
est botanical authority, long ago pointed
out the extraordinary identity between the
Japanese flora and that of northern United
States, as indicating a period when the two
continents were one.   It is an argument
difficult to resist, for surely flowers do not
cross the ocean in junks, or traverse the
frozen straits upon the ice.  The colonization
of America from Asia was thus practicable
at any rate, and that far more easily than
any approach from the European side.  The
simple races on each side of Behring strait,
which now communicate with each other
freely, must have done the same from very
early times.
	The fact may yet be established that the
aboriginal of America was contemporary
with the mammoth; but it is now only pro-
bable.  It is still necessary to close the
subject of prehistoric man in America with
an interrogation point.—Mary Morrison.
In Haerth and Hall.
	Grand Rapids, Mich.


