[Column 2]
	“It was at Westerfield, near Ipswich, my
own home, that we first met the London
cousin, afterwards to become so famous,
then a girl just iu her teens, and overflow-
ing with spirits. She was already an
author! Few writers indeed can boast of a
literary career beginning in the nursery, but
such was the case with the author of
‘Pharaohs, Fellahs and Explorers.’ When
only nine years old she gained the prize of-
fered for a temperance story in a popular
periodical, to the immense gratification of
her parents, whose only child and idol she
was. In these early days, however, it
seemed as if she was destined rather to win
fame as a musician than an author. Her
girlhood may be said to have been devoted
to the study of music, and at twenty-one she
was an accomplished mistress of harmony,
the pianoforte and the organ. She had also
developed another, and perhaps even more
marked, gift, namely, the great talent for
drawing, which, however, was never per-
sistently cultivated, as had been the case
with music. Hand in hand with pianoforte
practice, often extending over eight hours a
day, Miss Edwards carried on other studies,
more especially that of her own language
and literature. Of both she was a patient
and an ardent student, and the results were
the critical acumen and purity of style which
characterised the author later on. Some
charming little musical stories belong to
this period, and soon appeared her first
novels, ‘My Brother’s Wife,’ and ‘The
Ladder of Life, ’ followed by her great suc-
cess in fiction, ‘Barbara’s History.’ Hence-
forth her life was devoted to literature, her
works being too well known to need enumer-
ation here.
	“Intervals of travel relieved the hard
work of these days, and not the least happy
holiday spent with her was a little pilgrim-
age we made to my native Suffolk. Ever
a passionate lover of nature, the sight of
familiar scenes awakened keenest pleasure.
‘I feel once more a child,’ she would say,
as we strolled amid the meadows and green
lanes in the neighborhood of Needham
Market. A brilliant talker, a genial com-
panion, always in exuberant spirits—these
holidays spent with my cousin were days to
remember. Nothing in the shape of natur-
al beauty escaped her, the lark caroling
above the young wheat, a hedge garlanded
with wild rose and honeysuckle kindled
intense delight. The loveliest scenes of
Italy or Greece could not fascinate her more.
Chance decided Miss Edwards’ career as an
Egyptologist. A wet holiday trip in France
led her, with a friend, to seek sunshine on
the Nile. The result of this improvised
journey was a charming book—the standard
handbook of travelers in Egypt—years of
devotion to Egyptology, and a position
unique in the history of eminent women.”
	The foundation of the Egyptian Ex-
ploration Fund in 1883 was largely due to
her efforts, and she had long been its Hon.
Secretary, in which capacity she carried on
a wide correspondence at home and abroad.
She oontributed articles on Egyptology to
the Encyclopœdia Britannica, and wrote an
account of recent archaeological discoveries
in Egypt for the American edition. Her
last work “Pharaohs, Fellah’s, and Ex-
plorers” appeared towards the end of last
year. Miss Edwards was a contributing
member of various Oriental Congresses, and
a member of the Biblical Archæological
Society and of the Society for the Promotion
of Hellenic Studies. In America, at the
centenary celebration of Columbia College,

[Column 3]
the degree of L. H. D. was confered on her,
Professor Tyndal and the Provost of Queen’s
College, Oxford, being the only other British
subjects similarly honored. She also held
the hon. degree of L. L. D. from Smith’s
College, the first time such degree had been
conferred on a woman in America.
			MISS M. BETHAM EDWARDS,
	In Bristol Western Daily Press.


