		TO BE A NATIONAL HOLIDAY.

To His Excellency the Governor of Utah:
	“ALLOW me, as chairman of the executive
commitee of the Columbian Public School
celebration of October 21st, to do myself the


honor to call your attention to the progress
which the movement for this celebration is
making in the country. The history of the
movement is briefly contained in the en-
closed printed statement. May I ask you
to read it?
	"The movement up to this time has made
large progress. Thousands of newspapers
in all parts of the country are commending
the public school celebration editorially in
their localities. Even at this early date 
50,000 schools have expressed their deter-
mination, through their superintendents, to 
celebrate the day. The celebration enjoys the
approval of both President Harrison and ex-
President Cleveland, and the support of the
most distinguished members of Congress.
	"I desire, with deep respect, to submit to
your Excellency the request made in the
name of the whole body of State superin-
tendents of education, that you will give by
special proclamation an official recognition
to Columbus Day in the Territory of Utah.
It is, of course, the governor’s proclamation
which weighs most with the people. If it
is impossible for the governor to make the
day a legal holiday without legislative 
action, the purposes of the day will be
served equally as well by a proclamation in 
which your Excellency simply recommends
to the people an appropriate observance of
the day in their schools and other places of
assembly, without calling for any suspen-
sion of business.
	“Proclamations have already been issued 
by the governors of New York, Minnesota,
Illinois and Florida. Some of these have
been without without legislative action. I
enclose a copy of the proclamation by the 
governor of Minnesota.
	This request from the executive committee
appointed by the superintendents of educa-
tion is made only with the concurrence of the
State superintendent of education in Utah.
	"In the trust that this suggestion may 
commend itself to your judgment and to 
your favor, I have the honor to be, most
respactfully,your obedient servant,"
			FRANCIS BELLAMY,
	Chairman of the Executive Committee.


