DEDICATED TO MY SISTER.

My home was not in grandeur built,
	Nor, was it a charming New England farm.
It was a home in happiness complete,
	A home possessing every charm.
The dearest memories of childhood,
	That linger about my heart,
Bring to mind, many dear friends,
	From whom I have had to part.

Though the scenes of my life change,
	And I wander over hill and stream,
Yet, will I find a quiet, happy hour,
	Of home and mother to dream.
Peacefully, am I sitting to night,
	Around my own quiet hearth,
Living over again, my childish life,
	With all its joy and mirth.


I am dreaming, fondly dreaming
	Of the home, the dear, old home
Of my childhood, where through
	Orchard and meadow, I used to roam.
Once more in twilight, then moonlight, 
	With brother and sister so dear,
We go out in the deep shadowy lawn,
	To play games, to us rich and rare. 

I wander through orchard and meadow,
	Sometimes bending to gather a flower
Not more beautiful than fragrant,
	Or sit beneath the dear, old bower.
Once again, I travel the well-worn path,
	That led to the old Gum Tree Spring
Where I sat so oft', in days of yore,
	To laugh, talk or to sing.

How I loved the dear, old house dog,
	That protected me from all strangers,
Accompanied me in rambles,
	And so kindly shared all my dangers.
Hush! breathe not one loud word, to
	Break the repose of my pet cat.
Perchance, he too, is dreaming sweet dreams,
	As he sleeps on the hearth mat.

Spirit of dreams leave me not here,
	But gently open my mother's door.
Let me see the fire picture the
	Paneled walls, as in days of yore.
As I dream, I see visions, as it were,
	Visions of love, bright and fair.
I see those I loved best on earth,
	To night, where are they? Oh where.

Ah! I see my father and mother at
	The close of day, sitting side by side. 
She with face so gentle, so beautiful,
	He loving, as if she was but his bride,
Father listening to childish prattle,
	Mother with wee young babe at breat.
Each speaking of the dear little ones
	The two loving hearts have laid to rest.

Just the same is my father's Library,
	Nor changed is my mother's chair.
Tread gently, through that dear, old room
	For the sweetest of my memories are there.
Lift not the mystic veil of the future,
	But let my dreams forever last
For me there is joy and gladness,
	In thus, dreaming of the past.
			MRS. L. S. DICKINSON.
