A NOTABLE ANNIVERSARY.

	Spain and America have been exchang-
ing civilities on the occasion of the anniver-
sary of Columbus setting sail from Palos on
his voyage of discovery four hundred years
ago on the third of August;
	A message was sent signed by Prieto,
Alcalde of Palos to the President of the
United States stating that the United States
flag had been hoisted in front of the convent
of La Rabida along with the banners of all
American States. Batteries and ships are
saluting amid the enthusiasm of the people.
The message closes with, "God bless Amer-
ica."
	The President of the United States cor-
dially acknowledges the message of greet-
ing through the Secretary of State.
	The day was celebrated in Spain with ap-
propriate festivities, historical procession,
illustrating four great events, The Con-
quest of Granada, The Departure of Colum-
bus, with the three vessels "Nina" "Pinto"
and "Santo Maria," these were reproduced
as they were 400 years ago and were drawn
on cars. The others were "The Court of
King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella and
The Reception of Columbus on his return
fron his first voyage."
	Another celebration will take place in
Madrid on September 12, when the great
exposition will be opened.
	All these affairs will be of an educational
nature to the world at large and help to im-
press upon the minds of the people every-
where important dates and occurances, the
causes that led to the discovery of this 
country and point out a lesson of the Provi-
dences of Our Father in raising up men in
all ages of the world to accomplish certain
things, which are preparatory to ushering
in other momentous changes for the uplift-
ing of humanity.
	The women of America cannot be too
mindful of what they owe to that noble
Queen, who so generously aided in the en-
terprise which has given to us, who live to-
day and to our fore-fathers and fore-mothers,
"this choice land above all other lands."
	It would seem as though the women of
America ought to do something magnificently
permanent to perpetuate the memory of
this singularly estimable and heroic Queen.
Her life is full of interest and teaches
through all the most admirable lessons of 
high moral courage, indomitable purpose
in the right direction on the side of principle,
and if she committed some errors, they
were but the fault of the times in which she
lived, and should not be remembered to-
day; but there is much in her history that is
superior and excellent.
	Pierre Martyr wrote on the day of her
death "The world has lost its noblest
ornament; a loss to be deplored not only
by Spain, which she has so long urged on-
ward in the career of glory but by every
nation in Christendom; for she was the
mirror of every virtue, the shield of the
innocent, and an avenging sword to the
wicked. I know none of her sex in ancient
or modern times who is at all worthy to be
named with this incomparable woman."


But for Isabella's personality in the ad-
venturous enterprise of Columbus he could
never have set sail from Spain; her eloquence
was soul-stirring. The words are pregnant
with the spirit of a queenly soul. "I will
assume the undertaking, for my own crown
of Castile, and am ready to pawn my
jewels to defray the expense of it, if the
funds in the treasury shall be found in-
adequate." A woman's courage inspired
Columbus to do and dare, all honor to
Isabella for her inspiration and zeal in the
enterprise, and wherever the name of
Columbus is inscribed, there too shall ap-
pear that of the royal, queenly woman,
Isabella of Castile.


