AMANDA WILLIAMS.

	MRS. AMANDA WILLIAMS, relict of Jesse
Williams of Rome, who died in Whitesboro
yesterday, was born March 10, 1802, in Rome, and
was the daughter of Elijah Wells and Jerusha
Brewster, his first wife. Her recorded American
genealogy runs back over two hundred and fifty
years and is associated with all the Wells' of this
country, many of them of marked prominence in
professional, political and military life. She was
married to Jesse Williams, February 28, 1822, in
Rome, and lived there nearly all their married
life upon the farm first settled by his father, and
where he died 1864. With her husband originated
the idea of associated dairying, so that he came
to be called the father of the American cheese
factory system. If he was the father, she was
equally the mother of the system, for to
her skill, gathered from twenty years ex-
perience in the management of their private
dairy, is to be accorded whatever of success at-
tended the early growth of the system in popular
favor. For several years rarely did a day's pro-
duct of the original factory escape her vigilant
care. Her whole soul was in her work and not
alone for selfish ends. She felt great pleasure in
imparting to others new in the work the full
measure of knowledge she had gathered from her
toil. She was a conscientious observer of the
cardinal tenets of the Christian faith, and ex-
emplified in her life the virtues it teaches. She
is survived by six children. Mrs. Dr. M. C. West
Miss J. C. and David Williams of Rome, D. C.
Williams of Fox Lake, Wis., W. B. and George
Wi liams of Whitesboro.—Utica Morning Herald.

	The lady whose death we republish from the
New York paper is the Aunt of Jesse W. Fox one
of the old residents of this Territory, and Sister
Williams has been connected with the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints many years,
faithful to its principles and true to her integrity.
She came to Utah some years ago on a visit, and
went to the St. George Temple where she re-
ceived the blessings to which she was entitled,
and officiated for some of her dead relatives
which was a great comfort and satisfaction to her.
Mrs. Williams was from the same branch of the
Wells family as the late Gen. D. H. Wells, al-
though not very nearly related.
			AUNT AMANDA.
Noble indeed as a woman could be,
True to her faith as the leaf to the tree;
Devoted to children, husband and God,
Humble and willing to bow 'neath the rod.


Firm to the truth, she endured to the end,
Firm as the rock, that no tempest can rend,
Filled was her life with kind words, and good
	deeds,
She walked in the path where righteousness
	leads.

A more noble life no poet e'er penned,
Loved by her kindred revered by her friends.
Blessed with God’s spirit, till her latest breath,
Serene in her life, and peaceful in death.

"Peace to thy ashes," thy mem'ry shall be
Honored through ages of futurity,
Rest from thy labors, receive thy reward,
"Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."
			RUTH M. FOX.
