[Column 1]
﻿father raving about her wonderful black
eyes, she was the mother of young Hilliard,
there was a marriage it seems though no
one in England knew of it, she lived abroad,
but died very shortly; and the gossips say,
he was very glad, for he wonld not acknowl-
edge her in any way, though he had really
been over head and ears in love before the
ceremony took place.”
	‘‘Really Mrs. Devenish I do not even
remember the great singer, I suppose it was
very long ago, and one can’t always recall
the great people one has seen, even if they
were celebrated singers; but why are you so
interested in the young man and what do
you care about his mother.”
	‘‘It is not so much the young man himself
though he is very fine every way, charming
in fact, but the family, there’s a mystery
about them even to to the relative who ap-
pears in society as the chaperone. She is
not just like other people, so sedate and old-
fashioned, she watches over these young
people like a mother, indeed if all mothers
were as cautious, there would be fewer
matrimonial mistakes I fancy.’’
	‘‘I don’t think it matters much who or
what these people are, they have their own
part to play in life, and will probably not
come in contact with us in any way, it can
make no difference to us, one would think
you were looking out for a husband or wife
for a son or daughter, and going into the
merits of ancestry the way you talk of these
Hilliards.”
	‘‘O, no! not that and indeed it seems they
are all spoken for unless it be the young
man, and I’m not sure of him, in point of
fact there’s a question whether he can suc-
ceed to the title.”
	Jane wished she were out of the room,
she felt as if she were listening to a private
conversation, and yet it was unavoidable;
soon after the ladies left the library to-
gether and she was glad to make her escape;
she had never heard before that there was
doubt about Clair’s heirship, and as for his
mother she had pretty well guessed, that it
was a case of fascination and infatuation
and not of a lasting character. She de-
cided not to repeat even to Anna what she
had unwillingly over heard, as it would
very likely only excite her curiosity with-
out being of any benefit; she seemed des-
tined to obtain all the family secrets.
	A day or two after the ball referred to,
and when Jane and her cousin were quiet-
ly talking in their morning room, the ser-
vant announced visitors: ‘‘Mr. Everhard
and a friend of his from abroad.” The
girls looked at each other in silence, but
only for a second or two, then with her
usual firmness Miss Conway gave her
directions to the man in waiting. Ere long
the young ladies descended to the drawing-
room and the formalities of an introduction
were waived by the gentlemen saying, they
came on business, and proceeded forthwith
to inquire whether Lady Anna Hilliard
would like to hear something concerning
the family of her mother. “I see said the
gentleman who accompanied Mr. Everhard
that you are the living image of my cousin,
Clarice Courtenay, and as she was the most
lovable of women pardon me if I seem to
speak familiarly to you; as it is now about
twenty years since I met her last, and hav-
ing been much in foreign parts I had no
idea until my friend here informed me of
your living in London, that my cousin had
left any offspring.  I was so thoroughly
astonished by the intelligence, that I re-
paired at once to Sir Edward Hilliard’s

