THE STORM Evelyn Fjeldsted Dark skies seem strangely ominous Old trees bend in the wooded glen, Rain drenched winds descend.—Then calm, And soon the sun comes out again. And so it is with life at times, The way obscured, we can but wait; The winter of our fear sweeps on, Again we see our course laid straight. MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PREWSS Elder James R. Clark Brigham Young University Copyright 1946 II THE WORLD RECEIVES THE NEWS OF JOSEPH SMITH’S DEATH (Second installment of a series of articles on early Latter-day Saint history.) THE Salt Lake Tribune for Thursday morning, April 26, 1945 New York Times news release on a new experience in journalism. Delegates at the to San Francisco Conference were surprised to have placed in their hands on April 25th, a copy of that
day's New York Times which had been "put to bed" at 2 a.m. in New York, 3,000 miles away. This rather spectacular feat was accomplished in the following manner, according to the news release: The four pages were set in type in the
composing room of the New York Times, and printers' proofs were taken every half
page. Each of these proofs was transmitted to San Francisco Over the Wirephoto facilities of the t he Associated Press, just as photographs have been transmitted for several years. In the San Francisco office of the Associated Press, in the Chronicle Building, each negative of a half page was developed and a print of it was made, A messenger from the publishing plant of the Richmond Independent,  fifteen miles distant, picked up the prints and hastened with them to his office, where photoengravers put together the half pages in correct order,
photographed the resultant full pages and made zinc engravings. From the engravings, 2,000 copies of the four page newspaper were run off on a flatbed letterpress in the Independent plant. Remarkable as is this achievement
in communication of news, it is overshadowed by modern newscasting
through radio. It would have seemed nothing short of a miracle to my
grandfather, who was four years old at the time of Joseph Smith's death,
could he have experienced the rapidity of present-day newscasting over the radio which was in its infancy at is death in 1929. A miracle that within minutes, the news of President Roosevelt's death was flashed to all parts of the world, and
that within hours, the flags of nations known to grandfather only
through books, were at half-mast in honor of a President of the United
States. This modern flight of time is in sharp contrast to the pace of the
world one hundred years ago. At his death in 1844, Joseph Smith was a national figure. His death, too, was news. But there were no radios nor press associations with vast facilities to flash the word over vast spaces and continents. Yet, people then, as now, relied on the press for their knowledge of what was going On. One of the most widely circulated news items of one hundred years ago was the death of Joseph Smith, Mormon prophet, June 27, 1844 at 5:16 p. M. At Carthage, Illinois. Let us see how the news of the death of the Mormon leader reached the American and British publics. I cannot determine, from the newspaper files available, who got the "beat" on the death of Joseph Smith, but I suspect that an extra from the Warsaw Signal or the Nauvoo Neighbor might have had the first announcement off the press. The news was sent in a letter by messenger from Carthage jail at 8:05 p. M. To Nauvoo, but it did not arrive in Nauvoo until sunrise the next morning. In the meantime, two other messengers, George D. Grant and David Bettisworth, were dispatched and, although detained by Governor Ford of Illinois, they reached Nauvoo the night of June 27th and brought the first verbal news to Nauvoo On June 29th, the Lee County Democrat, Fort Madison, Iowa Territory, stopped their presses and inserted a postscript which announced the death of Joseph Smith. The editor said: The news reached here early the morning of yesterday, but little credence was at the time given to the report until about 3 P. M. When we received from the hands of a gentleman direct from Nauvoo the following developments.... ""To the Editor of the Lee Co. Democrat, Nauvoo, June 28, 1844, 9 o'clock a. M. Sir—I hasten to inform you that Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, and his brother, Hyrum Smith were murdered in the jail of this county, at about 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon." On July 1st the People's Organ, St. Louis, Missouri, said that it was hard to get correct information, but that they thought Joseph Smith's body had been taken back to Nauvoo. The Missouri Whig, Palmyra, Missouri, for July 3d said: Some miscreants entered the jail and shot Holy Joe... We have received no intelligence from the seat of war, since the last action. The Sangamo, Journal, Springfield, Illinois, on July 4th said: Smith has given himself up... Thus far our news seems to be certain. Rumor says further, that on Thursday of last week Joe Smith, Hyrum Smith, and Dr. Richards were shot by a mob at Carthage. We are incredulous in regard to the truth on this subject; and this feeling is general in this community. On July 10th, the Warsaw Signal, Warsaw, Illinois, published an official reprimand by Brig. General M. R. Deming to the newspapers of the State for misrepresenting the facts surrounding the death of Joseph Smith.: The July 11th issue of the Burlington Hawkeye, Burlington, Iowa, had an account of the funeral for Joseph Smith held in Nauvoo on June 2oth. On July 13th the Lee County Democrat published its regrets over the death of Joseph Smith, but not all papers were sorry. The Jones- ~ burgh Whig, Jonesburgh, Union County, Illinois said in its issue of July 24th: Death of Joe Smith—Some of the public journals, we are sorry to see, regret the death of Joe Smith, the Mormon prophet. The Mormon semi-monthly, published at Nauvoo, Illinois—The  MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS Times and Seasons—put their July 1st issue in "mourning" and had a full account of the death and funeral of Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum. In England, the Mormon editor and publisher of the Millennial Star ran a special supplement to the August 1844 issue in "mourning" in which he published practically all of the official correspondence between the Illinois State officials and the Mormons over the death of Joseph Smith. In this issue is published also a letter from Orson Hyde, dated New York, July 10, 1844, written to the members of the Mormon church in England announcing the death of Joseph Smith. The issue also contains an extract from the Liverpool Albion of August 5, 1844, which says: With regard to the Mormons, a correspondent of the New York Express, writing from Nauvoo, June 30, says, "The Mormons, greatly to their credit, submit to the loss of their leaders in silence. Not the slightest disturbance has occurred. The prophet and his brother were buried yesterday without parade and in secrecy." The London Record of August 3, 1844, carried an article on the "Death of the Mormon Prophet," by Henry Caswell, curate of Figheldean. To summarize the news coverage of this important event in Mormon history given by the press of the United States and Great Britain: we have the news "breaking" in Carthage, Illinois, June 27, 1844 at 5:16 Pm. It reached Nauvoo, Illinois, twenty-two miles away, that night by horseback. The news reached Fort Madison, Iowa, nine miles above Nauvoo on the Mississippi River early the next morning, but 91 was "not confirmed" until a direct messenger, who left Nauvoo at nine A. M., reached Fort Madison at three p. M. The editor probably set it in type that night and it came off the press in Fort Madison the next day, June 20th. St. Louis, Missouri, 190 miles down the Mississippi River, published the account two days later, on July 1st. SPRINGFIELD, Illinois, doubted the rumor one week after Joseph Smith's death. It took a two-horse carriage five days to make the trip from Nauvoo to Springfield in 1840 when Joseph Smith went there to stand trial. The news was known in New York City at least by July 10th, or just thirteen days after it happened at Carthage, Illinois. By August 3d, thirty-seven days after its occurrence, the London Record (England) had published its account, followed two days later by the Liverpool Albion. In the meantime, the editors in western United States had exchanged papers and as early as July 24, 1844, the Warsaw Signal was engaged in bitter debate with its exchange editors over the whole problem of Joseph Smith's death and its repercussions among Mormons and non-Mormons. Joseph Smith, in the eyes of the press of one hundred years ago, was both an enigma and a great man. Today, April 28, 1945, as I write the concluding sentence of this article, I sit by my radio and wait anxiously to see if the rumors which have flooded the air for the past three hours will really materialize in the surrender of Germany—nearly half way around the world, and if I will know it within a matter of minutes or hours. Even though the passing of a century has brought the transmission of news to a matter of the speed of light rather than the speed of a horse or canal boat, Joseph Smith still remains at once an enigma and one of the world's great men. In the words of Moroni, another American prophet, his name "'should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." Note: