Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WE wonder how Japanese women will react to suffrage, demanded for them by General MacArthur. It comes to them with stunning suddenness, whereas American women struggled for it seventy-two years, from 1848 to 1920. Since 1920 our country has sent only thirty-nine women to our national Congress, and the nine present incumbents are all in the Lower House. Yet what means of attaining a better world could be more sure than for determined women, the world over, to use their opportunities to mold public opinion, to vote, and to hold office? THE British Red Cross and other agencies packed 1,672,579 food packages per week for prisoners of war who were natives of India. Ig was largely through the efforts of the women of America that Mount Veron, home of George Washington, was purchased and preserved as a national shrine. LADY SIMON of England says Britain's government has only now accepted as its goal what has been part of the American way of life for neatly one hundred years, equal educational opportunities for all children irrespective of the financial status of their parents. THE international world of art has lost one of its great figures in Page 98 the death of La Argentinita, Spanish dancer born in the Argentine. Graciousness, a supreme dignity, and womanliness characterized her personality both off and on the stage. She was unselfish and often worked hard to help struggling fellow artists. MBS. MARIA KRISTINA PERSSON of Logan, Utah, has reached the age of ninety-nine years and may be the oldest Relief Society teacher in the Church, both in age and in length of service—more than sixty years. For fifty-three years she has been a worker in the Logan temple. FIFTY-SIX women doctors, graduated from Western Reserve medical school, have given their communities a total of six hundred and eleven years of medical service, besides engaging in many useful civic enterprises. Thirty-three of them have been homemakers, but unfortunately only twenty-nine children have been born to this group of such high intelligence. AMONG the 27,000,000 people of Indo-China, the women of the Annamese tribe are noted for their grace and beauty, and for their skill in the fine arts, music and poetry. The Mois are more savage. Some of their tribes are ruled by women. Women dispose of property, buy at markets, and make marriage proposals. Editorial Vol 33 February 1946 

Vol 33 February 1946 NO 2