THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XVIII SEPTEMBER, 1931 No. 9 Habit Training in Infancy and Early Childhood By Milton Bennion ORMATION of habits that make for the greatest personal. And social efficiency is one of the most important means of charecter development. This aspect of character training is also more dependent upon the family than any other educational agency. Until recently this training has not generally been thought of as belonging to the period of infancy, nor in any marked degree to early childhood. The results of recent scientific studies have, however, led students of this subject to reverse this older point of view. Infancy and early childhood are coming to be regarded as the most opportune time of life to establish habits that are most essential to good character. It should be noted that the term good character, as here used. Has reference to attainment of the greatest personal and social efficiency possible to any given individual. Good character should not therefore be thought of in its negative sense only; namely as refraining from evil doing. Important as this is, it is, in fact, only a minor phase of character as here conceived. From this point of view it is at once evident that the foundations of character are laid in the period of infancy, and, indeed, in some measure, during the prenatal period. Lest it may seem presumptuous for a mere man to advise as to how to train infants, I shall quote from a letter recently received from a young mother whose experience within the last five years with three infants of her own may free her from the charge of being only a theorist. I quote the following: "In habit formation, to make it easy, one should have good healthy material to start with. Many realize the importance of having a good diet but do not actually know what that is. The mother's diet. Complete in all respects, before a baby is born and while it is nursing, lays the foundation for training the baby in good habits. A colicky baby or one puny from rickets or other disease due to malnutrition is one I should dislike to have to train. On the other hand, a baby that has a good healthy start can easily be spoiled by the wrong kind of handling. ''Another idea to keep in mind is one's attitude toward the job. I think of the baby as helpless, as one whose development depends absolutely upon the way he is managed. I admit there are different types and dispositions noticeable in babies at an early age; but one can recogiize that and act accordingly. The idea is to manage the baby and not to let 488 the baby manage you. If a baby doesn't come to a schedule and routine then I look for the cause in something I have done or haven't done—after all the parent must be subject to self-discipline, must be consistent and regular in carrying out a schedule. "T believe the first three months are the most important. If a baby can sleep, eat, and grow properly these first months, the rest will come easy, if one still sticks to a schedule. I have always found that during these three months I could establish regular habits of sleeping, nursing, taking cod liver oil, water, and orange juice. By that time I have the baby on a four-hour feeding schedule, which gives longer sleeping time and the stomach more rest. With the establishment of the habit of sleeping through the night, feedings are reduced to five in twentyfour hours. "Another important habit to be established early is that of elimination. This process should be regular and just before a bath and a period of sleep. The sleep will thus be longer and sounder. Directions in detail concerning procedure may be found in 'Infant Care,' a publication of the Children's Bureau in the United States Department of Labor. This is Bureau Publication No. 8, Revised July, 1929, for sale by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C., price ten cents.* Mothers who are not famil- *EDITOR'S NOTE: A copy of "Infant Care' may be obtained "ree, upon request, by mothers residing in Utah, from Utah State Board of Health, State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah. This publication cannot be supplied in quantities to Relief Societies or other organizations. The request must come from the mothers. Residents of other states are referred to their respective State Boards of Health. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lar with the 'publications of the Children's Bureau will find it worth while to write for a list of available bulletins. "The second three months the baby spends more time awake. Suitable ways of spending his time should now be given some attention. To be handled and played with too -much will interfere with the habit of learning to amuse himself. By changing his position, his view, and his playthings occasionally the baby may pass much time happily. 'One thing a baby soon learns is what crying will do for him. It is his most emphatic way of attracting attention to himself, and he will use it, in so far as possible, as a means of getting the attention he craves. This is often contrary to his own best good. "Tf a baby is put to bed in the same way and in the same place every night it will not take many crying spells to teach him that it is bed time, and to establish the habit of going to sleep without crying. In any case a little crying is good exercise and makes for sound sleep. "The next period, six to nine months, the main new feature is his eating habits. He learns to take solid foods and to drink from a cup. These new habits should be acquired very gradually. <A baby may show signs of dislike for a new food, but through separate offerings of it when he is really hungry he may learn to like it. It will do him no harm, at this age, to go hungry for a time, provided he has all the water he cares for. "He must now learn to masticate food. Let him practice on a piece of hard, dry toast. In feeding do not give him too large a serving nor several dishes at one time. Such a practice may induce the habit of dawdling over his meals, may tend to destroy his appetite and may dis- HABIT TRAINING courage him in his efforts to learn to eat new foods.''* O summarize briefly it may be said that the foundation of good habits should be laid by the prospective mother in her own habits of diet, elimination, exercise, rest and sleep; that the attitude of the mother and also of the father toward the infant should be such as to temper natural affection with knowledge, wisdom, and self discipline in the interest of the child's most ultimate good. During the first three months of the child's life the father may have to exercise loving restraint over the mother to prevent her on some occasions from taking up the crying baby in response to her own instincts but contrary to her judgment and in opposition to the child's welfare. If the child needs change of clothing, relief from excess of gas in his stomach, or other cause of serious discomfort this relief should be promptly provided and the child returned to his place; but to allow him thus early to acquire the habit of ruling the household by his cries and of forestalling the possibility of himself acquiring regular habits of sleep and rest is contrary to all sound principles of infant training. The same is true if his cries lead to feeding off schedule or to other irregularity. His real needs should be met, but the time to play with him is when he is good and not simply demanding attention. It should not be supposed that systematic training in regular habits means to starve the social nature of the child nor to deprive parents of the joys of loving associations with their young children. *From an infornial letter written by Mrs. William L. Jones, who was, prior to her marriage, a teacher of home ecconomics in the Branch Agricultural College at Cedar City, Utah. 489 I' equal importance with that of being fed on a regular time schedule is the habit of eating the kinds of food that, at any given age, contribute most to health and normal growth. A child should not be coaxed or bribed to eat, nor, under normal conditions, forced to. The food may properly be made attractive, in so far as this can be done within reason and without detracting from its nutritive value. It should then be offered without comment or other display of personal concern. In case the food is refused, water may be substituted and the same kind of food provided for the next meal. This procedure may also be followed when the child develops the senseless habit of refusing to taste a new food. It will not be long before the habit of taking the right kind of food at the right time will be established. The other plan, too often followed by parents, that of coaxing, fuming, or fussing with a child about his likes and dislikes leads him to become self-centered, to court all the attention he can get from the family, even if he has to have a temper tantrum in order that he may occupy the center of the domestic stage. Such an attitude is directly contrary to one of the most essential conditions of good character; namely, regard for the comfort and convenience of others. It is also directly in the way of developing a rational attitude toward self. The child should be led, as his reasoning powers develop, to look upon his body as an instrument in the accomplishment of the most worthwhile purposes and so to nourish and otherwise care for his body as to realize the highest degree of efficiency. Thus, in time, he will come to have the same attitude toward himself that an_ intelligent, wise, and self-disciplined parent has toward his 'child. 490 The chances of the child's attaining this degree of rationality will vary, other things being equal, with the degree of rationality manifested by his parents in his early training. This rationality of parents toward children and later of children toward themselves and the contrary or irrational attitudes often assumed are manifest in a multiplicity of ways other than in feeding habits. With many children proper sleeping habits are made impossible by excessive parental indulgence in floor walking, jiggling, rocking, or going to bed with him every evening. The child acquires a habit of associating sleep with these forms of parental indulgence and is compelled to go through a long struggle in the post infancy period to free himself from these undesirable habits. [I urthermore, he either ties the parent to the house at children's bed time, or the child breaks all attempts to set- _tle any hour of the evening as a regular one for his retirement. It may vary from eight to twelve o'clock and may often result in the child's falling asleep in the living room in his day clothing while he is waiting for someone to go to bed with him. NOTHER mistake in child training too often made, especially where only one child lives in a household with several adults, is that of training him to "show off" before the family or before company. Thus the child early develops the ego-centric attitude which may later lead to very serious behavior problems. Displays of exceptional smartness and cuteness are, of course, very gratifying to parents and other relatives, but unfortunately they do not sense their part for the future welfare of the child. A child, in no case, should be treated as a plaything, however entertaining RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he may be, just as an older child should never be exploited for financial gain, now generally forbidden by our child labor laws. The underlying principle is the same in both cases; namely, that the child should be dealt with always with respect to his own ultimate best good and never as a means either for the entertainment or the financial gain of his parents or anyone else. This, of course, calls for the utmost respect for the personality of the child and for his rights. This respect, together with parental love or parental pride, to say nothing of parental greed, should never lead either to improper indulgence or to any kind of exploitation. To return to more positive suggestions, there are some very important mental habits that should be cultivated in early childhood. Among these are the following: HE child should be trained to entertain himself in a variety of ways and to develop his own resources. To this end a few simple playthings will suffice. He does not need the more expensive self-operating, mechanical toys; but rather simple things that he can do something with, such as a suitable ball, a set of blocks, a book of heavy paper, cardboard, a sled, the main point being to have something on which he can spend his energies and do constructive things. This need is especially felt in this age of commercial amusements, such as picture shows where children are taken merely to sit in a passive state while the show house does all the rest. Excessive patronage of this type of amusement tends to atrophy the native creative powers of the generation that is subject to it, hence. There is now more need than ever of providing opportunities for children to engage in creative activities. HABIT TRAINING With young children this opportunity may be had chiefly in play. SECOND habit of importance for this period is that of orderliness. The child should have suitable places provided or assigned for his toys, his clothing, and other belongings when not in use, and should be trained to put his things where they belong. He can early be shown how this lessens the chances of loss or damage to his property, how it saves his own time in not having to search for his things when wanted, and how it saves his mother and others from unnecessary labor. The habit of orderliness will become fixed with much greater certainty if it is developed upon a rational, thoughtful basis, as 'soon as the child is old enough to understand the reasons for doing things in prescribed ways. This is, of course, true of all habits. While doing the same thing in the same way at regular intervals over a long period of time tends to establish the habit, and may do so in such physiological process as sieep, nutrition, and elimination, in more complex activities less dependent upon mere physiological processes, there may be reaction against the established routine as soon as external pressure is removed, hence the need of supplanting, aS soon as may be, external compulsion with insight and _ selfdirection. THIRD habit to be established in early childhood is that of inquiry ior investigation into the nature and meaning of things. In the normal child this disposition of mind is very apparent. 'Parents may be either amused, annoyed, or they may simply ignore the juvenile inquirer. Probably only a small minority of adults appreciate the child's interests and realize the need 491 of giving him serious and adequate attention. In the history of the human race this habit of investigation is the basis jof progress in science, invention, and other aspects of practical affairs. The permanent welfare, therefore, of both the individual and the race is dependent upon preservation and development of this native tendency. Yet, in case of many children, this tendency is suppressed by parents or other adults in the home. The same process is continued in modified form by some teachers until the child is finally transformed into an adult magpie, ready to echo whatever knowledge is offered him ready made, but with his native curiosity and his powers of direct observation and thought reduced to a minimum. Any adult having direct associations with a child can do much to obviate such an outcome. In case a child asks foolish or |meaningless questions, that is, for one of his age, 'he should be shown that this is the case and should be stimulated to think before he speaks. If the questions are such that he can easily find out the answers for himself, he should be led by counter questions to discover the answer rather than to be told. In many cases he will, however, ask questions of real significance to himself, and which he has not the means or the experience to answer. A little parental attention to such questions and the kindly recognition of the child in answering will be time very well spent. In case the question cannot be answered it is well to say so; or if it is one the answer to which is beyond the child's comprehension the child should be so informed rather than ignored or answered incorrectly or otherwise insincerely. As a young child may by over and improper attention of parents and encouragement in self display de- 492 velop a superiority complex, so, on the other hand, may parents develop in a child an inferiority complex by habitually discounting the meaning and importance of his juvenile inquiries. The over attention and self display on the one hand tends to develop an ego-centric attitude, while the customary inquiries of the normal chiid are manifestations of an objective attitude of mind; an attitude to be cultivated because it contributes toward developing a wholesome personality. As manifest in the child this attitude may seem very simpie, and to some adult minds, unworthy of attention, the underlying tendency and mental habit is, however, the same as that manifested later by the same individuals as inventors, scientists, and philosophers. It lies also at the base of investigations in the educational and social fields, so essential to educational and social reforms. It does, however, require imagination, as well as sympathetic understanding of children, to see how mental characteristics of eminent men, so highly prized, are but the development of native characteristics generally so little appreciated in children. A FOURTH habit of very great consequence in character formation is that of sociability in the moral sense of that term. Every child has to learn how to associate with other children on a plan of equality. Whether this can be learned easily or only with great difficulty outside the home will depend in large measure upon the kind of influence and example of the home. What is the attitude of the child's parents toward their neighbors and toward the parents of other children with whom their's will come in contact? Do the parents assume an aristocratic attitude toward RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE others; do they disregard the rights of neighbors or of community? What the parents are, in this respect, will influence the child's attitude much more than anything they can say. There are unfortunately in adult life, in cities especially, social distinctions which parents sometimes consciously and purposely carry over to their children from infancy. They regard them as too good to associate with children of the poorer or less learned classes of society. This is a most pernicious influence upon the life of a child., The child of the poor or of the unlearned may be quite as good in morals and in native endowment as is the child of the rich or the learned. What justification can there be for prejudicing the mind of a child against association on equal terms with such children? Respect for personality and recognition on equal terms of the dignity, independence, and rights of each person whe has himself done nothing to forfeit such recognition is a basic principle both of ethics and of democracy. The child should breathe this spirit in the social atmosphere of the home, and should be trained to mingle with other children on this basis. It is only by this means that he can overcome selfishness and develop that othermindedness and good will toward all mankind that are essential to good character and social progress. To attain this result in character training the child must be trained to regard the rights of other children as equal to his own and to be considerate of their welfare and happiness. These lessons are first learned in the home, where there is more than one child near the same age, and later in neighborhood associations of children, and under some modern conditions, in the nursery school, in the kindergarten, and gen- HABIT TRAINING 493 erally in the primary schools, now available to all. In connection with the development of this habit of sociability it is very important that the child be surrounded with people who possess a good emotional attitude. It is contagious as is also its opposite. A desirable emotional tone may also be cultivated in the child in all habit-training by arranging that agreeable consequences follow right doing and disagreeable consequences follow wrong doing. These consequences should be near enough to their antecedent acts to enable the child to realize the causal connection between them. With the development in later life of a high degree of intelligence and stability of character these causal connections may be very remote and consequences to self may even be lost sight of in one's absorption in a great cause having to do with the welfare of community or of humanity in general. The young child is, however, far removed from this plane of experience and should be treated accordingly.
