[Vol22 | January 1935 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic St. VALENTINE'S Day "All the world loves a lover." VALENTINE DAY, February fourteenth, has long been observed as a lover's festival.
While not a serious holiday, many pretty customs and old superstitions are associated with its observance.
Like many other customs that have originated far back in folk and village life, the valentine, with its lacy designs, with cupids and hearts galore, still holds the attention of youth for a message of love. The most accepted theory of the origin of the day is, that it was a Roman custom to celebrate the feasts of Lupercalia in the middle of February. A custom of this festival was for maiden's names to be placed in a box and men to, draw them out, the man to choose the maiden whose name he drew. In order to change the pagan elements of these feasts, the Christian pastors changed the maiden's names for saints, and named the day in honor of St. Valentine, who was martyred February 14, 270 A. D.
Another theory is that the Norman word "galantin," which means a lover, was often spelled "'valatin." Both Chaucer and Shakespeare refer to the observance of the festival on the day in early spring, when birds first choose their mates. In England the custom long prevailed on that day of drawing lots to decide which young men and young women should be each other's valentines during the coming year. The couples thus drawn exchanged gifts and might be regarded as betrothed. The custom of sending written valentines in verse and anonymous was begun about the 15th century. To Charles, Duke of Orleans, who 

  was taken prisoner at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415 and held for twenty-five years in the Tower of London, is attributed the credit of writing the first valentines.
About sixty of these missives are now in the British Museum. In modern times the day is still observed more especially among the youth, by sending tokens of love or a small gift, and is remembered occasionally by older people who are especially fond of each other. The custom of sending the comic valentine, which at one time prevailed, has died out, or if there are those who persist in carrying out this idea, the Relief Society women should do what they can to discourage a habit so pernicious and unseemly. Literature (For Third Week in March) LIFE AND LITERATURE MODERN BIOGRAPHY "Many the things that strange and wondrous are, None stranger and more wonderful than man." LIFE is man's great adventure. In the conquest of his world he becomes a hero. In the Book of Literature is recorded the heroic experiences of mankind. Age-old is the worship of human achievements. As exploration, discovery, dominion, and invention have marked the path of man's progress through the ages, hero-worship has recorded the lives of the heroes in story, or song, or marble. As songs and stories are forgotten and as marble and monuments crumble man's heroism is not lost, it goes on in the experience of the race as a contribution to man's eternal destiny? happiness. Biography, The Art of Life Writing Biography is one of the oldest types of literature. Two thousand years ago Plutarch wrote his famous "Lives".
From then until recent years only a few biographical works of excellence have found a place among the enduring works of literature.
Today biography is one of ?Sopheocles. The most popular forms of expression. It has become the art of lifewriting. The age-old interest in human achievement makes all men in all ages hero-worshipers. To this attitude in ancient peoples we owe the preservation of such individual lives, legendary or realities, as Joseph of Egypt, Prometheus, Job, Ruth, Socrates, Ulysses, Siegfried, and Arthur of Britain. The first great biographer?still considered by many to be the best?wrote as an explanation to his work "Lives", "My design is not to write histories but lives."
Thus the real objective of biography becomes not merely a history of a life but a portrait of an individual. Dryden, the English Literary scholar, in 1685 gave to the life-story of an individual the title "Biography," and to the literary form the definition, "the history of particular men's lives."
Thus the tradition of greatness became a standard for the selection of the materials of biography and history became the pattern of
LESSON DEPARTMENT 55 writing. As a result many biographies are merely chronological records and records of achievement.
Lives of rulers, statesmen, military leaders, poets, and artists became the biographical vogue.
Later biography accepted the dictum expressed by Longfellow: "Lives of great men all remind us, We can make our lives sublime, And departing leave behind us, Footprints on the sands of time."
Goodness as a quality directed biography to become eulogistic.
Concerned with being monumental and inspirational writers stripped their subjects of human weaknesses making them heroic rather than human. Sainte Beuve (sant buv), the French critic, in his work "Eighteenth Century Portraits" brought a new conception to this literary form, that of a literary portrait. The French school of writers developed the idea so effectively that modern biography has accepted as its task "the truthful transmission of personality"?the portrait of the soul of man.
Biography as a portrait sets down more than facts, achievement, and eulogy; it records the "why" of a life.
This new art of life-writing is the most delicate and most human of all branches of modern literature because its basis is human life and human nature. The story of biography as a literary form includes the growth of a variety of self-expression?autobiography, memoirs, confessions, journals, diaries, and letters. The various forms of self-writing are motivated by a sense of individuality. To the "Recollections" of Xenephon and the "Dialogues" of Plato we are indebted for our understanding of the great Greek philosopher, Socrates. The famous Roman general Julius Cesar left a valuable record of his military career in his "Commentaries." Marcus Aurelius, the Latin philosopher recorded his intellectual and moral interests in his "Meditations." The confession is the most interesting form of autobiography. The tendency to extol, to monumentize, to forget, to rationalize are all evident as the author lays bare his inner life. 'The Confessions of St. Augustine" written 397 A. D. Was a definite influence towards subjectivity in self-expression. The world famous autobiography of Benvenuto Cellini (chel le ne) written early in the fifteenth century is a revealing picture of the Italian sculptor as libertine, braygart, and saint. The "Confessions''" of Rousseau (roos so) the French moralist, startled the eighteenth century with a frankness that bordered upon indelicacy. Of the minor forms of autobiography, the journal is usually a straight-forward record of events, while the letter is an initmate personal affair. The letter is the more revealing of the two forms, the life of George Eliot so ably constructed from her letters by her husband J. W. Cross, and the romance of the Brownings recorded in their letters mark the literary peak of the simplest form of self-writing. The diary is the unpretensious and sincere autobiographical form written generally for individual pleasure.
This was the case with the world renowned Pepys' Diary (peps or pepys).
Whatever the form selfwriting takes the fact remains "that there is neither picture nor image of marble, nor sumptuous sepulchre can match the durableness of an eloquent biography." Modern Biography In recent years biographers have endeavored to portray realities, not mere puppets stalking across a stage. 

  Hence the modern life-writer must be a student of human character as well as a chronicler; neither does he judge or criticize, he reveals and he exposes, but always walks behind his characters. The realistic movement in fiction coupled with the demand of the reader for "real life,? has given rise to the modern imaginative and impressionistic pattern. The modern biographer courageously gathers all the outward facts that can be obtained, these he tries to use to reveal accurately the hidden springs of character that motivated the life of his subject. He must at all times be objective and truthful? he must reveal not invent, never forgetting his obligation to his subject and to his art. It is to be regretted, however, that many of the new biographers have elected to over-emphasize the defects of their subjects rather than to truthfully reveal their lives. Amy Lowell, the author of the "Life of Keats," explains herself thus, "My object has been to make the reader feel as though he were living with Keats, subject to the same influences that surrounded him, watching the advent of poems as from day to day they sprang into being." To the reader who has sought to understand the enigma of Edgar Allen Poe, the life work "Israel" by Harvey Allen is most enlightening because "the shadows of the portrait are not left out nor are they too distorted." To read of Jane Carlyle, wife of the great historian from Froude's life we see a sensitive woman, unhappy and misunderstood, but to read Miss Drew's life of Jane Carlyle one sees an impatient garrulous woman the victim of self-pity, the wife of a patient and devoted husband. The explanation is simple, Froude loved Jane Carlyle; Miss Drew admired Thomas Carlyle. Few subjects have been as fortunate as Dr.
Johnson to have a Boswell for a biographer, to associate with him during life and create the portrait from day to day out of conversations, moods, and actions.
That it is the ideal way is true, but all biographers are not Boswells, and all subjects are not Samuel Johnsons. As the years go by, however, we are assured that the interest in human life will not wane, that the admiration of human courage will not cease, and that the understanding of human conflicts will not diminish, because biography will help to keep alive the torch of the spirit in man.
Tradition says great people are fit subjects for biography but art does not accept this consideration. If the modern life-story conforms to the ideal of a literary portrait the basis of judgment is the portrayal not of the greatness of the subject. One is reminded that it is the smile of "Mona Lisa" that lingers in the memory not the name of the subject of the portrait. A human life is made up of a number of motifs around these the biographer weaves his story realizing that "there is no life of man faithfully recorded, but it is a heroic poem of its sort rhymed or unrhymed." Three Modern Biographers Among modern biographers we find three who have achieved fame as literary artists: Andre Maurois, French; Lytton Strachey, English; Gamaliel Bradford, American. Andre Maurois in his work "Aspects of Biography" has revealed the growth of his greatest works "Amiel, the life of Shelley" and "Disraeli". Of the writing of "Amiel" the author relates the reading of a life of Shelley gave him keen pleasure, because some of the poet's experiences he could understand.
After careful research he wove the three characters, Shelley, Harriet, his wife, and Mary Godwin into a novel.
Finding that this was the wrong approach, the author cast the materials into the form of a life-story, finding joy in his own expression because the romanticism of the poet was the romanticism of every young man. Of writing 'Disraeli' Maurois relates: "JT had no love for the young Disraeli with his gold chains, his elaborate waistcoats, and his ambitions. But I had immense sympathy for the Disraeli who discovered the opposition of a hostile world, for the Disraeli so grossly attacked by secondrate opponents; for the Disraeli who stuck to his guns and never accepted defeat, for the Disraeli who was the tender husband of Mary Ann and the faithful friend of John Manners I learned through him the meaning of old age and of the approach of death?a piece of hard and inevitable schooling."
Always writing with enthusiasm, with understanding sincerity, with lucidity Andre Maurois is a great biographer. Lytton Strachey, eminent English biographer, set a new standard for writing in "Eminent Victorians" and "Queen Victoria."
Educated at Cambridge he became a writer for periodicals.
Using the method of the novelist, he presented the lives of the people whom he had studied so sympathetically and with such deep understanding that almost instantly fame was his. "Queen Victoria" is a portrait of awoman. It is not a record of English affairs or English life, always we see the little Victorian. We see "Dear Albert," we see Victoria not as a queen but as a woman, whether she is writing in her diary, or at an evening chess party at Windsor Castle. The work of Lytton Strachey has been the motivating force of the new school of modern biography. Gamaliel Bradford, American, is a prolific biographer. ?Confederate Portraits" "portraits of women." "Damaged Souls" and "Biography and the Human Heart" are considered by many to be his best work. To write biography as a literary portrait has been his purpose. Because ''we live and move in a world of shadows, in which there is one intense reality, the reality called I, which perhaps is the vaguest shadow of all. Gamaliel Bradford has sought to understand human ntaure. As man's greatest interest is life, Gamaliel Bradford has abiding faith that to read biography will bring to man not only entertaniment, but some increase in patience, in sympathy, in tolerance and love. The Portrait of a Woman Emily Dickenson is one of the most interesting figures in American Literature. It has been said that her life could be told in three lines. "Born in Amherst.
Lived in Amherst.
Died in Amherst."
When she died in 1886 seven hundred of her poems in manuscript were found in an old mahogany chest with certain old letters all marked to be burned.
Since the publication of the poems a chorus of praise has acclaimed the work to be that of a genius. It has been characterized "as perhaps the finest by a woman in the English language."
Other enthusiastic admirers consider her the greatest woman poet since Sappho. The poetry of Emily Dickenson has no parallel in the whole of literature. The chief subjects are?life, love, nature, time, eternity. The poems are short intense flashes of suggestiveness. Gamaliel Bradford calls them ''Clods of fire, shreds of heaven, snatches of eternity."
Only two persons knew Emily Dickenson intimately, herself and her "Sister Sue," her brother's wife. For the last thirty years of her life she was a recluse. -Her devoted
LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 

  biographer Martha Dickenson Bianchi, has described her thus: ?Fascination was her element. She was not daily bread, she was star dust. Her solitude made her and was part of her." She lived spiritually within her own heart and mind. The facts of Emily Dickenson's life are simple to relate, yet fraught with tremendous significance. Her life was spent in the little town of Amherst, Massachusetts. Her father a prominent lawyer was also treasurer of Amherst College. At the age of fifteen she was a sensitive girl with a greedy mind reveling in nature and believing that it was a terrible thing to grow up.
Everything interested her when she went to complete her education at Mt. Holyoke Seminary.
During these days she wrote for fun, but encouraged by a tutor she began to write seriously. In the winter of 1853 came the experience which changed the course of her life. A carefree happy young woman went to spend the winter with her father, a member of congress at Washington.
There she met a brilliant young engineer, Edward Hunt.
Overwhelming was the mental and spiritual attraction between the two only to become a tragic force, because he was already married.
After parting they never met again. For forty years Emily Dickenson kept her love story a secret from her family. She sang her love, however, in her poems. When Major Hunt was accidentally killed during a naval experiment, Emily Dickenson's creative life was stimulated. Her sensitive being seemed to be nurtured by this extreme suffering. Her withdrawal from the world was the natural thing for an individual of her sensitivity. Her poetry is not the expression of a saddened recluse; it is the expression of a great spiritual experience. We read her poems with reverent sympathy remembering that there is a divinity that is the birthright of a poet. It would seem that this gift was the endowment of Emily Dickenson. " Of the poems of Emily Dickenson the following are best known: "If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking," "We Never Know How High We Are," "The Soul Selects Her Own Society," "A Word," "I Took One Draught of Life," "Renunciation," "I Read My Sentence Steadily." Her love poems merged into death poems as she approached eternity; "A Wife at Daybreak I Shall Be" concluded the series thus: "Eternity, I'm coming Master I've seen thy face before."
Death but the drifts of Eastern Gray Dissolving in the East away Before the West begins." The immortal eight lines recording the tragedy of her life and indicative of her poetic power have given her the right to be considered among the finest of modern poets: "My life closed twice before its close; It yet remains to see If Immortality unveil A third event to me. "So huge, so hopeless to conceive, As these that twice befell Parting is all we know of heaven, And all we need of hell." A Modern Biography "Mary of Nazareth" by Mary Borden is a portrait of the mother of Jesus. The reader can do no other than approach the book in wonder at the courage and daring of the author. The biography is a recreation of the life of a woman of Palestine at the time of Christ. The creator, a careful student of historical, sociological and religious conditions of the Hebrews of this period, has drawn the picture sympathetically in quiet colors. Throughout LESSON DEPARTMENT the story we see Mary as she reveals herself at the Feast of the Passover when Jesus remained at the temple to question the elders? the spirit of anxiety but not of complete understanding. The narrative follows the activities of Jesus, dealing chiefly with Mary's concern for her son, at times following him to Capernaum, at others patiently waiting at Nazareth for any news, but always anxious over the growing antagonism of the Jews.
Mary of Magdala understands the mission of Jesus and tries to help Mary in the understanding of her Son's divine mission.
There are several scenes of poignant' beauty in the book:?Mary is teaching her little grandchildren a portion of Hebraic law. As they kneel at her feet they chant aloud to her question, "Of what shall the sabbath lamps be lighted?' They respond in desultory fashion as Mary's mind is wandering in anxiety to her son now performing miracles in Capernaum. The scene of the meeting of the mother of Jesus with Mary of Magdala is arresting in its significance. As the women follow Jesus during his trial and crucifixion the suffering is intense but delicately portrayed. In closing the book the reader admits that the task of the author is well done, and it is almost with the feeling of gratitude that the approach has been so gentle and has been so objective with so much respect for the religious beliefs of mankind. As the great masters painted Mary as the Maddona we accept their portraits. Mary Borden's work is a portrait of Mary of Nazareth, revealing not divinity but the mother of Jesus of Nazareth.
Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature?Macy. 2.
Portraits of Women?Bradford. 3.
Aspects of Biography?Maurots. 4.
Poems of Emily Dickenson. B. Program: 1.
Discussion a. The Art of Life-writing. B.
Aspects of Modern Biography. 2.
Review a. A modern biography. B. An intimate biography of a woman either intimately known or sincerely admired by the group. 3.
Readings a.
Selections from the poems of Emily Dickenson accompanied by a brief sketch of her life. Objective: This lesson is planned to give an understanding of biography as a literary form because of its significant place in the literature of today.