[Vol22 | January 1935 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in March) SAMUEL G. HowE AND THE PuysitcaLtty HANDICAPPED the history of human welfare work is the apparently accidental way in which great moveOi of the strangest things in ments began?a prison scene in the life of Mrs. Fry, the appointment of John Howard as sheriff, and the fainting of a poor woman in Octavia 

  Hill's kitchen. It was the same in the case of the man who began the work for the blind. 1. A Scene in Paris, France In 1771 a fair was held in Paris. It was an annual event, and drew thousands into the city from all parts of the land. A certain innkeeper, hoping to make what profits he could from the fair, determined upon an unusual spectacle.
Gathering all the blind men he could find, he dressed them in fantastic apparel and trained them for a burlesque play, a sort of comic opera.
Most of them wore tall pointed hats, they had on pasteboard spectacles, and the head player was decorated with peacock feathers and the headdress of Midas. The play was repeated day after day.
This degrading scene proved a great hit with those who had come to the city for the fair, as well as with the townspeople generally.
They had never witnessed such a sight before; it brought many a small coin into the coffers of the tavern keeper. One of the spectators, however, had very different feelings from the rest of the onlookers. His heart was filled with pity that any one should think so lightly of these poor unfortunates as to make a jest of them.
There may have been others who thought the same thing, but this particular man believed that something should be done about it.
Herein lay the chief difference between him and them?a difference that was to mean so much to the blind in years to come.
This man's name was Hauy (pronounced Hawee, with the accent on the second syllable). The brother of a celebrated physicist and mineralogist, he was then only twenty-seven years old. Always, in the countries, there had been blind men. A few of these became famous?Nicholas Saunderson, an Englishman, for instance, who, after taking a degree at Cambridge, became professor of mathematics there, and the Swiss naturalist, Francis Huber, who, with the assistance of his wife, actually wrote a book on The Habits of Ants.
Homer and Milton, one remembers were also blind. But, for the most part, blind persons, men and women, had taken to begging on the streets, as the only means of obtaining a livelihood.
They were uniformly objects of pity everywhere.
Blind beggars were as common a sight on the streets of Paris as they were in other European cities of the same size. No sooner had Valentin Hauy conceived the idea that he ought to do something for the blind than he went about his self-imposed task. He began his work by teaching a blind boy in his neighborhood, who had been in the habit of begging at a church door.
Encouraged by his success with this lad, Hauy collected other blind persons, and taught them in the same way. In 1784 he established in Paris a school for the blind, the first of its kind in the world. One day his first pupil, while sorting papers on his teacher's desk, came across a card strongly indented by type, some of the letters on which he was able to make out.
When he reported this discovery to the master, Hauy got the idea of raised letters as a means of teaching the blind to read.
Presently he gave a public exhibition of his pupils, one before King Louis XVI and his court, with the result that, as long as the novelty lasted, he received financial help from individuals, and later from the state. As time went on schools for the blind were established in Vienna, Berlin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and other continental and English cities ?all growing out of the work of Valentin Hauy.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 2. The Work Takes Hold in America.
These schools for the blind in various parts of Europe resulted, as one might easily suppose, from visits to the Paris institution by interested persons?Klein from Vienna, Zeune from Berlin, Gall from Edinburgh, and Alston from Glasgow. As a matter of fact, one of the two first schools of the kind in America came from a similar visit to the French institution by Dr. John D. Fisher, of Boston. Although, as we are told, the best schools for the blind are to be found in Germany and Austria at the present time, yet Dr.
Fisher established in Boston a better institution of the kind than was then to be found in any European country.
This was probably due to the fact that in the Boston school there was at its head one of the most remarkable men who ever engaged in the work of teaching.
This man was Dr. Samuel G. Howe. Dr.
Howe was the husband of Julia Ward Howe, an American writer who, through her most famous poem, the Battle Hymn of the Republic, stirred the feelings of patriotism in her fellow citizens during the civil war days. He was born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1810, and died in 1876.
When he was twentyone, he was graduated from Brown University in the arts course, and three years later from Harvard University with a degree in medicine.
Human welfare work was a passion with him.
That is the reason, most likely, why he studied medicine in the first place. It furnishes the reason, too, for his war work among the Greeks across the ocean. For, at the age of twenty-three, he went to Greece to help in the cause of freedom.
After he got there he found that he could best serve the cause by returning to America and raising money and provisions; and this he did, going back to Greece with sixty thousand dollars, which he had raised chiefly among his friends here. His native interest in human beings, also, supplied the urge in him for his opposition to slavery. His chief contribution, however, to human welfare lies in his extraordinary work for the blind, the deaf and dumb, and the feeble-mimded. Indeed, his work with these is outstanding. ? One day Dr. Fisher, with a friend, was walking on the street in Boston. Dr. Fisher, as already stated, had become interested in work for the blind through visiting the Hauy institution in Paris. He was now contemplating the establishment of such a school in Boston, and was in eager search of a suitable person to take charge of it.
Suddenly he stopped and said to his friend, "There's the man we are looking for!" And he pointed to Dr. Howe. A bargain was struck there and then, and the adventurous Howe was made head of an institution that had an existence, for the moment, only in the minds of Dr.
Fisher and his interested friends. No better choice could have been made, as the event was to prove. The first thing that Dr.
Howe did was to make another journey to Europe, for the purpose of studying the best methods of dealing with, and teaching, the blind.
With this end in view he visited the Hauy school in Paris and the institution for the blind in Edinburgh. An incident that happened before his return throws light on the character of Howe. He wrote home that "some matters of private interest" required that he get permission for a further absence, which was granted. The "matters of private interest" proved to be carrying funds and supplies to the disheartened Poles, in their struggle for freedom. A little 

  after this he was imprisoned secretly by the German government, and his release secured with difficulty, through a happy coincidence. The first pupils in the new American school for the blind were Abby and Sophia Carter, "two pretty little girls, one about six, the other about eight years old, tidily dressed, and standing hand in hand hard by the toll-house." On receiving the consent of their parents, Dr.
Howe took them to his father's house, where the first school was held. It was then, and has continued to be, a private school, although its first money ($1,500) was contributed by the state legislature. The year following the establishment of the Boston school for the blind, the legislature appropriated the sum of six thousand dollars for the support of the institution.
This was after an exhibition of the pupils by Dr.
Howe before this body.
This exhibition before the legislature was followed by others, one in Salem and one in Boston. At a fair in the former town the women raised nearly three thousand dollars for the school, and in the latter city the women there, not to be outdone, raised more than eleven thousand dollars at a bazaar in Faneuil Hall.
Presently a wealthy man in Boston, Thomas H. Perkins, gave his mansion on Pearl Street as a home for the school?provided that fifty thousand dollars was raised.
With this new home and some money, the institution for the blind was now well established. 3. Laura Bridgman Dr. Howe's remarkable powers of observation, of patient waiting for results, and of his unusual resourcefulness are indicated in his work with Laura Bridgman. Laura Bridgman, when she came to the Boston institution, was seven years old.
This was in 1837. She had had "fits" till she was about a year and a half old, and at two she had contracted scarlet fever, which left her without sight and hearing, and almost without the power to smell. In consequence, of course, she was also dumb. On recovering from her illness she was an invalid for two years. ''The storm of disease gradually abated, however," says Dr. Howe, "and the wreck at last floated peacefully upon the stream of life. But what a wreck! Blind, deaf, dumb, and, moreover, without that distinct consciousness of individual existence, which is developed by the exercise of the senses." In this condition Laura entered the school. Dr.
Howe had for some time been deeply interested in the problem raised by the case of Laura Bridgman. He had followed with intense interest the experiments that had proved futile in the case of Julia Brace, at Hartford, Connecticut, in the American Asylum there. And so, when he read an account of Laura Bridgman, written by Dr. Mussey, he said to himself, as he tells us, "Here is an opportunity of assisting an unfortunate child, and, moreover, of deciding the question so often asked, whether a blind-mute can be taught to use an arbitrary language." In all of Dr. Howe's efforts to educate and train Laura the chief purpose, of course, was to get her to learn the language?"without which," as he truly says, 'she could never attain any considerable development of intellect, or of affections."
This could be done, however, in only one of two ways. First, she might be taught a sign for everything. She was very fond, for instance, of figs, and she learned to make a sign which signified that she wanted a fig. But to have a separate sign for everything meant the multiplicity of signs
LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 beyond the power of the mind to remember. So Dr.
Howe quickly abandoned this plan. Second, she would have to be taught "a system of purely arbitrary signs, by combinations of which she could give names to anything and everything: that is, the letters of the alphabet." How this was accomplished is one of the most fascinating stories in teaching.
First he put before her such articles as key, spoon, knife, together with the words "key", "spoon", and "knife" in raised letters.
These she learned to associate in her mind. 'So keen was the sense of touch in her tiny fingers that she immediately perceived that the crooked lines in the word key differed as much in form from the crooked lines in the word spoon as one article differed from the other." Next "similar labels, on detached pieces of paper, were put into her hands, and she now observed that the raised letters on these labels resembled those pasted upon the articles. She showed her perception of this resemblance by placing the label with the word key upon the key, and the label spoon upon the spoon."
Presently she was able to find the label for the article and to place it where it belonged. "The next step was to give a knowledge of the component parts of the complex sign, book, for instance.
This was done by cutting up the label into four parts, each part having a letter upon it." At first she was puzzled, but gradually it began to dawn upon her that "here was a way by which she could herself make up a sign of anything that was in her own mind, and show it to another mind."
Immediately her face lighted up with a human expression. She was no longer a parrot. She was an immortal spirit, eagerly seizing upon a new link of union with other spirits. It was a great, a dramatic moment.
From now on progress was easier.
This method of teaching the word first and then the letters anticipated by decades the present method of teaching beginners in the public schools. 4.
Growth of the Work in the United States. Although, as already stated, the Boston institution was not actually the first school for the blind established in the United States, the one in New York preceding it by a few months, yet the Boston school may be said to be the parent of the movement in this country for the education of the physically handicapped here, and Dr. Samuel G.
Howe the real pioneer in the movement. We have already seen that Dr.
Howe gave an exhibition of his pupils before the legislature of Massachusetts. He did so, too, in other States, where it was desired to found institutions for the blind?in New York, in Pennsylvania, in the New England States generally. Thus, in 1833, a school was established in Philadelphia; in 1835, one in Delaware; in 1836, one in New Jersey: in 1837, one in Maryland; in 1837 also, one in Ohio.
After this came the institutions for the blind in Virginia (1839), Kentucky (1842), Tennessee (1843), Illinois (1848). Wisconsin (1849), Georgia (1851). And so on till now almost every State in the Union makes some provision for its physically handicapped citizens. It should be noted here that the 'assumption respecting work for the blind-mutes is different in America and Europe.
Whereas in this country we are willing to help these unfortunates, in Europe they take it for granted that they cannot make a living in the world, and must not be expected to do so.
Accordingly in Europe instruction of the blind ends at fourteen years of age, after 

  which purely vocational work is given them?handicraft, piano-tuning, etc. Dr. Howe, in this respect, was beforehanded. "You may give the blind," he says, "the means of earning their own livelihood, or at least of doing much towards it; you may light the lamp of knowledge within them." And he went on to say that the object in the education of the blind is "to take from society so many dead weights, and enable them to get their own livelihood; society ought not to consider any capital so invested as a sinking fund for the redemption of its charitable debt." He believed that girls and boys ought to be kept separate in institutions for the blind, and at first he was opposed to the blind marrying, though he afterwards modified this view to the extent of allowing them to marry one who could see. Not only may Dr.
Howe be regarded as the father of the movement for the education of the blindmute in America, but his home in Boston proved to be the center in this country of the interest in the work for the physically and mentally handicapped. "Here Dorothea Dix came to ask advice in her crusade in the aid of the insane; here Horace Mann discussed the questions of public education. Charles Sumner spent many a night here talking on the burning subjects of slavery and secession. Theodore Parker's voice rang through these rooms 'like a hammer which breaketh the rocks' of superstition and formality. Charles Dickens passed hours here, and carried away impressions which he never lost." When Dr.
Howe passed away, the governor of Massachusetts sent a special mesasge to the legislature, which was then in session, calling attention to the State's loss "of a distinguished citizen." And at the funeral of Laura Bridgman, Edward Everett Hale gave an address, from which the following is taken: "Owing to the life of this woman, there has been taken a step forward and upward in the education of children in all civilized lands. God has so ordered it, in his providence and wisdom, that in the marvelous develpoment of her life a step was taken which has changed all education, in what it was, what it is, and what it promises to be. And that is the feeling which the world will have, as from nation to nation it comes to know that Laura Bridgmen has passed from life to life.".
This was, of course, high praise of the work of Dr. Samuel G. Howe, for without him Laura Bridgman would have been nothing.
Incidentally it should be added that Anna M. Sullivan, teacher of Hellen Keller, was a pupil-assistant of Dr.
Howe in the Boston school. Class Discussion 1.
What facilities has your community and State for the education and vocational training of the blind and deaf?
Those who are familiar with what is done in the State institutions and what they have to offer, can be of great service to the handicapped in their community. For instance, the circulating library for the blind, the traveling teacher, the work shops and reading rooms, as well as the institutions and associations for the blind. We suggest that a class member be asked to report on all the resources for the betterment of the blind and the deaf. 2.
Tell something about the Braille system of reading and how it originated. The associations of the blind are very much opposed to the blind begging.
What do you think is the reason for this disapproval? 3.
Tell something of the life of Hellen Keller. How was she indebted to Dr. Howe?
LESSON DEPARTMENT 65
Mission Lessons LESSON VI. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING MEDICINE CABINET "Health and cheerfulness mutually beget each other.??Addison. WE learn from a certain nursery rhyme that "for the want of a nail, a city was lost." It so happened only recently in a home, that a thumb was lost for want of a good antiseptic at the time of injury. Too often an emergency arises which requires some simple remedy that is to be handled properly and readily if the right materials are available, and many real tragedies may be averted by a little fore-thought.
Preparedness in the home, to meet the minor emergencies and to treat the common ailments, requires a medicine chest. No home, especially one with growing children, is complete without one. True, the drug store may be just around the corner?but home accidents are apt to occur any time when the drug store doors are closed. It is most embarrassing, in the wee small hours of the morning to be compelled to borrow from a neighbor, a simple remedy which should be found in every well regulated household. In time of health prepare for sickness.
Somewhere in every household, usually on a back shelf and covered with dust, are to be found a few indifferent remedies.
These medicines may be scattered through the toilet articles; they may be cluttered up with shoe horns, hair grease, face creams, old razor blades, etc.,? so the family medicine chest actually becomes a family menace. The value of a medicine cabinet is in keeping the necessary articles in good condition. 'Check the medicines as they are used just as you do your groceries, and replenish as soon as possible." Get rid of the non-essentials.
Most patent medicines and cure-alls are worthless. The value of many patent medicines is greatly exaggerated through advertising claims.
Many of them are absolutely worthless and yet some have sold as high as twelve dollars per bottle. Old prescriptions should be thrown away.
Drugs deteriorate with age and a prescription for one illness is not good for another. Do not buy drugs in large quantities.
Some drugs become very concentrated with age, and tincture of iodine with evaporation of the alcohol, may become very caustic and its application produce a burn or a blister.
Drugs are not as popular as they were fifty years ago.
Modern treatment emphasizes the value of diet, baths, rest, and other corrective measures for the treatment of sickness.
Prevention is still more important than cure, but the fact remains that in every home accidents do happen and sometimes sickness is present. It is important therefore that every home should have some first aid supplies, and a few remedies which have a definite use and value in common ailments. "Medicine can be helpful at the right time and harmful at the wrong time." It is not intended that we prescribe for ourselves and make a diagnosis always of our own ailment, this must be left to a physician.
Someone has said that a sick person who prescribes and treats his own ailment has a fool for a patient. We may not all agree as to what remedies we should include in our 

  medicine chest; but in most emergencies there are certain well known remedies, which have stood the test of time, and these should be found there. A medicine cabinet may be a very elaborate affair, or it may be a very simple, effective and useful addition to every home, giving a sense of comfort and security. It should hang on the wall of the bathroom, well out of the way of the children. It would be well to paint it white and a red cross, the symbol of relief the world over, could be painted in the door.
Glass shelves are preferable, they show the dust and are easily cleaned.
Keep the medicine cabinet clean.
Keep toilet articles away from the medicines. Get rid of the old things and arrange the medicines so they can be found when needed.
Keep the labels on bottles clean and readable.
When you pour medicine from a bottle remember always to keep the label side up, and by doing so none of the contents will spoil the label.
Wipe bottles off after using.
Parents who are taking sugar coated pills and chocolate covered tablets often leave them carelessly about the bathroom shelves.
Such tablets are a source of great danger to children.
They often contain strychnine, and a child attracted by "the bright color and sweet flavor fails to notice the bitter underneath."
Children have been poisoned by this negligence.
Warning labels should be on all such remedies.
They must be kept in the medicine cabinet away from children..
Never take medicine in the dark. If you are taking a liquid medicine always shake the bottle before pouring.
Follow directions absolutely, giving just the amount ordered.
Cork the bottle at once and replace it on the shelf. It is important that you read the label three times; first as you take the medicine from the chest, next after you have poured it out, and third as you replace the bottle back upon the shelf.
Always do this before taking a dose of medicine, it is a good habit to acquire. A little water, a piece of cracker or cheese or a peppermint, immediately after taking medicine will make it more palatable.
There are certain well established drugs and first aid supplies the value of which cannot be disputed and these should always be found in the medicine cabinet. The Contents of the Medicine Cabinet EXTERNAL USE TINCTURE OF IODINE, two ounces?ask the druggist to dilute the regular tincture of iodine with alcohol, making it just one-half strength, AS A DISINFECTANT ?This is used on cuts and wounds.
Allow it to dry before applying the dressing. TURPENTINE ? three ounces ?an excellent disinfectant for small fresh cuts, especially on the hand.
Soak a small piece of gauze in the turpentine and bandage it over the cut.
This remedy is also good to remove wood-ticks. HYDROGEN PEROXIDE? four ounces ? a fine disinfectant for the more delicate structures.
Excellent for stopping bleeding and when a piece of gauze is soaked with peroxide it makes an effective pack to stop nose-bleed. ABSORBENT COTTON?two one-ounce packages.
Wash clean and scald a small one pint fruit jar, wet the large end of a tooth-pick, and wrap small pieces of cotton around it.
This makes an excellent swab or applicator, and many of these can be kept in the jar and will always be ready for use.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 GAUZE BANDAGES ? two bandages each of the following sizes: one inch, two inches and three inches. All bandages to be left in original packages. STERILE GAUZE ?two one yard packages. Keep the gauze in the original packages. Handle it only by the corners when applying a dressing. Always use gauze next to a wound and never cotton. A little cotton, however, placed on the outside of the gauze before bandage is applied will help keep the dressing in place. SPOOL OF ADHESIVE?one spool of adhesive one inch wide will meet most of the requirements. Useful sometimes in bringing the cut surfaces of a. Wound together, also to assist in keeping the dressings in place. WHITE VASELINE?one tube, can be used as a dressing for burns, also an excellent ointment for skin irritation and small abrasions. PICRIC ACID GAUZE?a very ?ffective dressing for burns. BORIC ACID POWDER?one three ounce tin. A teaspoonful of this powder to a cup of water makes a good eye lotion and can also be used as a mouth wash. Some SAFETY PINS and a blunt pair of SCISSORS complete the articles on the top shelf of the medicine cabinet. INTERNAL USE CASTOR OIL ? four ounces. Dose, tablespoon for children. Adults about twice that much. Can be given in a little orange juice to which a pinch of soda has been added just before taking. MILK OF MAGNESIA?three ounces. An excellent laxative for infants and adults. An anti-acid and very palatable. EPSOM SALTS ? four ounce tin. A cathartic, rapid and sure, and can be used in a solution for moist dressings on old wounds. AROMATIC CASCARA?three ounces. This is a mild stimulating laxative, pleasant to take?must be well diluted with water and the dose is one to two teaspoonfuls upon retiring. Laxatives are only to be used in case of emergency. Constipation must be corrected by diet and if it persists always consult a doctor. Never give a laxative in the presence of an inflammatory condition of the bowels. AROMATIC SPIRITS OF AMMONIA?one ounce bottle. An excellent stimulant for fainting or for the heart?the dose is_ one-half teaspoonful in one-half cup of cold water. It can be poured on a handkerchief and used for inhalations by holding over the nose of the patient. SYRUP OF IPECAC ? two ounce bottle. Use to produce vomiting and for children with croup. SWEET SPIRITS OF NITRE ?two ounces. The dose is a teaspoonful in a cup of water, good for fever and to increase the urinary output. LIME WATER?eight ounces. To be used as a stomach sedative? added to milk it prevents curdling, combined with linseed oil, equal parts, it makes an excellent dressing for burns. ESSENCE OF PEPPERMINT ?one ounce. For colic in infants? the dose is five to ten drops in a tablespoon of water. MISCELLANEOUS ARTTICLES?a well equipped medicine cabinet should contain a fever thermometer, a medicine glass, a medicine dropper, a small jar of salt and another one of baking soda. A few 
  wooden tongue depressors and eight ounces of rubbing alcohol. Salt water makes a good throat gargle. EAR DROPS?an ounce bottle of carbolated glycerine, ten per cent solution. The ear drops should be warm before putting in the ear. Test heat by pouring a drop on the arm inside of the elbow. PAREGORIC AND ASPIRIN are two very fine remedies, but in America they have been very much abused. They have their uses and if properly used are a valuable addition to any medicine cabinet. OLIVE OIL, consecrated, should be found in every Latter-day Saint home.