[Vol22 | January 1935 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department]
Lesson Department (First Week in March) Theology and Testimony LESSON VI GEMS OF TRUTH 1. Introductory. This lesson, also the next, deals with gems of truth selected from the Doctrine and Covenants. Each selection is an epitomized statement of some distinctive phase of Latter-day Saint theology, and therefore lends itself to far more extensive treatment than is given herewith. Sufficient suggestions, however, are given in each case to enable the teacher to develop the topics as fully as time will permit. 2. Language of Modern Scriptures. In his introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord says: "These commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding." (D. And C. 1:24). The Lord then goes on to say that his commandments were given in this form that they who sin may be chastened, that they who repent may receive light, that they who are humble may be made strong, and that the Church may be brought out of obscurity and darkness for the salvation of the human race. Indeed, "I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; for I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh when peace shall be taken from the earth. Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled." (D. And C. 1:34-37.) 3. The Lord's testimony is plain and easily understood. He has so worded the commandments that men cannot fail to understand them, since he is not only willing but anxious that all men should come unto him. The clarity of modern scriptures and the readiness with which they can be understood, even by the layman, form a bold contrast with the abstruseness attached to the Bible by some of the more populous Christian sects. 4. Endless and Eternal Punishment. "For, behold, the mystery of godliness, how great is it! For, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for Endless is my name. Wherefore ? Eternal punishment is God's punishment. Endless punishment is God's punishment." (D. And C. 19:10-12.) This simple statement settles for all time a dispute that has rent the Christian world for ages, namely: Will certain transgressors be punished for their sins throughout all future time, without cessation and without end? The affirmative answer to this question?sponsored by numerous Christian professors?has made of Deity a monster devoid of even the fundamental elements of pity and forgiveness. Moreover it has deprived Christianity of the support of untold numbers of men and women who otherwise would have been its valiant adherents. Now, it is known that God's punishment, if endured even for an instant, is both Endless and Eternal.
LESSON DEPARTMENT I 5.
Importance of Prophetic Utterances.
Speaking of Joseph Smith as prophet and leader of the Latterday Saints, the Lord says: ?Wherefore, meaning the Church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto you as he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me; For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith." (D. And C. 21:4, 5.) 6. The foregoing declaration leaves no doubt of the binding importance of the words of Joseph Smith and his successors upon the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for when the Prophet speaks in the name of God it carries the same importance as. If Deity himself had spoken. Latter-day Saints who understand this, never question the significance or propriety of the Prophet's utterances. On the other hand, those who fail to do so are not in full accord with the rule and teachings of the Church. 7. Authoritative Baptisms.
