[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF | Author: Unknown]

	IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF 
		MARY A. FREEZE.
	Who departed this life January 21st,
1912, at Salt Lake City, Utah.
	In the death of our beloved friend and
fellow-member, we, the members of the
Utah Woman’s Press Club, feel to express
our sincere sympathy to the family of Sister
Freeze, in the loss they have sustained.
	To the Utah Woman’s Press Club she
was a source of joy and pleasure. Her
chair, now vacant, will bring sorrow to us,
reminding us that she will be with us no
more with her sweet smile and pleasing
presence. Yet we know the Divine Father
called her to adorn a holier place in His
eternal presence, and we bow to that de-
cree, but the memory of Mary Freeze shall
never die.

	She cast upon the waters daily bread,
	Shared her blessings freely everywhere;
	They now are multiplied upon her head,
	Eternal blessings now she’ll ever share.

	From her life we may learn the lessons
of truth and virtue. Life’s stream is fed by
many tributaries; but from the earliest pe-
riod of her life, only those which emanated
from pure sources had entrance. To those
who merely enter life’s stream, does not be-
long the honor of victory, but to those who
contend against its currents and win, be-
long all honor, all joy, all victory. This was
the portion of our sister, Mary Freeze. So
successfully did she contend that all of life’s
virtues finally gained entrance within her,
forming a fellowship, in which one kept the
others continually pulsating. A complete dif-
fusion of truth resulted, which obliterated
all dark channels from her character, mak-
ing her Truth’s conservative disciple. Thus
her life was replete in good works, that
must live though she has left us; they built

[Column 2]
their own monument not only in our hearts,
but in tangible results of her labors.
	May her family follow the course she set,
and may the members of the Utah Woman’s
Press Club live as truly.

We need not weep for her, my friends,
	She’s happier there than we can know;
The life like hers that upward tends,
	Knows naught of death—it hurries so.

It merely comes to cut the thread
	Of life, from this oft-changing earth;
To set it free from burdens here,
	That it might rise to higher birth.

The pure sweet face is smiling still,
	Her peaceful influence still lives there,
Those hands are not held by death’s chill,
	But kindred greetings still they share.

Behold the handmaid of the Lord!
	Could grander name in life be given?
We honor it with sweet accord,
	’Tis fit for noble guests of heaven.

Dear Mary lives with loved ones still,
	Her work up there in higher grade,
Promotion means—new hearts to fill
	With love and truth that ne’er shall fade.

So let us keep ourselves as just,
	By saying as she said always,
My heart is fixed, in God I trust, 
	His handmaid ever sings his praise.

If one deliberate wish expressed
	From any one of us tonight,
Could call her back again to earth 
	From where her spirit winged its flight,

Think you that she would want to come
	From that far brighter happier sphere?
No! call her not to earth again,
	She’s happier there than here.
					V. C. McCune.


[Column 1]
