[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: MARY A. FREEZE. | Author: Unknown]

MARY A. FREEZE.
Our friend! our comrade since our early youth,
Our precious sister in the Cause of Truth;
The one beloved in sacred, tender bond
Hath left us here, hath passed to the beyond.
It seems but yesterday we clasped her hand,
So late we listened to her cheering voice;
'Tis hard for human hearts to understand
And even in God's providence rejoice.
Yet could we know to what immortal bliss
Our loved ones pass when called from world
	like this,
Our tears would cease to flow, we'd feel a
	peace supreme,
We'd know God's promises were not a fleeting
	dream—
That Death is Life! the passing a transition
From pain to peace, from woe to an eternal joy
Where progress never has remission,
The Gold of life is found without alloy.
—E. R. Shipp.


When women cannot vote the ship of state
is like the steamship "Titanic," with only
half enough life boats.—Woman's Journal.
	The Chicago Record Herald announces
that one whole page of the Sunday edition
will hereafter be devoted to equal suffrage.
Many express their appreciation.
	Julia C. Lathrop, of Chicago, an asso-
ciate of Jane Addams in the work at Hull
House, a member of the Illinois board of
charity and a graduate and trustee of Vas-
sar College, has been appointed by Presi-
dent Taft as chief of the new children's
bureau in the department of commerce and
labor. Miss Lathrop is the first woman to
be made a bureau chief under the govern-
ment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
