[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: ANNIE WELLS CANNON. | Author: AMY BROWN LYMAN,]

ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the General Relief So-
ciety of the Church was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall on Wednesday, April
3, 1912, with President Emmeline B. Wells
presiding.
	The morning session opened at 10 a.m.
Singing, "O Ye Mountains High." Prayer
by Mrs. Rhoda A. Lyman.
	A solo, "Waft Her, Angels, Through the
Skies," was given by John T. Hand.
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave hearty
greetings to the large assemblage and ex-
pressed her gratification at seeing so many
out at the opening session of the confer-
ence. Spoke of the seventieth anniversary
of the Relief Society, (on March 17, 1912),
which was appropriately commemorated in
all the Stakes of Zion. Felt that all should
be proud of our organization and the work
it has accomplished in these seventy years.
From such a small beginning the work has
spread all over the world wherever there are
missions, and has proven a great blessing to
the missionaries.
	Mrs. Johannah Jensen of Wasatch Stake
[---]onded to the president's greeting. She
[---]t that her stake was greatly honored in
having the privilege of responding to the
[---]tiful greeting of our beloved president.
She felt that the words of hope and encour-
[--]ement from the president would inspire all
to greater effort in the coming year.

[Column 2]
	The Ladies' quartet sang, "Christ is
Risen From the Dead."
	Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., then addressed
the assembly on the subject of "Genealogy"
and "The Salvation of the Dead." He
urged the necessity of the members of the
Relief Society becoming interested, and of
actually engaging themselves in this great
work of collecting records and of officiating
for the dead. In order to accomplish the
great plan of redemption it is necessary that
those who died without hearing the Gospel
shall have salvation. It is a great privilege
given the Latter-day Saints to attend to this
work. The Lord has even declared that it
is an obligation we owe to our dead kindred.
According to the plan of salvation we are all
kindred, with Father Adam at the head,
who will rule over us as a united whole.
How can we be linked together if we fail
to go to the Temple and perform the neces-
sary ordinances for our fathers and mothers
who did not receive the privilege? If we
fail the links cannot be joined and the chain
cannot be completed.
	Elder Smith spoke of the great work be-
ing done by the genealogical societies in the
Eastern States as well as in England and of
the benefits we may receive from their com-
pilations. The Genealogical Society of
Utah is putting forth every effort to raise
funds to secure the general records of these
organizations. The work of salvation for
the dead was compared with our missionary
work. It was stated that we are spending
hundreds of thousands of dollars for the
preaching of the Gospel which is, of course,
very necessary; but what are we spending
in behalf of the dead?
	The quartet sang, "Who Are These Ar-
rayed in White?"
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was the next
speaker. She continued along the line of
Temple work and reported that a commit-
tee on Temple clothing, of which she was
chairman, had prepared Temple suits for the
use of those who desire to work in the Tem-
ple, and also suits for burial purposes.
	Violin solo, Romania Hyde.
	Closing hymn, "God Moves in a Mys-
terious Way."
	Benediction, Mrs. Rebecca Standring,
President Alpine Stake.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Congregation sang, "Our Mountain
Home So Dear."
	Prayer, Alvira Cox of South Sanpete
Stake.
	Singing, "Come, Come Ye Saints."
	Mrs. Susan Grant of the General Board
bore her testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel and the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	She was followed by Margaret Manning
of Bear River Stake, who reported her stake
in good condition. She stated that on
March 17, 1912, all the wards in the Bear
River Stake had uniform programs which
were printed and given to the members as
souvenirs.
	Soprano solo, "Teach Me to Pray," was
given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, after
which Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert addressed
the assembly. She felt it a great privilege
to work in the Relief Society organization
and bore testimony to the great good done
by this organization. Urged the members

[Column 3]
to be diligent in training their children and
to set the children a good example.
	President Joseph F. Smith then addressed
the congregation on the importance of Relief
Society work, and the duties and responsi-
bilities of its members. He stated that he
has always maintained that the Relief So-
ciety organization is one of the most im-
portant organizations in the Church. It in-
augurated a movement in favor of women
that had never been known before. Its ob-
jects and purposes are among the greatest
that affect the well-being, happiness and
prosperity of the human family. It is a
pleasure to know that the organizations in
both stakes and wards are actively engaged
in the work at hand. This work is like all
the rest of the labors and responsibilities of
women. It has no specific period of begin-
ning and we don't know when it will end.
"Man's work is from sun to sun, but wom-
an's work is never done." The labor, duty,
and responsibility involved in the work are
of the nature that appeals and applies to
the character of womankind. The members
never know when they will be appealed to
for aid or counsel. Their services are al-
ways in demand. Their duties are mul-
titudinous and will continue as long as we
are mortal and are possessed of human
weaknesses and necessities. The sisters are
important help in the work of the Lord.
The Kingdom of God could not prosper and
flourish but for the mothers and daugh-
ters. "Man is not without the woman and
woman is not without the man in the Lord."
It is as necessary for mothers in Zion as
for fathers—certainly there would be no
fathers without mothers. We cannot do
without each other, mother and father,
brother and sister, are equally essential in
building up Zion.
	President Smith referred very feelingly
to his own mother who was a faithful
woman and Latter-day Saint. She was
patient, forbearing and long-suffering, and
she taught her children to love the Gospel
and to be true to the Church; and every one
has been true according to his knowledge.
Mothers should realize the great responsi-
bility resting upon them as mothers. The
influence of the mother during the youth of
her children is greater than that of any one
else. The child grows up into her like-
ness, thoughts, religion, sympathy and de-
sires and a very great deal depends on the
training the mother gives, before the child
is responsible for its own acts. Some par-
ents are fortunate in the training of their
children, and some are unfortunate not-
withstanding the fact that they have done
their best. When parents have done their
duty, taught their children the truth, taught
them to pray and to have faith in God, and
have brought them to manhood and woman-
hood, their responsibility ends; and if the
children (after all this training and example,
by those who have loved them more than
their own lives) should go astray the re-
sponsibility falls on their own shoulders and
the parents will not be blamed for it. It
is only when parents have been derelict in
their duty that the responsibility falls back
on them. What a blessed condition when
the children have kept the faith and have
been obedient to their parents! One of the
duties of the members of this organization
is to help others in the rearing of their
children. All members should be diligent


[Column 1]
teachers and extend their influence to
others. The Relief Society workers should
be prudent, they should look after the essen-
tial part of the work. The purpose of or-
ganization was not to enrich any one; it is
not a money-getting institution for means
to be spent in pleasure. The means is used
for the legitimate purposes for which it is
gathered. It is not for the well, the strong,
the able; it is for the poor and helpless; but
it is better to help those who do not deserve
than to under-help the needy ones. All
who are in need should be helped even if
they are not Latter-day Saints. It is our
duty to help them, to minister to them and to
teach them the principles of the Gospel.
Nobody in need should be neglected.
	President Smith asked the Lord to bless
the sisters in their homes and in their work
abroad. The mothers in Israel should be
as good as they expect their husbands to be,
and the husbands should be as good as they
expect their wives to be.
	Contralto solo, “The Earth is the Lord’s,”
by Dot McMillan Bolto.
	President E. B. Wells felt highly honored
that President Smith took time to favor us
with this splendid address, and she was sure
we would always remember and appreciate
this courtesy shown to us.
	The following presidents of stakes spoke
briefly on the general work of the organiza-
tion and gave reports of conditions in their
respective stakes:
	Sisters Rebecca Standring of Alpine
stake; Minerva Knowlton of Davis; Sarah
Stohl of Boxelder, and Leonora T. Har-
rington of Granite.
	Duet, “God Be With You Till We Meet
Again,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward and Dot
McMillan Bolto.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings.
		SECOND DAY.
	MORNING SESSION, 10 A. M.
	April 4, 1912. After singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel,” opening prayer was of-
fered by Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Piano duet, from Hayden’s second sym-
phony, given by Miss Edna Coray and Mrs.
Orpha R. Walker.
	Congregation sang, “Softly Beams the
Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a brief

[Column 2]
address in which she expressed her appre-
ciation of the tributes paid her on her re-
cent birthday anniversary, for which she ten-
dered heartfelt thanks. She prayed that
the Lord would give her a sense of grati-
tude and charity that she might give out all
that is best in her to the sisters of this great
organization.
	Mrs. Hannah M. Crosby, president of
Panguitch stake, gave a favorable report of
the Relief Society in that stake. Spoke of
the fine attendance at their regular meetings
and the great interest manifested in the
work.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates of the General
Board delivered an address on “Life,” deal-
ing with the subject from the standpoint
of a Latter-day Saint. Our life before we
came here is forgotten but it was as tangi-
ble as it is today. We understood and
longed for more light and when it was
given us we came here as little children and
had forgotten everything. “My heart
swells with gratitude that I was permitted
to come here under the covenant of the
Priesthood and that I value life as it should
be valued.” The Latter-day Saints have
been given light and truth. No one else
believes that we had an individual con-
sciousness before we came here. The Chris-
tian and heathen world believe that there
was a great spirit and that we are tiny
sparks from this spirit. We, each of us,
come here with individual life—we come, it
is true, in the darkness and gloom, we go
through childish sorrow, maturity and
motherhood, but life grows deeper and rich-
er with all these experiences. Life brings
great responsibility with it—responsibility,
pain, suffering and worry. Many people
and several sects believe that we should
steel ourselves against pain and worry; but
pain and worry are part of our lives and
through them we are developed and purified.
When we see women like our president who
have passed through sorrow and affliction
and have remained true and faithful to the
end we should feel that we are willing to
go through the same experiences if we can
reach the point they have reached.
	Brother Walter Wallace sang a solo,
“Come Holy Spirit,” after which reports
were given by Mary Ollerton of Parowan
stake and Jennie Potter of Carbon stake.
	Two musical numbers were then given on
the violin by Prof. Willard Weihe, accom-
panied by Prof. J. J. McClellan. Mr.
Weihe played “Russian Airs” and “The
Cradle Song,” which he also played before
President Taft at the White House during
the eastern tour of the tabernacle choir. A
rising vote of thanks was given the
musicians.
	Sister Marilla Daniels of Provo was
called upon to give reminiscences of the
Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was
personally acquainted. She told of his
many fine qualities and of his wonderful
perseverance and faith. She related many
incidents in which the Prophet figured and
stated that she was one of those who saw
him at his home after his martyrdom. This
sad death was a thing she could not be
reconciled to for years. She heard Joseph
Smith prophesy that the Saints would be
driven to the Rocky Mountains and would
there build up a great commonwealth. Bore
a strong testimony to the divinity of the
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	The congregation sang, “How Firm a

[Column 3]
Foundation,” and the session closed with
prayer by Sister Romania B. Penrose.
	AFTERNOON SESSION, 2 P. M.
	Congregation, “Come Let Us Anew.”
Prayer, Sister Alice M. Horne. Singing,
“Praise to the Man.”
	President Wells stated that recently the
Church had had the opportunity of prepar-
ing a brief history of the Church for the
Appleton Company’s Encyclopoedia, and
that the Relief Society was given the priv-
ilege of furnishing a sketch of 3,000 words
on the history of our organization during the
seventy years of its existence; also 500
words each on the biographies of the five
presidents of our organization. The sketch
and the biographies had been prepared un-
der the direction of President Wells, ap-
proved by the First Presidency and sent
on for publication.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde, who has recently
been appointed a missionary on the General
Board, briefly addressed the assembly. She
felt delighted to be numbered with those
who were associated in a work of charity
and love; in fact, she felt that this was the
most joyful moment of her life and ex-
pressed her great desire to do all in her
power to assist in the work of the Relief
Society.
	A soprano solo, “O, Loving Father,” was
then given by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
The remainder of the time was turned over
for testimony bearing and the following
sisters bore testimonies: Sister Emily S.
Richards, Sister Head from Preston, Sister
Ellsworth, Sister Brown of Salt Lake, Sis-
ter Chas. D. Evans, Sister Romania B. Pen-
rose and others.
	A trio, “God Be Merciful,” was sung by
Lizzie Thomas Edward, Evan Arthur and
Ralph Siddoway.
	Elder James E. Talmage spoke of the
wonderful work accomplished by the Relief
Society. No organization in the Church
receives more admiration from the world
than this. The name is very suggestive
and well fitted for a society which so un-
selfishly gives aid and relief to all who apply
for it. He felt that the Lord smiles on this
work and urged the sisters to continue to
be diligent workers.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “Prov-
idence is Over All,” meeting adjourned until
October, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Rebecca N. Nibley.
		AMY BROWN LYMAN,
				Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


