[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | April | Issue: 8 | Title: Improve Hell’s Gate | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

IMPROVE HELL’S GATE.
MISS MARY JOHNSTON COMMENTS HUMOR-
	OUSLY ON TERTULLIAN’S DESCRIPTION OF
		WOMAN AS “THE GATE OF HELL.”
	Under the enigmatic title, “Wanted, An
Architect,” Miss Mary Johnston’s name was
on the program to give an address at the re-
cent National Suffrage Convention in Louis-
ville, Ky. It was awaited with great in-
terest. She spoke as follows:


[Column 1]
	“Woman,” says St. Thomas Aquinas,
“Woman is a rapidly growing weed, an im-
perfect being! Her body attains maturity
more rapidly than man’s only because it is
of less value, and Nature is engaged less in
her making. Women are born to be eter-
nally maintained under the yoke of their
lords and masters, who are endowed by Na-
ture with superiority in every respect, and
therefore destined to rule.”
	“Woman,” thunders Tertullian, “Woman!
you ought to go about clad in mourning and
in rags, your eyes filled with tears of re-
morse, to make us forget that you have been
mankind’s destruction! Woman, you are
the Gate of Hell!”
	What I wish to do for a few minutes is
gravely to consider how we can improve this
so-called Gate of Hell. * *
	I would educate her—educate her high-
ly, educate her deeply, educate her broad- 
ly. I would let up on accomplishments.
Less embroidery, more physics, chem-
istry and biology; less bridge, more
mathematics, history and philosophy; less
Sordello, more economics and sociology;
fewer chafing-dish recipes, and more do-
mestic science; fewer pseudo-graces, and
more knowledge and love of humanity; less
talk about great names, and more familiar-
ity with what made them great; far less of
the purely feminine, and far more of the
highly human.
	As a man thinketh so he is. As a woman
thinketh so she is. The mind becomes that
which it contemplates. Regard the wide
universe, not with a vacant and idle stare,
but ponderingly; sooner or later you will be-
come universal. Look always upon a sphere
small in diameter, small in circumference,
and your mind will hold that sphere and no
more. It may have its beauty, that asteroid,
its hothouse flowers and its Chinese trees,
but you will miss the stars at midnight, the
salt of the sea, and the winds that blow
from afar.
	The intuitive power of woman is very
great. When to this is added intellectual
power, when the vine of the mind, which in
woman has been made for countless gen-
erations to lie prone, to run idly, to waste all
its strength and sweetness—when the vine
of her mind is raised, trained upon the trellis
of knowledge, watered, warmed, enriched,
tended, kept in the sunshine of companion-
ship, of broad thinking, of great social and
human ideals, then, indeed, will we build
her up with nobility and with power!
Train her mind, teach it broad and altruistic
thinking, open to it the doors of human ex-
perience, change it from a bit of carbon in
a forgotten room to a noble, flashing jewel,
from a small, stagnating pool to a crystal
spring giving life and joy to all the fields
around, and, strange and strange to say, in
the measure that you mete to woman, in
that measure will enlightenment be meted to
the human race. Give to her the breadth
which comes from communion, not with one
or two, but with many minds, give her free-
dom of thought, give her the larger touch,
the vital warmth, the electric spark, give her
largeness of horizon, give her light—and in
just that degree and measure will you give
to the human species breadth and sweep and
vital warmth and growth and light! 
	Sometimes, even under the heavy beams
and rafters with which the ages have closed
her in; under the roof, so pretty sometimes
with gables and bright tiles and flower-pots
and tinkling bells like a pagoda, and some-

[Column 2]
times so very sordid and horrible, sometimes
even under that roof the mother of human-
ity dreams a dream and sees a vision.
	She sees health and wisdom and happi-
ness. She sees a poison field being made a
garden. She sees two gardeners who work
side by side. She sees the flowers that they
plant and the weeds that they pluck up. She
sees uprooted and destroyed the nightshade
of intemperance, lust, mania, uncontrolled
appetite; uprooted and destroyed the harsh,
swarth dock leaves of poverty; uprooted
and destroyed the tares of idleness, self-
indulgence and folly. She sees flowers
and fruit trees and waving grain, and two
gardeners who grow in stature.
	Sometimes her vision deepens, and then
she sees a race that shall be to the race of
today as demi-gods and goddesses, as strong
angels of the four winds. She sees physical
beauty, pure and strong, sublime and tender!
She sees clear eyes, and nerves like fine steel,
and a brain that shall cope at last with the
world. She sees hands that shake not and
feet that are firm. She sees great artists in
conduct, crystal simplicity, sincerity in all
things. She sees the human will, clear and
strong at last as the lightning brand, and she
sees it directed to mighty ends. She sees
great health and beauty and knowledge and
happiness and eternal growth!
	My third and last specification for the
new gateway of the nations is a great and
loving heart. Oh, I know that “Hell Gate”
is said already to possess it! All manner of
evil has been spoken of her, but that one
thing is rarely said. She is not called
hard of heart. Her tender heart—her gen-
tle heart—her loving heart! It is proverbial.
The poets sing of it. And yet—and yet!
If, in this world of the beginning of the
twentieth century, she is not hard of heart—
I speak broadly, of this Gate in the mass
as it were—what is she? Dull? Unawak-
ened? “Oh,” cries someone, “neither dull
nor unawakened nor hard of heart in her
own home and to her neighbors.”
	And Jesus, answering, said: A certain
man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho
and fell among thieves, which stripped him
of his raiment, and wounded him and de-
parted, leaving him half dead.
	And by chance there came down a cer-
tain priest that way; and when he saw him
he passed by on the other side.
	And likewise a Levite when he was at the
place, came and looked on him, and passed
by on the other side.
	But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed,
came where he was; and when he saw him
he had compassion on him.
	And went to him, and bound up his
wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set
him on his own beast, and brought him to
an inn, and took care of him. 
	And on the morrow when he departed he
took out two pence and gave them to the
host, and said unto him, Take care of him,
and whatever thou spendest more, when I
come again I will repay thee.
	Which now of these three, thinkest thou,
was neighbor unto him who fell among the
thieves?
	And he said, He that showed mercy on
him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go thou
and do likewise.
	Woman is the mother of humanity.
	All the men and all the women that ever
were, or are, or will be; all the heroes, all
the saints and sages, all the downtrodden

[Column 3]
and oppressed, all the rich, all the poor, all
the criminal, all the maimed, the queen on
her throne, the woman at the cotton loom,
the Sister of Charity, the Red Cross nurse,
the girl on the streets, the man of the hour,
the derelict in prison—all, all are bone of
her bone and flesh of her flesh, borne nine
months within her body, nursed at her breast,
cradled within her arms. All, all are our
children, and we are as universal as Nature.
Care for our own? Then must we care for
the whole wide earth. Kindly to our neigh-
bors? When did we last see the neighbor
in the sweat shop? The neighbor in the night
court? The little neighbor in the cotton mill?
Serve the world by bringing forth children?
Yes, but what kind of children, and to what
end? Keep the home? The world is our
home. The child that clings to your skirts?
What right have you to betray him and to
leave him when he is grown?
	Oh, woman, woman! We have been
a slave in Egypt to that notion of Tertul-
lian’s long enough! We are not Hell Gate.
At the worst we were never that. There
have been lovers, there have been poets,
there have been sons and daughters who
knew it. There have been some to call us
Heaven Gate.

“The Woman Soul leads us upward and on.”

	But we are not Heaven Gate, either. We
are human beings, the child and the mother
of human beings, and that is miracle enough.
What is a human being? It is something
that has come out of a lower and mounts
toward a higher. It is something that moves
through a wondrous drama toward a tre-
mendous destiny. It is something that
grows from within.
	Keeping the old name for a moment, we
may say that the building of this new
Gate differs from all other architectural
propositions. Gates of stone and marble are
made from without. The new gate must be
built without hands, and the architect lodges
within. That architect can do what she will.
There is no real limit; all limits are fanciful.
She can do what she will, and now the thing
of all others to be desired is that she shall
WILL it!—The Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


