			LAIE, OAHU, June 19, 1876.
	We left Ogden May 10th; had a pleasant
ride on the cars, lasting two days and nights;
spent a day and a half in San Francisco.
We sailed on the Steamer Zealandia on the
24th; had a very successful voyage; arrived
at Honolulu June 1st where we met Bro.
A. L. Smith, waiting with conveyances to
bring us to this place, the distance being
thirty-two miles. We found a hearty wel-
come waiting us, both from our folks and
the natives.
	The natives seem well pleased with their
new President, Bro. Pack, and show great
love for Bro. Smith, who has done a great
deal towards bringing them together and
uniting them.
	I am well pleased with this place, also
with the people. The children show a great
desire to learn English.
	Sister Mildred Randal has started a nice
little school. I hope that I may be able to
continue the work and be an instrument in
the hands of the Lord in doing good.
	Sisters Woolley and Lambert wish kind
remembrance. They are good Latter-day
Saints, and feel to exercise patience and
faith.
	I think this a very healthy place. There
is a continuous breeze, from the sea, and one
does not feel the heat so much as at home.
If this place were our home, and our dear
friends were all here, I should think it beau-
tiful. We have a nice large school room,
larger than our school room at Hyde Park.
It is the meeting honse.
	I like the pupils; they are like our chil-
dren at home—some more studious than
others.
	The natives grow very pretty flowers.
The geranium grows wild here, pink, scar-
let, sweet-scented. Many of our choice
plants grow here without water except the
rain. There are but few of the natives, as
far as I have become acquainted, who care
enough for anything like refinement to grow
flowers. They are, mostly, the most de-
praved people that I ever heard of. I have


come to the conclusion that if a virtuous
people ever grows out of the people here, it
will be through their gathering to Utah.
There are a considerable number wanting to
go.
	I sometimes think how pleasant it would
be to meet with all my dear friends at home;
but I desire and pray that I may be patient,
and fulfill my mission honorably. It would
seem very lonesome when my husband is
away, but the Lord strengthens me and I
enjoy a peaceful spirit.
	This is a strange people. They are well
educated in their language. The little boys
and girls will read the newspapers as read-
ily as their parents can. Children twelve
years of age have good educations. The
Government compels them to go to school.
			To be continued.


