			DEPRESSION.

	The following extract from the address
of David A. Wells, the well-known statis-
tician; delivered by him before the conven-
tion of social science, of which he is presi-
dent, and which recently met at Saratoga,
will, we think, be of value at this time in


furnishing some solution for the oft-repeat-
ed question "Why are commercial interests
so depressed?"
	It is evident from examination, that the
present condition of the country is not due
to natural causes. It is due to artificial
causes, and, as such, can be removed. The
first point that strikes attention is the uni-
versality of the present depression in busi-
ness. It is world-wide, though slight in
particular nations, as in France. It is the
greatest in the United States. This does
not teach however that the depression is
due entirely to causes acting universally,
but investigation will show that the general
result we recognize has been due rather to
the current action of very many causes,
originally, local, and which, if nations had
been isolated to the extent they were a
hundred years ago, would have been ex-
ceedingly limited, or endemic, in their in-
fluences, but which, under the close rela-
tionship into which nations have been
brought by improved means of intercom-
mnnication, have become all-pervading or
epidemic, in their influences. Of such gen
eral causes originating in one country, but
coming into action and producing disturb-
ances throughout the whole circle of civiliz-
ed states at nearly the same time, I can
think of only one that is entitled to be thus
classified, and that is the steady and exten-
sive introductoon and use of labor-saving
machinery and processes. A more import-
ant influence, however, is the aggregate
loss of capital which for ten or fifteen years
the world has been experiencing. These
losses are due to bad investments in railroad
bonds, the colossal war expenditures of the
world (the national debts of the world have
increased ten billion dollars since 1861,
making their aggregate now twenty-five
billion dollars,) the panics and mercantile
failures of the world, the brnkruptcy of
governments, and the enormous increase
of taxation, particularly in the United
States.
	Another agency, which has operated con-
jointly and even more powerfully than war
expenditures and an excessive irredeema-
ble currency to impair the aggregate of na-
tional abundance, by diverting labor from
productive to unproductive or less produc-
tive employments, and which is even now
in full continuance, has been, and is the
wholesale recognition and practical appli-
cation since 1860, of the doctrine of ex-
treme protection as a part of our national
fiscal policy. And the loss of capital and
the waste of labor which we have experi-
enced, and are now experiencing in conse-
quence of this policy, have contributed
more than any one thing, in my opinion, to
make us poor, and it will continue to keep
us so, so long as it is continued.—Eclectic
Magazine.


