SPELLING IN OLD TIMES.

	In the reign of Henry V. good spelling
and clean shirts were equally rare luxuries.
Leicester, says Disraeli, spelled his own
name in eight different methods, while the
family appellation of Millers, in deeds and
documents relating to the house, is spelled
in at least a dozen. Mainwaring passed
through 131 orthographical permutations,
and is even now, if spelling have aught to
do with pronunciation, spelled incorrectly
at last. The immortal bard himself, not to
speak of what others did for him, changed
his own mind some thirty times, according
to Halliwell, as to the letters and the se-
quence of the letters composing his illustri-
ous patronymic. Elizabeth wrote sovereign
in as many ways, as she knew languages—
that is, seven. The young Pretender, fol-
lowing his own sweet will, and entirely
free from any s[-]rvile bondage to the letter,
writes of his father as a certain Jems or
Gems. In those palmy days, when every
man was his own speller, when military ex-
aminations were not, little attonishment
would have been raised by such arbitrary
orthography as lately adorned the paper of
a candidate for one of her Majesty's appoint-
ments in the line. That candidate spelled
elegy leg, and ingeniously evolved pash-
shinger out of passenger. Much ingenui-
ty, nay imagination, inspired another, who
framed Indian eras out of engineers.
	But what are such trifling irregularities
as these to the caprice of—say her Grace
the Duchess of Norfolk? The Duchess was
one of the most accomplished ladies of the
sixteenth century, the friend of scholars,
the patron of literature. She wrote to the
Earl of Essex, thus:—"My ffary gode lord,
—her I sand you in tokyn hoff the neweyer
a glasse hoff Setyl set in Sellfer gyld. I
prayou tak hit An hy wer hable het showlde
be batar," &c. The patron of literature
has ingeniously contrived to spell I and it
each in two different ways in as many lines.
What this friend of scholars intended the
Earl to understand by Setyl is very obscure.
There is a Scotch word something like it,
signifying "a disease affecting sheep in the
side," but this the most accomplished lady
can scarcely have intended.—Cornhill Maga-
zine.


