			OF DAILBUTZ."

	Dailbutz, meaning the "Great Buddha,"
a bronze idol is situated in the midst of a
plain, once the site of a large city, now only
surrounded by a thin grove of trees which
have outlived the more perishable temples
and shrines once included in these sacred
grounds, and of the city only a straggling
village remains, it is called Kamakura. Dail-
butz, meaning the "Great Buddha," is about
seventy feet in height, entirely of bronze,
and represents the god in his usual state of
profound repose, sitting cross-legged, the
eyes closed, and hands clasped, with thumb-
nails meeting. It rests upon a stone found-
ation, and in front of it, upon a stone altar,
are two large bronze vases, each containing
blossoms and leaves of the lotus, a sacred
plant of the Buddhists, perfectly carved in
bronze, and in front of both is the inevita-
ble cash-box. Climbing up the folds of the
god's garment, which form safe footholds
for some distance, we sat down on his im-
mense thumbs, and some idea may be
formed of the size of this statue by the
fact that three grown persons can sit com-
fortably on one thumb, between its end and
the second joint. This majestic idol, perfect
in its proportions, and sublime in its ex-
pression of an eternity of repose, was
placed in its present position many
centuries ago—so many that the exact
date of its erection is unknown. Two
wire-guarded windows are cut in the
back near the shoulders, and a door cut on
one side admits visitors. Inside is a good-
sized room, with images of various saints
on two rough altars, and incense burning
before them. Cut in the woodwork of the
altars, and written in Japanese ink, any-
where and everywhere about this interior
of the statue are innumerable names and
addresses of visitors.


Mothers have many serious cares: This
assertion is undeniable; the anxiety in-
volved in maternity is well understood by
all who have experienced its pains and an-
guish. The feebleness of the new born in-
fant, unable to express its wants or its pains,
continually beset by dangers to its frail life
from the very first, constantly appeal to the
mother's nature, when her own strength is
just slowly returning. The restless nights,
the attacks of sickness now and then, the
anxious watching and waiting, all tell upon
the mother. And when the baby can ex-
press its wants and its feelings how much
waywardness to be controlled and checked,
what ill tendencies to be subdued. And it
is seldom for one alone these energies and
sympathies are called into action, there is
usually a group, a little community, an em-
bryo kingdom, over which the mother has
sway, keeping, as far as possible, each in its
place, and giving to each the right which
is due. The variety of temperament is o[-]e
item which cannot be disregarded in the
government of the mother: due allowance
is necessary in order to guide and restrain
without repressing, and thus perhaps blunt-
ing some strong attribute which, carefully
guided, would constitute strength of char-
acter. Thus is the sphere of womanhood
equivalent to that of a queen, and she
should exercise her best and highest facul-
ties to sway such a sceptre as shall make
her a "queen without being a despot."


IN this simple fact that we cannot accu-
rately forsee the future, lies a refuge from
despair.—Lewes.


