WOMAN'S RECORD.

	Ex-Queens Christina and Isabella are
"lobbying" for the payment of heavy claims
on the national treasury.—Ex.
	A WORK of the late Madame George
Sands entitled "Dialogues Philosophiques"
is about to be published shortly, as a review
by "M. Renan."
	MISS Emily Faithful, in speaking of wo-
men asking men for work, remarks, that
"if they do they will get what they have
always got—the [-]ind men do not want to
do themselves." Miss Faithful is one of
the most earnest and sincere advocates of
Woman's Rights, and is undeniably practi-
cal in all her ideas of the woman question.
	MISS Alcott, the very famous writer for


little folks, has just published a new volume
"Silver Pitchers," and "Independence," a
Centennial love story. The volume con-
tains nine short stories, and is calling forth
much comment and considerable criticism
from the literary world. "Silver Pitcher" is
a temperance tale and contains a moral.
Miss Alcott's writings possess the intrinsic
merit of imparting a contagious happiness.
And in this respect are valuable for they
contain no objectionable arguments or doc-
trine. She looks upon life as wholesomely
as a child, and leaves no morbid impression
upon the youthful mind.
	GEORGE Eliott's last new story, which
has just been concluded in Harper's Month-
ly, "Daniel Deronda," is said to have been
the event of the month in literary circles.
No story for years has called forth as much
discussion and attention among educated
and cultivated people. The book has just
been issued in a complete volume. The
public are likely to know something more
of this celebrated author from a new vol-
ume just published by Messrs E. Moxon &
Co. It contains the biography and autobi-
ography of Elizabeth Evans, the alleged
original of Dinah Morris in "Adam Bede."
The book is entitled "George Eliott in Der-
byshire. It has upon the title page the
names of Guy Roslyn and George Bennett
Smith, and contains a letter from George
Elliot concerning her characters in "Adam
Bede."


