EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Through your paper I wish to announce to
the sisters who in days past have been associa-
ted with Sister Lovina Walker, the sad news of
her death which occurred on the 8th of Oct.
at half-past one, p. m., soon after having giv-
en birth to a fine son.

[Column 2]
	She fell asleep without a struggle, and per-
fectly conscious that her departure was near:
she seemed as calm as a summer evening, man-
ifesting neither anxiety nor regret. She has
left a husband and eleven children, with whom
we deeply and sincerely mourn the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife, and a fond and de-
voted mother. But for her there is no cause for
grief, for she had "fought the good fight and
kept the faith." Her work was done and she
has gone to her parents and friends.
	Here are very many who have known sister
Lovina from the days of her girlhood when
her kind and loving father, our beloved mar-
tyred prophet, brother Hyrum Smith, was
with us. She is his eldest child. It has been
my happy lot, which I consider no ordinary
privilege to spend many interesting and profit-
able seasons in listening to her descriptions of
scenes and circumstances connected with her
father's life.
	I first became acquainted with Sister Walker
in May, 1859; I with my two little children
and an elderly sister who was living with me,
had come from Philadelphia with the Emigra-
tion on my way to the Valley. I had expend-
ed my last means and had no provisions left—
we arrived in Florence at 9 o'clock p. m., it
was dark and raining, the brethren helped us
from the wagons into a vacant house and we
went to rest as soon as possible.
	Early next morning we we e awakened by
some one knocking at the door, the sister with
me opened it, there stood a little girl with a
cup of milk in her hand, she asked if "there
was a little woman there with two little child-
ren," the sister told her "yes" and asked her to
come in, she did so and when she saw me said,
"If you please, my ma wants to see you,
she has sent this milk to your little girls." I
asked her ma's name, thinking it was some one
I knew, but when she told me I knew no one
by that name—I accordingly went to her
mother's house; she met me at the door with
both hands stretched towards me in welcome.
"Good morning Sister Elizabeth," said she. I
told her she had the advantage of me as I did
not remember ever seeing her before. She said
"No and I never saw you before; I am Hyrum
Smith's daughter, my father came to me three
times last night and told me that you were a
child of God, that you was without money,
provisions or friends and that I must help you.
The first time he came to me, I awoke my hus-
band and told him, not liking to be disturbed,
he told me I was dreaming, that it was only
fancy. My father came to me again and told
me your name, he also told me to send my lit-
tle girl with some milk and prove to my hus-
band that it was not fancy." She requested
me to go for my children and the sister that
was with me to come into breakfast, and after-
wards, I learned that the last food she had in
the house was on the table that morning; after
breakfast she went to Bro. Johnson, told him
the circumstance and asked him to help her
provide for me while I was in Florence, which
he did directly, as I have since learned. When
I left Florence I did not see her again for thir-
teen years; then Bro. Hyrum came to me in a
dream and told me to go to Farmington and
help Lovina as she was sick; being unable to
go I sent my daughter to see her, who wrote
me to come directly as my dream was too
true.
	From that time to this we have not been
separated long, and I thank God our Father,
for the friendship that existed between us, and
hope to live the rest of my life so that when I
go hence there will be one happy greeting, one
dear friend ready to welcome me where sorrow
will be known no more.

[Column 3]
	And now, sisters let us not forget the depart-
ed one, but let us watch over her little mother-
less children and extend to them a loving,
helping hand to cheer them through the rough
journey of life, for our Saviour said, "Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of these lit-
tle ones ye do it unto me."
					ELIZABETH DAVIS.
	17th Ward, S. L. City.


For the EXPONENT.
