				COUNSEL.

	To the women of this Territory we make this
appeal in all sincerity, and after most serious
thought, on storing away grain while it is with-
in their reach. We wish if it were possible,
the subject might be agitated in public and
private until every mother and every sister
should feel the necessity of immediate action.
	Is it not presumptiom in the Latter-day
Saints to say they believe in the inspiration of
the work of the last days now commenced,
and that this people receive divine revelation
for guidance, and then pay no attention what-
ever to the instruction given through the ser-
vants of God who hold the keys of power upon
the earth?
	Why are the people so slow in acting, so heed-
less of those things which are the most essen-
tial? Why do they slumber and sleep when they
are continually invoked to arise and shake off
their lethargy and prepare themselves for the
great and eventful future? And will they not
be left to mourn and lament if they neglect
the things they have been told to do?
	A great and wise prophet in ancient times
said, "Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt-
offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice
of the Lord? Behold to obey is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams."
This mighty truth is as much a truth to-day as
when it was first uttered.
	What is there that will so effectually appeal
to human nature as want—want of bread?
Surely, if there is a spark of true fire in the
hearts of the women of this Territory, after
the request President Young has made of them
reposing such confidence in their ability and
exertions, they will arouse all their dormant
energies to earnest, decisive and immediate ac-
tion. Should the time come (and it will) when
there will be a scarcity of bread, what will wo-
men care then for a little sarcasm? It seems
too trivial to call forth the slightest notice in
comparison with the momentous subject in
contemplation. It would seem that this peo-
ple's privations in times past would have so
thoroughly taught them the necessity of econ-
omy and of wisdom in obeying counsel, that
it would only be necessary to ask them to do a
thing which is so palpable, and they would un-
derstand it. The hundredth part of the suf-
fering among, even this small remnant of peo-
ple, here in these valleys in the times of
scarcity, has never yet been told; it is some-
thing too deep for empty words; then only to
picture a scarcity all over the land as has been
predicted, and the scene is too horrible to
bear looking upon. Let every mother be awak-
ened to a realization of the necessity of heark-

[Column 2]
ening before the time is past. Wh[--] i[-] [---]
that can feel these things as deeply as a moth-
er can; think what it would be to hear your 
little one cry for bread, and worst of all to know
you had trifled away the day of grace given
you, had thought lightly, or not at all upon the
subject. That men, as a class, are very tena-
cious of their rights and privileges, is "most
true;" but let them carefully weigh this mat-
ter and they will assuredly grant to woman
the right of self-preservation, for herself and
her posterity. It is argued by men that an-
cient history proves woman's inferiority and
servile state, in the days when God had His
prophets upon the earth; but do not the Scrip-
tures certify woman to have been not only
queen and prophetess, but Judge in Israel, as
witness Deborah in the fourth chapter of Judg-
es. Is there then anything so inconsistent in
women building storehouses and filling them
with grain?
	It has been remarked by some that Presi-
dent Young thought that by doing this, the
wives and daughters of this people would cease
to ask their fathers and husbands to dispose of
their grain for finery, or unnecessary articles
for personal or household ornament. But in
our opinion, men themselves in a general way,
dispose of as much means for tobacco; and such
products as tend to degeneration and degrada-
tion, as women do for vanity.
	Of what use would all the finest fabrics ever
woven be, or jewels and diamonds if there was
a lack of bread? How little in comparison
would these things seem, how insignificant
and worthless. We distinctly remember (for
these things are not easily forgotten) that in
our exit from Nauvoo, when we were about to
launch forth into an uncultivated wilderness,
the thoughts of the people were concentrated
upon food for subsistence, and they were glad
to dispose of such things as they could possi-
bly spare; carpets, shawls, silk dresses, gold
watches, chains, rings, and many other valua-
ble things were sent down into Missouri to ex-
change for wheat, corn meal, or any of the
staple products which sustain life, as well as
for oxen and cows with which to pursue the
journey.
	To those who have experienced the priva-
tions which the saints have passed through at
different periods since the organization of this
church, the words of President Young must
carry a double force, for they can not only see
the future in prospect but the past in retro-
spect.
	The Lord has brought this people from among
their kindred and friends, and has made this
desolate land a fruitful and desirable one, and
plentiful harvests have rewarded the husband-
man for his toil. Have they been prompt in
the fulfillment of those laws and principles
which have been in existence ever since time
began, whenever the Lord had a church upon
the earth? The law of tithes and offerings. If
women have been remiss in the past, if they
have been dilatory in doing the "Master's
work" slow in hearkening to counsel, and have
sought after vain and foolish things, let them
seek to make what reparation they can while
there is opportunity. This subject is not the
embodiment of an idle tale or romance, but a
stern and positive reality which must be met
and acted upon. God grant our sisters wis-
dom to carry out President Young's counsel,
and we trust that ere another issue of the EX-
PONENT we may have reports from different lo-
calities, representing the movements which
will, ere then have been made. Surely the
Lord will bless His daughters and give them
strength and fortitude in such a noble enter-
prise. [handwritten] E. B. Wells


