			SPEECH.

	This is a theme we should do well to
study, for when we consider the millions of
words we utter that are vain and frivolous,
sometimes even wicked, it makes us trem-
ble when we remember that the Lord says,
"out of our mouth shall we be judged;" and
how large a number of this people have
covenanted in HOLY PLACES, not to use
vain, light or wicked language; words of
good sense ought ever to flow from the lips
of the saints. Not that we should always
speak in a serious or sombre manner, for
the best instruction may be conveyed in a
cheerful, easy and often mirthful conversa-
tion. For the young, I would recommend
this motto, "Be merry and wise." These
little words contain an epitome of wisdom.
	Speech, is one of the greatest gifts to
man and woman; it is the mark of Divin-
ity; no other creature has the gift of a audi-
ble speech. All creation speaks, but it is
with a silent eloquence; true they have
their tones, like a musical instrument,
when the chords are struck sound most beau-
tiful and harmonious, as the feathered
tribe, some deep and sonorous, as the lion,
the blood-hound, and cattle of inferior
kind, and in a less pleasing degree: but all
natural sounds are harmonious, and Scrip-
ture says, "There are many voices and
none are without signification." We can
fancy trees and flowers have a voice, but it
is the language of a book; and on their
leaves are the words,—God! Heaven! And
by their sweet perfume they make them-
selves tangible to us; who that has walked
down the rich and gay parterre, does not
thrill with gratitude to Our Father in heav-
en for the beautiful and delicious things
He has prepared and organized for His
children upon earth. The taste, the smell,
the eye, the ear is fed "with heaven's pe-
culiar manna." Yes! The spirit of our God
fills the atmosphere in such a spot, and the
mind is often soothed and comforted by the
feeling that heaven is around us; and we
know that these keep a celestial law unbro-
ken. But to turn more particularly to
speech as the grand medium of intelligence
amid the human family. There are mo-
ments when we crave silence in ourselves
and others and realize that solitude is best,
but in a general way, speech is the life of
society, and a delightful means of convey-
ing happiness and instruction. A silent
person has no charm for me, and I am sus-
picious of them, as I have often discovered
that such an one is taking items of the
words and actions of others, and hereafter
can freely criticize, perhaps satirize the
speakers of the company. The best feel-
ing is soon produced in a party where all
contribute, and I think there is a propriety
and good sense in the following lines which
a friend wrote on the fly-leaf of my album:
	"You may look in this album but learn [-]re you look
	That all are requested to add to the book.
	You may quiz as you please, but the penalty is,
	That you also leave something for others to quiz."
	It is astonishing how mind acts upon
mind, and spirit upon spirit, and I have
seen some that the moment they enter an
assembly, and begin to speak, the whole
company seem to arise to a higher degree
of intelligence and happiness.
	By the aid of speech we have the power
to convey instruction, amusement, comfort,
and consolation, and do a world of good;
if we pervert this God-like gift we can ex-
cite anger, disgust, revenge, sorrow, de-
spair and misery. When we meet in social
parties, it should be the duty of every one
to consider for a moment WHY we meet,
and what good will arise from the meeting,
and determine that we will try and say
something that will benefit some one. All
have talents, all possess knowledge on some
points that perhaps others have not acquir-
ed. Foolish jesti[-]g and frivolous talking is
not becoming to any woman or young girl
in company.
	We should be in our best spirits, our
brightest intellects, and the vehicle of these
should call forth our best manners; our cares
should be left out of the circle always. The
social party is for reunion, recreation, and a
a reciprocation of thoughts and sentiments,
and an interchange of talents, abilities and
the sweet amenities of life, and we retire
from such a circle refreshed and invigora-
ted in body and mind.
	When the Head of a House is the Con-
stellation of that Orbit we find order and
intelligence throughout, and all are made
happy for the time being, the cue being
naturally given and taken from such a
source, and spreads like a subtile perfume
throughout the assembly, and it is no hack-
neyed phrase or unmeaning assertion
when we say, yes, from our heart, it is
good for us to be here. Dryden says:
"Speech is the moving of the Soul, it
spreads its beauteous images abroad which
else lie furled in the clouded mind."
