		SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 13, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will tell you of a short chapter from
the lives of two of the women of Utah.
	Early Monday morning 18th of Sept. last,
Mrs. E. Howard and your correspondent
met at the Salt Lake depot, with satchels in
hand and preparation for journeying. In
the course of a couple of hours we reached
Ogden, where amid a great many people,
I thought certainly we had arrived at the
Metrapolis of the West. As we past the
hotels, we saw waiters hurrying about pre-
paring meals in such haste, as though ac-
tion was the only principle by which they
were allowed to live. We paid passage on
the Eastern bound train, and presently we
were seated in the cars, we heard something
said about an accident that had just hap-
pened, which we afterward read, of a man
dropping a double-barrel gun, and the dis-
charging of both barrels into a man and
woman who were walking along, and it was
thought the wounds would prove fatal, we
a few minutes previous had passed over the
same ground.
	At Peterson Station we were met by Bro.
Jesse Haven and wife, whom we accompa-
nied to their home at Enterprise, a small
place which had suffered, in times past,
from grasshoppers and frost, and considera-
ble destruction of cattle by the cars, but by
the energies of the people they have suc-
ceeded in establishing homes and have a
pleasant town-site, with a small white
school-house which seemed to over-look
everything else.
	In the afternoon we crossed Weber River
to Peterson settlement; Bishop Peterson's
son was lying sick with the typhoid fever,
but he had all faith that he should recover
in time to go to conference.
	We met in the evening with the sisters,
and I told them the object of our visit, that
we were traveling in the interest of the
Silk Association, and as Agents for the
WOMANS' EXPONENT and other sundry
items.
	Bishop Peterson related to us his success
in making a splendid article of cheese
which was done upon a co-operative princi-
ple; in two months and ten days, they had
made six thousand lbs. I told him I could
not see the policy of our importing cheese
when that of a superior quality could be
furnished at home.
	Five miles further at 10 a. m., on the
19th, we met with the sisters at Milton.
One particular feature of this place was a
nice house built and owned by the High
Priests. Here the people were all very ac-
tive in taking care of what crops the frost
had left them. We learned that all the
settlements through Morgan, Summit and
Wasatch Counties had been visited with a
cutting frost on the 9th of August, which
had naturally affected their wheat crops,
the altitude is such that their seasons are
very short, having late springs and early
falls; they were just threshing their grain
in many places where we visited. Half a
mile further, was Littleton. Bishop W. G.
Smith accompanied us on to South Morgan,
two miles ride brought us to Bro. Eding-
ton's. At four o'clock we met with a full
house and after meeting, Bishop Smith in-
vited the people to accompany him
to North Morgan; in the evening at 7
o'clock, we found another full house,
we returned to Bro. Eddington's and enjoy-
ed their hospitality for the night. In the
morning of the 20th, Bishop Smith came
along and accompanied us up Canyon Creek

[Column 2]
three miles to Richville, where we met the
people of the settlement in a meeting house
and about a million wasps. Nearly all the
meeting houses that we entered, as we
continued up the valley were inhabited
with them, also some dwelling houses.
	Two miles further, at West Porterville,
we held a meeting at two o'clock p. m.
Bishop Smith invited the people to accom-
pany us to East Porterville and attend a
meeting at 7 o'clock. The meeting was
held at Mrs A. Porter's the President of the
Relief Society. From this place, Bishop
Smith was obliged to return home; he told
us he felt our labors were effecting a great
deal of good among the people. There was
a crowded house both men and women and
we were listened to with attention and in-
terest.
	The morning of the 21st we came down
the Creek to Morgan City again. Went up
the Weber about a mile and a half and
came to little sunny "Round Valley" appar-
ently large enough to make half a dozen
good farms. Here we solicited and urged
the raising of the mulberry trees which to
all appearance could be raised successfully.
The sisters here, as in other country places
seemed to be endeared to the sunbonnet,
we endeavored to show them the utility of
making and wearing home-made straw hats.
Here we met Bishop Edward Hunter's son,
he had a nicely located piece of land, and
a foundation for what I should call a New
England farm.
	We continued up the Weber ten miles
over a very rough road to Croydon; on this
road is the "Devil's Slide," it is on the side
hill about half a mile long with a couple of
perpendicular rock walls about twenty feet
high leaving a space of a few feet be-
tween. We passed the tunnel which seem-
ed at the distance to be no more no less
than a black hole in the mountains
where some wild animal had his den.
From the bushes, as we traveled along,
we gathered choke-cherries, haws, and au-
tumn leaves. We arrived at Croydon feel-
ing very tired. There was a meeting at
four o'clock; after a refreshing repast of
tender beefsteak etc. at the house of Prest.
Ellen Thackeray (which I wish by the by
that half our young girls knew how to cook
as well,) and somewhat rested, our spirits
were more buoyant, and we hurriedly
improved our time; the sisters expressed a
regret for the brevity of our visit. At sun-
set we left for Henneferville, three miles
further, stayed all night at Bishop Rich-
en's. 
	We met with the Relief Society at 10 a.
m. The Prest. Anna Bunot had bur-
ried her infant twins; she seemed beloved
by all; and her spirit appeared as if it was
almost too feeble for this mundane sphere.
After meeting, the Bishop took us through
Echo to Coalville. We arrived later than
expected, and the meeting was nearly over;
but there was one appointed for the next
day at 10 a. m., at which time we assem-
bled with the Saints and enjoyed a refresh-
ing time, attended to business &c. We
then went three miles to Unionville and
met with the sisters at 2 p. m. The Presi-
dent, Ann Lowe, is sixty-five years of age,
is full of spirit and hope, the inhabitants
are scattered and she was obliged to walk
three miles to attend meeting, she also
walked six miles to attend a meeting at
Coalsville. The same evening we arrived
at Sister Susan S. Richards, at Wanship.
There we went to the Sabbath meeting, but
Sister Howard was quite ill.
	Monday 25th, at 10 a. m., we met with
the sisters at meeting, also visited a sick
sister. On entering one sisters house, we

[Column 3]
were interested with an evergreen vine
that was trained from a couple of windows
into the four corners of the room and from
thence forming a complete net work on the
ceiling. Three and a half miles further, at
Lockport, we met with the sisters at 2 p. m.
The girls had decorated the house with
lovely autumn leaves. Everything spoke
of order and neatness. The President,
Mrs. Bryant, is a sister to Mrs. Wheeler,
President of the Society of the 2nd Ward,
S. L. City. She was full of zeal and en-
ergy.
	We passed on to Peoa, four miles further,
and at 7 o'clock met the sisters in another
well filled house. We met in several pla-
ces where the floors were wet from recent
scrubbing. How unwise for delicate wo-
men and girls to assemble in halls, under
any circumstance, on wet floors, it causes
much lamentable sickness and distress.
Bishop Marchant, a jolly, good man,
seemed quite elated over our meeting; said
if we had been told the condition of the
settlement, we could not have made more
appropriate remarks. This shows that the
Lord is with His handmaidens to help them
in their weakness.
	On the 26th at 10 a. m., we were in Masell,
where we were met by the Bishop and held
a meeting in a private house. Went on to
Kamas, where the people assembled in a
large fine hall, but not yet properly seated.
The appearance of the place bespeaks that
the people have more energy, or their fac-
ulties are far in advance of some of the
settlements we have visited. The Bishop's
wife seems well adapted to lead out, is gen-
tle and kind, and co-operates with the en-
ergetic sisters she presides over. We as-
sembled with the sisters in their Society
House, at 10 a. m. on the 27th. The house
is made of logs nicely whitewashed, and
the floor covered with a carpet of their own
make. The sisters expressed themselves
well paid for meeting. We journeyed
seventeen miles further to Heber City, with
Bishop Samuel Atwood. The roads were
good, but as we went down many hundred
feet from the summit we could realize a
great change in the atmosphere. As we
traveled along our eyes wandered over the
picturesque scenery that lay on our way.
It seemed to me that the many thousand
miles over which I had traveled, I never be-
fore saw all nature clothed with such beauty;
every color of the rainbow could be seen
among the autumn leaves, and foliage that
covered the hills in groups, and clusters; it
appeared as if the God of Nature had been
forming bouquets to decorate the hills. Al-
though the air seemed soft and balmy as a
summer's morning, I found from the cold I
had taken from the wet floors that I had
quite lost my voice, and was obliged to talk
in a whisper. We reached Heber, which is
quite a city, with many well finished public
buildings, painted and grained, stores, etc;
great contrast to the farming towns. We
arrived at Bishop Hatch's. Relying upon
a higher power, and through the prayers of-
fered in my behalf, I was supported with
sufficient voice to address an audience one
hour and a half, in a large beautiful hall.
Sisters Howard also bore a strong testimony.
The Bishop appointed a meeting at 10 a.
m., on the 28th, for Sister Howard and my-
self to speak more particularly to the sisters,
after which we went to Midway about five
miles directly west of Heber, and a couple
of miles northwest of this place we visited
some great curiosities of Nature's works.
There were warm springs and many mounds
that had formed from the lime in the water,
as it boiled up over their pots. One large
hill was sending forth lime water over its


edge and down its side and still continu-
ing its work of building. At Midway, the
people were about one half Germans. This
place was particularly noticeable for some
very fine brick houses, the corners of which
were laid up of white lime stone rock and
then whitewashed which added very much
to the beauty of the buildings. Our even-
ing meeting was well attended, some peo-
ple having come from Charleston. Bro.
Watkins of Midway, has a quantity of canary
seed which he said could be raised here as
well as paying an expensive price for the
imported; he took us to Charleston and Bro.
Nymphas Murdock took us to Wallsburg,
where Sister Wall gathered her little flock
together at three p. m., and we talked to
them. At seven in the evening we met in
a beautiful, well-furnished meeting house,
built and kept expressly for worship, with
easy stationary seats. This was the last of
23 meetings which we held in twelve days
	Saturday we commenced our journey
down Provo Canyon, the roads were very
rough, but the waterfalls and the scenery
was altogether magnificent. We arrived
at home Sunday morning, Oct. 1st,
feeling we had accomplished some lit-
tle good.
						E. S. B.


