		THE GRAIN QUESTION.

	During the past few weeks, I have heard
many questions and remarks, similar to the
following: Is it true that President Young
advises the sisters to buy and store up the
grain? But what can they be expected to
accomplish in a matter like this? It has
always been considered a woman's sphere
to cook the food; has it now become her
place to look after and provide it also? If
the women are to engage in such business,
what, indeed, will be left for the brethren
to do? How do we know but that, if we
undertake such measures we shall [--]come
speculators, as men are? Buy up large
quantities of grain at low figures, and as
the current fluctuates, turn round and sell
it at high prices, just as our brethren have
done.
	I am happy to find that in an editorial of
the last EXPONENT, nearly, if not quite all
these questions were carefully answered.
I hope, my sisters, you have all found the
same. If any of you have read that arti-
cle, entitled "SISTERS BE IN EARNEST!"
and have failed to drink its full meaning,
or to receive the spirit by which it was
given, please read it again. I did so, with

[Column 2]
profit; and I feel that I may also answer
some of my sisters' inquiries here, as one
deeply, vitally interested.
	Are our good, faithful brethren likely to
be left without plenty of employment, if
the sisters do all they can to assist in the
great Latter-day work? I think not, in as
much as temples are to be built, many of
them, in different parts of the land, the
gospel preached, and the plan of Salvation
carried on in its various ramifications. No
one need be troubled with the fear of hav-
ing nothing to do. There is abundance of
work for both men and women, in forward-
ing the progress of the Kingdom of God.
When we are told what to do, our whole
duty is to receive the message with meek-
ness and cheerfulness; and then go to work
"in earnest," as we have been told, and,
never wavering, honorably discharge the
obligation with which we are entrusted.
	The idea of women becoming speculators
is nothing to be dreaded. A woman has as
good a right to engage in honest speculation
as a man has; but there is no danger of the
Latter-day Saint sisters going into any
speculation with grain at this time, on ac-
count of the privilege opened to them, ex-
cept to buy up and store away all they can.
If any one doubts this assertion, let her
look abo[-]t her, behold the myriads of little
children in the land, and recollect that the
women who are now called upon to save 
grain, are their MOTHERS.
	O! my sisters, even now while I write, a
little chubby hand pulls my sleeve, two soft,
dark eyes look smilingly up into mine and
a pair of cherry lips ask me for some sugar.
Could I imagine those pure, baby-lips, which
with all a mother's tenderness I stoop to
kiss, asking for BREAD when I had none to
give, and yet sell one kernel of grain that
might be preserved at home! I tell you, I
have no fear of the sisters turning this
grain movement into a speculation. All we
want and all we need, is to be firmly united
in this as in every other effort; and with
the help of the Lord and His Spirit to guide
us, we will be wise as was Joseph in Egypt
and as successful. God grant that not one
honest heart may falter; and all the honor
and glory be ascribed to him forever.
