			SENSITIVE PEOPLE.

	By this, I mean those who are sensitive to
an extreme. All those who can lay claim to
this unenviable distinction are certainly ob-
jects of pity; for of all the throng that
moves in society, there are none who have
so much cause for misery. Hold, my criti-
cal friend, ere you arch your brow in scorn.
I do not mean that sensitive people have
more real trouble to bear than others, but I do
mean that their cause for trouble is greater,
yes, tenfold, because it is imaginary, and
imagination calls forth more misery, wretch-
edness and despair than all real troubles
that ever existed.
	A sensitive nature—some claim that it is
a mark of superiority—Hannah More has
said
	"Where glow exalted sense and taste refined,
	There keener anguish rankles in the mind,
	There feeling is diffused through every part,
	Thrills in each nerve and lives in all the heart."

	This may be so, but who is anxious for
the distinction? Who, for the sake of be-
ing thought a little more refined, would
sacrifice his peace of mind by the change,
if he could have it at will?
	The aim of life is happiness, but this class
of sensitive people destroy not only their
own share, but detract seriously from that
of others who surround them. A hasty
word, a careless expression of half digested
thought, or even a harmless witticism is
sufficient to cast them into the depths of
gloom and despondency.
	Happy are they who can live above such
trifles—who can move on just as gay and
light-hearted as ever whether the sun shines
or not. Who heed not the looks of the en-
vious, the tongues of the slanderous, and
the frowns of the haughty and proud. Who
can take the world as they find it and live
through it without repining—this is the
class to be admired. You sensitive, melan-
choly people do not think that you are bet-
ter than your fellows, because your feelings
are more easily hurt. You are in error. It
is a species of madness which afflicts you
and which, if you encourage, will be the
bane of your lives.
	Shake it off! Be good-natured and cheer-
ful, fight your natures and win happiness
as the reward.
