		NOTES AND NEWS.

	IN THE country where the Eastern war is
carrying on its dreadful devastation, there
are said to be many thousands of men, wo-
men and children almost naked and liter-
ally starving.
	MRS. S. Westman of Indianapolis, a lady
lecturer, has drawn forth the highest enco-
miums of praise for her eloquent and logi-
cal method of dealing with the subject of
Finance.
	THE INTRODUCTION of women clerks
into the goods offices of the London and
Northwestern Railway at Birmingham, has
proved so successful that the Directors have
been induced to try the experiment in oth-
er large centers of traffic. So say some of
our exchanges.
	MRS. LUCRETIA Mott, the venerable
quakeress and staunch supporter and beloved

[Column 2]
advocate for woman in her most true and
use[--]l sphere, was upon the platform at the
recent Woman's Congress held in Philadel-
phia, and in her speech before the house,
traced the development of woman's educa-
tion for the last thirty years.
	"MUSIC, AND Woman as a Musician,"
one of the papers read at the Woman's Con-
gress, is certainly an article of real merit.
It is decidedly the best article of the kind
we have ever had the pleasure of perusing,
and contains so many ideas of superior ex-
cellence that we feel would be appreciated
that we intend publishing a part of it in
our next number.
	IN THE Woman's Journal, Oct. 7th, there is a
short article headed "Put Yourself In Her
Place." This article refers to Lucy Stone
at Faneuil Hall, speaking of the absurdity
of refusing Suffrage to George Elliot, one of
the most popular English woman authors
at the present age. The Boston Sunday
Herald makes its comments upon this, and
considers that for such a great woman and
writer, it would be a waste of time. The
writer in the Journal carries the argument
further and asks "What should we think
of this logic?" by substantiating the name
of George Elliot for the name of William
Cullen Bryant, James Russell Lowell or of
some other literary man, equally gifted
and popular. "Would discussing politics
be a waste of time for them?"	"NOTES FROM the Lecture Field," pub-
lished in the "Woman's Journal" of Oct 21,
in alluding to the many reiterations of the
assertions "Woman Suffrage is unpopular;"
"Public opinion is against it;" Women are
its most bitter opponents;" advances some
excellent ideas. The writer, Miss Matilda
Hindman, a very staunch supporter of Wo-
man Suffrage and an eminent lecturer, says
"these things are so often repeated that
even many friends of the cause believe
them true;" whereas Miss Hindman asserts
"it is not unpopular among the most intelli-
gent classes." The press she says has gen-
erally been unfavorable, and consequently
"the cause has suffered from adverse state-
ments." Miss Hindman speaks of having
traveled thousands of miles through some
of the States, holding meetings by hun-
dreds, conversing with the leading men and
women in these various localities, and she
believes she has had ample opportunity to
judge the sentiments of the people on this
subject. She adds "men who stand the
highest intellectually, morally and socially
in their own States are the best friends of
Woman Suffrage."


MONEY is not all one has to give. The
poorest in purse may bestow real sympathy
and comfort, may minister to the sorrowing
and rejoice with the joyful, weep with
those that weep and add largely to the sum
of human happiness.
	THE every-day cares and duties which
men call drudgery, are the weights and
counterpoises of the clock of time, giving
its pendulum a true vibration, and its
hands a regular motion, and when they
cease to hang upon the wheels, the pendu-
lum no longer swings, the hands no longer
move, the clock stands still.—Longfellow.


