TWILIGHT REVERIES.

The shadows rest upon the mountains high,
	And blue and purple [-]aze enwraps them now,
And clouds, fantastical, pil'd 'gainst the sky,
	Wreathe quaint, odd garlands round the mountain's
		brow.

How gently twine shadows and clouds so gray,
	Changing to dullness things but late so bright,
Yet from the beauteous west the closing day
	Casts glim'ring glances of its fading light.

Oft have I watch'd the phantoms twilight made,
	Dissolving day and night in one another,
And in similitude my fancies play'd
	With light and shade, and blended them together.

The soft breeze gently whispers in the leaves,
	In tones so musical, and sweet, and low,
The echoes thrilling me—'til mem'ry weaves
	The reveries of the hour with "long ago."

The visions of the past fill all my soul,
	And through the vista of the years grown grim
I trace the outlines, as upon a scroll,
	Of forms and scenes familiar, though so dim,

I see the forests near my childhood's home
	And hear again the voices in the breeze,
And troop on troop the floods of mem'ries come,
	And I seem wand'ring 'mid those ancient trees

And all that then was mine, of youthful hope,
	And sweet affection, with her myriad powers:
All these, I gather in the shadow'd scope
	Of fancy, as I muse in twilight hours.

Sweet tones of love fall lightly on my ear,
	Again I feel the clasp of hands now cold,
And shudd'ring pause, 'twixt happiness and fear.
	As the vast panorama is unrolled.

'Tis pleasant thus to view the path we've trod,
	And mark where here and there our feet have stray'd,
Where sometime fell a heavy, chast'ning rod
	And soft the whisper, be not thou afraid!

Sooth'd all the wound—and cheered us ever on,
	And list'ning close the still small voice we hear,
Now plainer grown than when life first begun,
	Helping and guiding as the goal we near.

If on our way some shadows in the years,
	Darken'd our path, and hid the light from view,
Now looking back through mists of bitter tears;
	We know WHOSE HAND guided us safely through
											EMILE.
