[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Song of Burningham]

SONG OF AMERICA Elizabeth Burningham America! I sing of these: Incredible cities of awesome heights, Clangorous days and neoned nights, Brine and beach, spindrift, tide, Tipping sail. The spongy glide Of marsh where tules run, Of mountain snow, and valley sun. Dry, clanging color of chasm'd rock In spill: of desert. 'The shock Of a sudden virgin spot. Singing Darkies through down of cotton swinging. Palm and cedar, stretching pine, Field and furrow, farm and vine. Wind and green wave in corn and wheat, Squares of orchard, strict and neat. America! I sing of these: The westward way of pioneers, Step of progress across the years, The pan and the mule, scented sage, Indian's retreating rage; Of derrick and crane and motor roar. Giant snouts of steel that gore Earth for metal. Spike and rail, Sturdy wings through sun and gale. America! I sing of these: Shadowy crosses on a hill; Dust on the rust of guns long still, Gold stars, trees planted in memory, All for the sake of liberty! The washed-in souls from overseas, The weary ones seeking surcease From ragged schemes of rotted lords; Civilizations suave and cruel. The hordes We gulped with hardy insides, We of soft hearts and tender hides. But most of all I sing of these: Of happy children at their play, Peaceful hours at end of day, Birthday cake, geranium on the sill, Sunday supper, picnic on the hill, A prayer at church, laughter on Every street. A new wet lawn. For these are the things that make each part. Stitch. Seam.: Sinew. Heart. That make this land, Land Of The Free, America, I sing of Thee! The Cover: The cover picture, "Sea Gulls over Utah Lake" is from a photograph by VOL. 31, NO. 10
Willard Luce.
OCTOBER 1944: 66 AND as Jesus Passed by, 547 AND as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was bhnd from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born bhnd?" (John 9:1-2) The very question seems to de-clare a prevailing notion that infirm-ity or affliction necessitates the con-clusion that it is the result of sin.
Jesus with finality exploded that notion for he answered: ''Neither hath this man sinned, nor his par-ents: but that the works of God should be made, manifest in him.*' He proceeded to give point to his emphatic declaration by seizing the occasion both to manifest the works of God and to absolve the afflicted man of the imputation lurking in the question, for he anointed the man's eyes with clay moistened with spittle and bade him wash in the pool of Siloam, whence he came away seeing.
This is not to say that physical and mental affliction may not result from sin. It is well known that they do, which perhaps may account for the persistence of the notion implicit in the question of the disciples. The point is that such misfortune is not, standing alone, proof of wrongdoing.
This should bring comfort to inno-cent safferers and at the same time admonish observers of infirmity to sentiments of charity.