[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Woman?s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DNA. REINDEL, American painter of still life and flower pictures, has been called "an intellectual poet," combining in her art descriptive realism and a_ lovely lyrical feeling. MARGARET WOODROW WILSON, daughter of President Wilson, has died in India, a devotee of East Indian philosophy. AN intelligent advocate of recognition of woman's equality with man in economic, political, and social fields was Miss Alice Lovina Manning of Salt Lake City, who recently passed away. She was the fourth woman admitted to the practice of law in Utah, was legislative chairman of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, and was in the law department of the Union Pacific Railroad. AFTER organizing successful national campaigns to persuade women to take war jobs, the head of the magazine bureau of the O. W. I. Resigned because of lack of proper conditions for caring for her two young children. She believes that the lack of community co-operation in arranging for the proper care of children of war-working mothers. Is a menace to all war industries. ELOISE S. THETFORD is coauthor with S. H. Kraines, M. D., of a highly recommended book on psychology, Managing Your Mind. Its thesis is that our emotional states determine as well as reflect the well-being of our bodies. Two other noteworthy books are: Yankee from Olympus; Justice Holmes and His Family by Catherine Drinker Bowen, and Carrie Chapman Catt, a biography by Mary Gray Peck. Mrs. Catt was associated with national woman's suffrage, the International Suffrage Alliance, and was noted for her work in determining the cause and cure of war. THE march of progress among Latin-American women is noteworthy. Among students from the other Americas studying in our colleges on scholarships, many are young women. Ten years ago Chili had eight students here; she now has 118. Colombia had twenty-three as against 204 now. The Federation of Women's Clubs in the United States is now sponsoring fourteen scholarships for Latin American girls to study here, ranging from board and room to $1200 each. Page