[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Cloud Ireland]
CLOUD SHADOWS Thelma Ireland Giant shadows on the desert, Silhouettes in black and brown, Clouds that float upon the earth floor, Has the world turned upside down? UR DEPARIMENT Theology Church History Lesson 4?The Church of Jesus Christ Organized Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 2, 1945
Objective: To study the simple and direct way in which the Church organization was effected to keep alive the gospel truths. ?FOR where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them" (Matt. 18:20). So spake the Christ to his disciples in the days of his ministry, and so in spirit began, and has continued, the organization of his Church in this day of the fullness of times. "Fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail" (Doc. And Cov. 6:34).
These were his words to the few.
Servants he had singled out from the world in the years prior to the 6th of April, 1830, the date on which the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. But what of the rock against which earth and hell could not prevail? The answer to this question is to be found in the experiences that touched the hearts of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery; of Martin Hartis and David Whitmer; yes, and of the others who came to know the power of godliness in the beginning years of the "marvelous work."
These men had witnessed heavenly manifestations of such a personal nature that, should any disbelief occur, those who remained firm, even to the last one, still could have an individual testimony of what had been seen and heard. God knew the strength of his Church must rest upon a personal knowledge of the truth within each soul who came to make up the company of members in his kingdom.
With the return of the Priesthood of God to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery came the gift of the Holy Ghost to bear witness to the truth of this latter-day work. A witness which could be stronger even than that gained through the personal visitation of heavenly beings.
Thus all men who sought God earnestly Page 595 596 could find again on earth the authority to bestow the gift of the Holy Ghost, a gift which could plant in every human heart a personal testimony that God lives and that his kingdom is again upon the earth. So from one, then two, then three, then six, then nine,' then a hundred, a thousand, two thousand, on and on would the Church membership increase with men and women who had come to know personally that inner light of the gospel. God would build his Church upon the rock of revelation, personal and prophetic. In the month of April and in the year of 1830, the following revelation came through Joseph the Prophet: The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April?Which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Jun., who was called of God, and ordained an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the first elder of this church; And to Oliver Cowdery, who was also called of God, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the second elder of this church, and ordained under his hand; And this according to the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom be all glory, both now and forever. Amen" (Doc. And Coy. 20:1-4).
Here was the will of the Lord concerning the establishment of his Church which, ten years before on the spring morning in the grove, he had promised to the youth, Joseph Smith. Now, faithful to his word,  the year, the month, even the day for its organization was given. On the sixth day of April in 1830, it being a Tuesday, there gathered those few souls who had believed the words of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and had by them been baptized for the remission of their sins. The place of their gathering was at the house of Peter Whitmer.
Some distance back from the country road, planted among the rolling fields and sheltered by spreading trees, stood this typical upstate New York home.
There the "little flock" assembled to shake hands, rejoice, and await the will of God which they knew would come through his first two elders. But more was in.
Readiness for those who made up this first historic gathering than they knew.
Joseph and Oliver, they were to discover, in turn would also wait. The Church was to be founded upon the law of common consent.
This meant that the body of the Church membership was to have the right of sanctioning by vote the appointment of Joseph and Oliver in the office of presiding elders (Doc. And Cov., Sec. 26:2; 28:13). God had given man his free agency.
Even authorized servants of his mind and will could be accepted or rejected by the membership of his Church.
Obedience must come voluntarily.
This helped to make more clear the reason why his Church was to be founded upon the rock of revelation. As long as a majority of his followers were living in tune with the promptings of the Holy Spirit they could know of the faith and integrity of those whom God had called to lead them. A willing and joyful acceptance 1/See Documentary History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 76-77.
LESSON DEPARTMENT of the proper names to be voted upon was therefore assured. What a happy state of government this, for both those who lead and those who follow! It inspires trust and confidence and frees the will of all, both high and low, to work in peace and harmony for the upbuilding of the kingdom.
In addition to having the leaders as well as the lay members of the Church in perfect accord, the Lord had specified that his organization should also be "agreeable to the laws of our country." Since the Church was to be organized in Fayette, Seneca County, of the State of New York, it would be necessary to effect the organization by having six members officially named and so recorded by law.
Today in the New York State of Zion the organized wards of the Church still must comply with this law in order to meet. Six duly elected members, therefore, of any ward must so present their names to the State as the minimum number to be considered an organized group. The tenure of office for any member so elected is three years. In order to have a continuing organization of six, the terms of office for any two members expire on different years. It becomes necessary, then, at each annual ward conference to re-elect to vote two members of the original six, or two entirely new members. Thus, according to the present practice, the names of the bishop, his two counselors, the ward clerk, and two other members of the ward the bishop nominates are officially elected by the ward, and their names recorded for the books of public record of the State of New York. This election, also, is as simple as that
