[Vol31 | October 1944 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, October 1 and October 15, 1884. "Tur RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" A Happy Affair: On Tuesday, September 30, Miss Martha J. Horne was united in marriage to Elder Joseph S. Tingey; both of this city. Miss Horne was one of the first girls who learned type setting here, and set type for the Exponent from its first issue. She made herself very proficient in the art of type setting, and could compete with any of the men in the office in this respect.... She is the daughter of Elder Joseph and M. Isabella Horne, both widely and favorably known among the Latter-day Saints. The bridegroom is the son of Bishop Tingey of the 17th Ward; he is a typo in the Deseret News Office, and is a young man in every way likely to make a good husband....
Editorial: Visit to the Country?In company with Sister Eliza R. S. Smith we left the city on the southern railway train Thursday morning, September 11th. At Provo Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow joined our party. At Nephi we stopped long enough to dine with Sister Pitchfork, then took Sanpete Valley Railway for Fountain Green, where we were most hospitably welcomed and entertained at Bishop Johnson's. Friday morning at ten o'clock the Relief Society Conference of that stake convened in the new brick meeting house, Sister M. A. Hyde presiding.... Sister Eliza R. S. Smith spoke on the growth of infidelity, its causes, and the necessity of the young being instructed in the principles of the Gospel and receiving the Holy Spirit to preserve them from evil influences and as a safeguard against temptation and doubt. Referred particularly to government and discipline in the training of children and to the correct cultivation of the conscience; thought mothers should have the highest and best possible education.... Home Affairs: A new book of nearly 600 pages and handsomely bound, recently published by the Deseret News Company is entitled "Biography, Autobiography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow." This book is from the gifted pen of Eliza R. S. Smith, sister of the Apostle whose record she has so ably written.... The Deseret Hospital: About the middle of July the Deseret Hospital which had been previously situated in the Twelfth Ward of this city, was removed to a building in the Seventeenth Ward, for several years occupied by and known as the Deseret University Building... Standing at the corner of 2nd West and 1st North Sts. The President of the Hospital, Bishop H. B. Clawson, visits the institution himself every day and leaves no means, in his power untried to promote its best interests. The Board of Directors... Meet regularly for the transaction of business... There is a competent resident surgeon in the house... There is also a steward and matron, with competent nurses and other helps... Morning and evening prayers are regularly attended to.. On Sunday, meetings are held in the large reception room, and the sacrament administered to all in the house who are members of the Church. These meetings are under the direct supervision of the Bishop of the Ward.... Zee 2 & Relief Society Fair At Coalville: On the 7th of August and the three following days, a ladies' fair was held in the Relief Society's store, Coalville, under the management of the Relief, Young Ladies and Primary Associations of Summit Stake. The proceeds thereof to be used for the purpose of purchasing glass for the new stake meeting house now in course of erection at Coalville.... Page 568