A TRIP TO BANNOCK STAKE.

	ON Friday morning August 12, accom-
panied by Sister Lillie Freeze I left Salt
Lake City to visit the sisters in Bannock
Stake. We left on the 10.5 a. m. train for
Idaho Falls. We had a very pleasant visit
wtth Brothers John Henry Smith and C. C.
Card who were going to attend the Bannock
Stake quarterly conference. On arriving at
Idaho Falls about seven o'clock we found
President Ricks with a carriage waiting our
arrival; and were soon on our way for
Lewsville, a distance of sixteen miles, ar-
riving at ten o'clock very tired and dusty.
We were kindly received by Brother Miller
and wife with whom we remained the next
three days. Saturday morning (13th) at
ten o'clock we met with the Primary Asso-
ciation and after I had made a few remarks
to the children, Sister Freeze addressed
them and took an active part in their ex-
ercises which was very educational to the
children.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Society
(Sister Jardine President), and the Young
Ladies. We instructed the sisters on the 
importance of the organization of the Relief
Society and their duties as wives and
mothers, Sister Freeze spoke to the young
people in a very interesting manner, exhort-
ing them to live pure lives, and be Latter-
day Saints in all their associating together.
	Sister Freeze is well qualified to instruct
the young people of Zion.
	Sunday morning, 14th, at 10 o'clock the
Stake Conference commenced. The house
was filled to overflowing, people coming
from 12 to 25 miles with their families to at-
tend the meeting. Much valuable instruc-
tion was given by the brethren; a good
spirit prevailed in all the gatherings of the
saints.
	President Ricks invited the visiting
sisters to occupy the stand on Sunday even-
ing, we consented; the house was literally
crammed, the brethren were present in large
numbers and we felt encouraged by their
presence. We had an excellent time to-
gether. Attended conference the next day
Monday, 15th, at four p. m., after the meet-
ing closed we started for Rexburg, distant
sixteen miles, arriving about sundown.
The writer was hospitablly entertained by
Patriarch Arza Hinckley and family, Sister
Hinckley is the Stake President of the Relief
Society. Tuesday, 16th, we started again
at nine o'clock for Parker Ward, where

