[Column 2]
purpose, engaged in some work whose mo-
tive lay outside of self. Every one of the
“circle” whom I met realized and deplored
the relative weakness consequent upon
isolating her own work from that of others,
and as we discussed the means of securing
a federation of forces for the common inter-
ests, one after another explained the ob-
stacle to such a union, always ending with
an expression of eager desire for it, and
with the statement: “The Empress Fred-
erick has always desired just such a feder-
ation, and if it can be accomplished at all
in Germany, it will be only through her in-
fluence.” Several of these leaders, each in
a personal interview, suggested my seek-
lng an audience with the Empress and un-
folding to her the ideas of the National and
International Councils of women and the
plans for the general World’s Congress of
Women at Chicago in ’93, with a view to
enlisting Her Majesty’s aid in securing for
this Congress a good delegation of German
women.
	It may be difficult to believe that the sug-
gestion was, at first, not agreeable; such,
however, is the fact. As a simple Ameri-
can woman, unfamiliar with the manners of
Empresses, possessing a tongue untrained
to the phraseology employed in addressing
imperial personages, I felt that I should be
quite out of place in a Queen’s audience
chamber. Deliberately to seek an inter-
view with the Empress, and thus to become
responsible for the impression produced in
the royal circle by the plans for the work of
the Congress Auxiliary of the Columbian
Exposition, was a role to which I felt un-
equal; and not until it had been pressed up-
on me as a duty by many deeply interested,
did I consent to ask for an audience. I re-
ceived a favorable response from Her
Majesty s chamberlain, and the audience
was set for Saturday, August 6. The sum-
mer residence of the Empress is at Hom-
burg, a watering place eleven miles north
of Frankfort-on-the-Main. The Schloss is
an interesting building, formerly the resi-
dence of the Electors. It was once occu-
pied by the daughter of George III., who
married a German prince, and like most
European castles it is clothed with historic
reminiscences. After traversing numerous
courts and corridors, we reached an ante-
chamber where we were received by the
Countess Perponcher, chief lady in waiting
of Her Majesty. After a few minutes con-
versation, which showed her to be conver-
sant with the object of my visit, the Countess
conducted me to an interior apartment where
Her Majesty presently appeared, the Coun-
tess at the same time quitting the chamber.
	In a moment the gracious cordiality of
Her Majesty’s welcome gave me the ease
of an accustomed guest, and in the more
than an hour that the Empress kindly de-
tained me, my mind was fully occupied with
the subjects before us, viz. : the condition
of the women of different countries, par-
ticularly of those of Germany and the
United States, as respects opportunities for
education, for employment, and for the ex-
ercise of personal liberty, and the best
methods of securing on the Committee of
Honor for the Congress of ,93 the German
names that would carry most weight at
home and abroad, and be truly representa-
tive of the best that Germany has attained,
so far as its women are concerned. As, in
reply to Her Majesty’s searching questions,
the complete outline of the plans for this
Congress was revealed to her, she expressed
the warmest approval, and her strong de-
[Column 3]
sire that Germany should send worthy dele- 
gates who can gather as well as give, and 
bring back for home use an enlarged com-
prehension of the significance of “the wo-
man movement,” and new enthusiasm for
its advancement. Her Majesty was also
deeply sympathetic with the ideas that un-
derlie the organizations of the National and
International Councils, and the urging the
usefulness of their application to societies
of local scope. She talked freely of her 
own efforts to federate the different societies
and institutions organized by the women of
Berlin through the “circle” of which I
had learned so much in that City, and to
which I have above referred as “The Em-
press’s circle.” During the winter it is the
habit of the Empress to invite the mem-
bers of the Circle” to take tea with her
once or twice a month. On these occasions
each one (who, as I have before intimated
is the working head of some institution or
society enjoying the Empress’s protection)
reports the state of her own work. All ad-
vise together, and endeavor to make their
works mutually supplementary. The Em-
press spoke of their little meetings as if they
were a source of great pleasure to herself,
told me some incidents to illustrate the help-
fulness of even such informal federation of
interests, and expressed the strongest desire
to see such a federation take national pro-
portions under permanent, formal organi-
zations.
	The Empress deplored the present state
of unrest among the working people, and
protested strongly against the injustice of
those who attribute it to the fact that edu-
cation has been made accessible to the mass-
es, and hold liberal reformers responsible
for it. With the democratic conviction to
which one is accustomed in a republic, but 
which one does not expect from royal lips,
Her Majesty declared with emphasis: “It
is not too much education which produces
these revolts and outbreaks, among the
people everywhere, these strikes and dis-
sensions; not too much but too little edu-
cation is the trouble.” Her Majesty ex-
pressed the opinion that intellectual and in-
dustrial education should accompany each
other in all classes of schools for all classes of
people; that respect for useful things and for
the people who can produce them, together
with a desire to be useful, should be incul-
cated in every child; and that all systems
of education which ignore this part of 
their plain function fail on the side of
practical morals. In discussing industrial
education, the Empress Frederick can speak
with the authority of experience, for, as a 
child she was educated to habits of industry,
was instructed carefully in household arts,
and has worked all her life very perserver-
ingly in her studio; producing both sculp-
ture and paintings which indicate that, had
she not been born to other duties, she would
have been a professional artist. Moreover,
the leading industrial and technical schools,
for girls in Berlin have been founded under
Her Majesty’s protection, and she, with the
Emperor Frederick, was active in the es-
tablishment of the “Kunst Gewerbe” 
museum.
	When I explained that the “General
World’s Congress of Women” would be
divided into several departments, and that
it would be the aim of the committee
charged with preparing the programme to
secure from the delegates of each country
a report that would give both the history
of the progress of women in their respec-
tive countries and their present status in


respect to the subject considered—the Em-
press expressed the most cordial interest,
spoke of the vast help that the published re-
ports of this Congress will afford to students
of social economy everywhere, and said
that they will, indeed, be a cyclopoediea of
all phases of progress that affect woman's
life.
Several times Her Majesty said, "I would
go to Chicago myself, I would attend this
Congress, were I not such a bad sailor."
Repeatedly expressing her desire that Ger-
many be well represented in the Congress,
she gave me the address Frau Minna Streck-
er, who has charge of the institutions
founded by the still universally mourned
Princess Alice, and urged me to see her. I
endeavored to do so, but the absence of
Frau Stricker from Darmstadt made it im-
possible for me to meet her, though her in-
terest in the Congress is assured.
Nothing certainly could be more gratify-
ing to American women, or more helpful
and gratifying to German women who in-
terest themselves in progressive movements,
than to have the Empress Frederick accept
the protectorate of the German committee
and delegation in the Congress of '93, if
circumstances permit her to do so.
Requesting to be kept informed of the
plans as they mature, and making valuable
suggestions, which I trust may be executed,
Her Majesty terminated an audience which, 
instead of proving an ordeal, was to me the
most interesting experience of a summer
which has been full of vivid enjoyments.
The Empress talked on many subjects
only indirectly connected with that reported
here. Her manner was characterized by
uncommon simplicity and frankness. I
left Homburg with the consciousness that I
had been in the presence of a truly royal
mind; of a mind accustomed to originate
and to contemplate large views. I felt that
I had seen a woman who has taken life
seriously; who has developed her own
powers by the steady use of them; who has
warmed her heart not only in the glow of
that family affection which, inculcated in her
English home, ripened into an ideal domes-
tic life in Germany; but also in persistently
maintaining the wider human relations
which have made her a co-worker with
the noble women who are striving to
elevate the ideal of German womanhood,
and who look up to her as their revered
chief. 
The Empress contemplates a conception
of womanhood that may be universally ac-
cepted as the Ideal. As Her Majesty de-
veloped this idea somewhat, I was impress-
ed with her frank assumption of the oneness
of humanity, and with her aspiration to
further the recognition of the solidarity
of human interests. I left the castle with
the conviction, which has grown upon me
as I have recalled Her Majesty's questions
and utterances, that I had enjoyed an
audience with "the cleverest woman in
Europe," for this is the title often bestowed
on Victoria of Germany.
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
Ex.


