SOLUTION OF THE LABOR PROBLEM.
	THE Carnegie troubles with the laboring men
have brought the labor problem to the front in
the minds of all. The only solution lies in the
divinely given Golden Rule "As ye would that
men should do to you, do ye also unto them"
This has been strikingly illustrated by the
millionaire merchant prince and Evangelist Mr.
Charles N. Crittenton, who has taken into
partnership five of the heads of departments in
his great wholesale house in New York, pro-
nounced by the New York Times "probably the
largest in the world." The New York press is
full of praise for this notable deed. The New
York Herald says: "On its face the transaction
was simply the reorganization of the house of
Charles N. Crittenton as an incorporated com-
pany."
	As a matter of fact it was a voluntary sur-
render by Mr. Crittenton of a considerable in-
terest in his very prosperous business to five of
his old employes. Many employers have adopted
one means or another of making their employes
sharers in the profits of their business and there-
by securing their hearty co-operation. But the
voluntary transfer by a man of large means of a
large interest in his business to his employes
without the payment of a penny, is unique.


Edward G. Wells, Third Vice-President of the
company says: "It is capitalized at $800,000, Mr.
Crittenton having turned into it every dollar’s
worth of assets of the house of Charles N. Crit-
tenton, of which he was the sole owner.  The
stock is all taken, being held by Mr. Crittenton.
Messrs. Alfred B. Kennedy, William A. Demarst,
Franklin B. Waterman, Thomas E. Delano and
myself.  Mr. Crittenton is President of the com-
pany. 
	"All of the men who have been taken into the
company are old employes, the youngest of the 
five in point of service being myself with a record
of thirteen years in Mr. Crittenton’s employ. Mr.
Kennedy, who is the buyer for the house, has
served twenty-six years, Mr. Demarst, the head
of the retail department, twenty years; Mr.
Delano, the general manager, twenty-eight years,
and Mr. Waterman who runs our advertising de-
partment, sixteen years. Others may be taken in.
	"I presume that we were selected on account
of our long service and thorough familiarity with
every detail of the business of the house, but I
should not be surprised if some other old em-
ployes were taken into the company later."
	Mr. Crittenton is himself devoting his entire
time to Evangelistic work and his fortune to
founding Florence Crittenton Missions for the
rescue of erring girls. The story of their found-
ing touches all hearts to tenderness and all eyes 
to tears.  A few years since his little four-year-
old Florence on her dying bed pleaded "Papa
sing 'The Sweet Bye and Bye.' With choking
voice and breaking heart her father sang the
beautiful words and her beloved spirit floated
heavenward on the wings of song. Though the
Bye and Bye might be sweet, the present without
his darling seemed so overwhelmingly dreary,
that he did not care to live.  But in his sorrow
the Savior who had taken the little child in His
bosom, brought comfort to his bleeding heart and
he found strangely true the words of Christ "My
peace I give unto you."
	Then he began to prove that he was indeed a
follower of the lowly Nazarene who forever dig-
nified labor by being Himself a carpenter, who
in the midst of his toil uttered these royal words
which would forever settle all strife between 
capital and labor, "By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to
another."
	Mr. Crittenton was so full of love that he went
down into the slums and helped to uplift the
fallen, and one night when he was pleading with
a poor erring girl to leave her life of shame, he
said in the words of Christ, "Neither do I con-
demn thee, go and sin no more." Through her
tears she said, "Where can I go?  Quick as a
flash came the thought "Where can she go?”
scarce a door save a door of sin is open to her
and then and there he determined as a memorial
to his own little Florence to found a home where
other father’s little girls lost in the whirlpool of
shame, might be rescued and restored to a life of
virtue.  So at 21-23 Bleeker St. New York, nine
years ago was opened the First Florence Critten-
ton Mission, a large double four-story house
where food and shelter and clothing and a home
are freely given, and under the influence of
Mother Prindle the W. C. T. U. Matron, hun-
dreds become Christian women.  Over five hun-
dred girls annually find a home here and three-
fourths of them are redeemed.
	Mr. Crittenton has also established Florence
Crittenton Missions in New Brunswick, N. J.,
San Jose, Sacramento, Los Angeles and San
Francisco, California.  The latter was formerly
known as "The Pacific Rescue Home," success-
fully carried on by a number of philanthropic
people, but since Mr. Crittenton has become its
President the name of his darling child has been
given to it.
	These Missions represent an investment of
