NOTES AND NEWS.

	May Wright Sewall is compiling an article
for a syndicate of papers on "The President's
Home."
	The Indian exhibit at the World's Fair
will include representatives of every tribe
from the extreme north to Terra del Fuego.
	Sarah Janette Duncan, the Countess Nor-
raikow, Frances Harrison, Sophie Almon-
Hensley and Mrs. Sarah Curzon are dis-


tinguishedCanadian newspaper women who
have made their mark. 
	Laura Sedgwick Collins, the talented
Lyceum entertainer, is called by critics the
Mrs. Scot-Siddons of America. She has a
composite frame. She is a scholar. She is
a writer. She is a musician. She is a
beautiful woman.
	MISS SOPHIA C. HAYDEN has been call-
ed to Chicago to furnish designs and dimen-
sions of the Woman’s Building, of which
she is the architect, for the information of
those women throughout the country who
desire to furnish certain parts which are to
be ready for placing in the building before
they are presented. Miss Hayden expects
to be able to have these designs and dimen-
sions ready to send out by the last of the
present month.
	REV. CAROLINE J. BARTLETT writes to
the Kalamazoo, Mich., Telegraph, that she
has been taking part in English politics,
making her first political speech in a foreign
land Accompanying her friend, Miss Flor-
ence Balgarnie, to a workingmen’s meeting
in North London, at which the latter was
to speak, Miss Bartlett was also introduced
to the audience, composed of hundreds of
workingmen, who listened “with their hats
off.” Miss Bartlett also describes a short
interview with Justin McCarthy, the Irish
leader.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer, President of the
Board of Lady Managers, who has recently
returned from a European tour, reports that
the women of Europe, particularly of
Great Britain, France, Germany and Bel-
gium, are deeply interested in the World’s
Fair, and are working hard to make the
womans’s branch of it a splendid success.
The women’s commissions, which have
been formed in these countries, include
many of the most distinguished and honor-
ed women known at court. The outlook
is most promising for a great exhibit of
women’s industrial, educational and chari-
table work, from both this country and
from abroad.


