RHODA ANN FULLMER.
	Died at her daughter's residence in the 7th
Ward, Salt Lake City, at 2 a. m., August 18, 1892,
Rhoda Ann Fullmer, widow of the late David
Fullmer, and daughter of Zera and Rhoda Mar-
rion. Deceased was born in Union Township,
Luzern County, Pennyslvania, Feb. 12th, 1813.
Married Sept. 18th, 1831. Embraced the Gospel 
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, July 1836.
	She was a member of the first Relief Society
organized by the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, and
underwent many trials and privations with her
family and the Saints in that place. Emigrated
with the early settlers of Utah in the fall of 1850,
suffering many hardships with fortitude and
patience. Deceased was selected as Second
Counselor to Sister Hickenlooper who was Presi-
dent of first Relief Society in the 6th Ward of
this City.
	When the 5th and 6th Wards were connected,
she was chosen and set apart as President of both
Wards. In Sept. 1877, was again called to act
as President of the 6th Ward Relief Society (the 
two wards having been separated), which posi-
tion she held with honor and integrity up to the
time of her demise. Sister Fullmer was a true
Latter-day Saint, a kind and affectionate mother;
was the mother of eleven children, nine of whom
live to mourn her loss, besides many grandchild-
ren, and greatgrandchildren.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolutions of respect to Rhoda Ann Fullmer
who departed this life, having been our beloved 
President of the Relief Society, twenty-five years,
from 1867 to 1892. We her co-laborers in our
Relief Society meeting Sept. 1st, 1892, deem it
fitting that we record our appreciation of her
labors.
	Whereas in the providence of our Heavenly
Father we have been called to mourn the loss of
our beloved President and friend, who having led
a life worthy of imitation has been called home.
We desire to pay a tribute of respect to our
sister.
	Resolved that in behalf of the 6th Ward Relief
Society, we tender our sympathy to the bereaved
family, having lost a loving mother and friend.
We pray the divine healer of all sorrows to com-
fort and bless them and may that Spirit that
brings peace and consolation, be with them in
time of trouble.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family. Also entered upon the
Relief Society record and a copy be sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
			ALICE BUTTERWORTH.
			ELLEN WATSON.
