[Column 2]

example the great work there is for women in
this age of the world. Our harvest is great and
the laborers are few, and the returns of our toil
seem slow though our faith is strong in the be-
lief that if "we cast our bread upon the water
after many days it shall return."
	We have gained a testimony for ourselves that
in the performance of duty, be that duty what it
may, there is joy, satisfaction and contentment of
spirit, and that the neglect of duty brings the re-
verse. Eight months ago we formed ourselves
in a school of the missionary sisters, eight in
number and have since that time held regular
weekly meetings, studying the principles of the
Gospel, and other subjects pertaining to the ad-
vancement of woman. We have also observed
certain by-laws which have governed satis-
factorily our labors both temporally and spiritu-
ally, and each of the sisters has expressed the
pleasure she takes in the performance of her
labors and of the unity existing between us. On
the 6th of July last at the anniversary of the or-
ganization of the Relief Society of this branch, a
special meeting was held in which missionary
sisters were selected to visit the adjacent Islands
assisted hy a native sister; which appointment
we willingly accepted, trusting that God would
make us equal to the task before us and fit the
back for the burden. Some may have doubted
the prudence in sending women to travel unas-
sisted by an Elder over such roads as there are
upon these Islands, but as that was out of the
question, they having been several months at
their respective fields of labor, we were willing to
prove that while woman is necessitated in depend-
ing upon man for much, she is not dependent for
her energy and courage.
	Sister Katties Hottendorf assisted by Kealalina
was appointed to the Island of Kanai and sailed
from Honolulu July 25th. The remainder of us
were detained till the 9th of August when we
boarded the comfortable, clean Kinau for our re-
spestive islands. The day was calm and pre-
sented a favorable appearance for a pleasant
voyage, and we had sailed nearly an hour with-
out being sick, and were about to think we were
going to escape that dreaded malady, when an
Officer remarked, "That little cloud yonder will
soon make you feel more uncomfortable than you
do now," which proved to be true, for strong
winds and high swells, caused the Kinau to toss
herself recklessly from billow to billow, regard-
less of her precious freight, and we were forced
to become tributaries to the mighty Pacific. The
sight from the ocean, of Honolulu to Diamond-
head as the land fades in the distance to be seen
once is always to be remembered. The peculiar
formation of the once active craters of "Punch-
bowl" and "Diamondhead" now covered with
beautiful tropical vegetation surrounded by the
modern improvements of civilzation present a
picture that would take space to describe.
	Our first stopping place was at Maui, and we
rouse ourselves to see where we are, and there
is Lahaina sleeping in the shadow of her mighty
mountain. The white caps of the rolling deep
flashed back the light of the full clear moon.
The air had a tropical langour, the boats are
lowered mid confusion and splashing of oars, to
take passengers and freight ashore. Here we
are surprised in meeting with Brother Duffin who
had come aboard to meet his wife and accom-
pany her to her place of appointment, they de-
cided to go over to the next bay, about fifteen
miles, as horses cannot be obtained here for
traveling. So it is up anchor and away through
the moonlight over the rolling deep to Maalaca
bay where we bid "Aloha nui" to Brother and
Sister Duffin, and Napohuelua her assistant, and
then on to Makena where the surf breaks on
barren rocks under the great dome of "Haleaka-
la," here the channel had the appearance of a
wild rushing river and it was hard to imagine we

[Column 3]

were at sea. My room companion expressed
her fears in landing saying she was once lost in
this bay early in the evening and had no hopes of
seeing land again, but daylight brought to her
troubled mind relief.
	Makena bay is left and we reach the nearest 
point of Hawaii, "Mahukona," by 8 o'clock in
the morning, here our patience is tried by a long
stay, in the strong hot wind blowing off shore,
but the sight of the domes of the three moun-
tains, "Hualalai" "Mamakea" and "Manna Loa,"
together with the encircling mountains of Maui,
and the island of Molokai in the distance
furnish a study for the mind and relieves the
monotony.
	We stop at Kawaikae and Upolo, then go back
on our way to Hilo. The entire scene is one of
varying beauty beginning with the cane fields of
Kahala which stretch their sea of green almost
to the edge of the red cliffs, and here number-
less spots walled in by rock fences designating
the homes of the ancient Hawaiian, and the im-
mense population that must have existed on that
apparent barren land.
	We pass the Waimanu bluffs which extend in
one long blue sweep from the inland hights until
it makes its tremendous 1600 foot leap into the
surf. At Laupahochoc the fresh land breeze
comes across the water bringing with it odors of
ferns and woodland vegetation; here a tramway
extends from the surf abruptly to the top of the
cliff on which all imports and exports are taken
to the Plantation above. The village is pretty
and unlike any other we have passed in occupy-
ing a small basin between two immense moun-
tains. Two hours after leaving here we are for
the first time since leaving Honolulu in a calm
sea and to our joy are at our destination at Hilo
bay.
	Though it is half past 2 o'clock Thursday
morning, making a thirty-six hour sea voyage,
and though strangers in a strange land we are
glad to put our feet once more on land, and our
company three in number took a special boat,
with the rest of the "Reverends" as we were
honorably titled, to shore, where for a short time
there seemed to be considerably excitement
among the natives over our arrival, many saying
it was the first time they had seen a Missionary
Sister of our Church.
			LIBBIE NOAL.
	[To be continued].


