EDMUND RUSSELL AND DELSARTE.
EDMUND RUSSELR has been in this City over
six weeks, and during that time has familiarized
himself tolerably well with the City and its sur-
roundings,as well as the people taken as a whole,
and a few in particular. He has given several
lectures in courses and in classes, and has really
been over-crowded with work for the time being.
Very busy people like the writer have not had
the privilege of hearing many of his talks or
lessons, but we have heard one course of three
lectures, that we enjoyed very much indeed, and
from which we gleaned much valuable informa-
tion that we hope to apply in doing good, if only
in self-development. And really one cannot im-
prove one’s self without benefitting others.
	There is so much more in Delsarte methods
than one could possibly believe before coming in
actual contact with the work, or having it ex-
plained in the pains-taking way in which Mr.
Russell has been kind enough to give it.
	One hears of Delsarte as of a great artist,
painter or scientist, without realizing that the art
he made a life-time study had methods, rules and
practises that would apply to every individual all
along the lines of lifework.


The first lecture of the course we attended was 
of Delsarte himself, his life and work, and was
one of the most interesting sketches we have
ever had the pleasure of hearing.  This lecture
of itself would it seems to us give any one a de-
sire to know more of the fine art of expression in
life, and the happiness to be attained through the
best and highest development of the physical as
well as the mental, moral and spiritual which is
so sought after by many; how to reach this
standard of excellence is just beginning to be
understood by a few.  Light has come into the 
world and is increasing, if there is any good
thing or true principle that some of us have not yet
reached, by all means let us avail ourselves of any
opportunity to possess it that is open to us, and 
make it applicable, useful and beneficial.  Del-
sarte is said to be “a cure for nervousness,” then
by all means American women, should make it a 
study; and it might add much to their power for
good, and certainly to their influence at home
and elsewhere.
	To most women the home is the one place
where they desire to be appreciated and under-
stood, and how very often, they spoil everything
by that nervousness that is so common in women
of fine-strung, or as is often said, high-strung
temperament: and misunderstandings arise so fre-
quently and are attributed to being “out of sorts”
that if there is an art or a study that will heal or
help this malady; no time should be lost in get-
ting at work. “To be healthy is to be happy,” is
an old familiar saying, and much does depend
upon health, and if the Delsarte methods tend to 
an improvement in this direction to a fine
physique, the building up of the constitution, or
human body as a whole, then indeed should we
hail with gladness such a heaven-sent boon.
	The prolongation of human life with all one’s
faculties sound and good is one of the objects
that this people called Latter-day Saints have
sought to achieve; there is no doubt that correct
rules of living, such as are given in the “Word of
Wisdom,” would do much towards accomplish-
ing the results sought for; how few comparatively
observe these requirements, the fact is, all want
the blessing, without the effort.
	It is true as Mr. Russell says, we are not likely
to receive benefit, without doing as well as hear-
ing.
	Many who have attended series of lectures,
lessons and talks have testified to the great ad-
vantages they have derived from Mr. Russell’s
suggestions and instruction; and would be glad
to avail themselves of further opportunities under
his teaching. He goes to San Francisco from
here and will be given a reception by the Century
Club of that City October 5th.  He has letters of 
introduction to leading ladies and gentlemen
there that ensure for him a welcome, and with
the wealth and prestige of that great City, there
will be a wider opportunity for success in his 
profession, yet we doubt if there will be a higher
appreciation of his talents and his work in
Delsarte.


