[Column 1]

mised to marry. The interview was a long
one, Clair and his lawyers returned from
their ride, and the two men departed on
their journey in fact the sun was in the
meridian ere the Doctor and Jane emerged
from the drawing room. Both looked very
grave yet withal satisfied, and before an
hour had passed, Jane had informed Anna
that her marriage was to take place as soon
as the preliminary arrangements could be
made.
	"And I always thought you would be a
spinster and so did papa, and keep our house
and take care of us all and our children."
	"You were all wrong as you will see in a
few weeks, and my dear cousin you will be
the responsible person in the house, and it
requires tact to keep an establishment like
this in running order, everything is at
sixes and sevens now with this grand fete
and Mrs. Burke is on her high heels with
having her gentleman cousin down from
London, "the great solicitor of the late Sir
Edward," as she says, and it will take some
days now to get all the household machin-
ery in order again."
	"Dear Jane do give me a few lessons in
management before this wedding comes off.
By the bye where are you to be married?
and what will you wear, and how many
bridesmaids will you have? Do tell me all
about it!"
	"Dont talk so rapidly dear asking so
many questions in a breath, and I will an-
swer some of them. We are to be married
in the little Church near by, and as for
bridesmaids I had not thought of them at
all, and you know we are still in mourning
for my uncle, that decides the dress."
	"How very stupid, we went to balls and
parties in London, without the insignia of
mourning, why should you feel it essential
to wear black at a wedding, particularly the
bride, my old nurse told me when I was
a child that it was bad luck to wear black
to a wedding, and I'm sure it must be for
the bride to be in black."
	"That point is settled Anna neither the
Doctor or myself are at all superstitious,
and therefore it will make no difference
whatever your nurse may have told you."
	"How about the house cousin when can
we see it, will you go to day to look at it,
and take me with you? I thnk it must be
very nice to go to a new place, and not live
in such a weird, dusty, dark, old ruin as
this is, where the very owls and bats prowl
about at night."
	"As to that, I have a fondness for this
house, it has a history, that is exceedingly
interesting, think of the long line of an-
cestry that have occupied these rooms, and
the daring exploits of the brave men who
fought in the great battles of the country;
I love to look at the armory though it is
rusty and neglected."
	"I have no taste for all this paraphernalia,
I like the living present, full of life and
beauty and activity. Clair is welcome to
this tumble-down rookery, and I hope when
I marry Maitland that we shall have a new
house and live in London and visit all the
fine places, and not go round and round,
over and over, the self same identical places
and walks and drives, year in, and year out
as we do here; I'm so tired of this place,
and as for its history who knows it? I
didn't even know about my own mother
until uncle Rob told me."
	"I often fancy I see the people coming
and going through these rooms Lords and
Ladies and Dowagers, and hear them talk-
ing to each other indistinctly, and depend

