			PARIS, FRANCE, Oct. 20, 1892.
Editor Woman's Journal:
	In my last letter, written from Berlin, I
briefly characterized many of the interest-
ing associations composed of women, and
institutions founded by them, which I had
been privileged to visit. One fact concern-
ing them I reserved for this article, of
which it forms a necessary part.
	From the “Scheppeler Bette Verein” to
the “Volks’ Kuchen,” all of the societies
and works referred to are “Under the pro-
tection of Her Majesty, the Empress Fred-
erick.” It was some time before I realized
the full import of this phrase. In spite of
what I had long ago known of the activity
of the Empress, while yet Crown Princess,
in establishing courses of university lectures
for women, and in facilitating educational
opportunities for girls of all ranks, I still
unconsciously associated “Her Majesty’s
Protection” with the royal patronage which
bakers and brewers, tailors and milliners, in
all monarchical countries, are wont to use
as a trade-mark indicative of the superior
quality of their wares. But, when I found,
in the “Pestalozzi-Froebel House,” games
and studies presented by the Empress; and
in Frau Heyl’s wonderful cooking school a
case of phials from the royal hand, con-
taining the chemical constituents of the
common grains, vegetables, and fruits, pre-
sented by Her Majesty on one of her visits
of inspection; when I learned that the Prin-
cess Victoria was Frau Heyl’s first pupil in
the art of gardening; when I knew that
the Empress had recently inspected “Tan-
neck” (the country home where Fraulein
Crain lives with the “Pension” portion of
her pupils), and had gone from observatory
to dog-kennel in her survey of the premises;
when, in “The Victoria Training School
for Nurses,” I saw numerous evidences of
Her Majesty’s personal vigilance and sym-
pathy, I began to understand that the phrase
“Under the Protection of Her Majesty, the
Queen and Empress Frederick” was of vital
significance to all things to which it is ap-
plied; and, moreover, that it is a sure pledge
of noble motive and capable management
in the institutions enjoying it. Presently, I
discovered that most of the remarkable
group of women by whom I was welcomed
were members of what they constantly re-
ferred to as “The Empress’s Circle.” I
noted that the tone in which the “circle”
was mentioned by its members had an ac-
cent of proud, noble, modesty, but no hint
of boastful vanity. I found every member
of this “circle” to be a woman of serious
