[Vol25 | February 1938 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field]

Notes from the Field By Julia A. PF, Lund?General Secretary Nevada Stake CONGRATULATIONS go to the Nevada Stake for the enthusiasm and efficiency with which the Magazine Subscription Campaign and all phases of Relief Society work are carried on through all their wards. Attention is called to the fine cook-book of Tested Recipes, recently issued. "We live not upon what we eat, but what we digest," is the inrtoductory statement. Abbreviations and Table of Weights and Measures appear on the opening page. This is followed by Household Hints, which are most practical and helpful. Recipes, from bread to candy which have been tested and found to be economical, healthful and delicious, are included. Well balanced meals may be assembled from the wide range of foods suggested. There is information not only about what is good to eat, but how to prepare it. The little book is most attractively bound and printed upon stiff, heavy sheets, which lie open conveniently at any point. It is a most useful book and a commentable achievement. Oahu Stake ig gives us great pleasure to print the following report of our Hawaiian Stake, Oahu. The information is supplied by Sister LaPriel G. Hyer: "T am enclosing a picture of the Oahu Stake Relief Society taken at Kalihi, March 17, 1937, immediately after the dramatization of the 'Original Organization of the Relief Society at Nauvoo.' I was asked by President Eliza Salm and Sister Cummings to present the play with a cast of hoale (or white sisters) for the benefit of the native sisters. The ladies were dignified replicas of the eighteen charter members. "The Oahu Stake has some of the OAHU STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD most wonderful women it has been my pleasure to meet. Its Relief Society President, Sister Salm, with her gifted board members, directs the work in an intelligent and inspiring way. The teachers' work is handled by sisters who can present the message either in English or Hawaiian, and where they find no one at home, they leave a written message. The Relief Society sisters are contributing dainty hand-made pieces of lahala to raise funds for the new L. D. S. Chapel to be built in Honolulu. North Davis Stake ERY fine reports continue to come to the office about the extensive work of women in Church Security. The pictures give some idea of the work done in food conservation, and the preparation of articles of clothing, as well as of quilts made and blankets assembled in the North Davis Stake. It was quite impossible to display, even to list, all the articles prepared by the Relief 123
Society and Y. W. M. I. A., who cooperated in this fine work. Ensign Stake NE of the beautiful characters we have the opportunity of occasionally meeting is Sister Lulu Greene Richards, the first Editor of the Woman's Exponent. She is still interested and active in Relief Society work, and we are indebted to her for the following account of a delightful meeting in the Twentieth Ward: "On the evening of Thursday, December 2, 1937, in the Twentieth Ward Chapel, Salt Lake City, a remarkably fine 'Artist's Program,' under the auspices of the Relief Society, was given. The entire program was educational and inspirational to an unusual degree, showing high talent in our home composers, musicians, singers and readers. Each number seemed especially adapted to its appointed place on the program. "If any portion might be considered the 'real gem' of the occasion, it would doubtless be the anthem CLOTHING AND BEDDING, NORTH DAVIS STAKE 

  FOOD CONSERVATION, NORTH DAVIS STAKE entitled 'Ruth,' the sacred words of which are from the Bible, and the soul-stirring music the composition of our own talented Luacine Clark Fox. This anthem was sung by another of our home girls, one of our sweet singers, Elizabeth S. Cushing. Anyone who feels interested in the anthem and has no opportunity of hearing it sung, may -find satisfaction, to some extent, by reading the short book of 'Ruth' in the Old Testament. "An excellent part of the splendid program described above is that it was a free-will offering to aid the Relief Society in its ever-increasing efforts to strengthen and assist in carrying on the noble work of the Church Security Plan." Idaho Stake HE fine work accomplished in the stake was a result of careful planning. Early in the spring the Stake Board made plans for a Stake Bazaar, Art Exhibit and Flower Show. Word was sent to each ward in time for the spring planting of flowers. The bazaar was held in late August. The Stake Committee on Flowers used mirrors, rocks and shrubs to make a rock garden as a background for the flowers. The response from the wards was most gratifying, and a gorgeous array created. Each ward sent art work to the Stake Committee, where it was judged and classified for exhibition. This covered one entire side of the large hall. Each ward had a booth of its own, from which the articles were sold and the proceeds returned to the ward societies. The stake reserved the sale of cooked foods for its own booth. The wards donated liberally to this, and a very tidy sum was realized. The Ward Conferences during the year have been very interesting, and among the outstanding numbers was a talk by a member of the Priesthood on "The Value of a Relief Society Mother in the Community." Another project, in which all united, was the binding of the Relief Society Magazine. This was a most popular, activity, and one in which all the wards participated.  
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vout. XXV FEBRUARY, 1938 No. 2
Editorials New Editor "THERE appeared in the June, 1935, issue of the Relief Society Magazine, a sketch of a new General Board member.
This article gave a brief review of the life of a worthy young woman, and enumerated the various qualifications which fitted her so ably for the important position to which she was called. The fine prognosis of a little more than two years ago, has been more than realized.
Unusual native ability, developed through thorough preparation, rare scholarship and unfailing faith in the Gospel, a willingness to serve, and a sympathetic understanding of the scope of Relief Society, make of Belle Smith Spafford a most valuable addition to the General Board, and especially qualify her for her new duties as Editor of the Relief Society Magazine. We have been most fortunate in the splendid service rendered by our Editors in the past.
They have all been women of outstanding ability, to whom we acknowledge a lasting debt of gratitude. Our new Editor assumes her duties well equipped to carry this responsible work forward in its mission of enlightenment to the women of the Church. May they continue to give to her the same fine cooperation which was never wanting in the past. GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY. Leadership Week THE seventeenth annual Leadership Week held January 24 to 28 inclusive once more drew to the Brigham Young University scores of Church leaders.
More than 200 lectures, demonstrations, and entertainments were presented, free of charge, to all who would avail themselves of this important instruction. The Leadership Week is an adult education project designed to increase the effectiveness of Latter the good That's found in human brotherhood, Wherein abideth Faith, or Trust, And Hope which lifts us from the dust, Love's Tolerance with Charity? The noblest virtue of the three. HE above verse is taken from the poem "Brotherhood and the Graces" published in a book of delightful verse entitled Forced Landings by Noble Warrum, Sr.,
editorial writer on the Salt Lake Tribune. The collection is dedicated to his wife, Josephine Grissom Warrum.
Many of the verses exude a keen sense of humor, a subtle wit.
They show Mr.
Warrum to be a man of experience with a profound understanding of human nature. The themes vary, the author drawing often upon the Bible. We commend the book to you for delightful and profitable reading. Forced Landings may be obtained from all book stores. Price $2.00 per copy.