[Vol25 | February 1938 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: The Second Advent of the Messiah]
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
LESSON 8

THE SECOND ADVENT OF THE MESSIAH

Helpful References

In the Bible:
Psalms 50:3-5; Isaiah 35:4; 40:10; Joel 2:28-32; 3:15-17; Zechariah 4:3-5; Malachi 3:1-3; Matthew 16:27; 24:3-6, 14, 29-30, 36-40; 25:31-32; Luke 21:10-17; Acts 1:9-11; 3:19-21; 1 Thessalonians 4:14-17; 2 Thessalonians 1:7-10; 2:1-5.

In the Book of Mormon:
3 Nephi 26:3; 28:7; 29:2.

In the Doctrine and Covenants:
29:9-21; 33:17-18; 34:6-9; 35:15-18; 45:37-57; 64: 23-24; 65:3-5; 88:87-99; 101:23-35; 110:14-16; 128:24; 130:1, 14-17; 133.

In the Pearl of Great Price:
Moses 7:59-67. See also An Extract from a Translation of the Bible.

Smith, The Way To Perfection, chapter 39.
Talmage, Jesus the Christ, chapter 42.

1. The Church Proclaims the Doctrine of the Second Advent.—A lesson on the teachings of the Christ respecting His Second Advent is timely. A cursory examination of the history of our Church makes plain the fact that the Prophet Joseph Smith expressly taught the doctrine of the Second Coming. Clearly he meant that Christ was to come in the relatively near future. He testifies plainly that heavenly messengers had so informed him. The revelations of the Lord to the Church seem to indicate that we cannot work too hard in making preparations for, and in warning the world of, the Christ's coming in glory.

2. Modern Disbelief in the Doctrine of the Second Advent.—Latter-day Saints do well to notice the unfortunate but growing tendency among men to disbelieve in the Second Coming of the Christ. It is part of our work to make careful observation of conditions in the world and to adjust our preaching to meet them.

Dr. Klausner, the great Jewish scholar, speaks of the Second Coming of the Savior as follows: "According to this idea, the Messiah must suffer and die, but he would in the end rise again and, this second time, appear in glory and establish the kingdom of heaven. To make this idea appear true the disciples stole the body of Jesus and hid it; after fifty days—by which time the body must have become unrecognizable even if found, they spread the rumor that he was risen from the dead and that he had shown himself alive to them. Thenceforward they awaited his Second Coming (Parousia), when he should establish his kingdom, the everlasting kingdom of heaven. And this Coming, rather than the ethical teaching of Jesus, became the fundamental hope and basis of early Christianity. All at first believed in his speedy coming; but when there seemed no prospect of an early coming they allocated it to a later age, to the close of a thousand years (the Millennium)."

Those who disbelieve in the Lord's Coming point out that such doctrine is nothing but a carry over from the beliefs of an earlier age when it failed of accomplishment and was accordingly put off for fulfillment at a much later time. To believe in it now, in the light of historical research, they say, is to exercise credulity rather than faith.

We believe that scholars and intelligent laymen alike, in many instances, have been misled in their belief. Their sincerity we do not question. Not having a sufficient understanding of the principles of the Gospel, they have jumped at erroneous conclusions.

3. The Ancient Prophets Understood the Doctrine of the Second Advent.—The Church teaches that the Gospel was in the world from the beginning, and that the coming of the Christ in the flesh was foreseen; His death and resurrection were predicted long before His advent in the flesh. Likewise, prophets and seers foresaw that His Second Advent in glory would take place long after His death and resurrection. Thus, Enoch, who lived centuries before the Christ's earthly advent saw in vision His Second Coming, as related in the Pearl of Great Price. "And it came to pass that Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of a thousand years." (Moses 7:65; read carefully Moses 7:59-67). The Old Testament prophets understood the true teaching respecting the coming of the Messiah in glory. Joel the Prophet expressly refers to it in Chapter 2:28-32. The Prophet Joseph Smith relates that Moroni made reference to this prophecy when he appeared to him September 21, 1823. "He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be." (Paragraph 41, Extracts From The History of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, Pearl of Great Price). Since Joel speaks of "the terrible day of the Lord," he can scarcely have had reference to anything but the Second Coming. Malachi certainly had reference to it in his prophecy. (See Malachi 3:1-3 and compare Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 128:24). Numerous other Old Testament references can be cited. (See references at beginning).

4. The Jews of Christ's Time Misunderstood Prophetic References to the Second Advent.—Unfortunately, the people of the Jewish nation at Christ's time had generally misunderstood the teachings of the prophets in reference to the Second Coming. Doubtless this was due to the fact that the nation had been taught too long by an uninspired or apostate priesthood. At any rate the Jews were awaiting a Messiah who was to come in power and rescue them from their enemies. Little did they suspect that many of the teachings they read in the prophetic books had reference to what we know as the Second Coming. The fact that the Christ was first to come into the world as a humble child had been practically forgotten.

5. The Savior Taught His Apostles the True Doctrine of His Second Coming.—It became necessary for the Savior to carefully explain to His apostles the true doctrine respecting His Second Advent. Shortly before He took Peter, James and John on the Mount of Transfiguration He said, "For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works. Verily I say unto you, There shall be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his Kingdom." Matthew 16:27-28). That John explicitly understood this teaching is made clear, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in a remarkable revelation that consists of a translated version of the record made on parchment by John and hidden up by himself. "And the Lord said unto me: John, my beloved, what desirest thou? For if you shall ask what you will, it shall be granted unto you. And I said unto him: Lord, give unto me power over death, that I may live and bring souls unto thee. And the Lord said unto me: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, because thou desirest this thou shalt tarry until I come in my glory, and shalt prophesy before nations, kindreds, tongues and people. And for this cause the Lord said unto Peter: If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?" (Doctrine and Covenants 7:1-4; compare John 21:20-23). There can scarcely be any mistake that the apostles in the Primitive Church became clearly acquainted with the true doctrine of Christ's Second Coming. If there is any doubt on this point, the Prophet Joseph Smith banished it when he revised by the spirit of revelation the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, commencing with the last verse of the Twenty-third chapter, King James' Version. Part of this scripture refers to the coming destruction of the temple and the troubles of the Jews; those parts dealing with the Second Coming are easily picked out. "Then understood his disciples that he should come again on the earth, after that he was glorified and crowned on the right hand of God. . . . But of that day, and hour, no one knoweth; no, not the angels of God in heaven, but my Father only. But as it was in the days of Noah, so it shall be also at the coming of the Son of Man; for it shall be with them, as it was in the days which were before the flood; for until the day that Noah entered into the ark they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage; and knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of Man be." (Pearl of Great Price, An Extract from a Translation of the Bible, 1:40-43; see also Matthew 24:3-6, 14, 29-30).

6. Some Members of the Primitive Church Clung to Belief in the Quick Return of Christ.—However, in spite of the clear understanding of the doctrine on the part of the apostles, many lay members of the Primitive Church still retained the mistaken impression that the Christ was soon to come again. This is borne out by the fact that the Apostle Paul had to write a letter to the Thessalonians expressly correcting their notions respecting the quick return of the Christ. (2 Thessalonians 2:1-3) In spite of Paul's clear instruction when he was with them, they misunderstood. (2 Thessalonians 2:5) It is likely that at the present time many people misunderstand the doctrine, either because of partially corrupted texts of the Bible, or because some of the New Testament writers, who clearly understood the teaching themselves, have not made themselves sufficiently clear in writing about it.

In this dispensation the Lord has left no doubt in the minds of those who have His Spirit, that His coming is nigh, even at the door.

Questions

1. How do you account for the great indifference of the world today to many sublime truths of the gospel?

2. Can you see wisdom in the Lord's refusal to make known the exact time of His Second Advent?

3. How would you answer those who say a correct understanding of the doctrine of the Second Advent can make no difference in our lives one way or another?

Problems

Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.

1. Carefully study the Book of Mormon teaching respecting the Second Coming and summarize your findings.

2. Summarize the distinctive contributions of the Doctrine and Covenants to our knowledge of the Second Advent. Which of these are especially hard for the world to receive?
