[Column 2]
the humble effort made to do good to
those in need of encouragement. I can-
not go among the people as much as I
desire to, because there is not time
enough, but I am glad to do what I can,
and thankful to be here today, and I
hope we will all be able to go home
safely, let us do all we can, it cannot be
too much, there is so much to be done,
let us above all love one another, and
love our neighbors, and we will be blest
if we strive to do these things.”
	Summit Stake reported by the Presi-
dent, Celestia Y. Pack, who was glad to
be in this large assembly of Saints, her
stake was quite a large one, some of the
branches were in mining camps, they all
held meetings uniform; sewing and testi-
mony, also Stake board and officers’
meetings once a month, we hold these in
different parts of the Stake, in connection
with the Priesthood meetings; we have
six granaries in our Stake, and a large
amount of real estate, we visit all around
once a year, our board visits once a
month, our missionaries visit from one
ward to another once a month, one con-
ference during the year where we have
visitors from the General Board. We
have enjoyed the mothers work, have
had lectures that might be read any-
where, we have brought some young sis-
ters in through the mothers’ work.
	President B. W. Smith adjourned the
Conference until 2 p. m. and announced
an evening session at 7:30, congregation
standing sang, “Lord dismiss us with thy
blessing,” and the benediction was given
by President Emma S. Woodruff.

	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
President B. W. Smith presiding. Prof.
Thomas and members of the Temple
choir furnished the music, congregation
joined them in singing “O, say what is
truth, etc. Prayer by Dr. Romania B.
Penrose. The Temple quartette rendered
very beautifully, “Pray, sweet to my
soul.” President B. W. Smith was grati-
fied to see such a grand audience, she
had always been taught that the Relief
Society was the grandest auxiliary organ-
ization in the Church, and believed it,
thought we were doing pretty well as a
society, and expressed her belief in union
and love among the sisters; if there is any
feeling, ask forgiveness, and if there is a
proper spirit manifest it will do good. We
must try to live our religion and do all
the good we can, both for the living, the
dying and the dead. I don’t believe in
long speeches, and there are many here
to speak, and some have come from very
long distances and there is not much
time; the reports are to be limited to a
few minutes, I pray the Lord to bless all
this congregation and I bless you for
coming and may we have a good time
this afternoon, and the Spirit of the Lord
be with us.
	President Andrew Kimball from St.
Joseph Stake, reported the Relief Soci-
ety of that Stake in the absence of
President Elizabeth Layton, he spoke
very highly of Sister Layton and her
Counselors, as being united and diligent
in their work for the good of the sisters,
they have the opportunity of holding a
Conference every Priesthood day. They
have two Conferences, in June and De-
cember, and they do appreciate the visits
of the sisters from here very much. In
the wards the organizations are well

[Column 3]
posted and are the greatest helps to the
Bishops; they are not able to store wheat
in that warm climate, the weevils get into
it right away; the sisters have been great
benefactors to the community by loaning
the grain to the farmers, and thousands
of bushels of grain have been raised by
means of their kindness in lending the
grain for seed. Some time ago, during
the Spanish war, some of the boys were
not well provided for, and were getting
scurvy through lack of proper food. I
was written to, to know if the Relief Soci-
ety could help them, and our Relief Soci-
ety in Arizona fitted up a great many
boxes of bedding and good food and also
put in some money and we forwarded it
to the proper authorities to be distributed
to them, and much suffering was saved
through their charitable efforts at that
time. President Kimball said much in
praise of the Society in that locality and his
words were admirably suited to the occa-
sion.
	President Mary E. Schofield spoke of
Union Stake, where she presides, with
considerable pride and good feeling, felt
as it was a young Stake, the activity of
the sisters was deserving of recognition.
She and her associates visit in the valley
twice a year, and those branches that are
farther away, once a year. We have
some wheat and some money to buy
more, but have no granary as yet; we are
endeavoring to do the best we can in
taking care of it. We are doing well in
mothers’ work, using the outline formu-
lated by Union Stake. The Stake is
building a large tabernacle and some of
the wards are helping in this, we have but
few poor, but have assisted a number who
are helped by the Stake Presidency.
	President Isabelle E. Robinson of Mil-
lard Stake was pleased to mingle her
voice with the sisters of the Relief Soci-
ety, this grand organization, she had ad-
vocated a good fellowship meeting, felt
that would be a good place to drop every
enemity and get into harmony with one
another. Sister Robinson spoke of the
temporal condition of the Society, but
mentioned also the mothers’ work and
the Book of Mormon study; they have
five halls for meeting purposes, and five
granaries.
	Cassia Stake reported by Counselor
Alice Sessions; thought all the branches
were doing fairly well, of the ten wards
nearly all had granaries, a good attend-
ance of members at the Conferences.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder was introduced
to speak upon Utah goods, said she had
taken hold of this movement to get home
manufactured goods upon the market,
stated that our market was flooded with
imported goods. After speaking earnest-
ly for two or three minutes on the subject
Sister Alder announced a meeting to be
held in Barratt Hall at the close of the
afternoon meeting and invited all present
to attend and hear this matter fully dis-
cussed upon its merits.
		(To be Continued.)


