[Column 2]
years, having to resign on account of failing
health For seventeen years she was afflicted
with gall stones, and many times when an attack
came on she was confined to her bed for weeks.
She endured her pain and suffering without com-
plaint, and even felt hopeful a[-]d cheerful. About
five months ago other complications set in, and all
that loving hands and skillful nursing could do
was of no avail, her noble spirit taking its flight
to j[-]in her loved ones on the other side.
	She was the mother of twelve children, eight
sons and four daughters Her children are: Chas.
E and Mrs. Libbie A. Hendricks, of Richmond;
Dr. Heber K, of Logan; Prof. Alber[-] M. of Ash-
ley, Idaho, principal of Cassia Stake A[-]ademy
Prof Lewis A, of Salt Lake, editor of the “Des-
eret Farmer; 'Lorin A., of Logan, recorder in the
Logan Temp[-]e Prof. Fred. W., principal of the
Nephi High School; Mrs. Jos. P Sharp, who de-
parted th s life about sixteen months before her
mother; Dr. Preston R., of Salt Lake; Leon E,
now on a mission to the Northern States, Alvaret-
ta and Orella, unmarried daughters, the youngest
seventeen years of age; also she had 37 grand-
children.
	Sister Merrill was of a highly intellectual na-
ture a[-]d took great interest in educational mat-
ters. She was cultured and refined, a great read-
er, and was alwa[-]s posted on all the current events
of the day,
	She possessed a wonderful influen[-]e for good
over her children, and always taught them the
principles of the Gospel of which she was a firm
believer. Her son Leon, who recently went on a
mission, did so at her special request as her illness
bade fair to be a lingering one, and there was a
hope for her [-]ecovery. She loved her children
tenderly and they in return were very devoted to
her. She was a faithf l and loving wife, a friend
to [-]he poor and needy. Her funeral was held
Wednesday, April 11, and was very largely at-
tended, friends coming from all over Utah and
Idaho to pay their last respects to their loved
friend and sister It was beautiful to hear the sons
of the other wives of Apostle Merrill testify to her
goodness of heart, her loving kindness, and the
wise counsel of “Aunt Myra,” as she was lovingly
called by the family. They all bore testimony
that she was one of the noblest women of the
earth.
	The casket was literal[-]y buried in flowers, many
designs coming from a long distance. She has
gone to join her noble husband, her daughter Em-
ma, her mother, and a host of others in that beau-
tiful home of rest and peace.
MAGGiE T MERRILL,
LrZZIE DOTY.
RESOLUTIONS.
	At the first Relief Society meeting held after
her death the following resolutions were read and
adopted:
	Resolutions of respect in memory of Sister Al-
mira J. Merrill, who departed this life April 8,
1906.
	We, the officers and members of the Richmond
Relief Society, feel in the loss o[-] our dear friend
and ex-president, that a good and faithful member
has been called to a happier home, where she will
be wel[-]omed as we know she was always wel-
comed in our circles here.
	For we can truly say she was a friend to the
poor and needy, and had a cheerful word to give
them by way of encouragement as well as assist-
ance.
	Much could be said in praise of her good works
and her wise counsel. We feel that her mis ion
on earth was fulfilled and she was wanted on the
other side; that she was prepared to j[-]in her loved
ones who had gone to that glorious mansion pre-
pared for the just.
	Whereas, we, the members of the Relief Society
sympathize with the bereaved family.—May her
sons and daughters be comforted in the assurance
that their mother [-]s not dead, but gone to con-
tinue her labors in a far better world. May we
cherish her memory and strive to emulate her no-
ble example.
	Be it resolved that we read a sketch of her life
and these resolutions in Relief Soc[-]ety meeting;
that a copy be entered on Relief Society record,
a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pub-
lication and a copy be sent to the bereaved family.

	The following was written in the “Oakley
Eagle.” edited by Albert M. Merrill, one of Aunt
Myra’s sons:
OUR MOTHER.
	We were called to mourn, last week, the lo[-]s of
our dear mother, in our estimation the dearest,
swee[-]est, best woman that ever graced the earth.
For fifty-six years and more she fought the stren-

[Column 3]
uous battle of life, coming out victorious in every
contest, but has now succumbed te the grim reap-
er, and has gone to the land where she shall be
forever free from sorrow, pain and ache which
racked her body here.
	We accept the opinion of all who knew her, that
she was indeed one of earth’s noble women. She
was the embodiment of goodness itself, and will
forever remain our ideal of true and beautiful
womanhood. When very young she entered that
order of marriage which is so despised by the
world, but to which she was so sincerely, devoted-
ly converted, and which did for her what nothing
else could do: crushed every selfish, sensuous,
worldly tendency, and which developed to highest
excellence every virtue that belongs to wife and
[-]otherhood.
	She bore and reared practically twelve robust
children, the youngest at her demise being seven-
teen years of age. She loved her children ten-
derly, and her love has been to some extent re-
quited, for she has ever enjo[-]ed the supreme con-
fidence and almost reverential devotion of her
sons and daughters. She cared little for the
things of this earth, save as thev contributed to
things eternal. She was highly intellectual, and
alwas took a lively interest in things that tend to
soul development. She was a faithful and loving
wife, unselfishly devoted to her husband’s interest
and welfare. For her husband, her children, her
friends and acquaintances, indeed, for all of God’s
children she lived, and in the Lord she [-]as died.
To Him we reluctantly, sorrowfully commend her
spirit, and may He grant that she shall still have
her loving, protecting guardianship over us


