DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of
the Revolution celebrated in a patriotic
manner the anniversary of the Battle of
Lexington, April 19, at the headquarters in
the Templeton Building in this city, with
sentiments and speeches. The decora-
tions were in the Society colors, also
flowers and vases, stars and stripes being
conspicuously displayed. The Regent,
Mrs. Mary A. H. Cannon, presided with
dignity and grace. There were a few
invited guests present who took part in
the proceedings.
	The 16th of May the members of the
Society were the guests of the Regent and
the Corresponding Secretary, and were
entertained at the residence of Mrs.
Emily H. C. Willey Corresponding Sec-
retary. The elegant new home was dec-
orated in the Society colors and beauti-
fully draped, and a display of flags large
and small and vases of wild flowers, buff
and blue were scattered about the rooms
giving it quite an artistic, floral appear-
ance. The Regent gave the report of
her year’s work which was very interest-
ingly written and perfectly given and


elicited considerable praise. Although
the day was very unfavorable and kept a
good share of the members away, yet it
was an enjoyable afternoon and when
the guests assembled in the dining room,
the dainty manner in which the viands
were decorated in colors was indeed a
happy surprise, and evinced the most
delicate ingenuity on the part of the
hostesses. The daintiness, the color
scheme, the ribbons and appurtenances,
did not detract from the flavor or deli-
ciousness of the various dishes prepared
by these graduates of the Boston Cook-
ing School, and all enjoyed the luncheon
and were bountifully served. It was a
very happy day and will long be remem-
bered by those who attended. Much
regret was expressed for the absent mem-
bers.
	The annual meeting and election of
officers was held on June 12, 1906, in the
Society Room, the Regent, Mrs. M.A H.
Cannon, presiding. Minutes of the an-
nual meeting in June, 1905, were read
and approved, and brief reports were
given by all the officers present, and the
Treasurer’s report, which was written,
and very complete, was read by the Sec-
retary in the absence of the Treasurer.
The election of officers followed and re-
sulted in the following officers for the
ensuing year. Regent, Mrs. Mary E. R.
Webber, First Vice Regent, Mr Alice
M. Horne, Second Vice Regent, Mrs.
Diana F. Rich; Recording Secretary Mrs.
Isabel M. W. Sears, Assistant Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Emily Y. Clawson, Cor-
responding Secretary, Mrs. Clarice Y.
Spencer, Treasurer, Mrs. Phoebe Y.
Beatie, Registrar, Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougall, Historian, Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, Chaplain, Mrs. Sarah F.
Smith. This completed the business of
the day,and the next annual meeting will
be held in June, 1907. The regular
monthly meetings will commence again,
September 16, allowing three months
summer vacation.


