[Column 1]
said she was glad it had been mentioned,
she was anxious it should be carried
on right, under the direction of the presi-
dent of the society and not make it a
separate affair.
	President Bathsheba B. Grundy of
Wayne Stake appreciated the privilege
of being present, she had a hard trip to
reach here, but felt repaid already with
what she had heard; felt in Wayne Stake
there was a good band of noble sisters
working in unison; they had mothers’
work in testimony meetings, we have
four Relief Society halls and five granar-
ies, we are doing our best to store grain,
hoped to be able to do her duty in the
position to which she had been called.
	Sister Hannah H. Romney, from Dub-
lan, Mexico, reported conditions in that
country, felt the people were prosper-
ous and progressing, the mothers’ work
was getting along very nicely in the Re-
lief Society, she thought the elder sisters
should encourage the young women to
come to these meetings; their teachers
down there never fail to visit all around
once a month, and carry a very good
spirit into the homes.
	Woodruff Stake was reported by Pearl
M. Brough, secretary, she felt proud to
represent the stake, scattered over six
hundred miles, and no railroad, it was
hard to visit, but always enjoyable; she
told of the financial condition and said
they had expended a great deal to help
the sufferers in mine explosions and other
accidents. Mothers’ work was doing
well in that stake, her report was quite
interesting.
	President Eliza J. Dixon of Nebo Stake
spoke of conditions in their locality being
different to many others, as a part of the
stake was in mining districts, and not
agriculture like those reported, consequent-
ly raised no grain, had some cash to buy
wheat with, and in the past some wheat
had been disposed of to build good gran-
naries; “there are nine granaries in our
stake and four Relief Society halls, we
visit three times a year, in every ward
we hold quarterly conferences in differ-
ent parts of the stake; have very good
officer’s meetings, once a month; our
Society meetings are held twice a month,
we are doing all we can for advancement,
studying theology and also have mothers’
work in the testimony meetings; we are
getting more new members in some of
the wards the young sisters are taking
an active part.”
	Secretary pro tem, Sister A. W. Can-
non, read a letter from the First Presi-
dency about the storing of grain by the
sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke a
few minutes, she felt more than pleased
to see the house so well filled, it showed
that the Relief Society was growing, she
had been a member of the Society since
1843, it was not always so large as it is
now, she believed all the sisters of the
Relief Society were doing a good work,
we all feel at times that we cannot get
around, but she thought we ought to do
all we could for those who are cast down,
we feel happy when we do these works of
charity, this was the Savior’s teaching,
and we will be blest in doing this good
work, there is a blessing that follows, “I
have many times gone into homes where
things were not pleasant, but when I left
I felt there was a good spirit there, it was
the Spirit of the Lord that came with

