[Column 2]
are many lovely little homes in Snow-
flake; the sisters have no particular way
to get means to help those who travel
around, but a little troop of young folks
gave some home dramatic performances
and gave the Relief Society sisters fifty
dollars; the society own a carriage, but
have to hire horses when they travel, rec-
ently they raised means and bought a
cow and gave to a poor family that they
had to provide for. They have one visit
a year from the General Board, whichi s
much appreciated. The speaker felti t
was a great privilege to be here, though
she had to come a long distance to attend
the conference.
	President Julia P. Lindsey reported
Bear Lake Stake, she had presided there
now many years, and felt glad to be able
to come to the conference, and report the
sisters were improving in every way;
spoke of the temporal conditions, and of
her enjoyment in visiting among the sis-
ters and holding district conferences, she
was proud to represent the stake; thought
the Relief Society the grandest organiza-
tion in the world, worth all the efforts we
could possibly make for its onward pro-
gress.
	Alberta Stake was reported by Sister
Rhoda Hinman as heing in a very pros-
perous condition, quite an increase in
members, and it covered a great deal of
ground, 200 miles a[-]ound, they visited
once a year, and the nearer branches
twice a year; she felt the sisters were do-
ing well.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth, a mem-
ber of the General Board, was delighted
to see such a fine attendance at a morn-
ing session; spoke of our living in a great
and important age when everything
seems advancing rapidly, education, art
and the sciences, and in the midst of it
all there are many more cares and anx-
ieties in regard to our children; there is
greater responsibilities for the mothers
because with the growth of knowledge
and intelligence, the mothers must keep
abreast of the times to be able to discuss
various subjects and enter into all the
topics of the day and the hour. Truth is
ever onward; but above all let us be true
to ourselves then we can help others;
Sister Farnsworth alluded to the sisters
who had done so much for the great work
in which we are engaged, she appreciated
what they had accomplished for those
younger women who are now coming into
the ranks, her remarks, though brief,
were very excellent.
	Counselor Rose Hammond spoke for
Tooele Stake. everything was in good
working order, they had a good amount
of wheat, three very comfortable Relief
Society meeting houses; they had recently
undertaken the mothers work, had not
visited much during the winter, but in-
tended to now the spring had come.
	Counselor Ellen Thueson of Sevier
Stake, was very happy to be in our midst.
she felt paid for coming, just to hear the
opening hymn, it was so beautiful; in 
their stake they visited all around once a
year; she told us of the financial condi-
tion, and how much wheat they had gath-
ered last fall, felt they had made quite a
success of the mothers’ work, thought the
sisters were doing the very best they
could in all directions.
	President B. W. Smith addressed the
sisters for a few minutes, referring to her
desire to know of the mothers’ work;


