[Column 2]
and that we would have a time of rejoice-
ing together.
	Lydia E. Watkins, President of Beaver
Ward Ass’n. reported they had no poor,
but were able to do some good. Urania
C. Nelson, President of Thatcher Ass’n:
reported they had not been able to hold
meetings regular, on account of sickness,
their teachers visit regularly. Sister Julia
P. M. Farnsworth said this was the first time
she had visited Brigham City in the cap-
acity of a society worker, but knew from
reports we were a prosperous and energ-
etic people; said there were more ways
than one, to aid and assist one another,
thought there were not another set of
women any where who had the freedom
and privileges of the women of Utah,
made many other good remarks.
	The congregation sang, Glorious things
are sung of Zion,
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said she felt
blessed this morning in being one with
the sisters, said it was woman’s sphere on
earth, to raise a posterity, and if we love
the Lord and put our trust in Him he will
help us, felt we were entitled to the bless-
ings of the Lord to direct us and we have
to make ourselves as one with our chil-
dren, and teach them the principles of
the gospel, spoke on patience and prayer
in the home, alluded to the giving of Sun-
day eggs, and the amount which had been
made through saving them. Urged the
holding of Board and Officers Meetings,
spoke on the Mothers’ work, we want
every young mother’s name enrolled, gave
good advice in regard to getting an at-
tendance, and making our meetings a suc-
cess, we should have love and charity one
to another, dwelt up on marriage and our
children marrying outside our Church,
said we should teach our children to marry
in the temple, also talk to them to hold
all things sacred, felt we should encourage
our children in marriage, and to put all
the care and protection around them that
we could, and we should put our trust in
God, and get all the help we could from
Him in helping us guide our children.
	President Booth made a few closing
remarks. Meeting adjurned until 2 p.m.
Singing and Benediction.
	2 P.m. Meeting opened with usual
exercises. President Booth reported a
letter from Stone Ass’n. they were increas-
ing in numbers, and doing nicely in their
mothers work, she was pleased also to see
so many present this afternoon, felt the
Relief Society work was a grand work,
and she had a great desire to do all she
could to assist in the advancement of the
same, spoke on the resignation of Sister
Peters, who had been released on account
of poor health, said she had labored over
40 years with the sisters in different cap-
acaties, and had always had love and un-
ity in her labors.
	Sister Louisa E. Peters was as much
interested as ever in the Relief Society
work, but felt on account of her health it,
was better for her to give up her position,
she often wondered if it was for a purpose
she was so afflicted, but was willing to
stand it, if it would keep her in the faith,
said Sister Harding was all right in the
place she was in, asked the Lord to bless
us, that we may be faithful and press on
in the good work.
	Counselor Mary Harding felt she was
not worthy to fill this position, but knew
this was the work of the Lord, and was
willing to do all the good that she could,

[Column 3]
felt to bear her testimony to the truth of
this work.
	Julia Bingham President of Garland
Ass’n. reported they had some sickness
and some poor. Sophie Larsen of East
Garland Ass’n. felt considering the short
time they had been organized, they were
doing very nicely.
	Counselor Emilia D. Madson hoped
she would be able to remember some little
points that were good that she heard to
day; spoke on surprise parties, felt we
ought not to encourage so many of them,
let us show one another that we love to
go about doing good, let us be faithful
and not confidence breakers, but do one
another all the good that we can.
	Sister Emeline Watkins rendered a solo,
“I love to hear my Savior’s voice.”
	Counselor A. T. Hyde knew the Relief
Society was always looking after the sick,
dead or dying, but felt we also needed
spiritual development, suggested our visit-
ing with the Young Ladies and Primaries
and giving them our encouragement,
spoke on the gathering of wheat, read a
piece from pamphlet, and the letter from
President Joseph F. Smith, spoke on the
mothers work, and urged the sisters to
take interest in it, also wished the sisters
to take interest in the Nurses Classes, as
they were anxious to have Nurses who
understand the uses of herbs and all other
things regarding health, spoke on the
Word of Wisdom, and made many other
interesting remarks.
	Sister Juilia P. M. Farnsworth, said you
must have a very good President and
Bishops to have such a good Relief Society,
gave the message sent by Sisters B. W.
Smith and E. B. Wells, spoke on the
Hymn that we sang which had been com-
posed for the women of Zion, and on the
question of our marriage duties and of the
spirit which was getting in amongst the
people of not wanting to raise families,
spoke also of Nurses, urged the sending
of some of our sisters to these classes.
	Stake President Oleen N. Stohl spoke
of the fidelity of Sister Booth and her
great interest in the work, felt to regret
Sister Peters having to give up her posi-
tion but realized it was all for the best,
and that Sister Harding would be as able
as Sister Peters, spoke on the Mothers
going out more with the Young Ladies
felt it was very important for them to be
interested in the amusements of their sons
and daughters, he was proud of the Relief
Society of this stake and pleased with the
work of the Mothers.
	President Booth felt to thank all for
their presence here to day and also to
thank the visiting sisters for their good
instruction, Conference then adjourned
sine die after Singing and Benediction.
		ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
					Asst. Secretary.


Mrs. Caroline M. Severance, of Los
Angeles, is publishiag a book, entitled,
“The Mother of Clubs.” It is described
as a remarkable record of achievement in
that direction. Her friend Mrs. Ruddy.
says: “In her eighty-seventh year, with
mind still active, eager and alert, Ma-
dame Severance is a center of light for
those who are in sympathy with the
broadest humanitarian impulses, who love
the loftiest literature, and who believe in
the highest life.”


