[Column 1]
	PROSPERITY AND PROGRESS.
	Whatever may be said in regard to the
times in which we are now living or com-
plaints made, the new century and the
larger half of the nineteenth century,
certainly all must acknowledge these days
as a period of prosperity almost, if not
quite unequaled in the history of nations.
	To be sure there are great disasters and
calamities, and accidents innumerable,
causing much sorrow and anxiety, yet
aside from all that, and notwithstanding
the pessimistic views of a few would-be
wiseacres, there was never anything, we
can read, or hear of like the times of pro-
gress and prosperity of the actual pres-
ent.
	Turning our attention backward to the
early part of the nineteenth century, it
sets one’s head whirling almost, to con-
template the enormous changes in every
phase of living since that time. Were
the young folks of today to have the his-
tory of the past open to them, say even
fifty or sixty years ago, it would be diffi-
cult for them to imagine how their fore-
fathers and mothers lived, even those in
comparatively comfortable circumstances.
The hardest working classes at the pres-
ent time, with notably few exceptions,
are really better provided with the com-
forts and conveniences of housekeeping
and out-door working machinery, and in
many other respects, than those of what
would then be termed, “people in easy
circumstances.”
	It is scarcely possible to estimate in any
sense, how superior in all ways now are
the advantages of the homes and sur-
roundings in the domestic life of Ameri-
cans, and in fact one might say of all
English-speaking families, in eyery tem-
poral particular.
	It is true also that even those who have
seen what is called “hard times,” do not
fully appreciate the vast difference be-
tween then and now, and in many, per-
haps the greater number of instances,
fail to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in causing these things to come to pass,
that have wrought such miracles, as it
were in the new civilization. There are
many who go on murmuring, though
they are surrounded with comforts, some-
times even luxuries,. It seems strange
that people can be so dissatisfied with
comparatively prosperous conditions, and
are continually reaching out and aspiring
after more and more.
	In worldly matters the majority of peo-

