[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held in R. S. Hall,
Mesa, March 1, 1906, President Me-
lissa Hunsaker presiding. Opened by the
usual exercises.
	Prest. Hunsaker made opening remarks,
felt pleased to see such a good attend-
ance.
	Reports were given from Mesa, Alma
and Pine wards. Much charity in dona-
tions, helping the poor, the sick, and those
who need comfort and consolation were
given in the last quarter. Mothers’ work;
Doctrine and Covenants lectures were
given in each testimony meeting; teach-
ers were punctual as a rule. The holding
of officers’ meetings had met with approv-
al; good instructions were given. The
Relief Society sisters were likened as
minute men to be ready aud willing when
duty calls. This organization was given
through revelation to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, this being the first organization
for women. They were to be minister-
ing angels to the poor, the sick and those
who were bowed down with grief, and in
preparing our loved ones for burial.
	Timely instructions were given by the
R.S. presidency and other sister speakers.
We should be careful not to speak slight-
ingly of another’s character, but have
charity for one another. That we should
be as wise as serpents and as harmless as
doves. The watchcare of our youth should
be considered.
	Closed by singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Benediction by
Counselor Isaac Dana.
			A. E. FULLER, Secretary.
		TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Toele Stake Relief So-
ciety Conference, held in Tooele City,
May 17, 1906. President Alice R.
Woolley presiding; present, President
Alice R. Wooley, Sisters Rose Hammond
Maggie Anderson, Bryan Nelson, and
Mary E. Halladay. Conference opened
with the usual exercises. President Alice
R. Woolley addressed the sisters; said
how sorry she was that our missionary
sisters were not present, she felt they
must have missed the train. She knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired when
he organized the Relief Society. The
sisters should study the Gospel. The
sisters do not aspire to be preachers but
they should be workers; we were sur-
rounded by the blessings and comforts of
life. Not one soul that belonged to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was destroyed in the San Francisco
disaster.
	Sister McBride reported the Tooele
Ward. Ten or fifteen new members had
joined the society; they had over 500
bushels of grain, and were going to build
a new granary. The teachers do good
work, they took for their subject, “Do-
mestic Science at Home,” in mother’s
work.

