[Column 2]
	Sister Rose Hammond reported Grants-
ville; they had been blessed with means
to help the sick and poor; referred to the
sadness of Sister Tilly Johnson’s death,
they have about 600 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Shields reported Lake View.
They had enrolled most of the married
women in the ward, have 160 bushels of
wheat in the granary and quilts and ma-
terial to work with.
	Sister Louie Lee reported Mercur; they
help the poor, have plenty to work with.
Sisters Richards, Vowels and Lindburg,
rendered a musical selection.
	Sister Bryan spoke on the R. S. work;
said it was a rest to go to meeting. If
we do our duty we have no time to be-
long to any society outside of the Church.
We should not find fault with each other
we are all God’s children.
	Sister Nelson said we should meet to-
gether with pure hearts. Prayer makes
us acquainted with our Heavenly Father.
Our meetings are food for our bodies and
rest for our souls.
	Sister Maggie Anderson: “The Lord
will bless those who do the best they can
in his work. We should encourage the
presence of our guardian angels to guide
us aright. Sister Woolley said she had
heard from the sisters that were to have
attended the conference today, they had
missed the train. Conference then ad-
journed to meet at 2 p. m., after singing
and benediction.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Sister Alice R. Woolley presiding;
singing, prayer, and so forth. Sister Al-
strom reported the St. John society; said
they were united in their work.
	Sister Drouby reported Batesville.
	Sister Mary A. Atkins said it was pleas-
ant to meet with so many sisters; the
Lord would answer prayer if asked in the
right spirit. The sisters have a great res-
ponsibility on their shoulders. Sister
Bowen said she would rather listen than
speak. Prayed that no accident might
happen those that had come from a dis-
tance in returning home. Sister Lee said
it was a great pleasure to meet at Con-
ference, and a benefit to belong to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Naomi Gillette said we came
here for rest both bodily and spiritually.
We shall be judged by our Heavenly
Father and not by each other.
	Sister Drouby then sang a solo entitled
“The Garden of Eden.” Sister Spend-
love said her mother heard the Prophet
Joseph Smith speak and he spoke with
terrible power.
	A recitation was then given by Sister
Jones of Mercur, President Alice R.
Woolley then presented the names of the
General Board and the Stake Board and
they were unanimously sustained. Sister
Woolley said she was gratified with the
interest exhibited in the Relief Society
work, aad the great amount of work that
was being done. Knew that all the sis-
ters were not converted to the Relief

[Column 3]
Society work, we should act as mission
aries, She also spoke on the mother’s
work, and the blessings of motherhood.
We will be tested and tried; we should
be careful about speaking against the
authorities of the Church; we should
have the confidence of our children. In
unity there is strength.
	Singing, and after the benediction con-
ference closed until Oct. 11, 1906.
			MARY E. HALLADAY,
						Secretary.


