plained but with prayer and song praised
the great Giver and with cheerful hearts
still toiled bravely on; to honor those,
who are left and the memory of those
gone before, The daughters of the Pioneers
exist in an organized way and some times
have occasions rich in reminiscent ex-
pression. Such was the day at Calder’s.
The girls appeared in old fashioned cost-
umes, some of them, in dresses their
mothers wore, others copied from old
miniatures with old fashioned laces and
jewelry for decoration and they looked
perfect pictures of the long ago. It did
not seem long, though in fact ’t was more
than two hours we stood listening to the
dear old hymns of “Babylon O Babylon
we bid thee Farewell,” “Hard Times
Come Again no More” and “Come Come
ye Saints” sung by some of the sweetest
of Zion’s singers and the stories of “How
one Woman Crossed the Plains”, “Early
Industries” “Pioneer Education” “Early
Theatricals” as told by President Smith,
Governor Cutler, Bishop Whitney and
Miss Adams. ’Twas all so good, so true,
and brought to our minds so many me-
mories of the past. And what a setting
—a perfect day at Calder’s Park. You
know any amount of money does’nt
change Calder’s much. It still lies at the
foot of the Wasatch Hills. The same
cool, dangerous spring feeds the lakes
where we love to boat ride, and the same
old apple trees are there, which afforded
us shelter twenty years ago. Modern
amusements of course make some changes,
we dance the two step now in a pavilion,
where once we danced the schottische in a
bowery. The boys play bass ball on a
chalked diamond, where town ball across
a line was the old form. The girls play
basket ball and Tennis where Copenhagen
and croquet used to reign, and our hearts
go in our mouths and we close our eyes
and stop breathing, while the young folks
dash into the water down a shoot the
chute, while the old fashioned swing or
moonlight boat ride used to be sufficient-
ly exciting. But its still the same old place
where for over thirty years the schools
and Sunday Schools have held excursions
and the dancing and the picnic and the
boat rides and the meeting of friends
brings the past into the present and
though time has streaked our hair with
gray and our faces lined, our hearts seem
young when friend meets friend on such
a day.
	There were tears in many eyes when
President Smith related the brave journey
of his mother with her family of little chil-
dren, bereft as they were by the cruel
savagery of a mob, of the father and pro-
tector, but mingled with the tears was ad-
miration for such undaunted courage.
There was smiles and laughter as Bishop
Whitney so delightfully related his early
school experiences for many were in the
audience, who also recalled Bro. Peck and
Dr. Doremus and other pedagogues of the
“Village School.”

[Column 3]
	Much interest was felt in the early at-
tempts at home manufacture as told by
Governor Cutler and many smacked their
lips at the remembrance of Bro. Goddards
cider.
	With great expectation we greeted our
old favorite Asenath Adams, waiting for
what we knew she could give us a rare
treat of early theatricals, but great, also
was our disappointment for with brief
mention of our old historic theatre and
the men and women who played there,
who by the way some were present, Hi-
ram and Margaret Clawson, Phil Margetts
Nellie Colebrook, and many asked where
is John T. Caine and David McKenzie,
gave us a long talk on Patriotism and a
promise if “we do right” Utah may yet
be a great state.” Well all this is good
enough but quite superfluous to the daught-
ers of the Pionrees for it is our very loyalty
that has caused us to exist and our pa-
triotism is beyond a question. So we ask-
ed Miss Adams because we are loyal to
her as a Utah woman to give us personal
reminiscences of the early drama in Salt
Lake. What a field for a fine talk. The
dear old theatre, built long before the
railroad, on whose boards the greatest
men and women of Thespian Art have
trod. Could’nt she remember the wonder-
ful presentations there given of Shake-
speare’s plays, when John McCullough and
Edwin Adams and Paunceforte assisted by
our own stock company, she herself the
star educated in young Utah the taste for
the classic drama. How refreshing would
have been a description of the presen-
tation of Macbeth when the daughters of
President Young and Squire Wells and
other “society girls” togged themselves
up for witches and under the training of
Prof. Careless, sang the original Music of
that great play, when Brother Geo. Teas-
dale as Hecate descended from the clouds
in a mist of blue gauze and Phil Mar-
getts, Harry Bowring, and John C.
Graham stirred the boiling cauldron as
the three witches of Endor. ‘T would
doubtless be a pleasant reminder of old
times to recall Edwin Adams’ finished
portrayal of Hamlet, with Nellie Cole-
brook as Ophelia, or the notable Rip
Van Winkle of Joseph Jefferson, not for-
getting that later, in company with Mrs.
John Drew, we saw him in his great part
of Bob Acres to her Mrs. Malaprop, in
Sheridan’s fine old play “The Rivals.”
	Would it be out of place to recall East
Lynne and Uncle Tom’s Cabin, where
little Edith Clawson first gave promise of
histrionic art in the touching part of Eva,
and “The Octoroon,” where John T.
Caine’s Indian, David McKenzie’s Mc-
Closky and the Yankee of John C. Gra-
ham, were so well portrayed as never to
be forgotten.
	A little reminder of the old “Green
Room,” where actors and actresses meet
in a social way between the acts. How
many scenes of personal encounter its
walls could tell of, if only walls had tongues
as well as ears.
	In e[-]ery profession there are ups and
downs and the theatrical doubtless has


more of these, especially the “downs”
than any other. No one escapes it, and
it once happened when Miss Adams her-
self felt especially down, in Salt Lake, a
fine presentation of the two Orphans was
given for her benefit by some amateur
talent. It was then that Keetie Heywood
Orson Whitney, John Spencer, H. M.
Wells, Lottie Claridge and other young
people came to the front in her support,
and out of this presentation probably
grew that delightful company known as
the “Home Dramatic Club.” Well these
are just two or three out of the hundreds
of reminiscences we might haye heard of
early theatricals.
	Memory takes me back and I well re-
member as a little girl, sitting entranced
with Miss Adams’ sweet voice and grace-
ful acting. The old theatre is the same,
and even now it is the best playhouse in
the West, and we wish she had not for-
gotten.
