BY HANNAH T. KING.

	My thoughts are legion at the present mo-
ment; would it be possible to concentrate them
into a certain forcii let me try; the first
thought that pioneered the residue, was a
conviction of what a blessing a peaceful, con-
tented mind is to the possessor, and also to all
whom it may come in contact, or be associated
with; and who has no undue craving for that
which is not within its reach; one who can be-
hold the grandeur that wealth bestows, yet
feel no envy, but can even rejoice in the pros-
perity of another; that can see others lauded,
and even preferred before themselves, yet feel
no heart burning, have no regrets; one who
can daily retire into their own home, although
it may be humble, but they ever find it "swept
and garnished," with pure thoughts and sweet
influences, and the spirit of peace prevading it,
and they rejoice therein. Some cannot realize
that true happiness is more often found in the
"sequestered vale," than in the halls of pleas-
ure; if happiness dwells in our own bosom we
carry it with us wherever we may be; we do
not look outward or around for it but feel that
is an individual possession; then, life in all its
phases is enjoyable. It is a general impression
that riches bring happiness and enjoyment;
they may—or they may not; the way in which
they are used decides the question; they certain-
ly give the possessor a grand opportunity of
blessing themselves, by blessing those from
whom wealth had been withheld; and 'tis more
blessed to give than to receive; there is a nobil-
ity in giving, and most certainly a nobility in
receiving a gift. Strange as it may seem; there
are those that it is impossible to bless; if it
would be attempted, they would throw back


[Column 1]
﻿the offered blessing as though they had been
insulted, and would seem to expect an apology
for the offering, fearing it should be known
that they are poor! and they call this dignity
and proper pride—and in this pride and digni-
ty they fold themselves up, and feed upon
bitterness and complaining, and envy and re-
gret, and call themselves noble!—such perver-
sion of feeling is strange yet true; some minds
are easily made happy, even by the common
occurrences of life; the Creator has caused
them to see through a lens, that makes every-
thing in life look charming—more or less—has
given them a faculty to receive quickly beauti-
ful impressions; and to them nature herself
looks heavenly; everything within and without
them seems magnified beauty, by the rich ap-
preciation with which they are gifted; the tree,
the flower, the murmuring brook, the song of
birds, and indeed the universal world has
charms for them; even poverty brings to them
an accompanying blessing, from the hand of
love and friendship, that the wealthy know
not; it is sweet to be fed when we are hungry—
the rich know nothing of hunger. 'Tis sweet
to have a new garmemt brought to us when we
absolutely need it—a full wardrobe can never
give this blessing. 'Tis sweet to labor, it un-
loads the brain of too much spirituality—the
luxurious know nothing of such rewards.
Bread eaten by labor, how sweet it is! Nature
has worked herself hungry, and plain whole-
some food is then sweet to the taste. Poverty
is generally despised, and the poor bear the
stigma; yet one beautiful writer calls it "holy"
—it is certain the Savior gave the poor a
peculiar blessing, both in the present and in
the grand restoration of all things. His words
were "Blessed are the poor, for they shall in-
herit the earth;" and He chose that class for
His associates on earth;" yet many that are rich
are "poor in spirit," and estimate their wealth
at its real value—and their heart and their
hand and their purse are one!—God bless all
such, and long may they possess wealth and
long life to dispense it, and bless their fellow
creatures.
	Happiness is the goal for which we all pant,
yet how few really possess it! Why? generally
because they imagine it to be something which
they do not possess, and which others have at-
tained. Happiness ought to be in the possession
of every human being. The great Creator
forms His creatures for happiness, the fault
then lies with the children of earth, the ma-
terial for happiness is all around us—every-
where present. Heaven itself is around and
about us, in the very air we breathe, in all we
taste, touch, or behold; why do we not realize
it? because nature is perverted. Can we not
see it? Can we not remedy the evil? Yes, we
could do much towards it, if we would be more
simple-minded, more child-like, more individu-
alized—but instead of studying ourselves, and
finding out what would really make us happy
to-day, we study other people, fancy that what
they possess would make us happy, when proba-
bly we grasp at a shadow, and while doing
that we lose the substance! Let us study our-
selves, and endeavor to become fully acquainted
with the cravings of our own heart and brain,
take self into our studio—placing it upon the
easel, and see where we can retouch the sketch,
(for human nature is but a sketch at present)
and see where we can make it a more perfect
representation of what the Maker intended it
to prefigure—"Only a little lower than the
angels" was the motto sent forth with mankind
upon the earth. "Alas! how are the mighty
fallen!" Still we need not despair; men and
women are yet upon the earth, that portray the
high destiny from whence they came and to
which in due time they shall be restored,
renewed and regenerated, the posterity of the
gods! The ideas I have just written places all
on the highest pinnacle of the ladder of intel-

[Column 2]
ligence, which gives that knowledge which
alone is power! wealth does not make men and
women great; no, it is work, labor, the sweat of
the brow, the sweat of the brain, and the
stretch of the heart-strings; from such come
intelligence, discipline, appreciation, wisdom,
understanding, courage, fortitude and endur-
ance—of such giants are formed. Who are the gi-
ants of any age? the laborers, the workers, have
we not seen it with our own eyes in our own day?
Who have been the master-minds in the age in
which we have lived upon the earth? Need I
name them? No, they stand before the world
as "beacons set upon a hill that cannot be hid,"
but one, the last, I must name—his ashes have
not yet lost their "wonted fires," one from the
people—born, lived, and died of the people!
a son of a provincial tradesman, possessing no
wealth, yet raised himself to be the first
statesman of Europe, and of importance to-day,
Though he was all this, and poor was still the
entertainer, and the entertained of kings and
princes. The Prince of Wales was a great ad-
mirer of Gambetta, liked his society, and cor-
dially invited him to visit England as his guest
assured him he would be well received by
the English people. There are few that could
have declined such a tempting honor, but
Gambetta probably felt the offer very agreeable,
but not acceptable by him—he shrank from
compromising his position, which he himself
had acquired as the first statesman of Euro-
pean importance, and as the man among men!
It lays bare to my view the true and sterling,
nobility of his character, and his immense
individuality!
	George Eliot also was of humble origin,
though of highly respectable and enlightened
parentage. "The rank is but the guinea stamp,"
'tis the gold that tells the worth. These two
are but types of a vast multitude—bless and
thank the Lord there have been in all ages,
and there are to-day, men and women that
have stood out, and stand out to-day as types of
the grand original, "only a little lower than
the angels." May we as a people leave the
"rank of the guinea stamp," and determine to
be the gold, and if we must have the alloy to
render us current—so be it. "Hands off"—
God is our Father—Christ is our Captain, and
if we are true soldiers victory is sure, indi-
vidually and collectively. Amen.
	Salt Lake City, April 19th, 1883.


