BY HANNAH T. KING.

"Illusion is the magic of real life."

Phantoms of happiness! phantoms of joy!
Phantoms of bliss without any alloy!
Phantoms alluring by day and by night!
Phantoms that bring me incessant delight!

Phantoms attending long years of my life;
Phantoms unfading through sorrow or strife,
That cast o'er my senses a mystical veil,
And through it is whispered a magical tale.

Phantoms unfading where'er I may be;
Phantoms unfading through all I may see;
If I climb the steep mountains they're close to my side,
And in the sweet valley most faithful to glide.

At midnight, when sleep has forsaken the eye,
Their presence I feel is endearingly nigh.
When I gaze on the stars they will surely be there,
And in mystical language their mission declare.

Strange that such phantoms, impalpable, sweet,
Should render life's pleasures so vastly complete.
Strange that they fade not, though life's in decline,
But as years roll along they the brighter doth shine.

Strange that young life never gave me this joy;
Strange that they never bring any alloy!
Strange that I know on this earth they will be
Immortal—beyond I'm not able to see.

Yet oft in my dreams of the future, I trace
Among the bright myriads some form or some face
That once I'd a glimpse of while dwelling on earth,
And in those brief moments gave mystical birth

To thoughts and ideas, both of heart and of brain,
Gave music as though in Æolian strain;
And as music sounds sweet from a bark on the sea,
So sweet on my ear were these strains unto me.

Strange are the mysteries that girdle our life;
Strange are the phantoms with which it is rife!
Strange are the whisp'rings that language ne'er tells,
That seem to emerge from the soul's deepest cells!


And these voices so subtle breathe soft on the ear,
Breathe into the heart with their heavenly cheer;
Breathe into the soul till it seems not of earth,
And the brain by inhaling aquires a new birth.

And we rise from the feast, as refreshed with new wine;
We go forth, and the earth in new beauties doth shine,
Our soul feels elastic—too light to retain
A foot hold on earth, or with earth to remain!

My Father! My God! these are whisp'rings of Thee!
Though of earth, I can feel—though blind—I can see.
In the phantoms I've noted, Thy hand I can trace,
Filling up the dark corners with beauty and grace.

And oh! may these phantoms forever remain,
Undimmed, and unclouded on heart, or on brain,
Till the glory of Heaven bursts full on my view,
And to earth and its magnates I waft and adieu.


