PRESIDENIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

[Continued.]
	Sister Presendia, in connection with her hus-
band, received all the ordinances and blessings
in the Temple, that those are entitled to who
enter into holy covenants in the order of celes-
tial marriage. She remained in Nauvoo until
the work in the Temple was finished, and as
she was well fitted out with a good substantial
carriage and span of horses, and had her two
boys with her, she was advised to remain, when
she could be in readiness to leave with the
Saints when they started west "into the wilder-
ness." She took her children and team, jand
crossed the Mississippi river into Iowa, and
stayed with a family by the name of Jordan.
However, some of her friends who were opposed
to her going west, and also opposed to the Gos-
pel, heard of her intention, followed her into
the retreat where she was waiting, and succeed-
ed by stratagem in effecting her return to Lima.
On her way she passed through Nauvoo, saw
President Brigham Young and had some con-
versation with him about her circumstances,
and what course would be best to pursue.
Her brother William and his wife went with
her to Lima, and remained a week, and then
she was left alone among a people bitter against
the Saints, and filled with the spirit of persecu-
tion. Time passed and the Saints had nearly
all left for the west, Sister Presendia felt as if
she was at the mercy of the mob, and indeed
plans were laid to destroy her. One night a
subterfuge was invented to decoy her out of
doors in the dark; she felt a great fear come
over her, and resisted, but the tenant at the
mill close by, hearing the disturbance, came
out and set his dogs on the mob, and they went
back through the orchard to the woods. Sister
Presendia says, "then I fully realized the dan-
ger that surrounded me, not a Mormon near me;
I prayed for help and my prayer was answered;
my brother William sent a messenger, telling
me to leave all my worldly possessions and
come; my house was full of good things for my
comfort, but I walked out of it, leaving all be-
hind, on the 2nd day of May, 1846, with my

[Column 2]
little boy seven years old, who had just been
sick with the measles, and not able to be up;
but I was flying for my life; I knew I must go
before the mill closed for the night, and with
the help of my son George, then sixteen years
of age, I succeeded in getting away, taking
Oliver, the youngest, with me. We traveled
all night on the old road to Nauvoo, and
reached Dr. Spurgeon's at day break. There
I took some refreshment, and then knowing I
should be pursued, and that the mob would be
on my track, I went away to the woods with
my little boy, and stayed all day long, fasting
and praying for deliverance. I picked flowers
to amuse him, for it was Spring-time, and I
gave him water from a stream running down
the bluffs into the Mississippi. The Doctor's
house was full of company all day long, but
when they had gone, at evening his daughter
came out to the woods and I went back with
her for the night, sleeping with my sick boy
on a little feather bed on the floor. I real-
ized the great contrast in my situation, no
home, no bed to rest in, nothing to live
upon but my trust in God and my friends.
The next day I got in a wagon and hid my-
self; when we arrived at Nashville, the place
to cross the river, the teams being taken to
the Iowa side, I saw a man I knew was
looking for me; I kept out of his sight until
he had past, and then retired again to the
woods for safety. However, I got some ti-
dings from home through a messenger, and
learned that the mob had been sent, as I antici-
pated, and were searching Nauvoo for me, and
to take my child away from me. My brother
Dimick Huntington had not yet left Nauvoo,
but he sent his sons to take charge of me, and
see me safely out of Illinois, and I went on to
Sugar Creek. This was the first camping
place of the Saints who left Nauvoo. I stayed
in a deep ravine, secluded from everybody, un-
til I could have a few things brought to me,
which I had previously left with my father. I
slept on a buffalo robe at night, on the ground,
with my little child. No tongue can tell what
my feelings were during those days of severe
trial. But I had considered well, and weighed
the matter beforehand, and I felt I would
rather go with the Saints and suffer and die
with them, than live in Babylon, as I had lived
before. When it was safe to travel we started
out on the route the Saints had taken. We
arrived at Bonaparte, Brother Moses Clawson
helped me to make some purchases, as I had
a little money with me, and he carried my
flour for me. The excitement I had gone
through, and the exposure to cold, lying upon
the ground and not having proper food or rest
gave me cold—fever set in and I was very
ill."
	"Brother Joseph Coolidge came along and he
gave me some medicine, which benefited me
very much. This was when we were near
Garden Grove. We arrived safely at Mt.
Pisgah; there I found my father, and my sister
Zina and her children. They were living in a
log house without any chimney and not any
floor. It was a sickly location, nearly every family
had some sick, and many died there on Grand
River. It was thought best for me to remain
there awhile with my father. Very soon after
arriving there, men were sent by the govern-
ment of the United States, to get volunteers to
march to Mexico—from among the Mormons,
to fight for a government that had suffered us
to be driven out at the point of the bayonet.
Men and teams were called for to take these
volunteers to Col. Sarpee's trading post on
the Missouri River. Charles C. Rich and my
father, Brother Huntington, presided at Mt.
Pisgah. They considered my case, and decided
to send me in Father Bird's team to the bluffs
on the Missouri River, and then I saw the five-
hundred men enrolled as volunteers and take
up the line of march to Mexico. My brother

[Column 3]
Dimick, brave-hearted and strong, with his
family, was among the number. His wife
Fanny wintered in Pueblo, where she had a
daughter born under the most trying and pain-
ful circumstances. I was left behind, alone as
it were; I remained at what was then known as
Cutler's Park. I went to keep house for Cap-
tain James Brown, in connection with Joseph
Woodmansee. However, we passed the winter
in the place known as Winter Quarters, now
designated Florence, on the famous Missouri
River. Before leaving Cutler's Park I was
very ill; it was feared that I would die. At
the same time my father was at Pisgah, also
my sister Zina, my brother Dimick in Mexico,
my brother William in St. Louis, my brother
Oliver on a mission in Europe, and anon came
the tidings that my veteran father had died at
Pisgah, my friend, my counselor, my own dear
parent, to whom I looked for counsel and ad-
vice for the future that stretched out before me
like a great unknown and undiscovered desert
unrelieved and barren. My grief was deep
and heartfelt; I had only my Heavenly Father
left, and I reached out in faith to the one
above to open the heavens for me, and aid me
in my loneliness. I was in a new and wild
country without means, and this was indeed a
great change; but I knew the Lord would pro-
vide, and He always has. Joseph Woodmansee
and his brother Henry were building a log
cabin, and they wanted me to keep house for
them, and superintend their home; but I was
no sooner established there, than their father
wrote for them to come back home to winter,
and I was left in charge of their goods and
home. After they left I started a school, which
was a great blessing to the children. It was
very hard times for all the Saints, sickness was
very prevalent, diseases that were brought on
for want of proper food, and from hardships
incidental to the journey."

To be Continued.


