LONDON.
	The Ninth Anniversary of the White-
chapel Branch Relief Society, was held March
4th, in Orson's Assembly Rooms, New Road,
Mile End, London. This hall is now the regu-
lar meeting place of the Whitechapel Branch,
and is well adapted for holding meetings or 
concerts. It is large and well appointed; the
walls are hung with mirrors and pictures of
considerable value. Its acoustic properties are

[Column 2]

good; and in fact is considered the best hall
in the European Mission. It was in this place, 
thus briefly described, that the Relief Society
celebrated by a concert, or entertainment,
what proved to be a most successful anni-
versary. The programme for the evening was
varied and extensive, and contained over
thirty names. Bishop O. F. Whitney, at pres-
sent acting as President of the London Confer-
ence during the temporary absence of Presi-
dent J. A. West, was present, and assisted, and, 
as is well know, is a host in himself. Elders
Nye and King likewise assisted. The concert
opened with prayer by Bishop Whitney, who
prayed that nothing might be said or done but
that which the Lord might approve.
	President Garner, the Branch President, who
presided, then called upon the children of the
Sunday School to sing a greeting song. Then
Sister Ann Gell, the efficient Secretary of the
Whitechapel Branch for the year ending
March 4th, 1883, being the Ninth Anniver-
sary, having been organized March 4th, 1874,
under the Presidency of Bishop Burton. The
Society consists of a President, two Counselors,
Secretary, and six Teachers. Number of 
meetings held during the year, fourteen; Visits
paid, ninety-six; Cash collected from all sources
£7. 16. 9; Disbursements, £5. 18. 11; On hand,
£1. 17. 10. The sisters have been greatly 
blessed in their endeavors, and have enjoyed
a bountiful supply of the Holy Spirit. Pray-
ing that we may be faithful to the end,
through Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Signed	ELIZABETH YOUNG, President.
			ANN GELL, Secretary.
	President Garner then called upon Elder
A. R. Clark to give a recitation from Homer's 
Odyssy, which was well received. Of course
it would almost seem invidious to draw com-
parisons, when all did their best to add to the 
sum total of the evening's enjoyment; but
marked excellence seems to call for a little
special recognition. A recitation by Bishop
Whitney, entitled, "The Old Hat," charmed
the audience and excited much laughter. A
duet by Elder King and Sister Angie Cross,
was given  taste and feeling. Elder Nye
gave "The Moneyless Man," the sentiments
embodied in which were well suited to further
the object of the Society. Lines composed by
President Garner on "The Ca[-]t" were recited
in a sprightly manner by Sister Annie Davies.
The nature, habits, etc. of that feline species,
were delineated in a style that charmed and
delighted both young and old. Some 
verses on the Priesthood, composed by Elder
Garner, and which he recited himself, were
well received; they not only interested, but 
instructed as well. A song, "Timothy," by
Sister Brain, was well sung, as was a song by
Sister Mary A. Spillman. A duet by Presi-
dent S. Spillman and Sister Sarah Edgley,
proved a success; as did a song of Sister Gell's,
entitled, the "Old Maid." Sister Young, of 
the Relief Society, sang "The Merry Mor-
mons," and Sister Whitpin, "The Son of God 
will come." A recitation by a little girl seven
years of age, the daughter of President Gar-
ner, deserves to be noticed; it was given with
such charming coolness and precision. Sister
Mary Garner, the wife of the respected Presi-
dent of the Whitechapel Branch, gave a reci-
tation, and President F. Garner sang a song
with a chorus that the audience seemed to take
up with considerable vigor. At a late hour a 
vote of thanks was moved by President S.
Spillman, seconded, and carried unanimously,
to the Relief Society, and to all those who had
assisted in bringing to a successful issue this
the  ninth anniversary of the Whitechapel
Relief Society.
	The concert was largely  attended by the
Saints from other branches, with a fair sprink-

[Column 3]

ling of strangers, who thus testified by their
presence, their sympathy for, and their desire
to aid so good a cause.
	Signed	ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
		Branch Secretary.

