[THIRD CHAPTER.]

	Not lack of love around her drew
Her isolation and restraint,
For e'en  the meanest weeds may wear
Their grace of blossoms fair to view.
So too, the human heart may bear
The soul-flower love, impure or true.

Oft like the oleander's bloom
Of richest dye, or purest white,
That fascinate the gazer's eye
And sways the sense with perfumed breath;
Yet taste its petals—all delight
Is lost in agony and death.

Alas, that hearts to their own kind
May poison treachery extend!
And that the helpless, trusting walk
Beside the strong and may not know
If those on whom their hopes depend
Shall prove their soul's good friend or foe

And her still face would oft incite
In hearts of these dark birds of prey
A purpose swift, and strong and deep
To know her and win assuring smile;
With power greater than e'er they
Had known by artifice and guile.

And such, unnoticed or repelled,
Turn in still wrath to wreak their power—
"What power have such?"  O, ask of these
Who toil for bread day after day,
How false, brief words, in one short hour,
May snatch a girl's fair name away

And love, though pure, may not be right
To have and hold against God's laws;
And looking over all the world
We find a mystery solved herein—
A broken law the primal cause
Of human misery and sin.

When flattery and wealth are vain
The lonely toiler to allure,
A stronger shaft the tempter brings;
Two souls that else were all complete,
Meet the world's verdict stern and sure,
And joy or honor must retreat.

And thus defrauded the soul's right,
The laws man made, his spirit weighs;
The scales swing all unevenly,
His eyes the written law behold,
And still his spirit swing and sways
Twixt law of man and law of soul.

Amid these 'wild'ring paths of life
Virginia walked as one who knew
A time would come when all might find
Truth, Justice and the way of right;
And ever with this faith in view
Kept her pure soul's lamp filled and bright.


Yet often o'er the silken robes
	Her shining needle wrought upon,
Her face drooped lower, and the tears
	Rose in mute pity for the lot
Of the sad wearer, who had won
	Fame, and a heart where love was not.

Far from her own loved Italy,
The child of song had followed him
O'er paths that reached forever on;
	The vales of peace lay far below,
The phantom hope, was faint and dim,
And still beyond o'er wastes of snow.

And yet night after night she sand,
She sang for love, she sang for gold,
That she might win by lavish gift
	Wrought from her aching heart, the love
That once was found, and now was cold;
	Her voice rang all applause above.

For her, as o'er her sleeping babe
	Honora's gaze in sadness bent,
Virginia's spirit rose in prayer,
Her voice bore strength and tenderness,
As one with gift by heaven lent,
To serve, protect her and to bless.
