LOVE OF NATURE.

	THE editorial columns of a paper are looked up-
on as being characteristic of the force and power
of the editor to give the public, some ideas of
the topics of the day in general terms, and pre-
sent them in a brief comprehensive and readable
style. Occasionally one may be inclined to in-
dulge in a strain not so prolific of news as of sen-
timent, and give expression to some special
taste in the field of literature. However, people
are always more or less disappointed in the news-
papers of the day, as they seldom can give just
the sort of thing each reader wants, and indeed
it is astonishingly rare to suit everybody, and
therefore an editor ought now and then to be ex-
cused, if he writes upon a theme which pleases
his own fancy.
	The Spring is the season for the indulgence of
poetic taste, so understood all the world over.
The awakening of nature from its long wintry
slumber, the bursting forth of leaf and bud, is
in itself not only wonderful, but delightful to all
admirers of creative or perpetuating power.
There are so many charming sights and sounds,
that one might be always occupied in their en-
joyment. The greatest writers of poetical sen-
timent have rejoiced in the beauties of Spring-
time. It inspires and cherishes a nearness to
nature's heart. The commonest flower of the
field or meadow, and even the dandelion posses-
ses a charm because of its early bloom; then
what shall we say of those so surpassingly love-
ly as to be famed far and wide for beauty and
fragrance? Flowers are a part of literature, so
closely are they associated in the mind with poe-
try and history. The lily, the rose, the sham-
rock, the blue bells and heather and other varie-
ties are so interwoven in poetry, music and his-
tory, as to make them of special interest, and
give them a prestige almost human, yet so gen-
tle in effect, touching the finest perceptions of
the soul, that they awaken only the most deli-
cate sensibilities.
	It has been remarked by standard authors,
that to love nature deeply and truly, one must
be born and raised in the country. Be this as it
may, the lanes, the orchards, the groves, the
broad fields and byways, outside the turmoil
and bustle of city precincts are the places where
one comes in actual contact with surroundings
that arouse the most agreeable sensations, and
the heart leaps out of its narrow depths into the
glowing regions of light and love.
	The birds form a pleasing part of the enjoy-
ment of Spring, the chattering and twittering,
the nesting, the musical notes echoing and re-
echoing, is a most charming element in the
faculty of happiness, and they convey to the
imaginative much more than the mere sound.

[Column 2]
One writer tells us they are simple lullabies, sooth-
int and tenderly caressing, and gently efface
the sad and awful impression which many other
sounds of wild things make upon us; such as
the screeching of owls and the croaking of ra-
vens, the wild cry of plovers, and similar birds.
Certainly bird songs lighten labor; the plowman
in the field often whistles to the tune of the
birds, and imitates their notes. Emotions are
awakened in a ramble through nature's haunts,
that otherwise might have lain dormant forever,
at least during the period of earthlife. One
drinks in more real beauty and feels more keen-
ly the intensity of sympathy between himself
and nature outside of humanity, than in any
other commingling or association. It is con-
sidered a pastime, but it is a real one, that gives
tone to the labor afterwards to be performed.
The voices of nature that are only perceptible
in a true sense to the poetical soul, the hum of
insects, the murmur of water, the sighing of
the long grass and reeds, the low subdued whist-
ling of the breeze, or the song of the trees, the
flutter of the silken leaves, and above these the
singing and melodious notes of the birds, the
lowing of cattle, the bleating of lambs' animal
and vegetable life all astir, and as it were, put-
ting forth fresh vigor, speak most forcibly to the
soul of man.
	There is no boundary to the imagination in
elaborating upon these subjects, and when
one has made his grandest effort the field is just
as broad, and the landscape just as prolific with
food for the poet's soul as though the songs had
never been written or set to music. There is no
need to mourn for the faculty of expressing that
which is beautiful, grand and glorious at once,
for there is an eternity stretching out ever far
away where the mind will be able to grasp
greater truths and give them golden touches,
and where the yearning for expression and de-
lineation of that which one feels but cannot
convey in language, music or painting, will
surely find its realization and fulfilment.
	Come away into the fields among the hills
when the daisies and lilies bloom in their fresh-
ness, while the early morning dew is glistening
in the petals of the lily bells. The lily of the
valley we find in its rare beauty as we "go a
Maying," and what is there sweeter or purer, or
that can call up dearer recollections? The poe-
try that has been handed down as history, says
"the poet, lay on the earth all through the sunny
days dreaming and doting in the flowers," and
the hero "knight sheathed in complete steel
crushed them under the hoofs of his war horse."
What a contrast, and what a lesson may be
drawn from it. But we were out for a ramble,
what thoughts, what memories are aroused, and
how soothing are the voices we hear all around.
The perfume of the apple blossoms is heavy in
the air, dainty pink flowers, so fragile they fall
apart if you breathe upon them; how the soft
winds scatter them over the clover and in at
the open windows. The groves are ringing
with melody, the merry songs of gladsome
birds, and the young saplings bend with the
weight of the feathered songsters as they sway
up and down with their loud, prolonged notes.
The rapture of the open air brings a happiness
that attracts to the infinite, the source, the
motor power that produces the germ of all these
forces of creation, and we are led to exclaim
"Great and wonderful are thy ways, O Lord,
and past finding out." And so we may revel
in the charms of nature and grow familiar with
flowers, and trees, and birds, and sunshine, and
moonlight, and still there is the same unuttera-
ble, intense longing to approach a higher degree
of attainment in all that is beautiful and exalt-
ing, which nothing but the immortal can ever
satisfy.


