	MOAB, EMERY CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Feeling almost sure you have never heard
from this part of the Lord's vineyard, we
thought a few words from here would be of in-
terest to the sisters, as we are all engaged in
the same work. There is but one copy of the
EXPONENT taken here at present, but through
it we are able to learn that many of our sisters
are far ahead of us in the Societies and Asso-
ciations, having the great  privilege from time 
to time of getting instruction from those great
and noble men and women that we away out
here, on the outskirts as it were, so much de-
sire to see and hear.  It seems to me that those
who have these privileges cannot fully realize
the great blessing unless they have been at
some time deprived of it. Nevertheless we do
not feel to shrink or give up trying to learn 
and improve in the way that we should walk
to become great and noble and find favor with
our Heavenly Father. 
	The sisters of this ward were organized into
a Relief Society on February 19th, 1883, by
President C. G. Larsen and others of the 
Emery Stake of Zion, with the following offi-
cers: Mary Jenson, President; Sarah Burnham
and Priscilla Warner, Counselors; Amanda
Taylor, Secretary; and Sarah J. Stewart,
Treasurer. Fifteen members were enrolled,
and I can truly say we had a time of rejoicing.
Meetings were held here by these brethren
four days in succession, and we received just 
such counsel as we needed. I think, and know
in fact, that the Relief Society will help
to unite the sisters, to strengthen and encour-
age them in well-doing, as some of them have
lived here four years without any of these or-
ganizations. We realize the good instructions
that we get through the EXPONENT from time
to time, for although we have a stake organiza-
tion we could not expect the sisters to come
and see us at present, as they would have to
travel by wagons and over rough roads 
one hundred and twenty miles and expose them-
selves. Ever praying for the spread of the
Gospel and the success of the EXPONENT, we
remain your sisters in the everlasting covenant,
	MARY JENSEN,
	SARAH BURNHAM.
April 14th, 1883.


