GONE TO HER REST.

Tribute of respect to the late Huldah Meriah Ballan-
iyne.

	The funeral services over the remains of Sister Huldah
Mariah Ballantyne, wife of Elder Richard Ballantyne,
were held in the Fourth Ward schoolhouse, on Thurs-
day afternoon, April 5th, 1883. The building was filled
to its utmost capacity with friends who went there to
pay their last tribute of respect to the memory of their
departed friend.
	The services were conducted by Bishop Edwin Strat-
ford. The choir sang:
		"Mourn not the dead who peaceful lay
			Their wearied bodies down."
	Prayer was then offered by Elder Joseph Parry. The
choir then sang:
		"Sister, thou wert mild and lovely."
After which David M. Stewart addressed the assembly
for a few minutes. He said he had been acquainted
with Sister Ballantyne for twenty years. He knew she
was a good, kind-hearted lady, and a faithful Saint of
God. She was always ready, willing, and took a delight
in administering to the afflicted and supplying comfort,
consolation and material help to those who were in
need.
	These kind offices were not confined to those of her
own household, but were extended to the whole neigh-
borhood in which she resided. Many will miss her, and
by her death will lose a kind friend who acted towards
them like an administering angel. But outside of her
own family circle none will realize the loss of her socie-
ty and good offices more than the Fourth Ward Ladies'
Relief Society, with whom she had been associated, and
whose best interests she had labored many years to pro-
mote. She has made many friends who mourn her de-
parture, and whose hearts are filled with blessings for
her and her posterity, who will perpetuate her name
and memory. She has been a woman of integrity; she
has fought the good fight. She has kept the faith, and
has secured for herself an eternal inheritance in the
Kingdom of God.
	President O. F. Middleton was the next speaker. He
fully endorsed all that had been said by Elder Stewart,
as he had been long acquainted with the deceased, and
knew that every word that had been uttered concerning
her was true. He sympathized with the bereaved hus-
band and family in their affliction. He knew, of course,
that we are all appointed to die, and it is but a matter
of time when each one of us will be called upon to
pass through this ordeal. But the Gospel is full of
promises to the faithful Saints of God, and those who
remain true to the end of their lives will receive a re-
ward in the resurrection that will fully compensate
them for all their sufferings for the Gospel's sake. He
prayed that God would bless all present with His Spirit
and enable us so to live that when at last our end shall
come it may be like that of our departed sister. She
lived the life of the righteous, she died in the Lord, and
her eternal reward is sure.
	President N. C. Flygare next spoke. He said it fell
to his lot to be with Sister Ballantyne during the last
hours of her sickness. She had been a very great suffer-
er. Her body was worn out in the services of God and
His people. But she had borne it all with much pa-
tience and fortitude, until the Lord relieved her by
death. Her sufferings are over; she is now free from all
her sorrows and has gone to her rest. He then spoke of
her long, faithful, and efficient labors in the Relief So-
ciety in the Fourth Ward, over which she presided for
about four years. Her mission on earth is done and she
has earned a name that will never perish.
	Elder Lorin Farr next briefly addressed the meeting.
He said he had been acquainted with Sister Ballantyne
for some thirty-eight years, and never saw her during
that time when she was not ready to impart of her sub-
stance to administer to those who were in distress. He
never knew her otherwise than an honorable, upright
woman, faithful wife, affectionate mother, and true Lat-
ter-day Saint. He was in full sympathy with all that
had been said of her by the former speakers.


Bishop Stratford made a few appropriate remarks,
after which the choir sang:
		"Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb,
		Take this new treasure to thy trust."
	The benediction was pronounced by Bishop F. A.
Hammond.
	The cortege then took up its march to the cemetery
where the remains of Sister Huldah Meriah Ballantyne
were laid to rest.
	Deceased was the daughter of Gardner and Electa
Clark. She was born at Genesce, New York, October
26th, 1823. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1840, by Elder Orson
Hyde—by whom she was also confirmed—at Geneva, 
Illinois. She gathered with her parents and family to
Nauvoo, in 1842. She remained there until 1846, when 
she was expelled from her home, in connection with 
thousands of others who were driven away by the hands
of a ruthless mob. She went to Winter Quarters, 
where, on February 17th, 1847, she was married to Rich-
ard Ballantyne by President Heber C. Kimball.
	In the fall of 1848, she arrived with her husband in
Salt Lake City. In 1860 she moved to Weber County.
For six years she resided in Eden, Ogden Valley. The 
remainder of the time since that period she has lived in
this city.
	On the 4th of January, 1879, she was appointed Presi-
dent of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, over which she
has continued to preside until her demise. She was the
mother of nine children, four sons and five daughters.
One boy and girl are dead. She has also twelve grand-
children. Sister Ballantyne has been sick with general
debility for about one year, during which time she was
a great sufferer. She retained the use of all her mental 
faculties to the last moment of her life, and died sur-
rounded by all her loving children, with whom she
shook hands and left with them her parting blessing.
	On the casket bearing the remains was the following, 
encircled by a beautiful white wreath:
	"A tribute of Respect in memory of Sister H. Ballan-
tyne, the first President of the 4th Ward Relief Society.
Presented by the officers and members of the Society.
Absent but not forgotten."
	Ogden HERALD, April 6th, 1883.


