	REFLECTIONS ON PROPHECY

	In reading our Sabbath School lesson this
morning, (the fourth Chapter of Daniel) I
could not help being forcibly struck with the
similarity of the position of King Nebuchad-
nezzar, and that of the people of this nation,
of which we are a part.  It seems that this
same king had had many testimonies that
there was a God in heaven, who was able to
deliver those who trusted in Him; he had wit-
nessed the deliverance of the three Hebrew
children from the fiery furnace without even
the smell of fire upon their garments.  And
when the Lord sent a dream to him, and Dan-
iel was called to show him the interpretation
thereof, and it was made known to him that
he should be driven out from the midst of men,
and dwell with the beasts of the field until he
should know that the Most High ruled in the
kingdoms of men, and giveth it to whomsoever
He will; and Daniel said to the king, O,
King, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee
and break off thy sins by righteousness, and
thine iniquities by showing mercy to the poor,
if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquility.
Still after this the king walked in his palace
twelve months; and he spake and said, "Is not
this great Babylon that I have built for the
house of the kingdom, by the might of my
power, and for the honor of my majesty."
While the word was in the king's mouth, there
fell a voice from heaven, saying, "O King
Nebuchednezzar, to thee it is spoken, the king-
dom is departed from thee."  The same hour
was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchednezzar,
he was an outcast from among men, until the
time had been fulfilled that Daniel had pre-
dicted, and his reason returned unto him, and
he blessed the Most High, and praised and
honored him that liveth forever, whose domin-
ion is an everlasting dominion, and His king-
dom from generation to generation.
	And all the inhabitants of the earth are re-
puted as nothing, and He doeth according to
his will in the army of heaven, and among the
inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay His
hand, or say unto Him, what doest thou?  And
those that walk in pride he is able to abase.
To me there seems a similarity in the position
of King Nebuchednezzar and the people of
this nation in which we live; they say, "Behold,
we are fifty millions of people, and how can a
people so few in numbers expect to withstand
the pressure brought upon them?"  Our an-
swer to them is:  The God of the Prophet
Daniel still lives, and He is our God, and we
are His people; and if this nation does not re-
pent and cease to fight against His kingdom,
which He has decreed shall be established upon

			[Column 2]
the earth for the last time, no more to be
thrown down; they will find to their sorrow
and everlasting shame that "Those that walk
in pride He is able to abase."  Oh!  why is it
they will not repent of their sins, and turn
unto the true and living God, who loves all
His children, even the workmanship of His
hands, and is merciful and kind.  They call us
(the women of Utah) slaves!  we were free until
they began to make laws against us.  The only
oppression we feel comes from them.  May
heaven save me from such deliverance as they
propose to give us.  Excuse me, I would
sooner live and die encircled by the chains
which they talk so much about, honored and
respected by some of the "noblest works of
God,"  honest men and women, and beloved
and cared for by God himself, than turn traitor
to God and my conscience, and deny the
knowledge that He has given me.  Our deliver-
ance will come soon.  The darkest hour is just
before the dawn.  We need only to put our
trust in Him, who is able to save, and who
holdeth the destinies of all men and all nations
in His hands, who created the earth and all
that dwelleth upon it, and who setteth up
kingdoms, and who pulleth them down, and
who heareth even the ravens when they cry.
							RUTH.
	October 29th, 1882.


