HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE have for sale in this office "The Alphabet
in Rhyme," on cards for children, one cent
each, also a song "The Word of Wisdom," pub-
lished on cards two cents each. These cards are
to help the Primary, and are so reasonable that
all the Associations can afford to purchase a sup-
ply. Orders from the country will be promptly
attended to.

	ON Wednesday, April 19th, the Primary As-
sociation of the Twelfth Ward held its annual
meeting, Mrs. Ellen Clawson presiding. Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and other ladies
were present, also Bishop H. B. Clawson. The
minutes read by the Secretary, Miss Hardy,
were a very great credit both in the manner of
writing and reading. The yearly report was
very good. The programme was well selected.
Dialogue, Alice and Lucy Hardy; Song,
Ruby Clawson; Recitation, Edna Wells;
Recitation, Willie Evans; Questions and An-
swers by the members; Recitation, Roy Cun-
ningham; Song, Dex Pyper; Comic Recitation,
Bryant Wells; Essay, Minnie Clawson; Bible
Questions and Answers, by the Association;
Song, "I'll be a little Mormon;" Primer Ques-
tions and Answers; Song by the children, "Word
of Wisdom." Remarks were made by Sisters
Eliza R. S. Smith, E. B. and L. A. Wells, F. Y.
Thatcher and Bishop Clawson. The meeting was
exceedingly interesting, and well conducted.

	IT is to be hoped that the sisters will bear in
mind the proposition that has been made them
by Dr. Barney in regard to students and the op-
portunities before them for the study of medi-
cine, and use all necessary diligence to help
complete the number called for. By corres-
ponding with the Dr. she may be able to ar-
range matters so as to remove any apparent dif-
ficulty. We would like to see such an under-
taking succeed, for truly, there is a lack of effi-
cient, skillful help in cases of sickness. And the
offer that is made, with the facilities to carry it
out, cannot be equaled, and with the great
amount of interest that is taken in education,
that this one branch should not be neglected
and have only a minor place, but the subject of
physiology, health and hygiene should precede
all other branches, in order to prepare the
mind and the body for more active exercise in
other directions. Write to Dr. Barney, Box 555,
Salt Lake City, and get a complete understand-
ing if you are in doubt on any point in question
in regard to the proposition.

	A new edition of the "Correspondence of the
Palestine Tourists" has lately been issued, con-
taining the steel engravings of Pres. George A.
Smith and Apostle Lorenzo Snow. These are
excellent likenesses of the men they represent.
The book is a series of letters, written in 1872
and 1873, by George A. Smith, Lorenzo Snow,
Paul A. Shettler and Eliza R. Snow, most of
them while traveling in Europe, Asia and Af-
rica, and afterwards compiled by E. R. Snow,
very carefully, for the benefit of the reader.
They are true and interesting discriptions of
places and events worthy of note, during the
journey. This book ought to be in all our young
people's libraries, and is certainly an attractive
and useful compilation. Sister Eliza, determined
to place the book in the hands of the people, has
reduced the prices very materially, and now
offers the book for sale at two dollars for
leather and gilt binding, one dollar and a half
for plain leather, and one dollar and a quarter
bound in cloth. It is a volume of nearly four
hundred pages, and includes seventy-five letters;
it is in plain, clear type, which recommends
it to people in years. One can scarcely fail to be
charmed with these letters, containing such a


[Column 1]
vast deal of information of places in the old
world, of antiquities, museums, and art collec-
tions as well as the country which has become
hallowed ground because of its association. It
is written in a style that brings you directly,
among the people and scenes that are described
although historical in fact. To any one expect-
ing to travel over the ground, it would be very
valuable, and to those who remain at home a
useful and pleasing companion. The book is
very suitable for presentation as a prize or gift,
and ought to be widely circulated. For sale at
this office, and the DESERET NEWS.

	ON Friday, April 21st, the Primary Associa-
tion of the Thirteenth Ward held its fourth
annual meeting, Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells, who has
had charge of the Association just one year,
presiding. In this connection we feel it only
just to say, Sister Wells has been very much
aided by her Counselor Miss Georgie Spencer,
who has been constant in attendance and effi-
cient in her labors, especially with the singing.
Bishop Attwood and Counselor Empey
were present also sisteres R. R. Grant,
B. W. Smith, Ellen C. Clawson, E. B.
Wells, and other ladies. The exercises were
good and well rendered, some in a very notice-
able manner. Programme: Address, Victor
Thornberg; Song, Wilhelmina Lardon, "Lost on
the Lady Elgin;" a wonderful execution for a
child four years old; Dailogue on fashion, Misses
Mortensen and Merril; Address, "Little Boy's
First Recitation," Carlos Badger; Song, "Whip-
poor-will," by four members, was very good in-
deed. Select reading, Orlie Childs, "Let us be
Saints;" Alphabet in rhyme, by five members;
Song, Annie Stromberg, "Scenes that are
brightest," this little songstress deserves recog-
nition and encouragement; Bible Questions
answered by members; Dialogue, "The
dream and its fulfilment;" Song, "The little
gray-bird," Lida Stromberg; Essay, Annie Strom-
berg, "Let us be useful;" Recitation, little Roy
Grant, "Butterflies;" Recitation, "Articles of
Faith," very well done, Adelaide Mortensen;
Organ solo, "Primary March," Orlie Childe; ex-
ceedingly well performed. Sister Susan String-
am was appointed as a Counselor to Sister Wells.
Remarks were made by Sisters Clawson, E. B.
Wells, and R, Attwood, Bishop Attwood and
Counselor Empey. Meeting was adjourned for
one year, and the regular appointment for the
next week was announced. After the close of
the meeting cake and oranges were served to
all in the room.

	ON Thursday, April 20th, an annual meeting
was held of the Primary Association of the
Twentieth Ward, commencing at one p.m., Mrs.
Emma Toone presiding. The annual report
was excellent, and it seemed good enough to
publish. From April 19th, 1882, to April 19th,
1883: No. of meetings held, 45; No. of mem-
bers, 155; average attendance, 75; READINGS,
Bible chapters, 9; Book of Mormon, 16; Doctrine
and Covenants, 7; Other Church Works, 12;
Miscellaneous, 24; Questions and Answers, 16
times. RECITATIONS, Bible, No. of verses, 30;
Book of Mormon, 18; Doctrine Covenants, 20;
Other Church Works, 27; Miscellaneous, 77;
Testimones borne, 152; Essays, 16; Organ Solo's,
7; Dialogues, 8. FINANCIAL, Cash received,
$12.70; Cash disbursed, $6.00, Cash on hand,
$6.70; Programme of exercises. Singing, and
prayer by Elder T. B. Lewis. Recitation, by sever
al of the members, "Welcome To All;" Reading,
Selina Puzey, Practical Education; Song, Lucy
Savage and Emily Sharp; Recitation, Lawrence
Romney; Essay, Isabella Salmon, "On the Prim-
aries; Recitation, Georgina Toone, "Address to
the Primaries; Song, Eva Ellis and Ida San-
some; Dialogue, Josie and Olive Simmons;

[Column 2]
Bible recitation, T. B. Lewis; Essay, Kate
Sharp, "On the Primaries;" Song, Juvenile choir;
Recitation, five of the members; Recitation,
Willie Culmer, "Angels can do no more;" Dia-
logue, Frank Puzey and George Ferrins; Song,
Flora Phillips; Recitation, Lily Fowler; Recita-
tion, Albert Romney; Recitation, Maud and
Nellie Lewis, "The Soul's Prayer;" organ solo,
Ida Daynes; Recitation, four of the members,
"Helping Papa;" twenty-six Questions and
Answers; Recitation, Claude Lewis; Song, four
of the members; Essay, Willie Phillips; Recita-
tion, Rhoda Jackson, Primary Speaker; Recita-
tion, Eliza Lyon, "Did you think to pray;" Song,
Mary Romney; Dialogue, Sarah A. Knott and
L'zetta Evans, "Between a mother and a little
child;" Recitation, Edwin Wright; Song, Hattie
Horsley and Eliza Knight; Recitation, Frank
Lewis, Bible verses; Song, Mabel Brown.
	After the exercises, remarks were made by
Elders T. B. Lewis, C. R. Savage and Salmon,
and several of the sisters; a vote of thanks was
tendered to Sister Kate Miller Romney, for her
constant and efficient aid with the organ and
teaching the children singing ever since the
organization. Sister Toone has labored very
faithfully, and is reaping a rich reward in the
improvement of the little people under her
charge. Benediction by Sister P. L. Kimball.
	In the evening there was a social entertain-
ment for the Primary, which was very enjoy-
able indeed.


