OBITUARY.

	Died, at Kaysville, August 19th, 1882, Clara Burton,
wife of Frederic Burton, and daughter of Mark and
Hannah Beazer, born October 11th, 1860, at Kaysville,
Davis County, Utah.
	Sister Burton has lived and died a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She has left a husband and one child, besides
many friends by whom she will be greatly missed. She
has been a faithful member of the Y. L. M. I. A. ever
since its organization, in 1876, she has ever been on
hand to do good, and attend her meetings, for duty
never seemed a task to her. She was, in every sense of
the word, an example to the young ladies worthy of
imitation.
	TESTIMONIAL OF RESPECT.—Inasmuch as it has
pleased our Heavenly Father to take from our midst
another of our dear sisters, we, the young ladies of the
M. I. A., resolve to manifest our appreciation and res-
pect to our departed sister.
	Resolved, That we will try to follow the example of
our departed sister in our lives.
	Resolved, That we condole with each other in the
great loss we sustain in our bereavement, and tender a
token of respect and sympathy to her husband, parents,
and family in this their hour of trial, hoping we will
ever emulate her worth.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these resolu-
tions to her bereaved family, and publish a copy of the
same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and place a copy on
our record. MARY A. S. SNOW, President.
						MARIAM BARNES,
						SARAH H. SHEFFIELD,
									Couselors.

	Died, in Nephi, March 26th, 1883, of a paralytic
stroke, Mary Hannah Miller, wife of Thomas Miller.
Deceased was born April 14th, 1834, Derby England.
	At our last Relief Society meeting the following pre-
amble and resolutions were unanimously adopted.
	Whereas, It has pleased God our Heavenly Father to
release from her sufferings our much beloved sister,
Therefore,
	Resolved, That we do recognize in the death of Sis-
ter Mary Hannah Miller, the loss of a faithful teacher
in the Nephi Relief Society, a friend to the needy, a
comforter in the hour of trouble, a devoted wife and
mother, and a faithful member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Resolved, That we esteem her faithful labors and
devotion to the interests of Zion, as worthy the emula-
tion of every member in our Society.


Resolved, that we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved husband, children,  relatives and
friends, in the loss of a faithful wife, mother, and con-
fiding friend.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be spread upon the
records of the Nephi Relief Society, and that we publish
the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
						M. PITCHFORTH, President.
						M. E. TEASDALE, Secretary.


