A PLEASANT PARTY. 

	On the second of April the Young Ladies'
Improvement Association of Glenwood ar-
ranged a party in honor of the birthday of
Sister Lucy Heppler. She has been very
energetic in assisting the young ladies in this
place in temporal as well as spiritual things.
She has taught us many varieties of ornamen-
tal, fancy needle work, which has enabled us
to get means in our Association, and also to
adorn our homes with the work of our own
hands. Our President, Rozina Powell, with
her second Counselor, conducted Sister Hep-
pler to the Relief Society House (which has
just been completed.)  On entering the room
she was greeted by the young ladies singing,
"Sweet hour of prayer." She was then pre-
sented with a beautiful hair wreath made by
the girls, each member making a flower of her
own hair, as a token of love and esteem. Sis-
ter Heppler, in a few words, thanked the Asso-
ciation for the present and exhorted them to
continue to be as united as they were at the
present time; said that she could not express
her feelings as she wished, as she was so over-
come with the surprise of the party. Brother
Heppler spoke for a short time, encouraging
the young ladies to continue in well doing.
We then all partook of a good supper, twenty-
eight were seated around the table; after sup-
per a few songs were sung. Everything passed
off harmoniously. In the evening there was a
conjoint session of the Y. M. and Y. L. I. As-
sociations, making in all a very pleasant time.
								TINIA.
	Glenwood, Sevier Co., April 9th, 1883.


Things which never could have made a man
happy develop a power to make him strong.
Strength and not happiness, or rather only
that happiness which comes by strength, is the
end of human living. And with that test and
standard the best order and beauty reappears.
—Phillips Brooks.

	Whenever the truth of God—to whom all
sovereignty, majesty, and power belong—and
the commandment of men come in conflict, we
must say, as the apostle said, "We ought
rather to obey God than man." And when
this is done, it must not be called disobedience
to superiors; but it is obedience to them,
because it is obedience to God, who is above
them.—Alexander Henderson, 1638.


