EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the request of our worthy President, I
attempt a brief sketch of a visit to Virgen City
for the purpose of holding a semi-annual confer-
ence of the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion,
and also to visit other settlements along the
Rio Virgen. Our company consisted of Apos-
tle E. Snow, Minerva W. Snow, President of 
Relief Society, Mary B. Eyring, President of 
Silk Association, Mary Whitehead and Arte-
misia Segmiller, Counselors to Elizabeth S. 
Ivins, President of Y. L. M. I. A., Julia
Ivins, President of Primaries, and your corres-
pondent.
	Left St. George Friday morning, 2nd inst;
took dinner at Leeds; arrived at Toquerville at
five p.m.; held meeting at seven, R. S. and Y. 
L. M. combined. 3rd. At nine a.m. meeting of
primaries; thence to Virgen City; met with the
Primaries at two and the Y. L. M. at seven p.m.
	Sunday, 4th. Conference of R. S. convened 
at eleven a.m., a general attendance from the
different settlements; the verbal reports of
the different wards showed the Societies in
good condition; we had much good instruction


from Minerva W. Snow and others. Apostle
E. Snow, President of this Southern Mission,
spoke on the duties and privileges of Latter-
day Saints, combining fatherly counsel with
gentle reproof, that all might be guided by the
admonition of the good Spirit and be ad-
vanced in the general interest of the King-
dom.
	At two p.m. a general meeting was ad-
dressed by President E. Snow, touching on
various subjects, speaking quite lengthy on the
evils of drink, censuring severely those who
sold wine and intoxicating liquors, but left his
blessing with the congregation. After meet-
ing, drove to Grafton and held joint meeting of
the Societies and stopped for the night. 5th.
Drove to Rockville; met with the Primaries at
eleven, and the Relief Society at two p.m. A
general meeting in the evening was addressed
by President Snow and others. 6th. Parted
with President Snow and lady, who went on to
Kanab, the others returning came to Duncan
and held two short meetings; an excellent
feeling prevailed; then to Toquerville and
held evening meeting. 7th. Came to Leeds,
and held meeting at eleven; thence home.
We had a pleasant time and enjoyed ourselves
in meeting and associating with the people,
and found a peaceable happy spirit prevailing,
and felt to say, truly these are a people of
God, every way worthy the name of Latter-day
Saints.				F. C. BROWN,
							Secretary R. S.


